THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS- Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for THE DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohto and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDWIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON Editor
Our Country is the Would, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 15. BOSTON. FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1529.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
A PHILLIPPIC FROM PHILLIPS.
The abolition literature of the country has recently been enriched by two quite remarkable lectures from Wendell Phillips, one openly advocating disunion in the most approved Garrisoning style of swearing and cursing at the Constitution and the Fathers of the Republic, and the other a labored attempt to show that systematic ‘agitation,' that is, habitual faithlessness to compacts and compromises, is an indispensable element of social progress, and the true normal principle of development in popular government. The latter production is as curious a specimen of adroit sophistry as the records of modern political special pleading, in all their plenitude of various fallacy, exhibit. Stripped of its specious disguises, it is an effort to prove that the precept, ‘mind your own business,’ is obsolete and wholly contrary to the spirit of the age, and that he is your true reformer, who, overlooking the grave maladies which afflict society at home, in the spirit of a large and expansive benevolence, seeks for objects of tearful sympathy and chivalric championship amid other Constitutions. This, set off with a rhetoric somewhat showy, and interspersed with many a hit, sally and historical allusion calculated to tell for the moment upon an audience, is after all but the old story which fanatics never tire of rehearsing; and if Mr. Phillips had nothing else to say in the course of his elaborate harangue, it would present no topic fresh enough for special remark. But, episodically, he has a variety of criticisms upon men and institutions, from Edward Everett down to Banks, which are both amusing and instructive. Seward he can't abide. He takes occasion plainly to intimate that the once fearless standard-bearer of Republicanism has fallen under the most sinister and corrupt Wall street influences, and no longer merits the confidence and support of the party which has declared an irrepressible war with the South. He has the same compliment to pay to Nathaniel Banks, whom he accuses of a style of political speech-making which ‘finds an echo in every bank vault in Boston.' And so he goes on dealing his sounding blows here and there upon the heads of prominent Republicans, charging them with evasion, truckling, trimming, political inconsistency, and the postponement of declared principle to objects of personal ambition. This, as testimony coming from the most advanced wing of the Republican forces, cannot be gainsaid. There is no doubt that Wendell Phillips, fanatic though he be, sees clearly the consequences of a timid, wavering and non-committal policy on the part of politicians who have heretofore shown their hands so fully, and committed themselves to the cause of a ceaseless slavery agitation so unequivocally. They sacrifice the esteem of their best friends, and whatever respect their opponents may have entertained for them. For Republicanism now to assume the garb and mock the tones of the time-honored advocates of constitutional law and order, is deliberately to cast away its dearly purchased prestige at the North, without adding one title to its chances of support among the really conservative men of either section.-St. Louis Bulletin.

CALEB CUSHING IN CONNECTICUT.
EXTRACT FROM HIS SPEECH IN HARTFORD.
Senator Collamer, of Vermont, and Senator Wade, of Ohio, have recently declared that these personal liberty laws were designed only for the protection of the liberty of the citizens of the States in which they were enacted. They have allowed themselves to be deceived by the false titles of the laws in question. Although in their titles these laws pretend to be for the protection of the citizen, yet all the enactments are, in express and explicit terms, for the sole purpose of nullifying the acts of Congress for the rendition of slaves. These State acts do not throw any safeguard around the fugitive for imputed crime. A white man is not, in any case, but a black is in all, protected by these personal liberty laws.
It has been said that no trial by jury is provided by the acts of Congress. Well what then? When a fugitive from the justice of Connecticut takes refuge in Massachusetts, is he entitled to a trial by jury in Massachusetts? No, he is sent back to be tried by the law of the State where the crime was committed.
Nor is the rule confined to criminal matters. It a debtor absconds from Connecticut into Massachusetts, his bail may retake him without any impediment of personal liberty laws or trial by jury there, and return him to the State of his domicil for the trial of the right. So if your wife, or your minor child, or your apprentice runs away into Massachusetts, you may bring them back, even without process of law. All these are cases of white persons, and are not touched by the personal liberty laws of Massachusetts. Nor ought they to be. Nor ought fugitive slaves to be. The great rule of international comity in all Christendom-and the express rule of the Constitution-is, that each State shall respect the rights of property acquired or existing in another State, and the property or person be determined according to the law of the State of the party's domicil. Runaway slaves from Virginia or Maryland are not citizens of Massachusetts nor people of Massachusetts, either necessarily or generally. By unconstitutional laws of Massachusetts they may, perhaps, come to be voters after a twelve months residence, whilst white emigrants from Europe, although citizens of the United States, cannot until after two years' residence And, therefore, the pretence in the of these personal liberty laws, on which Mr. collamer and Mr. wade rest, is a false one—a false pretence, disgraceful to the legislature of that states as falsehood, and still more so because deliberately devised to cover up and conceal a flagrant violation of the constitution of the United states.
Again, the abolitionized Northern states habitually and systematically violate those provisions of the protection of the United states intended for the protection of the inter-state commerce and social intercourse, and the reciprocal security of personal property within the different states.
It is a great principle of international comity in all Christendom, that, as a general rule, every man's right of personal property is to be determined by the law of his domicil, or in effect that of the state of which be is a citizen. thus it is that a or to pass through France on his way to Italy, with perfect sense of security, in regard to all his individual rights to person or property. He has not the least fear of being stripped of his apparel or personal baggage, as be might be among the barbarous people of Asia or Africa. That is the great distinction between civilized and savage states. So, also, in France or Germany, it will be respected in the international comity of Christian Europe and America. still it is but a rule of comity, and is subject to be limited or abridged by the local law. Therefore, in establishing the confederation of the United States, our wise forefathers, those very fathers under whose opinions or example the Republicans <illegible> endeavor to shelter and
<c02>
hide their own unconstitutional acts and purposes. I say, our wise forefathers saw that it would not do to leave this great principle of inter-State inter-course to the mere discretion of the different States. Accordingly, they inserted in the Constitution the following provision:— 
The citizen of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of the citizens of the several State,' 
This provision is of great importance; of far more, indeed, than is commonly supposed. Let us reflect upon it. A citizen of Connecticut goes to Baltimore with his ship and merchandise for sale, having on board beside the crew, his wife and child, and an indentured apprentice. What prevents the State of Maryland from confiscating the ship and cargo? When, then, the State officer comes to take possession of it, will you urge that it is your property ? But the State of Maryland may reply, That is local law, and we don't care for the local law of Connecticut. Besides, the State of Maryland may; say, Show me the statute of Connecticut which expressly authorizes you to own a ship, or even the coat upon your back. We do not believe you can find any such express law on the statute book of Connecticut. So, as you have nothing to protect your ship and cargo except your local law, and cannot even produce that, the State of Maryland seems to have a good case against you. Worse than that, your wife who is with you has been in the habit at home of attending abolition and women's rights meetings, and has thus got some pretty large notions of liberty in her head, and she sees fit to leave you, taking your child and apprentice with her, and perhaps the contents of your cash-box, and proceeds to establish herself in a free condition at Barnum's. What are you going to do? Will you appeal to the comity of Maryland for redress, pretending that the lady in your wife, the child under your authority, the apprentice held to serve you by the laws of Connecticut? Ah! but the State of Maryland may reply, that is your local law, what do we care for that? That is what the State of Maryland would say, both as to your property and your family, if its legislators had been corrupted as too many of ours have been, by the fanaticism and unconstitutional inter-State hostility. They might pass personal liberty laws, as Massachusetts and other States have done, under the false pretence of protecting the liberty of the citizens of the State of Maryland, but in fact to steal away and kidnap persons under’ subjection by law to the citizens of other States. They might pass laws to confiscate your property in ship or merchandize, as you have done to <illegible> their property in slaves. They are very I likely to do so, if you continue to pass such laws.! But all such laws, whether passed by them, or by you, would be palpably contrary to the Constitution of the United States, which, in the clause above cited, protects and secures your rights of person and property in Maryland, as it does those. of the Marylanders in Connecticut. Such was the wise thought of the Fathers of the Republic before these days of abolition corruption had come upon the Northern States. Of yore, these rights of soiourn and transit were not only guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, but were even recognized by express laws of the different States. Now, most of such laws have been repealed. I believe there is but one—the State of New Jersey—in which they remain. All honor for this and other. things, to the stable, constant, brave and patriotic State of New Jersey! How shameful is the contrast in this respect between New Jersey and other, Northern States, one of which, for example, the State of Michigan, has within the year past, under the influence of Republican passion, made it a penitentiary offence for a Southern lady to enter, or even to touch the State of Michigan with her child's nurse in her company. And thus, in defiance of the Constitution, as well as of the principles of international comity, the Northern States have deprived their fellow-citizens of the South of their Constitutional rights of sojourn and transit here, and after having done that, pretend to be righteously. indignant if, here and there, occasionally, some act of reprisal is applied to our citizens in the Southern State.
Will you say that you cannot conscientiously, in your judgment, obey the provisions of the Constitution, and that therefore you pass and retain such unconstitutional laws in your States? Then I reply, without now stopping to argue the morality or immorality of your conduct, that this very fact would serve, if there were nothing else, to prove that you are unfit to be entrusted with the control of the Federal Government, when your conscience —corrupted as it would thus appear to be—would not allow you to administer the government constitutionally, although having solemnly sworn to support the Constitution. 
In all these, and in other respects—us in running off slaves from the South promoting insurrection there; in attempting to confer citizenship on negroes, and to foist them into the militia; in permitting and sympathising with an armed invasion of the South; in vituperating the citizens of the South because they have slave property; in seeking to exclude them by legislation or by force from the Territories—I say, in this and all other method the Republican States have, by their official action indicated their unconstitutional spirit, in the open violation of that instrument which is the foundation of our government. The Republicans having pursued this career of unconstitutional legislation in the States where they have power, is it not conclusive that they cannot be entrusted with the general government? It prove that all their present profession of pacific and patriotic purposes are only pretences by which they endeavor to avoid the defeat which they perceive impending over them in the approaching canvas for a United States. 
Gentlemen, what then is the duty of the Democrats of Connecticut ? is it not apparent that you should stand by the Constitution—resist its enemies, whether foreign or domestic;—defend it against all assaults by steel or sack—by ‘foreign levy' domestic malice'? I any it is your duty, and I believe it will be your pride. And in so doing, and in obtaining a great and glorious victory here in Connecticut, you declare to the United States that there is one green spot in New England which is not infected, corrupted, poisoned, by the pestilence Abolitionism. It is <illegible> as your Chairman stated, stated, that the eyes of the country are fixed, on you with anxious, with solicitous and admiring gate. If you prevail, you will have placed the State of Connecticut the very summit of patriotic glory of these United States. That you will let us all hope, and let us pray to God that you may be thus in his hand a glorious and honored instrument to <illegible> through these United States, the spirit of <illegible>, the love of the Constitute and the Union. This mid-summer <illegible> of abolition rage and fury cannot endure. It must and will pass away, and then will return in its place the same emotions of devoted love to our country which burned in the hearts of our sanctified fathers of the revolution. We plant ourselves, then, on the ramparts of the constitution, there to resist all attacks, some from where they may, on the constitution and the Union Edte perpetus
<c03>
SELECTIONS. 
From the New York Tribune. 
CALEB. 
Of all the lamps of Democracy, be they burning or extinguished, we particularly admire the Hon. Mr. Caleb Cushing, who is not exactly in either category, but smells and shines like a mutton candle in the article of death. 
Our Caleb, unterrified, looks the beast of Bashan full in the face. Others may run, but he abides, the bull may bellow fortissimo and leap altissimo, but there stands Caleb, not in the least scared, and quite ready for the animal, who will soon be puzzled by an extract from Confucius, something highly impressive in Greek, or a soothing Latin tid-bit of philosophy. The bothered bull must yield, since our of Caleb's speeches would make the animal as harmless as a cow. 
The truth is, General Cushing is not afraid to speak his mind. Poor, knavish, spongy fellows, very proud of a dirty skin, which the world by courtesy admits to be white, who hang about political meetings until destiny summons them to hang elsewhere, are shrewd enough after all. They know how to settle the vexations question. They have but one formula of reply, but that is truly formidable. When they hear any thing of slavery, its wrongs, its barbarity, and its folly, they turn up their noses as well as their well-crusted facial muscles will let them, and with crushing effect exclaim ‘Nigger!' That settles everything. There is no more to he said. Omne lulit punctum—the man who can cry ‘Nigger,' in good style, vanquished all addle-headed philanthropists, and is fairly enough entitled to one free drink, if not a couple of glasses. Caleb, like a good convert, has proved his sincerity by taking lessons of these humble followers, until he can cry ‘Nigger’ with the dirtiest of them, To be sure, being a learned man, initiated, during’ his Chinese wanderings, into Heaven knows what confucion mysteries, and possessing as he does an inexhaustible store of rare and impressive words, <illegible> can give variety to his performance. Musically speaking, his them is ‘Nigger,' but then his variations are all new and ingenious. He gives us the largo of wisdom, the andante of protest, the allegro of argumentation, and the presto of exhortation. He can talk longer and louder, more entertainingly and persuasively, from that shortest possible text, than some preachers could from an entire Epistle of St. Paul. He does not by any means keep his ‘nigger in a wood-pile’—not he. He has him out. He enlarges on him from head to foot; he dwells upon him ethnologically, anatomically, historically; and he comes to a definite conclusion, plainly announcing to his auditors in this wise: ’The nigger has always been a slave, will always be a slave, and only by his remaining a slave can light-colored people continue to be free.' This is the whole of Gen. Cushing's law and prophets. We like it, for it is neat, terse and conclusive. Our only wonder is that the General should think it necessary to consume so much time in proving propositions which be seems to regard as self-evident, and which should be so if evident at all. However, something must be pardoned to the cuticular pride which animates the General. No rose in a fable was ever half so proud of being red, us Gen. Cushing is of being white. ‘We,’ he says complacently and daintily, ‘are of that noble white race which is the embodiment of all there is most manly in man, of all there is most womanly in woman.' To be sure, assertions of superiority of this kind are always just the safest possible to make. When you have felled a fellow-creature, and your foot is fairly planted on his chest; when you have made his head sing and blinded him, and broken for him a few bones, and reduced him to physical pulp and mental darkness, then is your time to crow—then is your time to, deal in ethnological subjects—then is your time to call the attention of the worlds to the fact that you are of a loftier strain than is this animal below you, and to point out the goodness of Providence’ in making you wiser than the crawling witness of your superiority. This is what Caleb does. 
We nave read his speech in New Haven carefully, and the sum and substance of it is,—'Niggers are down! white men are up! All right!' No modesty deters him. His motto should be, ‘I know my beauty, and knowing, dare maintain. 'We are sorry to say, however, that in maintaining it, he thinks it necessary to depreciate the sense, talents, abilities, of several million of white men who do not agree with him in his opinion; and, like many ingenious gentlemen before him, he thus appears in rather a self-hoisted predicament. For Caleb, when be finds it convenient to show that a majority of the white men of the Northern States are knaves or fools—when he asserts that white voters are dishonest, that white orators are designing, that white philanthropists are insincere, and that white preachers are fanatical—really leave the governing classes of the North in a position little better than that of ‘niggers.' He tacitly bat substantially admits, that his ‘noble white race,' in those essential elements of character which insure, political safety and perpetuity, is no more to be relied on than if it were darker than midnight. The General has proved altogether too much; that is, admitting that he has proved anything, which we can only do under protest. We have here at the North ‘an angry, vicious, mischievous, ill-directed, ill-tempered' set; and even our white clergymen, who should be somewhat in advance of their Blocks, only ‘hound on the demon of discord.' Why, no lanatical negrophohist ever went into such fits of fear as at black faces, as Caleb falls into when he sees certain white ones. That he is inordinately frightened we know, for he immediately begins to ask questions solemn to read and tough to answer. ‘Are we even now decrepit?' inquires the General. ‘Are we falling into premature caducity?' asks the hero of many a Mexican fandango, and of many a scene of Eleusinian mystery in Eastern climes. Well, this is rather an important question, and we trust that our correspondents in all parts of the country will report promptly all cases of premature Cushing caducity which they may notice in their neighborhoods. Gen. Cushing, in conclusion of this in comprehensibly profound oration, after knocking on the head Colonization and Colonizationists, and insisting that not a single ‘nigger' shall leave the country, proceeds’ in the discharge of his own humble part of his civic duty,' to talk his prettiest, to air his longest words and his most recondite philosophy. ‘Shall the union fall?' he asks. ‘Not on us, not on us,' he answers.’ O God!' he adds piously. And so, with other allusions to ‘the senility' of the world, and an additional touch at our ‘caducity,' he winds up with a request addressed to his Maker, which strikes us as reasonable. He requests a postponement of the <illegible> of the Union. He wishes it put off to the days of the corruption of the approaching cataclysm of the Universe. 'Though stars shoot madly from their spheres,' we will go two to one on the Union he Though Caleb should be up to his chin in water, we will go him five better on the Union. Cataclysm, forsooth! We like that! The American Union knocked over by a <illegible> Caleb, no! it cannot be! 
<c04>
The BESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF THE NORTH IN EEGARD TO SLAVERY. 
Extracts from a pamphlet, being ‘An Answer to a letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Right and Duty of the Slaves, and of the People and State of the North, by Henry C. Wright':— 
Senator Wilson, ‘You KNOW’ that freedom cannot be national where slavery is local. 
There are one million, four hundred and sixty-four thousand, and forty-five (1,464,045) square! miles in the United States. Eight hundred and fifty-one thousand, four hundred and forty-eight(851,448) are exclusively devoted to slavery. Freedom of speech, press and person cannot exist there. Six hundred and twelve thousand, five hundred and ninety-seven (612,597) are nominally, and partially, devoted to freedom. I say nominally And partially; for the free States (as they are called) have pledged themselves not to seek to free the slaves in the slave States, but to protect the enslavers against the enslaved, and to admit slavery to be represented in Congress; have pledged themselves to allow slavery special privileges in the government; and to let slaveholders have political power in proportion to the number of their slaves. sides, slavery from the beginning has been allowed to rule the pulpit, the platform, the press, the schools and colleges of the non-slave States. Yet you and your fellow-republicans say, ‘SLAVERY IS LOCAL; FREEDOM NATIONAL'! 
Suppose there are six rooms in your house at Natick. Drunkenness has sole and exclusive possession of four of these rooms, and temperance nominally of two. For a consideration, the friends of temperance enter into a confederacy with the drunkards, and agree to protect and perpetuate drunkenness in the four rooms, till the drunkards see, it to abolish it. Not only so, but they also agree to allow the drunkards to drink, to swagger, to babble, and perpetuate their debaucheries in the rooms appropriated to temperance. So the drunkards, daily and hourly, fill the whole house with their riotings, with their filthy babblings and sottishness, and keep all in the house in a state of constant alarm. The temperance men are hooted, tarred and feathered, and in every way bullied and outraged by their drunken confederates,—as they deserve to be, for forming with them such ’a covenant with death, and such an agreement with hell.' Drunkards may, at their pleasure, come into the domain (the room) nominally devoted to temperance, and, by precept and example, try to convert the whole house into an abode of beastly intoxication; but should the friends of temperance enter the domain (the rooms) devoted to drunkenness, they are whipped, tarred and feathered, imprisoned, or hung, yet you say, drunkenness in that house is local, temperance national—occupying the whole house! 
This is exactly the amount of your favorite motto, ’Slavery local; freedom national.' Slavery virtually and absolutely controls nearly one third more of the territory of the United States than freedom. Those who embody slavery are allowed to roam freely over all the territory nominally devoted to freedom, and on the soil of freedom to advocate man-stealing, slave-breeding, and slave-trading; to browbeat and threaten the friends of freedom with bowie-knives and revolvers; and to kidnap and en-slave the people dwelling on this nominally free soil. But, if the friends of freedom enter the slave States to plead for liberty, to sustain the Declaration of Independence, and inculcate the duty of loving our neighbors as ourselves,' of’ doing to others as we would they should do to us,' of’ remembering those in bonds as bound with them,' and of ‘delivering the spoiled out of the hands of the oppressor'—they are whipped, imprisoned, or hung. Witness John Brown and his associates. Knowing all this, why do you persist in saying, 
‘SL AVERY IS LOCAL, FREEDOM NATIONAL'? 
John Quincy Adams spoke the truth when he said, ’The preservation, propagation, and perpetuation of slavery constitutes the vital and animating spirit of the national government.' This fact was manifested in the compromises of the Constitution; and it has been manifested from that hour to this in the administration of the government in its every department. It was apparent in the purchase of Louisiana and Florida; in the annexation of Texas and in the Mexican war; in the Fugitive Stave law of 1850, and the efforts to execute it ever since; in the formation and abolition of the Missouri Compromise; in the effort of the national government to make a slave State of Kansas; in its efforts to obtain Cuba, and in the Dred Scott decision; and, finally, in hanging John Brown for attempting to free the slaves of Virginia, and make it a free State’ You KNOW’ all these facts. Yet you persist in at firming that’ SLAVERY IS LOCAL,FREEDOM NATIONAL'! Slavery has sole and exclusive possession of two-thirds of the national House; and controls the religion, the polities, the education and commerce of the other third. Yet you affirm that’ SLAVERY IS LOCAL, FREEDOM NATIONAL'! You deceive your constituents and betray their trust, when you tell then what is so manifestly false and absurd. 
I am very certain you wilt, at no distant day’ cease to remember that slavery, in the States, in local, and not national;' and you will learn that slavery is national, and liberty hardly local; that slavery is every where, and liberty no where. you know it not now, you will, soon know that it cannot be otherwise 'within the present Union and under the present Constitution' of the United States. You will soon be made to know that dissolution of this slaveholding Union is a mere question of time. 
You KNOW’ it is the duty of the people and States of the North to invade slaveholding State to free the slates, and annihilate the power the enslaves them. 
The right to defend life, liberty and property even by killing the aggressor, is the basis of every governmental organization in America. It is embodied in the Declaration of Independence, in the Constitution of the United States, and in the Constitution of every State in the Union. I have heard you proclaim this, on the political and anti-slaver platforms, as the only true basis and object of every government that has a rightful existence; that every human being has a natural right to defend himself. even to the killing of the aggressors, against all who shall attempt to enslave them or their children You have often said, and do still say, that the man or set of men, no matter by what name called, nor by what authority invested, who seek to murder, enslave, or rob us, forfeit by so doing all right. even that of life, and that the outraged individual. alone or by the help of others, may kill him or them, if need be. You will not deny m Massachusetts nor in Washington, that this ever has been, and is now, your opinion, and the opinion of your party. The existence of every State in the Union, and of the Union itself, is based on the right of the enslaved to resist their enslavers by arms and blood? and on the right of others to incite and aid them to waist., 
The people and State of Virginia exist by daily and hourly aggressions on the persons and property 
<C05>
of our fellow-beings; by kidnapping, enslaving and selling them as chattels; and by aggression on the personal property and family rights of hundreds of thousands. As individuals and as a State, they live by theft and robbery; by kidnapping and enslaving men. women anal children; and by ignoring and trampling down the rights and endearments of bus hand and wife, parent and child, brother and sister.
If all highway robbers, midnight assassins, or pirates, or all organized bands of such marauders and desperadoes, have forfeited all rights, and if, any man or set of men has a right to exterminate them, then, you being witness, have slaveholders and slaveholding States forfeited all right, and the people and States of the North have a right to exterminate them on their own territory, or wherever. they may exist. Do you deny that human beings have a right to’ kill, slay and destroy’ all who seek to enslave them, or to continue them in slavery? You do not; it is the cherished and fixed law of your life. As a Senator, as a Republican, as a man, a husband, father, and brother, you cherish it as your; own, and as the right of every human being, to exterminate from the face of the earth all who would kidnap and enslave them, their children, their friends, neighbors or fellow-beings, whether they act as individuals, or in combinations, called States or nations. 
The State of Virginia, as an organized community of kidnappers and slave-traders, as a band of American corsairs, covers a territory of sixty-one thousand square miles. This day it claims, holds and uses half a million of our fellow-being as chattels—every one of whom you acknowledge to have been born free as you were, and with the same God- given right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. They were kidnapped and enslaved by that self- constituted and sell-incorporated American corsair, styled Virginia. You admit it is the right and duty of those enslaved fellow-beings, so outraged in all their property, personal and family relations and rights, to resist their enslavers and ravishers, and, if need be, exterminate them, to effect their deliverance. You admit, too, it is their right to call on their fellow-beings to assist them, and that it is the right and duty of all of human kind, so far as thy have the power and opportunity, to go to their rescue, and annihilate the piratical power that crushes them. Why do yon pretend in Congress, or any where, that you do not cherish and that you never uttered these sentiments? It is ‘mean and dastardly' to do so. You are recreant to your soul's most cherished convictions and a traitor to Humanity and God, when you deny that these are your sentiments, and of the Republicans generally. 
Were these five hundred thousand slaves of Virginia taken from Ohio, you acknowledge it would be the right and duty of the people and State of Ohio to invade—march into—the territory of the enslavers, and rescue their sons and daughters from the rape, rapine and outrages which that slave-holding State perpetrates upon them. And if Ohio were not sufficient to accomplish their rescue, and sweep from the earth that piratical State, and she should appeal to Massachusetts for help, would you doubt as to the right and duty of yourself and your constituents to aid Ohio? You would not. Or, if ten thousand from Africa should invade Virginia, to rescue her children from slavery, and should appeal to Massachusetts for help, where would you and the Old Bay State be found? Where Justice, Humanity, and God are—on the side of the invaders. 
INVASION, INVADERS, indeed! So, if GOV. Wise had kidnapped your wife and daughter, and had taken them to Virginia to grace his harem, or to sell them to New Orleans, and you and Massachusetts rushed to their rescue, and did rescue them by annihilating the kidnapper, and the band that sustained him, you are the invaders, are you? You know better; you are not a fool; your heart and head assure yon that you are acting purely on the defensive, and that the kidnapper and his band are the invaders, the aggressors. So, when John Brown and his companions entered the territory of Virginia, to rescue their fellow-beings from slavery, and to destroy the power that enslaves them, you being witness, the Republican party being witness, and all the people and States of the North being witnesses, acted purely on the defensive, according to the universally received opinion of defensive war. Is Massachusetts the aggressor or invader, (in a bad sense,) when, by her official agents, she enters the farm or house of a murderer, and arrests him; or of a thief and robber, and secures him, and recovers the stolen property? You admit she acts purely in defance. So, when Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa enter the adjacent slave States of Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky and Missouri, to rescue their kidnapped sons and daughters, they but act on the defensive—you and the entire nation being witnesses. So, when obedient to the call of Humanity, the people and States of the North enter those slaveholding States to rescue their fellow-beings from slavery, and destroy the power that. enslaves them, they do but act in defence of themselves, their children, and our common humanity, against organized bands of marauders and pirates. 
I do you no wrong, but simply justice, when I say, you do approve of invasion—of armed invasion of the slaveholding States, with a view to free the enslaved, and to annihilate the power that enslaves them. You do but stultify yourself, and make yourself contemptible in your own eyes, before your own constituents, and before the slaveholder themselves, when you assert that you do not approve such invasion. You hold to armed protection to life, liberty and property. I hold you bound to fidelity to your own law of life. You deservedly become an object of pity or contempt when you so indignantly cry out against me, for thus asserting that you are and a will be true to yourself. 
While, as a MAN, you know, and, by word and deed, inculcate the above specified propositions as true, as a REPUBLICAN, you deny them; and strenuously and persistently maintain that, within certain geographical lines, called her State boundaries, Virginia has a right, daily and hourly, to wage as inhuman, exterminating and aggressive war against: Humanity; and you have promised, not only to interfere yourself, but, also, to do all in your power to prevent any individual or State, outside of those boundaries, from interfering to protect our common nature from these outrages. As a REPUBLICIAN., you concede to Virginia, (and. to every slave State.) any where and every where on the sixty-one thousand, square miles over which she holds sway, to invade all property, personal and family rights, and outrage every relation and endearment of life,— to seize, claim, hold and uses, as beasts and chattels, our innocent and helpless fellow-beings,—while you deny to all living outside of those Stale boundaries the right to go in, and protect them against their enslavers.
You are passing your neighbor's house. You bear a cry for help, and know that rape, rapine and murder are being perpetrated within. An agonizing cry comes to your care. As a MAN, your heart and soul responded, and prompt you to the revenue; but, as a REPUBLLICAN, you say, 'thus family that live in that house have a right to manages their own affairs; within any and every room
<c06>
in that house, they have a right to commit rape rapine and murder, and to get their victims they please, and I have no right interfere; and if I do, it will be the means of defeating the Republican party. Besides, I am bound not to interfere to protect those victims by my political obligation as a REPUBLICAN Senator. I will, therefore, pass by on the other side, and leave those who have fallen among ruffians and murders to their fate.' 
So, Virginia seizes men and women, wherever and whenever she please, in Ohio, Massachusetts, or Gaines, drags them into her own dominion, and there perpetrates every possible outrage upon them; and you, Henry Wilson, as a REPUBLICAN, consent to stand sentinel to prevent any individual or State beyond Virginia, from entering in. to deliver those victims, and put a stop to those outrages. You denounce all as’ invaders,' as guilty of’ robbery, plunder, treason, anarchy and murder,' who would go into Virginia to rescue those innocent and help-less victims of last and murder. 
Mark! you do not stipulate where Virginia shall get her victims. You leave that to be settled by herself. So, she may get them in Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, or Liberia; all the same to you, as a REPUBLICIAN. You have no more right to interfere to rescue the victims she gets from Natick and Massachusetts, than those she gets from Africa. 
Thus you, as a REPUBLICAN, allow Virginia the right to invade Humanity, but you will not allow the people and States of the North to protect their fellow-beings against her bloody and murderous raid. You threaten to hang all who shall dare to go into Virginia,—even if it shall be to rescue their own children and friends from the lust and brutality of their ravishers and murderers. Thus the REPUBLICIAN is above the MAN; the unprincipled, compromising politician is allowed to triumph over the godlike heir of immortality! What a perversion— what a fall—is there! The naturally generous humane and noble MAN sunk in the cowardly, scheming, sneaking, crawling, loathsome politician! A child of God merged in the spawn of a slave-breeding, slave-hunting, slave-trading political Union! 
From an Edinburgh paper. 
DR. QUTHRIE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY. 
EDINBURGH, Feb. 27, 1860. 
To the Editor of the Presbyterian, Philadelphia, U.S. 
SIR,—In your paper of the 28th of January, you have an article headed’ Drs. Candlish and Guthrie. Had that article appeared in any other than a religious journal, professing the highest orthodoxy, I would not have thought of noticing it, or of asking, as an act of simple justice, that you insert this reply.' And, indeed, I am not so anxious to defend myself, as to seize the opportunity of lifting up my voice on behalf of the poor slaves, and of vindicating religion from the scandal to which it is exposed by your silence, and that of others, on the shame and sin of your otherwise noble country. 
You say, that’ for my sentiments, temper, and language,' at the meeting convened here to protest against American slavery, and to sympathize with Dr. Cheever, there can be no apology. I will relieve you at once from any hesitation about accepting and inserting an apology by saying, that I do not write to offer one. Bad as, according to your account, my temper is, and capable as I am, in your opinion, of taking’ have both of my senses and piety, it so happens that much as I have been engaged in keen public controversies during the last thirty years, I have never yet had to apologies to any one; and I thank God from the bottom of my heart that I have not now to go down upon my knee to any slave-breeder, slave-dealer, slaveholder, or to one I reckon more guilty than many slaves holders—one who, called to watch and give warning against crimes and sins, is, in regard to slavery, a dumb dog that cannot bark.' 
I write, not to make an apology, but to ask one. There are small charges in your article, which are as untrue as they are contemptible—they are beneath my notice. So I pass on to statements equally false, but of a graver kind. You seem to have proceeded, in this attack on Dr. Candlish and me, upon ‘private information from an American gentleman.' I presume your informer, the spy in our camp, is the person who was pointed out to me as a minister from the slave States. I beg his pardon, if I am mistaken; but if I have hit the nail on the head, let me tell him that it would have been more. worthy of a gentleman, and of a minister, had he, instead of sneaking away to write a letter you have been too ready to believe, come forward to the platform like a man, and met as face to lace. However that be in your anxiety to damage, I do not say us, but any influence which our protest against slavery and its abettors might have, you have lent him a too willing ear, as I now proceed to show. 
You state that I’ spoke of the American eagle as polluted with blood.' Now, that may or may not be the case: but I never used these words; nor said, indeed, a word, good or bad, about your eagle. 
You state, also, that I wished the next negro insurrection to succeed,' though they might have to fight to the knees in the blood of the white man.' How can I deny that? for in your article are not the offensive words,’ fight to the knees in the blued of the white man,' set within inverted commas the usual sign of a quotation and the pledge of accuracy ? Alas, for the credit of inverted commas and certain religious newspaper! There is not a word of troth in your statement. The wronged and down-trodden negro may, or may he, justified in doing for his personal what your own father did for their national liberty; though a man. he is’ black, and notwithstanding that an old-fashioned book, called the Bible, says that God made out of one blood all the families of earth, he may no more have rights than the cow he is sold with; yet I; never used the words, nor spoke of blood, either on black men's knees or on American eagles. I fall confident, on reading year paper, that I had not employed the expression you put into my mouth. Still, having a deep abhorrence of slavery, and feeling profound grief that much a system is allowed to live in such a country as yours, and that churches of Christ and ministers of the gospel, have in so many instances failed to testify against is as they should, and god's prophets would certainly have done, I thoughts it possible that indignation might have exploded in some such terms. so I have appealed to the recollections of parties who were present, and I have carefully continued the report of the three principle Edinburgh newspaper; and I have the satisfaction of informing you that neither the one nor the other gives the shadow of for your charge So, I hope that hence forth you will be less ready to take up an evil report against your neighbor, and more slow in trusting to private information of such an American gentleman as attended our meeting.
You say that I ‘was blood-thirsty.’ A horrid charge to bring against any minister of the gospel! If you mean, by applying this abusive language to me, that I delight in the shedding of human blood, or would rather have recourse to arms than suffer any wrong, I deny your charge; and appeal for my veracity to those who know how I abhor the cruelties

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for locking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution….No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuate, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’ WILLIAM ELLERT CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
inseparable from war. Perhaps you mean something else. Perhaps you mean that I would regard the slaves, if they had a fair prospect of success, as justified in rising to recover their freedom, as the last resource, meeting arms with arms in the battle for liberty. If so, I plead guilty to the charge! guilty, I must add, as were our Wallace and your Washington. Washington and his compatriots thought not liberty only, but independence, even worth fighting for. In the days of the struggle which you yearly commemorate, ministers preached up resistance; pulpits as well as drums sounded to arms. You laud men who did fight, and were ready 'to fight to the knees in the blood of the white men,ï¿½ merely for the right to tax themselves, and have you the assurance to hold up your hands in horror at the bare idea of poor Africans, ground to the dust, doing the same to save themselves, their wives, their children, from bleeding under the brutal lash, and being sold like cattle to the highest bidder? What were the wrongs your fathers suffered from Britain, compared with the untold wrongs your slaves suffer on the same soil? Let the great Jonathan Edwards answer that question. He says: 'We all dread political slavery, or subjection to the arbitrary power of a king, or of any man not deriving their authority from the people. Yet such a state is inconceivably preferable to the slavery of the negroes. Suppose that in the late war we had been subdued by Great Britain, we should have been taxed without our consent. But these taxes would have amounted to but a small part of our property. Whereas the negroes are deprived of all their property; no part of their earnings is their own; the whole is their master's. In a conquered state we should have been at liberty to dispose of ourselves and of our property, in most cases, as we should choose. We should have been free to live in this or that town or place; in any part of the country, or to remove out of the country; to apply to this or that business; to labor not; and, excepting a sufficiency for taxes, to dispose of the fruit of our labor to our own benefit. But the unhappy negroes in slavery can do none of these things. They must as they are commanded, on pain of the lash. They must live wherever they are placed, and must confine themselves to that spot on pain of death. So that Great Britain, in her late attempt to enslave America, committed a very small crime indeed, in comparison with the crime of those who enslave the Africans.ï¿½ Your great Jefferson also speaks out his mind as strongly and as truly. 'One hour,ï¿½ said he, 'of American slavery outweighs whole ages of the oppression we rose against England to shake off!ï¿½ You cannot deny that; and though a violent termination to slavery is not one that any reflecting and right-thinking man would wish the system, as one if the cruelty, of immortality, of robbery, and of murder, is accursed both of God and man. It is the plague-spot of your State; the plague-spot of your churches; and should its end, which God forbid, be one of violence, on the heads of those who are not straining every nerve to bring it to a speedy and bloodless termination will lie the guilt of all the fearful crimes which shall accompany its dying struggles. When these come, and the slaves are fighting for their rights your disasters may recall the fearful words of Jefferson, 'What attribute of Jehovah would allow him to take part with us?'
You sneeringly represent many of us as being 'much more concerned for the slaves in the United States, than for the degraded and wretched in their own land.ï¿½ Those who know us know that that is not true. Let me tell you that our concern extends to others besides the slaves in your country. Your informant concealed, or you have omitted in your article, all reference to the hearty admiration which I expressed for your countrymen and country-its greatness, its noble missions, its network of schools, its evangelical churches; but this ungenerous treatment shall not prevent me from expressing the deep interest we feel in the prosperity and character of our nation. Because of that, we are grieved to see the contrast between what is now passing in Russia, and passing in the United States. Looking across Europe, we see a mighty despot, the Head of a Church where the light of the Gospel shines dimly through many an error, bending his giant strength to break the chains of selfdoms; while in free, in Protestant American States, that are driving-shame to it-innocent and free men of color from their territories; a man is sentenced to the gallows for no other crime than aiding, in obedience to the dictates of religion and humanity, a poor enslaved brother in his flight; and many, calling themselves free men and Christians, are seeking to restore the accursed slave-trade, and to rivet the chains of bondage. The very report of these things are done, many of you keep silence who ought to ï¿½cry aloud and spare not,ï¿½ while some wickedly and profanely attempt to justify them from the Word of God. No wonder, when Scripture is perverted to such horrid purposes, that some Abolitionists have been sent by the recoil over into infidelity.
Let me say, in conclusion, that no lasting peace nor true prosperity can be yours, till the evil thing is put away. I believe that God will not continue to bless a nation which continues to maintain a system that is opposed to the religion of Christ, and tramples in the dust its golden precept, ï¿½Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.ï¿½ Without this spot, how bright you sun would shine! What a noble ancestry you had, and, rid of slavery, what a noble people you would be! Little did the Pilgrim Fathers, who fled for liberty to your soil, expect the day when others for liberty would flee from it- in holds of ships, or by journeys in the dead of night, with the north star for their guide, and God for their protector, and bloodhounds on their track, glad to escape from a land that prayer and piety once consecrated to freedom. But we cherish the hope that, in the very confusion into which the question of slavery has plunged your country, we seeï¿½ the beginning of the end.ï¿½ We rejoice in the bold front, the onward movement, the increasing numbers, the growing power of the anti-slavery party. May God bless their banners, and speed on their cause, till, dark skin and white, your whole nation, amid universal rejoicings, hold a fast, even the fast that God hath chosen, the best evidence of a true religious revival, ï¿½to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free.ï¿½
I am, yours truly, THOMAS GUTHRIE.

POLYOGAMY AND SLAVERY. 
A Rousing Speech in the U. S. House of Representatives on Slavery by Owen Lovejoy of Illinois-The Southern Men-Stealers greatly infuriated. 
To-day, April 6, (says the Washington correspondent of the Boston Atlas,) the slow turtle of slavery has had the coals of fire poured upon its back in the liveliest and most effectual manner. The animal writhed under the infliction as I have never known it before. No pen can fully describe the scene. Hon. Owen Lovejoy of Illinois, the brother of the murdered Lovejoy of Alton, had the floor for the delivery of a speech. He delivered it, and made such a speech! The like of it has not been heard in this Hall for a long timeï¿½ its equal will not be heard again very soon. Below we give the telegraphic sketch of the proceedings in the House here alluded to:ï¿½
Mr. LOVEJOY (Rep., III.) The House has been occupied for several days is the discussion of polygamy. The Republican party, of which I am a member, stands pledged, ever since 1854, so far as Congress has the power, to exterminate the twin relics at barbarismï¿½Slavery and Polygamyï¿½in the Territories of the United States. Now, sir, as we have administered a death-blow to one of these twins, I propose to pay my respects to the other twin. I want to see both strangled and go down together, as they heartily deserve.
Mr. COEE (Dem., Ala.) It is not in order under the rules, but I am willing to let him go on, and talk about the other twin. 
Mr. LOVEJOY. I shall go on without the gentleman's leave, or any body else leave, individually. 
Mr. STANTON (Rep., 0.) Does the Chair hold that the twin relics are in order? I think, under the new rules, the debate must be confined to the Tariff bill. I only raise the question because I am afraid.if the general debate goes on, the real-subject before us will be neglected.
Mr. SHERMAN (Rep., O.), said the discussion was open at broad as upon the President's Message, but the majority of the House might at any time limit the discussion to the subject-matter.
The CHAIRMAN, MR. Washburne (Rep., Me.), decided that general debate was in order.
MR. LOVEJOY. I was about to say, when inter-
<col2>
rupted, that the question presented is, whether Slavery shall be extended beyond its present limits, as that is the only question over which we have exclusive jurisdiction; but, sir, when it is proposed to extend what is termed an institution, but what is not an institution, but simply a practice, like polygamy, the question naturally arises, what is the nature, what the influences, and what the elements of this practice, and what will they prove to be, when extended, if allowed to extend? I am aware that it has been stated on this floor, that the morality of Slavery has been settled; that its ethics are no longer to be discussed; that they were settled by the stagy rite of Greece, and have been reaffirmed: and re-established by the stagy rite of Ohio, who portrayed it in gorgeous colors, like the hues which gather around the clouds of a summer sunset. We were told that where slaveholding will pay, there slaveholding will go. Precisely upon the same principle, where robbery or piracy will pay, they will go, and where human flesh is cheaper than beeves, cannibalism will go, because it will pay. Sir, than robberies, than piracy, than polygamy, slaveholding is worseï¿½more criminal, more injurious to man, and consequently more offensive to God. Slaveholding has been justly designated as the sum of all crime. You put every crime that is perpetrated upon men into a moral crucible, and dissolve and combine them all, and the result of the amalgam is slaveholding. I am speaking in earnest, before God, and it is God's truth. It has the violence of robbery, the blood of piracy, the brutal lusts of polygamy, all combined and concentrated in itself, with aggravations that neither one of those crimes ever knew or dreamed of. Now, Mr. Chairman, the justification of Slavery is placed mainly on three grounds,ï¿½the inferiority of the enslaved race, the, fact of enslaving men imparts Christianity and civilization to them, and the guarantees of the Constitution. We concede, as a matter of fact, the inferiority of the race, but does it follow that it is right to enslave a man simply because be is inferior to you? Mr. Chairman, this is to me a most abhorrent doctrine. It would place the weak at the mercy of the strong. The theory is, that if a man is crippled, trip him up; if he is old and weak, strike himï¿½he can't strike back; if he is a child, deceive him. Why, sir, this doctrine of the Democratsï¿½and it is the doctrine of devils as wellï¿½ would lead the strong to enslave the weak everywhere. It would justify the angels in enslaving man, and, in turn, it would justify the arch-angels in enslaving the angels. If carried out in the universe, it would ultimately transform Jehovah himself into an infinite Juggernaut. 
Mr. Lovejoy, who had commenced his remarks on the extreme left of the Republican side, had gradually advanced into the space in front of the Speaker's chair, and as he warmed in his subject he began to gesticulate with some vehemence. In the midst of the remark last reported, he was interrupted by Mr. PRYOR, (Dem.. Va.,) who excitedly called him to order, at the same time advancing toward him, with fierce gesticulations. He was understood to say, prefacing the remark with some offensive adjectives, ï¿½Keep your own side, sir; you shall not come over here, shaking your fists in the face of gentlemen!ï¿½
Great confusion ensued. Members began to rush toward the scene from all sides, shouting order, and others denouncing Lovejoy. 
Mr. PRYOR. I call him to order, sir. He shall not shake his fists in our faces, sir. It is bad enough to let him stand over there, and talk his treason. 
Mr. BARKDALE (Miss., Dem.), who had been in his seat with a heavy cane in his hand, came forward with the crowd, shouting and flourishing the cane. The only words understood from him above the din of the Chairman's gavel were, ï¿½Keep his own sideï¿½the rascal! 
Mr. ADRAIN (A. L. D. N. J.), and other gentlemen, moved that the Committee rise, and some called the Sergeant-at-Arms. 
The CHAIRMAN would receive no motion till gentlemen resumed their seats. 
The crowd still increased, and a collision seemed inevitable.
Mr. Cox (Dem., 0.) shoutedï¿½I rise to a point of order. The gentleman from Illinois is out of his seat. He has no right to leave his seat and come upon the Democratic side. 
Mr. LOVEJOY, standing firm, was understood to reply,ï¿½I will stand where I please.ï¿½
He stood at this time on the Republican side, near the dividing aisle. 
Mr. PRYOR vociferatedï¿½Let him stand over there and talk. He shall not come upon this side. 
Mr. Barksdale continued to flourish his cane, several gentlemen around him and Mr. Singleton restraining their violence. 
Mr. ADRAIN. To avoid all difficulty, I suggest the gentleman just speak from his side; no one supposes he can be intimidated. 
Mr. PRYOR. Nobody wants to intimidate him. 
Mr. LOVEJOY. Nobody can intimidate me, sir, Sit down, gentlemen; I am safe enough. 
Mr. SINGLETON (Dem., Miss.) approached, shaking his fists. 
Mr. BARR (Dem., N. Y.), and others restrained him. 
Mr. BURNETT forced his way into the midst of the circle around Lovejoy, and shouted, There is a rule which requires every gentleman to keep his seat while speaking. He can speak only from his own seat. He cannot, and he shall not, cross this hall in a menacing manner towards us, as he has done. He must speak from his seat, and he shall do it. 
The CHAIRMAN appealed to gentlemen to enforce order, and said he would call the Sergeant-at-Arms. 
The young man acting as deputy of the Sergeant-at-Arms approached with his silver mace. 
Mr. BURNETT. You may call your Sergeant-at-Arms, but he shall not do it. 
Mr. PHELPS (Dem., Mo.), turned back the mace-bearer, with some remarks. 
Mr. KELLOGG (Rep., III.), vociferated that his colleague should not commit a breach of the rules, but should have all his rights. 
The Speaker was called in to resume his seat, when the Chairman reported that the Committee rose, owing to the disorder. 
Finally, comparative quiet was restored. 
Mr. SHERMAN (Rep., 0.) said, We are in good order now. 
This was succeeded by a burst of laughter. 
The House then again went into Committee of the Whole. 
Mr. LOVEJOY took the stand at the Clerk's desk, and resumed his remarks. He spoke about Northern Christian women, who went to the South to prevent the people there from returning to barbarism. 
Mr. SINGLETON (Dem., Miss.) said that he would not allow such insinuations upon Southern women to pass. If the member persisted in that course, he (Singleton) would hold him personally accountable. 
Mr. LOVEJOY said that, in four million of slaves, there was not one legal husband or wife, father or child; and spoke about a Presbyterian Elder down South, having the gospel whipped into him with the broad side of a handsaw, and of a young girl in Washington being whipped until the blood came out of her nostrils, and then sent to the garret to die. He had sworn to support the Constitution because he loved it: but he did not interpret it in the way Southerners did. 
Mr. BONHAM (Den., S. C.) You violate it. 
Mr. ASHMORE (Dem., S. C.) And perjure yourself. 
Mr. SINGLETON. And are a negro thief into the bargain. 
Mr. BARKSDALE. I hold no parley with a perjured negro. 
Mr. LOVEJOY said, when Daniel Webster spoke of the imposition of Austria on Hungary, he remarked the earthquake and the tornado have power, and the thunder has power, but greater than these was the power of public opinion, and before this he proposed to arraign Austria. He (Lovejoy) proposed to hold up to the retribution of public sentiment, slaveholding in all its atrocity and hideousness, just as gentlemen had here polygamy. Public sentiment will burn and scour out slavery, and the proper way is by the action of the Slave States themselves. He had indorsed the Helper book because he wanted to do it. He did so without asking the gentleman from Missouri (Clark) or anybody else. You shed the blood of my brother twenty years ago, and I am here to speak my mind. The Republican party would spring up is Kentucky, and gentlemen now here would find themselves displaced by more moderate, and if it were not offensive, he would add, more sensible men. He wanted to say in Charleston what he could say here. 
MR. BONHAMï¿½You had better try it! 
Mr. LOVEJOYï¿½I can go to England, and there discuss the question of Church and State, or any other British institution. But if I go into the Slave States and talk against slavery, where is my protection? 
Mr. MILES,.(Dem., S. C)-Can you go to Eng-
<co3>
land and incite the laboring classes there to assassinate the Queen? 
Mr. LOVEJOYï¿½I don't desire to do that. I claim the right to discuss slavery everywhere under the stars and stripes. I claim it. I demand it. 
Mr. BONHAMï¿½We want you to assert it! 
Mr. LOVEJOYï¿½When you call us small farmers, and apply other epithets against the working people of the North, we don't harm you. If a mechanic from Pennsylvania were to go South and speak about the superiority of white labor, he would be held morally responsible. You would strip him and scourge him by the hands of a slave, and perhaps tar and feather him. 
Mr. BARKSDALEï¿½The meanest negro in the South is your superior! 
Cries of ï¿½Order!ï¿½ from the Republican side. 
Mr. LOVEJOY, in speaking of John Brown, said he would not curse him. He would pour no execrations upon old John Brown. He condemned what he (Brown) did. He disapproved of his act. He believed, however, that his purpose was a good one, and his motives honest and truthful. John Brown stood head and shoulders above any man here until he was strangled. Any law to enslave man was an arrangement among pirates to distribute the spoils. By what right do you of the South get together and enact laws that I or my child should be your slave? Every slave has a right to run away in spite of your laws, and to fight himself away. Were he (Lovejoy) a slave, and were it necessary to achieve his freedom, he would not hesitate to fill up the chasm, and bridge it over with the carcasses of the slain. He loved the South.
A VOICEï¿½We don't love you. 
Mr. LOVEJOYï¿½So it was with the Savior; they didn't love him. [Laughter.] Gentlemen who talked of dissolving the Union could no more do it than they could stop the shining of the sun, Virginia, instead of clothing in sheep's-gray, should clothe her self in sackcloth and ashes on account of slavery, and ought to drink the waters of bitterness. 
Mr. MARTIN (Dem., Va.)ï¿½If you will come into Virginia, we will hang you higher than we did John Brown. 
Mr. LOVEJOYï¿½No doubt about it. 
The Committee arose, and the House adjourned.

THE LIBERATOR.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, APRIL 13, 1860.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The Twenty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, at the Cooper Institute, on TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, May 8th and 9th, commencing each day at 10 o'clock, A. M. 
Independent of all religious and political organizations, and dealing impartially with them all, this Society continues to pursue its grand distinctive object, THE IMMEDIATE AND TOTAL ABOLITION OF AMERICAN SLAVERY, without regard to geographical boundaries, by moral instrumentalities aloneï¿½animated by a spirit which, seeks the safety, happiness and prosperity of every section of our widely-extended country, 'knowing no East, no West, no North, no South,ï¿½ as such. Its ï¿½treasonï¿½ is embodied in the Declaration of Independence, and its ï¿½fanaticismï¿½ in the Golden Rule. Declaring that man cannot be the property of man, it measures men, parties and institutions by this simple and unerring test, and will not yield to any compromise, or consent to any postponement of the claims of justice and humanity. 
We trust it is needless to remind the members and friends of the Society, that never were greater vigilance and activity demanded on their part than at the present time. The nation is just entering into another Presidential election, which will probably be unparalleled on the score of popular excitement, and which will present a powerful temptation to many to swerve from the strict line of rectitude, by lowering the Anti-Slavery standard for the sake of party success. ï¿½Let the dead bury their dead.ï¿½ Let us eschew all compromise and compromisers, and be faithful to our rallying-cry, ï¿½No UNOIN WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!'. 
There will be no lack of able and experienced speakers at the Anniversary. [Further particulars hereafter.]
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, }
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, } Secretaries.

DEATH OF CYRUS PEIRCE. 
Another good man has been removed from the earthï¿½one of the best and purest who have ever lived to elevate their race, and to advance the interests of humanity in every direction. We allude to the death of that venerable teacher, Rev. CYRUS PEIRCE, (more familiarly known amongst his numerous scholars as ï¿½Father Peirce,') which took place at West Newton, on Thursday, 5th inst. The sad intelligence is communicated to us by a friend, as follows:ï¿½ 
WEST NEWTON, April 5, 1860. 
DEAR SIR,ï¿½Father PEIRCE is no more! He died this afternoon, gently, after a protracted illness and great suffering. An uncompromising advocate of justice and truth, he has been, from the time your voice was heard in the columns of the Liberator, an uncompromising friend to the slave. You will remember how he was derided, when Principal of the Normal School, for accepting an office in the Anti-Slavery Society; and that he was bearer of the ï¿½Latimner Petitionï¿½ for the 'old men eloquentï¿½ to present to Congress. He was Principal of the first Normal School in North America, and of the first Normal School for young ladies in the world. 
For the past six years, he has been connected with Mr. N. T. Allen's school, in this town. I send you a copy of his Memoir, written by Rev. Samuel J. May for Barnard's Journal of Education, the managers of which cut out, and would not print, the part relating to Mr. P.'s connection with and sympathy for the anti-slavery movement! 
Mr. Peirce was a man of rare tact in his profession, and successfully labored in connection with the late Hon. Horace Mann, and others, to raise the standard of education in Massachusetts. Peace to his memory!

CONGREGATIONAL. FRATERNIZATION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
 The papers inform us that four Northern clergymen preached at Charleston, S. C, on Sunday week, to wit:; Rev. Dr. Nehemiah Adams, of Boston, the author of the South-side View of Slavery; Rev. Dr. Blagden, of the Old South Church, Boston; Rev. Dr. Todd, author of the Student's Manual, and Rev. Dr. Gardiner Spring, of New York. These gentlemen, being known as fast friends and allies of the Slave Power, can safely travel, visit or reside, as they list, in any part of the South; while the obscure young men who go as delegates from the Troy Young Men's Christian Association to the Convention of Young Men's Christian Associations shortly to be held in New Orleans, for want of such distinction, must carry 'free papers,ï¿½ signed by the Mayor of Troy, warranting them to be free from all Northern notions about liberty and equalityï¿½free from remembrance of those in bonds as bound with themï¿½and free from all suspicion of sympathy with the Good Samaritan.ï¿½C. K. W.

ï¿½PUT UP THE SWORD.ï¿½ It gives us great pleasure to be able to lay before our readers, on our last page, the very admirable Discourse delivered before Theodore Parker's Society, at the Music Hall, on Sunday, March 11th, by Dr. FURNESS, of Philadelphia, in defence of the principles of Non-Resistance. Whatever dissent any of our readers may make from its reasoning, they will all admire its spirit, and the amiable and gifted author of it. It will be ready for distribution as a tract in a few days.
<co4>
PRIESTLY CALUMNY.
The Koran, in a very large proportion (say nine-tenths) of its contents, consists of moral precepts and ideas unquestionably sound and just, and bearing a marked resemblance, both in form and substance, to the precepts and ideas of the Hebrew Scriptures. These two also bear a striking resemblance to each other in some of the errors and vices which they permit and enjoin; for both absolutely require circumcision; both contain injunctions directing aggressive war and wholesale slaughter against communities that never had injured the people to whom they were addressed; and both permit, and in some cases enjoin, the practice of polygamy. The Musulmans, however, regard the Koran as the Hebrews do the Old Testament, as absolutely and infallibly inspired of God; assuming that the things there asserted are to be received as true, because asserted there, quite irrespective of conflicting evidence from other sources; and that the observances enjoined are to be considered as duties absolutely binding, because enjoined there, quite irrespective of the useless or pernicious character which progressive knowledge may reveal in them. 
Let us suppose that a Mussulman, after careful examination of the customs of other nations, a comparison of them with the Mohammedan customs, and patient reflection upon the reasons of each, and the tendencies and results of each, coming to these conclusions: that since the all-wise and all-powerful Creator made man just as he wished, and therefore exactly right, he could not possibly have enjoined, as a religious duty, the cutting off and destroying a part of every man's body; that since this Creator, good, and just as well as wise and powerful, made all men, one nation just as much as another, he could not possibly interfere to stir up strifes between them, and set one family of his children to robbing and killing another; and that, since the practice of polygamy was shown to be pernicious by experience, keeping, one half of the nation in an undeveloped and degraded condition, interfering most injuriously with the right education and best welfare of the other half, and almost annihilating that purity and intensity of, genuine love which are realized only in the well-as- sorted union of one man with one woman for lifeï¿½ the all-wise Creator could not possibly have sanctioned this practice; and, moreover, that the permission or injunction of these three practices in the Koran, far from rendering them obligatory or even justifiable, after reason and fact had shown them to be pernicious, was not a good reason for their continuance at all, or a reason against their abrogation. 
Let us suppose this reformer further to say, in reply to the assumption of the priests that everything in the Koran was infallibly inspired of God, that he was ready to examine any proof that should be presented upon this point, however improbable it seemed, a priori, that any written revelation of God should contradict that which God had revealed in the body, mind and soul of man. But if such examination should reveal that the Koran itself made no assumption of this sortï¿½that it was solely an invention of the priestsï¿½that their attempt to defend this hypothesis manifestly included deceptive accounts of the contents of the Koran, mingled with sophistical reasoning and direct falsehoodï¿½and, finally, that the imposition of this hypothesis upon the people as true was one chief means by which the priests gained their subsistence and retained their powerï¿½if our Mussulman examiner should maintain and promulgate these ideas, then this additional thing would be very likely to happen; the priests would denounce this reformer as a wicked and dangerous person; would represent him as the enemy of true religion; would declare him a malignant opposer of the good things, as well as the evil, in the Koran; and would stigmatize him as an infidel of a most degraded class! 
Just such calumnies as these have for years been uttered, and circulated to the utmost extent of their power, by the Reverend editors of the Independent, against William Lloyd Garrison. Long since, they called him ï¿½on infidel of a most degraded class,ï¿½ and they have never retracted this calumny. And now, in the last issue of their paper, (5th inst.) the accustomed stigma is repeated in the following terms:ï¿½
MR. GARRISON'S INFIDELITY. We have been charged with slandering W. L. Garrison and his school when we have spoken of their attitude toward the Bible as sheer infidelity. But what is on infidel, in the common meaning of that word? One who denies that the Bible is the revealed Word of God: one who disbelieves the inspiration of the Scriptures, and the divine origin and authority of the truths which they contain. Now, what says Mr. Garrison upon these points? In noticing Dr. Cheever's recent Biblical argument against slavery, the Liberator says: 
ï¿½Dr. Cheever has here met the pro-slavery argument drawn from, the Bible with consummate logical acumen, scholarly ability and irresistible power. We commend this work to all who profess to revere the Scriptures; at the same time protesting against making the rights of man to depend upon any parchment whatever.
'Mr. Garrison does not even profess ï¿½to revere the Scriptures.ï¿½ He treats them as he would any ï¿½parchment,ï¿½ ancient or modern. He concedes to them no authority over his opinions or conscience. Is he not an infidel?
It is to be noted that Dr. Cheever had said, in the book referred to, (ï¿½The Scriptures on the Guilt of Slavery')ï¿½speaking of the doctrine of the Bible concerning slaveholdingï¿½ï¿½If it be not condemned there, it is in vain that we struggle for its overthrow.ï¿½ As if there were no light upon morality and immorality, virtue and vice, but that which comes from the Bible! As if the human mind recognized no distinction between right and wrong, and no obligation to do the one and avoid the other, before those sixty-six books were written and brought together in their present form As if no rights of man, no rights of individual human beings against the tyranny of oppressors, had had any existence until the publication of the Bible! As if gamblers, counterfeiters of bank-notes, or the practisers of any exclusively modern sin (if there be such)could reasonably point to the Bible and say to the editors of the Independentï¿½ï¿½If our graft be not condemned there, it is in vain that you struggle for its overthrow!'
Mr. Garrison, in commending the general scope and purport of Dr. Cheever's book, which he did earnestly and heartily, felt bound to protest against the false and mischievous doctrine above stated; a doctrine, be it observed, which finds no foundation in the Scripture itself, but is an invention, made out of whole cloth, of certain men who get their living by the assumption that they are the authorized expounders of Scripture, and that it is the duty of the community to hear their expositions, and pay for them! This protest was made in the calm, brief and moderate terms above quoted. Yet the Independent seizes the opportunity of its utterance, not only again to stigmatize Mr. Garrison as ï¿½an Infidel'ï¿½an expression which its editors have sought to make equivalent, in its practical influence, to the cry of ï¿½Mad dog!'-but to insinuate the atrocious falsehood that he disbelieves the divine origin and authority of the truths which the Scriptures contain!
One marked difference between Mr. Garrison and his clerical calumniators is this. He believes, acknowledges, inculcates, and reduces to practice the truths which the Scriptures contain, holding himself undisturbed and unbound by any accompanying errors. The people who call him ï¿½an infidelï¿½ assume that the entire contents, not the truths only, of the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures, must be received as infallibly inspired of God, and that irrespective of direct contradiction between any different parts of them, irrespective of opposing reason and justice, and irrespective of conflicting testimony, however strong and abundant, from any or all other sources. But the Reverend gentlemen of the Independent refuse to lay this distinction before their readers! Their systematic course of policy is, first to call this earnest reformer 'an Infidel,ï¿½ and then to clench this nail by the deliberate lie that he disbelieves ï¿½the divine origin and authority of the truths ï¿½of the Bible!ï¿½C. K. W.
<co5>
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EDINBURGH LADIESï¿½EMANCIPATION SOCIETY, and Sketch at Anti-Slavery Events during the Year ending 1st March, 1860. We have read this neat little pamphlet with great interest, being especially gratified to observe the abiding faith and zeal of these Christian women of Scotland. The Report shows that they keep a vigilant eye upon Slavery and all its schemes and movements everywhere; and that wherever there is a slave, cast down, defrauded and oppressed, the world over, a true sympathy for that slave lives in their hearts. After referring to the state of the Coolie trade, the condition of the West ladies, and of Jamaica in particular, the Report turns its attention to the Cause in America, and treats of the Oberlin case, of William S. Bailey's sufferings in Kentucky, of the attempt in Maryland to seize Thomas Garrett of Delaware, and of the condition of the fugitives in Canada. It speaks of the shameful treatment to which Miss Remond was subjected at the hands of the American Minister in London and of his Secretary. It dwells at more length on Dr. Cheever's position, and on the discouraging condition of ï¿½the churches and great religious organizations of the United States,ï¿½ with one or two exceptions, which are noted. The Pierce Butler Slave Sale at Savannah, and the Daniel Webster Fugitive Case in Philadelphia, are briefly depicted; and then the Report proceeds to give a quite particular account of John Brown and the Harper's Ferry affair. ï¿½Differing, as we do, from him and his associates,ï¿½ the Report says, as to the mode and wisdom of their enterprise, and regretting its bloody termination, we cannot but acknowledge the devotion and disinterestedness which characterized them all throughout,ï¿½ After sketching the old man's life, and the circumstances of the attack at Harper's Ferry, the subsequent trial, the imprisonment, and the execution, they say,ï¿½ï¿½Such was the man whom the United States selected at the first traitor of the Commonwealth; for it is remarkable that his was the first execution for treason the Republic had witnessed. Of the nature of his crime that of seeking to confer liberty on the most oppressed of human beings) of his sentence and its justice, the civilized world forms its judgment now, and posterity will form a yet sterner judgment hereafter.ï¿½ The Life of Brown by Redpath is favorably mentioned, and the ample memoir from the pen of Mrs. Childï¿½ is anticipated with evident satisfaction. 
The, Report also notices the condition of the Slave Trade, the outrages perpetrated on Northern men in the Southern States, the expulsion of the free colored people from several of the Southern States, &c. It refers to the labors of the Abolitionists to obtain Personal Liberty Bills in the so-called Free States, and notices the unwearied labors of the American Anti-Slavery Society. Other topics are treated, and the Report closes with the letters of several American correspondents, and with full lists of subscriptions and donations for the year.

TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PHILADELPHIA FEMALE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 1860.;ï¿½We heartily welcome this pamphlet also, affording, as it does the amplest proof that the spirit of the Anti-Slavery Reform does not slacken on this side the Atlantic, and that the women of Pennsylvania are true as steel to the demands of this just and righteous cause. It shows a clear, discerning eye, and a thorough understanding of the cause, its principal obstacles, and the best methods of its promotion. The history of our cause in the city of Philadelphia, during the past year, was unusually interesting, and is well, though of necessity briefly, treated in the Report.	

LIFE OF JESUS. A Manual for Academic Study. By Dr. Carl Hase, Professor of Theology in the University of Jena. Translated from the German of the third and fourth improved editions, by James Freeman Clarke. Boston: Walker, Wise& Co., 245 Washington Street. 1860. 
The distinguishing features of this work are critical ability, a spirit of independent investigation, philosophical calmness and dignity, absence of all partisan feeling, and careful research. It has been long known and appreciated in Germany, where it has passed through several editions. The translator saysï¿½ The book avoids extremes, without trying to avoid them. It treats its subject with fearless earnestness, but the result arrived at is neither the conclusion of Strauss nor that of Hengstenberg. While the scientific object is always supreme, there is no cold indifference, but a warm heart of love throbbing beneath. Reverence for the character of Jesus is combined with a cool sifting of all the Gospel statements concerning him.ï¿½ Such a book may be pleasurably and profitably read.

NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, have just published the following pieces of music:ï¿½ 
On the mountain's airy summit. Song. Music by Kucken. 
The Shooting Stars. Les Etoiles Filantes. For the piano, by Alfred Quidant.
Tears. ï¿½All the pleasures, all the treasures.ï¿½ Ballad. By Stephen Glover. 
Petruchio Waltz. Morceau de Solon. Composed for the piano, by W. K. Batch elder. 
The Lost Ship. A Ballad, on the loss of the ship of war L'Epervier. Music by S. D. S.

OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The annual Fast Dayï¿½Thursday, April 5thï¿½was practically improved by the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society to the furtherance of the cause of the enslaved in our land, by holding three public meetings on that day in the Universalist meeting-house at Duxbury, which were attended by a very intelligent, and ï¿½apparently deeply interested audience, delegations from other towns being present. Bourne Spooner, Esq., of Plymouth, President of the Society, occupied the chair. Suitable portions of Scripture were read by Mr. Garrison, of Boston, who presented the following resolutions for the consideration of the meeting:ï¿½
Whereas, Gov. Banks in his ï¿½proclamation for a day of public fasting, humiliation and prayer,ï¿½ invites the people of the Commonwealth 'to make humble confession to Almighty God of transgressions against His law, and to offer supplications for a continuance of His mercies,ï¿½that the blessings of justice and liberty may everywhere be dispensed'; therefore, 
Resolved, That Gov. Banks has set a bad example of official hypocrisy, which makes the advice contained in his proclamation contemptible, by twice vetoing the action of the Legislature, abolishing unjust and degrading distinctions among the citizens of the Commonwealth as pertaining to the militia laws; and thus exerting his power to prevent 'the blessings of justice and liberty from being everywhere dispensed ï¿½in the State. 
Resolved, That Congress has no constitutional power to make any odious and proscriptive distinctions between the government-creating citizens of the several States; that, while that body is authorized to organize and discipline the militia of the country, it does not belong to Congress to decide who shall be enrolled in the militia, to the unjust exclusion of any such citizens; and such usurpation must be denounced and resisted as equally illegal and intolerable. 
Resolved, That the thanks of the friends of freedom universally are due to the Hon. NATHANIEL H. WHITING, Senator elect from Plymouth district, for his manly and faithful advocacy of the cause of impartial liberty by his presentation and eloquent support of a true Personal Liberty Bill, whereby freedom was secured to every fugitive slave touching the consecrated soil of Massachusetts; and by his untiring efforts to secure the abolition of an odious, unjust 
<co6>
and unconstitutional proscription of a free citizens of the North on account of their complexion; thus showing himself to be as true to his Anti-Slavery principles in the Senate as he has ever been out of that body.
Resolved, That this Society entirely accords with the Richmond (Va.) Enquirer in the sentiment, that ï¿½two opposing and conflicting forms of society cannot, among civilized men, co-exist and endure; the come universal; if free society be unnatural, immoral and unchristian, it must fall, and give way to slave society.'
Resolved, That this Society fully endorses the sentiment of William H. Seward, that ï¿½the antagonistic systems of liberty and slavery are continually coming in closer contact, and collision results; and they who think this collision is accidental, unnecessary, the work of interested or fanatical agisters, and therefore ephemeral, mistake the case altogether. It is an irrepressible conflict between opposing and enduring forces, and it means that the United States must and will, sooner or later, become entirely a slaveholding nation, or entirely a free labor nation.ï¿½ Therefore,
Resolved, That they who are for suppressing the anti-slavery agitation, are really laboring for the complete supremacy and enduring sway of the Slave Power; that they who are deploring the excitement of the times, arising from this question, are really lamenting that there is any manhood or moral sentiment left in the land, and arraigning the Almighty for inspiring the human mind with a detestation of robbery, injustice and oppression.
Resolved, That to compromise with the dealers in human flesh-to accede to any of their demands- to enter into an alliance with them from which they shall derive strength and security-to acknowledge in any manner the rectitude or necessity of their course-is to participate in their guilt, to suffer demoralization, to lose the power of a virtuous example, and to betray the cause of freedom universally, Therefore,
Resolved, That the dissolution of the Union, based as that Union is upon slaveholding concessions and compromises, is demanded by every principle of morality, every claim of suffering humanity, every aspiration of impartial freedom, every pulsation of true manhood, and every precept of Christianity.
Animated and stirring speeches, treating upon a variety of topics in a topics in a lucid and convincing manner, were made by Mr. C. L. Remond and Mr. Garrison; but of these we are unable to present even an abstract,. When the resolution, approving the manly and consistent course of Hon. NATHANIEL H. WHITTING in the Senate, was separately put to vote, it was emphatically adopted without a dissenting voice. The weather proved highly auspicious throughout, the day being the finest of the season. The occasion was delightful and strengthening to all who were present. As a gratifying evidence of their interest in the cause of the slave, the Wesleyan Methodist church and congregation in Duxbury omitted their usual religious service, in order to attend the meetings of the Society.
 BOURNE SPOONER, Pres.
SAMUEL DYER, Sec.

EDWARD EVERETT AND THE NEW YORK LEDGER.
A year ago, a friend of ours published an article in the Syracuse (N. Y.) Journal, expressing his surprise at the weak character of Mr. Everett's contributions for the Ledger. He sent us a copy of the paper, and, in reply, we wrote what follows:-
FRIEND P.- You are no longer a myth, but an absolute reality, having thought of old companions, and retaining energy to protest against the namby-pambies of our timid, gentle, accomplished, learned, and mediocre Edward Everett. Now I have not seen one of the articles with which he professes to grace the columns of the Ledger, I have never yet read a column in that stupendous exhibition of American froth. Did you really suppose that he would write above the level of the contributors by whom he was surrounded, and above the appetite which he could clearly see characterized the readers of that paper? Do you suppose that he meant to lend it much more than his name? His mediocre character is apparent in the whole transaction; in having anything to do with it at all. More than that, if his character is apparent in the whole transaction; in having anything to do with it at all. More than that, if his character had borne any proportion to his reputed ability, he never would have peddled his eulogium on Washington all over the country, to induce a subscription purchase of Mount Vernon, but have struck at once at the bolder and only manly measure of its purchase by Congress. Mr. Everett's sense and perception of the beautiful artistically speaking, are very great; but how deficient he is in all the loftier attributes of a great orator and writer! He has none of that lofty elevation and nervous force that characterized the ancient orators, and that, more than in any other modern man, was seen in Lord Chatham; none of that splendid combination of ratiocination and imagery, of broad humanity and of as broad philosophy, that distinguished Burke; none of the fire of Patrick Henry; none of the massiveness of Webster; none of the immaculate purity of Sumner. If he had any of these qualities, he would be the man for some emergency somewhere; but he never was, and never will be. What is he? I think he is a fine scholar. His mind ranges through prose, poetry, painting and sculpture, law, medicine, and natural history; it delights in accumulating from all subjects, and feasting on their beauties, and can reproduce these at pleasure.
I am glad to see your castigation, and hope he may meet it from other quarters. He deserves it. He should contribute something to the moral force of the world, ere his splendid acquirements and undoubted abilities descend to the grave. This aesthetes culture is sometimes as ruinous as positive immorality. Full of sentimentalism of a high order, with quick sensibilities, his mind does not see fundamental principles. He seems to love nature, and certainly is an active observer of many of her most beautiful phenomena. But who ever loved nature truly, without loving man more? Who ever really understood one of her innumerable illustrations of usefulness and beauty, without feeling his heart beat quicker, and his breast throb more strongly for the character, capacities and destinies of the whole human raced. I speak of him mainly as a public max; his private life exhibits some virtues, it may be.
But he has done much to block the wheels of progress, and has never worked energetically in any cause worthy of a noble mind. On the page of history, he will stand as a refined scholar, a polished gentleman, a cultured, amiable man. But that page will tell us that the great principles of liberty worked out their results without his aid, and in spite of his indifference. Bryant, Hallock, Whittler, Longfellow, Emerson and Lowell are leaving burning words, to the music of which the masses of men are rapidly falling in, and advancing in solid column; music which stirs even the heart of Garrison, of Sumner, of Chase, and of Seward, and lends a higher strain to their logic and their eloquence; while Mr. Everett contents himself in this, the golden age of his life, with orations at horse-shows, at dedications, at public funerals. with lecturing on a character whose opinions he does not sympathize with or dare not express, and with writing for the New York Ledger! In few words, his is a selfish life. He lives in a selfish enjoyment of intellect, of taste and refinement, and is as truly a miser as he who has millions, and yet denies the poor a shilling; for what has he given to the great heart of humanity? A. F. B.
 
We shall publish, next week, a review, by John Cushing, of the two-faced, double-and-twisted discourse on slavery, delivered at South Hingham,
Jan. 29, 1860, by Rev. J. J. Brayton, Unitarian.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ATTEMPT TO ARREST F.B. SANBORN.
Great Excitement in Concord, Mass.-The Alarm Bells Rung-The whole Town turn out, and prevent sanborn's being carried away-Mr. Sanborn veleused on a writ of Hubeas Corpus-statement of Mr. S.
The quiet town of Concord, Mass., was a scene of intense excitement. Tuesday night, 3d inst., which was occasioned by an attempt of United States officers to forcibly arrest MR. F.B. Sanborn, and take him to Washington to answer for contempt, in refusing to obey the summons to appear before the Harper's Ferry Investigating Committee. He was seized and handcuffed, in the most dastardly manner, and without any show of authority, but the ruffians were prevented from taking him out of town, by the application of the writ of habeas corpus.
We give below the following statement of Mr. Sanborn:-
CONCORD, Mass., April 3, 1860. }
11 1/2 o'clock at night.
To the Citizens of Massachusetts:
I have to inform you that a cowardly assault was committed on me this evening, at about 9 1/4 o'clock, in my own house, by four or five persons claiming to have authority to arrest me. The facts are these:-
I came in from a call about 9 o'clock, and was sitting, in my slippers, at my desk, when a knocking called me to the door. I went down stairs, and opened the door, when a small man entered and said 'Does Mr. Sanborn live here?' 'That is my name, sir,' said I. Puttion out my hand to welcome him. 'Here is paper for you,' said he, handing me a folded one, which I took.
At that moment, a grey-haired, tall and stout man entered the opened door, and said, ' I arrest you, Mr. sanborn.' 'By what authority?' said I, 'and what is your name?' He gave no name, but said, ' I am from the U. S. Marshal's office,' or something of that sort. 'what is your authority-your warrant?' repeated I. 'We have a warrant,' said some one. For by this time two more men appeared. Show it-read it,' said I. A small man, calling himself Freeman, (afterwards,) began to read a paper, but had got only through a few lines, when the grey-haired ruffian took a pair of handcuffs from his pocket, and proceeded to put them on my wrists, I standing in my own house, without a hat or boots, only in slippers of cloth.
A whistle was given; some men rushed in, none of them known to me, and carried me by force to the street, where stood a carriage with two horses. They lifted me from the ground, and tried to put me in the carriage, I resisted with my feet, for my hands were fast in the manacles. They tried two or three times, without success, breaking the carriage, but the horses started, and they could not get me in. In the meantime, my cries and those of my sister had called my neighbors from their homes, who surrounded the ruffians, and prevented them from carrying me off.
I stood in the street in my slippers half an hour, wearing the handcuffs, until Deputy Sheriff Moore took me by force from the ruffians' hands, under a writ of habeas corpus, issued by Judge Hoar. Their names, given after a long time and reluctantly, were, Silas Carlton,-Coolidge,-Tarleton, and-Freeman. There were two or three others, whose names I have not learned.
Fifteen minutes after I was handcuffed, standing in the street, Freeman read me a warrant, signed by Vice President Breckinridge, for my arrest, with an endorsement from McNair, Sergeant-at-Arms of the U. S. Senate, authorizing Silas Carlton to seize me. How he did it. I have said. People of Massachusetts, act as it seems to you best in this case!
F. B. SANBORN.
Mr. Sanborn also gives the following additional particulars of his arrest:-
Earlier in the evening, one of these men had visited my house, and finding the door unlocked, had gone in, and being met by the servant, told her that he had an important paper for me, and, as she understood him, it was something about a situation. I was out at the time, and was told of it when I returned.
How long the ruffians had been looking about town I do not know, but am informed they had been here some hours, perhaps watching my footsteps, in which honorable employment they were aided, as I am told and believe, by Joseph Holbrook, sometimes called Col. Holbrook, an officer in the Boston Custom House, residing here, and Charles B. Davis, Post-master of this town. These neighbors of mine, with one of whom I formerly boarded, have, as I believe, assisted in committing this outrage. Some weeks ago, the person calling himself Carlton was here as a spy, and made his head-quarters at the post-office.
I at first offered no resistance, but when the handcuffs were put on, I refused to go, not having heard any warrant, or seen any signatures, or been told the names of the officers, or the nature of my offence, so far as I can recollect. When they dragged me into the open air, without allowing me to put on my boots, overcoat, or hat, I called 'Murder!' and resisted with my feet as well as I could, with four stout men holding me. They dragged me to the carriage, which had been brought up by a fifth or sixth confederate, and attempted to put me in. I broke the side of the carriage with my feet, and my sister seizing one of the ruffians, they dropped me on my feet again.
Again they tried to put me in, but my sister whipped the horses, who started, and foiled them again. They were struggling with me and her-five men against a man and a woman-when the neighbors came running to my aid. The ruffians still attempted to kidnap me, but they soon found they were over-powered. Then, and not till then, did they read their warrant, in the street, by the light of a lantern while I stood handcuffed and half-clothed in their hands. This must have been fifteen minutes after my first seizure. Further particulars I will give hereafter.
The following is the writ of habeas corpus:-
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
To the Sheriffs of our several counties and their respective Deputies or other person by law empowered to serve this writ; Greeting:
We command you that the body of Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord, in the country of Middlesex, by Silas Carlton imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, you take, and have before a Justice of our Supreme Judicial Court, at Boston, in the county of Suffolk, immediately after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said Justice shall then and there consider concerning him in this behalf; and to summon the said Silas Carlton then and there to appear before out said Justice, to show the cause of the taking and detaining of the said Frank B. Sanborn.
And have there you this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness my hand and seal at Concord, the third day of April, in the year of our Lord on thousand eight hundred and sixty.
EBENEZER ROCKWOOD HOAR.
Associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court.
Deputy Sheriff John D. Moore makes the following return upon the back of the writ:--
MIDDDLESEX, SS. April 3d. 1860. By virtue of this writ, and in obedience thereto, I this day took the body of the within named Frank B. Sanborn from the custody of Silas Carleton, at Concord, in said county, and now have him under safe and secure conduct before the Supreme Judicial Court, now sitting at Boston, in the county of Suffolk, as within directed. And I have also summoned the within named Silas Carleton to appear before the said Court, and there show cause of the taking and detaining of the said Frank B. Sanborn, by reading to him the within writ, and have also given him in hand an attested copy thereof.
SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT-Wednesday-Present, Shaw, C.J., Metcalf, Bigelow, Merrick, and Hoar, JJ. 
In the matter of Frank B. Sanborn, petition for discharge on a writ of habeas corpus.
Messrs. Samuel E. Sewell, John A. Andrew, and John S. Keyes appeared for the petitioner, and C. Levi Woodbury and Milton Andros for the respondent.
Mr. John S. Keyes them read the writ of habeas corpus. The return is in the usual form, and is made by John B. Moore, Deputy Sheriff of Middlesex.
Mr. Woodbury said that he was only called into the came an hour age, and had not had time to prepare a return. He asked time for that purpose. The Revised Statutes set forth several ingredients which the answer should contain, and it would be impossible to construct a document correctly in the hurry of the case at bar.
The Court thought the matter very simple, and that there was no necessity for an adjournment.
Mr. Woodbury read, for information, the warrant upon which the arrest was made. The warrant recites the fact that Sanborn was summoned January 16, 1860, and refused to obey the same; and the order for his arrest for contempt, adopted February 15th, and then commands the execution of the order. The power of the warrant was assigned by the Sergeant-at-Arms to Deputy Marshal of this District.
THE ANSWER.
Mr. Andres then prepared an answer, the substance whereof is as follows:--
'And now comes the said Silas Carlton, the deputy of Dunning R. McNair, Sergeant-at-Arms of the United Stated of America, and for answer saith, that by virtue of a certain warrant duly issued by the authority of the Senate of the United States, now is
<c02>
session, on the 16th day of February, A. D. 1860, a copy of which is hereto annexed, and makes part of this answer; that he did arrest, on the 3d day of April instant, the body of the said F.B. Sanborn, at Concord, in the County of Middlesex and Commonwealth aforesaid: and that afterwards, on the same day and at the place aforesaid, he. the said F. B. Sanborn. was taken from his custody by one John B. Moore, then and there acting as one of the deputies of the Sheriff of said County of Middlesex; and that the said F. B. Sanborn was so taken from his custody by the said John B. Moore, by virtue of a proceeding or writ issued under the hand and seal of the Hen. Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar. Associate Justice of this honorable Court, on the 3d day of April instant.
Signed and sworn to by the respondent Carlton.
The return was then read by Mr. Andros.
Mr. Keyes raised a preliminary question upon the face of the papers, which he thought would be final. The objection was-1. That the Sergeant-at-Arms had no power out of the District of Columbia, where Congress had jurisdiction. 2d. That the precept being directed to him by name, he alone could serve it. 3d. That the Sergeant-at Arms cannot, by law, deputize his powers to any other person. The authorities upon the first point were, of course, negative; upon the second, he referred to 11 Mass. 27, Wood v. Ross, 9 Mass., Percy v. Bradbury, 95. 
Snaw, C.J., thought it desirable to consider the preliminary question first, as it did not enter into the merits of the case.
Mr. Woodbury desired to hare the whole case pot in. but the Court declined to pursue this course.
Mr. Woodbury wanted to know in what act of Congress counsel found the powers of the Sergeant-at-Arms defined.
Mr. Andrew replied that the office was not established. He cited the act of April 12. 1792, and March 3, 1815, providing for the compensation of that officer. The act of April 10, 1806, is to the same effect. He contended, as no power was given by the statutes to serve warrants out of the District of Columbia, none existed.
Mr. Woodbury said he agreed that the office of Sergeant-at-Arms was not established by statute. He apprehended that he was an officer having such power as the Senate saw fit to confer upon him. It had been very well settled that each co-ordinate branch of the Government had the power to act in its own sphere, in accordance with its own judgment. One branch could not revise the action of another, except where power of revision was given by the Constitution. He read the section of the Constitution relating to the powers and duties of Congress. The Senate was the sole judge of the question whether its powers had been exceeded by its deputies. It had I a right to regulate the process of its officers. The cases cited from Massachusetts Reports were of an entirely different character. No similitudes could be drawn from one to another. The only real question was. whether the Senate and its officers had any power outside of the District of Columbia. If they had not, it was clear that no power for contempt could reach any man in Massachusetts.
Mr. Andrew said he did not now question the power of the Senate, only of its officer.
Mr. Woodbury mentioned several instances where processes from the Senate had extended to various parts of the country. It would appear strange if, during the eighty years this had been going on, there was no rightful power; that such powers had, until now. been exercised illegally. Something more than mere statement would be required to overturn all this precedent of practice. But this was not the first time that the power of the Sergeant-at-Arms had been questioned. He cited the case of Anderson. who attempted to bribe Lewis Williams, a member of. Congress. Anderson sued the Sergeant-at-Arms for trespass. The case WHS reported in 6 Wheaton, 204- Anderson v. Dunn. The Supreme Court says that a 1 process for contempt may be served any where in the United States. 
The statute of January 24, 1857, was then cited.. It declares that any person who may be summoned before either House of Congress, refusing to appear, or to answer questions, shall be subject to certain additional pains and penalties upon conviction before any United States Court having jurisdiction of such contempt.
Mr. Woodbury then proceeded to discuss the question of the power of Carlton under his authority from McNair. When a person was found exercising the power of an official, his right to exercise that duty was presumed until some substantial evidence to the contrary was produced.
Hoar, J., thought that the case was different where there was no such office as that the powers of which were supposed to be exercised. It was a question whether there was any such office as that of Deputy of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
Mr. Woodbury replied that the respondent exhibited the signature of the President of the Senate, and the seal thereof, and the signature of the Sergeant-at-Arms; and he did not apprehend that the question could go further, without evidence. 
Shaw, C J., called the Attorney's attention to the fact that the Senate had authorized its officer to make an arrest, not granting to him power to deputize any body else to do it.
Mr. Woodbury replied that the practice had been as in the present case. Usually, when warrants were issued, many were sent out at the same time, and if one man alone could serve them, they could scarcely be served at all.
Mr. Andrew said he should not follow the Attorney through his whole argument. He submitted that Mr. Carlton derived no power to serve the warrant from the endorsement of Dunning R. McNair. For the purpose of this preliminary inquiry, he was willing to assume the legality of the power of the Senate. The statutes only speak of the Sergeant-at-Arms as an officer existing under the Rules of Congress, and whatever power that officer might have within the District of Columbia, there was no grant of power to execute warrants out of that bailiwick. Suppose that McNair has come here to make this arrest. He can show no statute; he can plead no custom. The warrant authorizes the arrest of F. B. Sanborn wherever he may be found, not limited even to the United States.
It must be construed according to right reason. He cited 14 Howell, 157, to show that neither branch of Parliament alone had now power to restrain any person of his liberty. This case, though once overruled, had since been affirmed. The Court here could not take judicial knowledge of an officer not acting under a statute. Passing then to the question of the power of Carlton, he said it would be found that he made his return simply as Silas Carlton, without any official title. If such powers could be granted to persons giving no bonds and taking no oaths, it might lead to an extraordinary state of things.
Mr. Woodbury again called attention to the case of Anderson, which he had before cited. It appeared that the arrest in that case was made within the District of Columbia.
The Court then remarked, that for the purpose of deciding this preliminary question, it would adjourn to 31/2 o'clock, P. M. 
The Court came in at half-past three o'clock, and Chief Justice Shaw delivered the following opinion: 
DECIS1OX OF CHIEF JUSTICE SHAW. 
This arrest was made by Silas Carlton, n citizen and inhabitant of Massachusetts, and on the answer of this officer, under oath, he shows a warrant to D. R. McNair, Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate of United States, and says that the Sergeant-at-Arms entered an order upon it, delegating the power to Carlton to make the arrest.
There is, therefore, no conflict in this case between the authority of an executive officer of the United States and an officer of this Commonwealth.
It appears by the answer of the officer, which stands as part of the return to the writ of habeas corpus, that Carlton claims to have arrested Sanborn, under a warrant purporting to have been issued under the hand and seal of the Vice-President of the United States and President of the Senate. It recites the appointment of a committee of the Senate to inquire into the circumstances of the attack made by a body of men upon the arsenal of the United States at Harper's Ferry, the citation of Sanborn to answer as a witness before such committee; that he refused to attend according to such summons; that he was thereby guilty of a contempt, and directing D. R. McNair, Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate, to, arrest the said Sanborn, wherever he could find him, and bring him before the Senate to answer for such contempt. This warrant seems to have been issued on the 16th of February last. There is an endorsement of the same date, by the sergeant-at-Arms, authorizing and empowering the said Carlton, the respondent, to make such arrest; and the respondent justifying the arrest made on the 3d April instant that process, the question is whether this arrest is justified by this return.
This question is a very broad and a very important one, and opens many interesting questions as to the functions and power of the United States Senate, as a constituent party, both of the legislative department of the United States government, and the modes in which they are to be exercised, and the limits by which they are qualified.
It is admitted in the arguments that there is no express provision in the Constitution of the Unites States giving this authority in terms; but it is maintained that it is necessarily incidental to various authorities vested in the Senate of the United States, in its legislative, executive and judicial functions, and must therefore be held to be conferred by necessary implication.
These question, manifestly requiring great <illegible> 
<c03>
ation and research, in order to come to a satisfactory conclusion, and some preliminary questions having been suggested by the petitioner's counsel, it was proposed, and not objected to by the learned District Attorney and Assistant District Attorney of the United States, by whom the Court were attended in behalf of be respondent, to consider these preliminary questions, first: because, if the objections, on the face of them, were sustained, it would supersede the necessity of discussing the other questions arising in the case. These points have been argued.
For obvious reasons, we lay out of this inquiry the case of the Senate, when, acting in a judicial capacity on the trial of an impeachment laid before it by the House of Representatives; and we suppose the same considerations would apply to the case of the House of Representatives in summoning witnesses to testify before them, as the grand inquest of the U. S., with a view to an impeachment.
Then the objections taken to this warrant, on the face of it, as rendering it insufficient to justify the arrest of the petitioner, are these:-
1. That the Sergeant-at-Arms, in his capacity as an officer of the Senate, had no authority to execute process oat of the limits of the District of Columbia, over which the U. S. Senate have, by the Constitution, exclusive general jurisdiction.
2. That a Sergeant-at-Arms is not an officer known to the Constitution or laws of the United States, as a general executive, of known powers, like a Sheriff or Marshal; that he is appointed and recognised by the rules of the Senate as an officer exercising powers regulated by the rules and orders of the Senate, and can only exercise such powers as are conferred on him by such general rules and orders, made with a view to the regular proceedings of the Senate; or much as may be conferred by the Senate by special resolves and acts, as a single department of the government, without the concurrence of other members of the government.
3. That by the warrant returned, the power to arrest the respondent was in terms limited to McNair, the Sergeant-at-Arms, and could not be executed by s deputy. In regard to the first, it seems to us that the objection opens a broader ground than it is necessary to occupy in deciding this preliminary question. We are not prepared to say that in no case can the Senate direct process to be served beyond the limits of the District, by an authority expressly given for that purpose. The case of Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheaton, 204, cited in the argument, has little application to' this question. It is manifest that that was writ of error from the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, and it appears that the alleged contempt of Anderson, in offering a bribe to a member of the House of Representatives, was committed in the District of Columbia, the act complained of as a trespass was done therein, and the process in question was served by the Sergeant-at-Arms in person, under an express authority given by the House of Representatives, by their resolve for that purpose, in pursuance of which the Speaker's warrant was issued. 
The second question appears to us far more material. The Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate is an officer of that house, like its door-keeper, appointed by them, and required by their rules and orders to exercise certain powers, mainly with a view to order and due course of proceedings. He is not a general officer, known to the law, as a sheriff, having power to appoint general deputies, or to act by general deputation, in particular cases; nor, like a marshal, who holds analogous powers, and possesses similar functions, under the laws of the United States, with those of sheriffs and deputies under the State laws.
But even when it appears, by the terms or the reasonable construction of a statute, conferring an authority on a sheriff, that it was intended he should execute it personally, he cannot exercise it by general deputy, and of course he cannot do it by special deputation. Wood v. Ross, 11 Mass. Reports, p. 271. 
But, upon the third point, the Court are of the opinion that the warrant offers no justification. Suppose the Senate had authority, by the resolves passed by them, to cause the petitioner to be arrested and brought before them, it appears by the warrant issued for that purpose that the power was given alone to McNair, Sergeant-at-Arms, and there is nothing to indicate any intention on their part to have such arrest made by any other person. There is no authority, in fact, given by this warrant, to delegate the authority to any other person. 
It is a general rule of the common law, not founded on any judicial decision, or statute provision, but to universally received as to have grown into a maxim, that a delegated authority to any one does not authorize him to delegate it to another. 'Deligota potestas non potest deligari.' Broome's Law Maxims, 2d edition, 665. This grows out of the nature of the subject. A special authority is in the nature of a trust. It implies confidence in the solidity, skill or discretion of the entrusted party. The author of such a party may extend it if he will, as is done in ordinary powers of attorney, giving power to one, or his substitute or substitutes, to do the acts authorized. But when it is not so extended, it is limited to the person named.
The counsel for the respondent asked what authority there is for limiting such warrant to the person named. It rather belongs to those who wish to justify under such delegated power to show judicial authority for the extension.
On the special ground that this respondent had no legal authority to detain the petitioner in his custody, the order of the Court is that the said Sanborn be discharges! from the custody of said Carlton.
Mr. Woodbury then said that his client would desire to avail himself of every means to test the question, under a statute read by him, and wished to make a motion for a writ of review. Some discussion was bad between the Chief Justice and Mr. Woodbury, and the latter was allowed time to file any exceptions, and he would examine them. 
As soon as Mr. Sanborn was set at liberty, he was conducted to a carriage by Mr. Louis A. Surrette, of Concord, and with Mr. George L. Stearns and Mr. Ezra Ripley, entered it, and departed for Concord, amid the enthusiastic cheers of the spectators. 
CONCORD, April 5. A complaint was made last evening by Louis A. Surrette against F. B. Sanborn for an assault upon officers Carlton, Tarlton, Freeman and Coolidge, on the 3d inst., and this morning Mr. Sanborn was arrested by Deputy Sheriff Moore, brought before Justice N. Ball, where he waived examination, and was bound over, with sureties, to the June Superior Court in Concord. His sureties are, R. Waldo Emerson, Addison G Fay, George L. Prescott, Daniel Shattuck, Nathan Brooks, E. W. Bull, all of Concord.
During the evening, a meeting was held at the Town Hall to talk over the affair. Dr. Josiah Bartlett was Chairman, and remarks were made by Mr. Sanborn and others.
Of this meeting the Courier says:-
This meeting was called to order by Mr. Bowers, and Dr. Josiah Bartlett was chosen to preside. Mr. Sanborn was introduced with his manacles, and received immense applause. He said that he had learned from this event increasing hatred to Slavery, under whatever guise it appeared, or whoever supported it. The Rev. Mr. Reynolds, Mr. Thoreau, A. G. Fay, Ralph Waldo Emerson. Henry Warren, E. W. Bull, and the Rev. Thomas Wentworth Higginson, addressed the meeting at considerable length. The first named speaker suggested the necessity of some organization to guard against future outrages of this sort. The suggestion was adopted by the meeting, and a Committee of seven was appointed to make arrangements for an organization after the style of the old Vigilance Committee of San Francisco. Mr. San born stated at the conclusion of the meeting that he, was prepared to resist the Government to the last.
The following resolutions were presented and adopted unanimously by the meeting:- 
Resolved, That the fame of old Concord for its spirit of noble daring on the nineteenth of April 1775, is glorious, and only equalled by the chivalrous rescue of one of our most honored citizens from a band of kidnappers, who had forcibly seized and manacled him, and were hurrying him away from his home and friends, on the third of April, I860.
Resolved, That the doctrine of the Revolution, that 'resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,' is our doctrine, and that we proclaim, our unswerving determination to resist all attempts to abridge the rights of any citizen to all privileges and guaranties of constitutional liberty. 
Resolved, That the attempt of United States officers, by false pretences, and under cover of darkness, to rob a man of his freedom, is base, mean and cowardly.
EXAMINATION OF UNITED STATES OFFICERS AT CONCORD 
CONCORD, April 6.-United States officers Watson Freeman, Jr., George J. Coolidge, Silas Carlton, an William B. Tarlton, appeared before Trial Justice Nehemiah Ball, at the Town Hall in Concord, to-day noon, to answer to a complaint for an assault and battery upon F. B. Sanborn, on the 3d day of April inst., with intent to kidnap. 
A large number of the people of Concord were present. John S. Keyes, of Concord, and As a Ripley of Cambridge, appeared for the complainant, and. Milton Andros, Assistant United States District Attorney, for the respondents.
When the first complaint, for assault, upon which the respondents were arrested, came up, Mr. Key n asked leave to enter a no1. pros., which was allowed by the Justice.
Mr. Andros waived the reading of the second complaint, and also waived an examination upon it. 
Some debate took place between counsel as to the.
<c04>
necessity of hearing <illegible> preliminary to fixing the amount of bail.
The Justice decided that it was not necessary to take evidence in the determination of that matter.
Mr. Keyes asked that the bail be fixed at $5000 for each defendant.
Mr. Andros argued that this would be excessive. On consultation, however, with U.S. Marshal Freeman, he remarked to the Justice that the amount of bail was a matter of indifference of the respondents.
After some further debate the Court fixed the bail at $2000 for each respondent.
Watson Freeman, Joseph Holbrook, Stedman Buttrick and Samuel H. Rhodes were accepted as sureties, and Samuel H. Rhodes were accepted as sureties, to appear at the next term of the Superior Court at Concord.
FATAL RESULT OF THE EXCITEMENT.
Mr. Rufus Hosmer, a gentlemen predisposed to apoplexy, was among the witnesses of the exciting affair, which produced such an effect upon his system that he was seized with a fit on reaching home, and died soon after.
THE WOMEN OF CONCORD.
The women, like the mothers of yore, were foremost in the affray, and by every possible means worried the officers. Miss Sanborn seized an officer by his beard, and compelled him to relinquish his hold of Mr. Sanborn. Miss Ann Whiting, daughter of Col, Whiting approached officer Tarlton, raised his hat, and looking him steadily in the face, said, 'Let me see what kind of a looking man you are. You may come here again some day, and I shall want to know you!'
Mr. Sanborn's sister, seeing the crowd surrounding the officers and her brother, and that she could do no service there, seized the whip from the carriage and began belaboring the horses in good earnest, but one of the men took the whip from her. She then jumped into the carriage to prevent her brother being put into it, but she was taken out with more force than politeness, having her clothes torn in the struggle.
PRESENTATION TO MISS SANBORN. The friends of Mr. Frank B. Sanborn are about to present to his sister-as a token of their respect for her bravery-one of the latest styles of Colt's revolvers. It will bear an engraved representation of the old Pine Tree flag, and the inscription, 'Sic itur ad astra!'
WASHINGTON, April 10.
SENATE. Mr. Summer presented the memorial of Mr. Sanborn, of Concord, Mass, in regard to the gross attempt to kidnap him by persons claiming to act under the authority of the United States Senate. Mr. Sumner narrated the circumstances attending the capture of Mr. Sanborn and his subsequent release, and said the act was conspicuous both as regarded the man against who the attack was directed, and the place where it occurred. Mr. Sanborn was a quiet gentlemen, of excellent fame as a scholar of pure life. This was the man who was seized.
The attempt was made at Concord, where a seizure was once before attempted, which ended in the revolution of these States. The Senate owed something to its own character, and should wash its hands of this transaction. He moved the reference of the memorial to the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. Mason said that this man Sanborn was shown to be in correspondence with the man who was hung at Harper's Ferry as a traitor, or with his friends. He had therefore been summoned before the Committee of the Senate to testify. He (Sanborn) replied, refusing to come on the ground, that he feared personal violence. A warrant was then issued against him, and the Sergeant-at-Arms sent deputies to arrest him, who did so, but he was rescued by a mob, and afterwards discharged by Justice Shaw upon a writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. Sanborn's, memorial was then read. He claims that he has rightfully resisted the summons of the Senate, and complains of the unwarrantable arrest, and the brutality attending it, and asks redress at the hands of the Senate.
Mr. Summer wished to correct one statement which fell from the Senator from Virginia Mr. Sanborn was taken from the custody of the pretended officers not by a mob, but by a writ of habeas corpus, enforced by posse comitatus.
Mr. Mason said that his authority was a letter from the U.S. Marshal. He moved to lay the memorial was laid on the table until the process should be returned.
Mr. Summer reluctantly consented, with the understanding that it should be called up when the process was returned.
The memorial was laid on the table.
THE CONCORD AFFAIR. David A. Wasson, in a discourse at the Music Hall on Sunday last, on 'Help from Hindrance,' thus alluded to the case of Mr. Sanborn: 'We see that without the aid of debased, dastardly officials, we should not have known that Sanborn of concord is no less a hero than a pure and high-minded gentleman: one of the gentlest, sunniest, sweetest souls; full of conscience, of geniality, of unassuming verity; with the distinctness and simplicity of child; with the delicate considerateness of a woman; a man whom all children instinctively trust and follow, deriving no support for his sterner purposes from any harsh qualities. It was only evil times and evil men which could have unveiled to us a will as invincible, as incorruptible, a bosom in which womanly charity and granite tenacity and sturdiness concentrated together. Nay, we should not only be unaware of the fact, but the fact itself would in a less degree exist. Heroes are not only demonstrated, by they are likewise developed by occasions for heroism; while again, heroism once shown, is three times more contagious than smallpox; one instance make a hundred more; and that which was at first a sublime force in one, the rectitude of a single soul, becomes the spirit of an entire community, and it may be of an entire age.
And those brave women of Concord,-think you not that their holy hardihood, as it now affects and inspires contemporaries, will find its way by spiritual descent into wide posterities, and build itself into the brains of children a hundred years hence?
I do not attempt to consider here what benefit the cause of freedom will receive from these events, for we are looking now to see how virtue and manhood are made; though in the meantime we may assure ourselves that the cause of freedom lives in free hearis, who are aiding the success of that cause, which can bide its time.'

LETTER FROM CASSIUS M.CLAY.
MY DEAR B.-I write now to give you a history of the war going on here, between the Democrats and the Republicans. Let us begin at the beginning. After the overthrow of William S. Bailey's press, and the general terror in the slave States, the Democracy thought it a good time to make a clean sweep of all the liberal element here, including me and others in this country. The first vote at the public meeting included the 'Republicans' by name. Upon a reconsideration, Republicans were struck out, but in the manifesto we were denounced as 'guilty of crime,' which ought to be, but is not, punishable by law! The Turners, my old personal enemies, where present, and made most inflammatory speeches, and were opposed to 'old' and moderate men going on the committee, but for 'Young men,' naming some of my most desperate enemies. The Bereans were driven out, supposing that I would defend the 'radicals.' They were disappointed when they heard that I had escaped; in the first place refusing to hear the proposition to expel the radicals by law, the Legislature then being in session; because, what was the use, they said, in driving out Fee and committee, whilst I, the arch traitor, was left to agitate the country?
Threats still continuing, I thought it wise to make my defence at Frankfort, in the seat of government, and in the fact of the whole Democratic party. My success there overbore them for awhile, till my northern tour again gave them, by garbled reports, new food for action, which was increased by the circulation of my Frankfort speech on my return home, and the distribution of the Helper book, which still more moved them. Hanson gave them nucleus of action. He entered Berea, through Richmond, on the 3de day of March.
Not long afterward the committee met at the Glade, about a mile from Berea, and denounced him, and ordered him to leave; but, although he was in Berea, they never went there, but dispersed. Hanson retired to the mountains for a few days, and the committee reported him gone, which was well known not to be so. Encouraged, Hanson wrote a protest, dated March 13, and sent it to the editor of the Messenger at Richmond. On the 24th I sent to Berea, and advised my friends to stand aloof from Hanson in the all respects; and I also begged Hanson to leave the State, telling him the consequences; but he declined. So soon as the committee heard I was at Berea, on Saturday and Sunday, they raised a terrible clamor, accused me of dictating the letter of Hanson to bring on a war, mustered their forces, and made a night expedition of the most desperate men-all the moderates being left behind-expecting to take me by surprise, and put me to death. This was told me by a friend in the Revolutionary Committee. They however, did not reach Berea before daylight, armed with shot-guns and pistols. They searched all the houses, insulted the women and out friends, and at last were so violent-as the papers will tell you--to West and his daughter(a Republican) that out party would stand it no longer; went in <illegible> of West, when the parties met, and a battle took places, in which three of the <illegible> were wounded,
<c05>
(an old Mexican companion-in-arms confessing to me in private, a shot in the thigh.) sad at last defeated. They returned in great consternation, wrote to the Governor for aid, sent to Lexington for cannon and tea to shoot it'! In the meantime, it was supposed at I was there <illegible> my forces. I had gone to Washington and thence to my sister Smiths, stating divers persons that my mission had been one of act, and not of tear; but they rallied, in force several hundred, on Tuesday, and finding the foe gone, they 'killed Hanson's saw mill,' and denounced all these engaged in the fight, and gave their families notice to leave the State by Tuesday following, at the same time making violent threats against me. 
In the meantime, on Tuesday, Richmond, I took stump and disabused the public mind of the calumnies against me, and left for home. But the excitement continued, and I was more and more denounced. Yesterday a meeting was held to consider me. I had my appeal to the <illegible> of Madison out in handbills, and early in the day had them circulated. (Sea the handbill in the Louisville Journal and the <illegible>.) They were read and discussed- some against me. When the meeting took place, the Court House could not hold all the people, nor could my informants bear much; but speeches were made-some for, some against me; but no resolution was passed against me. My handbill was read, and they adjourned into private caucus. It is believed that they will go to Berea to-day, and finding no one, or I have told my boys to retreat, leaving their wives and children at home.) they will dissolve. If such be the case, and no one is killed, I think we will have gained a complete victory over them. If some are killed, God only knows the end! We will at once take to the woods and the mountains, and defend ourselves to the last!
If we had fifty or one hundred Sharpe's rifles, it would give us immense power in the mountain recesses, where cannon could not reach us. It is said the Governor will be again called upon to really keep the peace! God knows we don't want the scenes of <illegible> again <illegible>-first disarming us, and setting our foes upon us! 
In haste, your friend, 
C. M. CLAY.
P. S. I learn to-day that they are coming out is handbill, attempting to refute the letter of Haley and Bland. Who cares for the word or testimony of mob? C.
TRIBUTE TO WENDELL PHILLIPS BY HENRY WARD BEECHER. Mr. Beecher, speaking in his sermon on Sunday night of moral courage among business men, said:- 
'When I was away from home, recently, I turned ruby red with shame to find in a newspaper what I supposed was an ignominious slander, but which roved to be an ignominious truth-namely, that this church had been refused to Wendell Phillips, for the delivery of his address on 'The Dissolution of the Union.' If the church had not been accustomed to « let freely for concerts, lectures, and the like, pending the construction of a new church, the case would have been different, and it might have bean prudent not to let it on the occasion in question; but when it was in the market to be let to all respectable causes and persons, for one hundred dollars a night-which s the fee-to deny it to him because he was advocating an unpopular doctrine, and because it was eared that his using it would have an injurious elect on the raising of money for the new church, was shameful in the extreme. When I read it, I colored till I felt my blushes in my boots! I was ashamed through and through! I said to myself, 'Thirteen years of ministration among a people, resulting in the thirteenth year, only in a cowardice that makes them afraid to let a man stand in my place, and speak what they do not believe, what they ear will have an unfavorable effect on the church, or what will have an unfavorable effect on me!" 
'There is not a more moral and upright man, or a more perfect gentleman and scholar, in the Union! Though I do not accept his philosophy, or the application of it, I am proud to own that Wendell Philips is my personal friend. I have the greatest admiration of the man. He has that which is brighter than any gem ever worn in kingly crown, namely moral courage to proclaim, and perseverance to advocate, what he thinks to be true, no mutter what opposition he may encounter. And I will tell you one thing: if you expect by any such prudent course as hat to get money to build a church, I do not want it; I do not want a church that is built at a price to make men hold their tongues.' 
A PAMPHLET FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD THROUGHOUT THE <illegible> STATES. The American Anti-Slavery Society has just published an edition of ten thousand copies of a most important pamphlet, entitled 'THE NEW REIGN OF TERROR IN THE SLAVE-HOLDING STATES, for 1859-60.' It is a record of the multitudinous outrages and atrocities which have been visited upon unoffending Northern citizens by the lawless minions of slavery, while travelling or sojourning at the South, within the last four or five months. A perusal of it is enough to create a soul under the ribs of death,' and to 'stir a fever in the blood of age. 'Read it, men of the North! and ask yourselves of what value is the Union to you! 
This pamphlet makes 144 pages, and will be put at about cost price. Single copy, only 10 cents; by the hundred, $8. For sale at 21 Cornhill. 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
Collections by Mitt Susan B. Anthony, at Western New York Conventions.
At Port Byron, $ 13 93
Weedsport, l57 
Jordan, 1 73
Rochester, 49 35
Brockport, 8 07
Medina, 4 94
Albion,. 15 97
Williamson, 5 42
Marion, 1 58
Palmyra, 11 92
Macedon Locks, 5 27
Macedon Centre, 2 68
Farmington, 2 88 
By Marina R. Robinson,. 5 50 
By Aaron M. Powell, 2 96 
T. Weed, Albany, (donation,) 10 00
Cornelius Wellington, Boston,(donation,) 5 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer. 
TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
The TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONNVENTON will be held in COOPER UNION, New York, on Thursday and Friday, May 10th and 11th. Sessions at half-past 10, A. M., and half-past 7, evening. Wendell Phillips, Elisabeth Cady Stanton. Ernestine L. Rose, J. Elisabeth Jones, Rev. Antoinette Brown Black well and others will address the Convention.
On behalf of the Central Committee,
E. CADY STANTON, President
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, <illegible>
MAY DAY. 
The subscribers propose to throw open their rooms, over Boylston Market, Boylston street, on May Day. Breakfast will be served from 7 to 9 is the morning. In the afternoon, an Exhibition of Paintings will be given for Sabbath Schools. In the evening, there will be a Social Gathering of the friends of the cause. A fine opportunity will thus be given to aid the Mission for the Poor and Criminal masses. 
CHARLES SPEAR,
MRS. CHARLES SPEAR. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Ware, Mass., en Sunday, April 14; in Manchester, N. H., Friday evening, April 20; in Wears. N. H.. Sunday, April 22. In the two Utter places, A. T. Foes will assist. 
SALLIE HOLLSY. an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will Mature as follows:-
Fitzwilliam, N. H., Friday, April 13. 
Keene, N. H., Sunday, April 15.
Dublin, N. H. Thursday, April 19. 
REV. CHARLES SPEAR and Wife will hold meetings in their Chapel over Boylston Market, Boylston street, next Sabbath afternoon and evening. 
DIED-In Dover. N. H on the 6th instant, Miss MAMIA J. PAGE, aged 31.
<illegible>
HOME SCHOOL. 
THE next (Summer) Term of this <illegible> will <illegible> on Wednesday, may 2 1860, and continue Ten Weeks. Applications for admission should be made at as early a date as practicable. For particulars, address
WM. S. HAYWOOD,
ABBLE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
<illegible> (Milford, Mass) April 3, 1860.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:--'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Restorer,' No.1 according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE. BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair <illegible> to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.'
Rev. M.THACHER,
Bridgewater, <illegible> Co., N. Y., Nov. 22,1855.
President J.L.EATON, LL.D. Union University,
Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM --I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was <illegible> visible. THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given seen of its effects in my own case. I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do. viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D.W.CLARK, wife of Rev. D.W. CLARK Editor 'Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S.A. Allen's <illegible> with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it is any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N.Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and <illegible> is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E.R.FAIRCHILD,D. D., Cor. Sre. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and <illegible> have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I tale pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded you World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither baldnor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro,' Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DENIEL T.WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W.B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England,'
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,--not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTL
Rev. J.WEST,6 Washington Place,(Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's in the most literal sense, and also than fully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK Ed, 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, <illegible>. Sec. Board of Education R.D. Church, 337 Broadway, N.Y., and New Baltimore, Greene country, N.Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Restorer, &c., for the use of relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS McFARLANE, Pastor Prot, Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster Country, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color increasing the growth of the hair' and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B.C.SMITH. Prattsburg, N. y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M.C.KLING. Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N.H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had a agent in this vicinity a large quantity might be disposed of.'
Rev. Mrs. E.S.ANDRUS,(many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in <illegible> island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. Allen's she write to the 'American Baptist,'-' I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S.A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and <illegible>; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will Some few dealer try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 871/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S World's Hair Restorer <illegible>, No.355 Broome Street, New York.' The <illegible> has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottle-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim' in offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER.
Oct 14 1 Year
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE POETRY
For the Liberator
FREEDOM
Dedicated to the Martyr Brown.
BY REV, J. T. POWERS.
Arise! strike off his chains!
Hark to the awful sound!
Our brother dies beneath the lash;
His blood cries from the ground!
Behold the oppressor's rod!
Hear the loud cries ascend!
Shall Afric's on in vain still plead
For brother and for friend?
O, no; the day shall dawn!
Night shall be overpast!
Those cries, those groans, those bitter tears
Shall cease, thank God, at last!
The bondman's Savior dies!
His blood a holy sea;
His words of power come forth,—
The salve-man shall go free!
John Brown stands glorified!
In vestements pure and white 
He passes on to God and heaven;
He conquers in the fight!
His name shall be revered,
Inscribed from age to age;
In characters of flame and light
‘Tis writ on Freedom's page.
He dared to live and die
For Afric's sable race;
A glory as of God surrounds
And falls upon his face!
Amid the martyr's fires
That flash about his form,
With faith in God and love to Man,
He safe outrides the storm.
He speaks: Arise! awake!
My brothers, sleep no more,
Till freedom lives, and leaps, and glows,
And spreads from shore to shore!
'Till Ethiop's scar-crowned race,-
The children of our God,-
Shall feel their galling chains no more,
No more the oppressor's rod!'
Hark! hear the battle-shout!
Awake! arise! come forth!
Let word of cheer and prayer ascend—
Thank God! there is a North!
Carlisle, Mass.
For the Liberator.
JOHN BROWN.
Enshrined in heats will live thy name,
Walted to every clime thy fame;
Far nobler than the richest crown
Is thy reward, heroic Brown!
Thy noble deeds in future Age
Illuminate historic page;
Children unborn shall sing of thee,
Oh! gallant captain of the free!
Thy martyrdom—a beacon light
Shines forth, and urges on the fight;
Thy death hath sealed Oppression's doom,
And daylight glimmers through the gloom.
Rest thon in peace! the labor done,
Thy battles fought and victories won,
Thy memory crowned with laurel wreath,
Thy grandest conquest over Death.
No sculptured marble marks the grave,
Where sleeps the hero truly brave,
No pompous eulogy is found
Intruding on that sacred mound.
His epitaph is written,—where,
Untouched by Time, unfading, clear,
It cannot change,—in heart of man.
'The last and noblest Puritan.'
JOSEPH A. HORNER.
Wakefield, (Eng.) March 7, 1860.
For the Liberator.
TO R.W.E.,
On reading his exquisite lines ’To the Muse,' in the Atlantic Monthly for March
The Muse thou sleekest, whom thou canst not find,
Her footsteps lead thee fleeter than the wind.
Thyself a ’Beckoner' and ’Escape' most rare,
Through the deep mazes of thy fertile mind,
Dost take us all thy rosy gifts to share,
But still thyself we reach not any where:
For higher yet, and farther off thou art,
As we draw near unto the chosen spot,
To find that thou hast ta'en a fresher start,
And where thou beckoned'st, there to gain thee not.
Thou ’mutablest Perversity,' forsooth!
In writing thus about the errant muse, 
Whom thou of subtlest wanderings dost accuse,
Thou hast portrayed thyself in very truth!
Still lead thou on, though we may ne'er attain
The promised land of fair content, and true;
Enough if we may break the encumbering chain,
And haply catch, at times, a Pisgah view.
New Bedford, March 18, 1860.D.R.
ON ELIZA LEE FOLLEN-DECEASED.
To the African Race.
BY LADY BYRON.
The following lines, (says the New York Independent,) which have come to us by the last Liverpool steamer, are in memory of a well-known friend of the slave. The autograph initials will be recognized as those of Lady Anna Isabella Noel Byron, the still surviving widow of the great poet.
Conscious of soul, she lives that life
Which knows no earthly bourns,
Believing e' en midst bitterest strife,
Man was not made to mourn.
Beyond the cloud she saw a light,
Beyond the waves a shore;
And still with hope divinely bright
Gilt every cross she bore.
To her, the heaviest cross of all
Was that there lived a slave;
That free-born man should man enthrall
From childhood to the grave!
Ye for whose rights her powers were spent,
Whose wrongs she held as sin,
Be your deep love her monument,
Her virtues shrined within! A. L. N. R. 
INFLUENCE.
Drop follows drop, and swells
With rain the sweeping river;
Word follows word, and tells
A truth that lives forever.
Flake follows flake, like sprites,
Whose wings the winds discover;
Thought follows thought, sad lights
The realms of mind forever.
Beam follows beam, to cheer
The cloud the bolt would shiver;
Throb follows throb, and fear
Gives place to joy forever.
The drop, the flake, the beam,
Teach us a lesson ever;
The world, the thought, the dream,
Impress the soul-forever.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
'PUT UP THY SWORD.'
A Discovers delivered before <illegible> Parker's Society at the Music Hall, Boston, Sunday, March 11, 1860, by WILLIAM H. FURNERS, Ministers of the Congregational Unitarian Church in Philadelphia.
JOHN xviii. 11 —’ Put up thy sword into the beath.'
My friends, I do not believe these has ever been an occasion, since the world began, when the sword might have bean used with greater honor and advantage than that upon which it was thus commanded to be sheathed. If there ever were a person, whose lift it was worth attempting to preserve, even at the cost of any number of common lives, it was he, who, when a band of ruffians, with a traitor at their head, had come to seine him, thus bade the friend who drew a sword in his defence, to put it back again into its sheath. So great was his wisdom, so life-giving his presence among man, that it would seem that no means should have been suffered to go unused, of saving mankind from so heavy a loss. He was, too, but in the blossom of his greatness. When, but a youth as he was, he had uttered so many inspired sayings, and, in his personal bearing, given assurance of such a man as all history cannot parallel,—what communications of truth, what a powerful influence for good, might not have been looked for from him, had his life only been prolonged, had that extraordinary nature only reached its full maturity! A life so precious to the world, not one sword, but a thousand swords, should have flashed from their scabbards to protect. 
And the prospect of success in defending that valuable life was by no means so desperate at the moment as would appear. The popularity of Jesus was great. His enemies did not dare to approach him with hostile intent in public and in the day-time, so high was he in favor with the masses who crowded around him, and were very attentive to hear him, whenever he showed himself among them. 
And yet, beyond all computation valuable as his life war, and successful as armed resistance to his capture might have proved, he forbade a finger to be raised in his defence; he commanded back into the sheath the sword that was drawn for him. And now, we may be well assured, that if the sword was not to be drawn then, it is never to be drawn. It may stay in its sheath, and rust wholly away, or be beaten, without any ado, into a pruning-hook. It is not an instrument that befits the hand of man, or serves any human purpose. 
What a blessed thing it is for the world, that the sword that was drawn on that most critical occasion was put by with no stain upon it of mortal strife; that, even for his own dear life, would Jesus give no countenance to any act of violence! Happy is it, I say, for the whole human race, for the completeness of the grandest ideal that has ever dawned upon our twilight, for the animation of every high hope, that not a drop of blood was shed in his behalf by his permission; for now stands there imperishably the Divine Fact, that the most exalted person, and the most abundantly inspired, that ever walked the earth, he whose presence here had made for every true soul a new heaven and a new earth, chose rather to die in the bloom of his years, before he had made himself understood by a single human being, to all human seeming, under the most disastrous circumstances, than to save his great life by hurting a hair of any man's head; a Fact, which, setting to every word that he uttered the seal of a sovereign sincerity, and directly addressing itself to whatever of sensibility there is in human nature, to what is magnanimous, is an inexhausible fountain of inspiration; a Fact, which, being a Fact, is a word spoken to man in the great language of God, and containing therefore a wealth of wisdom, with which all the truth that might be articulated by a human voice in a thousand years could not approach to a comparison. So that in that one event, the death of Jesus, there is a power, which his life, however prolonged, never could have exerted. 
It is not at all strange that such monstrous theological theories of the death of Christ have been proposed, representing it as an offering of Love, mighty enough to quench the flames of an Infinite wrath, and atone for the sins of the whole world! Barbarous as is this representation of it, in its logical form, its very extravagance bears witness to the profound impression which the Fact was forcible enough to make. It shows, in the wild and unregulated activity to which the imagination has been impelled by it, the power of the Fact. Whatever makes us feel deeply always stirs the imagination, and generates the most extravagant fancies. So it is, that the facts and events which touch us moat nearly have given occasion to the bewildering fictions of Theology. Such dogmas as the death of Christ has been interpreted to justify and involve, never could have obtained acceptance, had not that fact been profoundly felt. They have been rendered credible only to an imagination so enormously excited that it could not be satisfied to accept the fact in its unexaggerated simplicity as the natural expression of a human heart, penetrated as heart never was before, with faith in the competency of Truth and the omnipotence of Love. Nevertheless, it is on this very account, because it was natural as it was unprecedented, because it was in as perfect accord with simple human feelings as the flower with the root; because, in all its greatness, it was wholly within the sphere of human action and suffering, and not for any mysterious significance, such as theologians find in it, that it has fixed itself as a great primary Fact on the heart and history of the world.
Taken up and cleared from these fantastic interpretations, seen as a natural human act, prompted by a soul of unequalled generosity, it has, like all facts, which are the words of God, infinitely related, and therefore infinitely significant, a world of power in it, yet to be explored. Far are we yet from having risen to the height of its sublimity, or penetrated to the vigorous vitality of its meaning. 
One of the most obvious lessons which it teaches is this, that death, the death of the greatest, of a world-deliverer, suddenly and violently occurring on the very threshold of the meat beneficent activity, in the grey dawning hour of his career, so far from being the utter defeat which it appears, may prove a success far more decisive than a life prolonged to the uttermost could have achieved. And why? For this plain reason: because, in giving it to be seen that he, who suffers death thus prematurely, as it seems, chooses to endure any suffering rather than inflict the least, it makes grandly manifest the fact, that he is complete in the highest power that we know, which is love, and which wins for him the confidence and veneration of mankind for ever—a conquest which neither any men spoken or written truth, nor a world bristling all over with swords and bayonets, has any power to achieve. 
Here, I say, is a truth incontestible, because, in the crucifixion of Jesus, it exists as a fact; a fact, of which all the high sentiments of human nature, with which it is in harmony, are so many heavenly witnesses. What truth is then which can be more interesting to us now than this? What lesson is then which we at this hour more urgently need? It is the most important meaning which the death of Jesus has for us.
We are here, my friends, having part and place in the course of human affairs, at a juncture most momentous in the history of the world. Such is our lot. A great hour is coming, and now is, when that transcendent interest, the central soul of all human things, the cause of human liberty and progress, which was once impersonated in Jesus of Nasareth, identified with his personal being, is again incarnated, and in the scarred and bleeding flesh of the American slave, in the wail of whose agony the same heart- 
<c03>
searching voice is again articulated, that was heard speaking as man never spoke, centuries ago in Judea, It is not the bare fact of his personal wrongs and sufferings, though multiplied to millions of instances, and well demanding, on the mere score of humanity, our instant sympathy, that invests the case of the slave with its indescribable importance, with its irresistible authority. But what gives it its commanding chum upon us is the consideration, that the gross violation of the great gravitating law of justice on the person of the slave is an act which our whole social power, political, commercial and religious, is deliberately organized to commit; that organization, in the origin, maintenance and working of which, we, and all that we bold dear, an implicated; that organization, to which the whole world of mankind, specially invited by the public and formal declaration of this people, have been looking for the fulfilment of the great hope of human liberty, and from whom they an now turning away with fear, indignation and shame, now that they an slowly learning to know what an imposture it is. 
As this most unhappy and unrighteous condition of the American slave is thus caused, and stands thus related to all interests, sacred and secular, he stands out this hour, before all mankind, the most public person in the whole world; for in his fate, in the treatment he is thus receiving at the hands of this sworn nation of freemen, the destinies of nations are involved, and the liberties of Europe stagger and halt, bewildered and made weak, as that music of hope which went to them over the ocean, waking them to life, is drowned in the clanking of chains and the cries of the oppressed. 
I am not indulging in men figures of speech. I beseach you, do not for a moment imagine it. I am only trying to give an adequate statement to a truth, which it is of unspeakable moment that we should every soul of us appreciate. And I repeat, our oppressed brother, weak, degraded and maltreated as he is, and because he is all these, and we do all conspire to keep him so, upholding our whole social order upon his wrongs as its chief corner-stone,—he is the special representative person of the nation and the world. He represents the dearest human interests. And in like manner, precisely as the fate of Jesus of Nazareth once changed the condition of mankind, so the whole course of human history now waits upon the fortunes of the slave. 
Dear friends, as every one who has eyes to see may now see, it was not only to a benevolent instinct, blind, yet divine, but to the clearest-sighted wisdom, that Jesus gave utterance, when, in the most solemn manner possible, he represented the leant of men as standing in his stead, and identified sympathy for the lowest with the homage due to the highest. Yes, just as Jesus, by virtue of his matchless truth, stood to the country and to the whole world, baptizing men with the Holy Ghost and with fire, with his fan in his hand, separating the chaff from the wheat, and thoroughly sweeping his floor, so now his wretched brother, the slave, stands to this country and to the age, by virtue of the mighty wrongs which we all conspire to inflict upon him, and which, for the very reason that he has no power to utter them, clothe him only the more fully with the same divine authority that invested the words of Christ, to search and try the souls of men. Is not the Fan which was once held in the strong grasp of the Lord Jeus waving mightily now in the manacled hand of the slave over the whole land, winnowing the nation as with a fiery blast, coming straight out of heaven, bearing down all human efforts to lull the divine storm? What precious grain it is separating to sow the world with, or to gather into the garners of heaven! And the air is thick with the chaff, political and ecclesiastical, which it is whirling away, and which a little while ago lay so quietly in huge heaps, undistinguishable from the finest of the wheat. 
Since the slave occupies this critical position, since such vast interests are involved in his rights and wrongs, and since every event that occurs tends to fix our attention upon him, to the exclusion of every thing else, the question is forced upon us, what are we to do about him—we, especially, of the North? 
To this vital inquiry there are still not a few who are quick and confident to reply,’ We are to let him alone; we are to do nothing.' But, unhappily, or happily, that is impossible, absolutely impossible. I am free to confess, that, for myself, then is not any thing that I would be so glad to do in regard to this trying subject as just that: Nothing. But that is the thing which, of all things, I repeat, cannot possibly be done. What! cannot a man fold his arms, and hold his tongue, and shut his eyes, and turn his back, and stand perfectly still? Hardly, if he have a spark of humanity in him. It is about as easy as to hold one's breath for any length of time, or to stop one's pulse. And yet, I believe then have been men who were able to do this last; men who had the power of voluntarily suspending all perceptible signs of animation for an extraordinary length of time,—some months! I think I have read of such cases. So also, there are those, not a few, men, too, that labor apparently under no organic defect in regard to a heart, who seem to possess a like power of suspending all signs of moral life, of suppressing every pulse of human sympathy, and remaining wholly unmoved in the presence of the most flagrant oppression. How they do it, I do not know. But they do it, and become as dead men to the claims of humanity. I think there must be some black Art practiced, some charm employed, more potent than ether or chloroform, made out of cotton or of gold. Gold has occult powers of mighty energy. We have the high authority of Faraday for the homeoepathic faith, that a minute quantity of this metal will give to five hundred thousand times its weight of water a bright ruby color; and man is made of water chiefly, they say. So there is no knowing what organic changes gold may not accomplish in man and account for. 
But, be this as it may, let it be that at this time, when oppression numbers its victims by millions steadily increasing, and is demanding to be recognized as a God-ordained institution, and every whisper against it to be hushed,—let it be, that it is perfectly easy to stand still, and hold one's peace, and ignore the whole thing. But this, friends, is not doing nothing. On the contrary, this standing still and keeping silent,—why, it is equivalent to doing every thing, every thing, to favor the great iniquity. I do not know what more effectual thing any man can do to strengthen and extend the power and misery of wrong, than just this: to keep his eyes, ears and mouth shut. It is the very thing; it is all that the upholders of wrong ask for. It is all, at least, that they presumed to ask of us a little while ago, that we would just keep quiet; which modest request there were a great many people only too willing to comply with, if only the Slave Power would itself have kept quiet. But as that could not be, as, by the very necessity of its nature, it had to commit new and more flagrant outrages, silence and quiet have grown more and more difficult. So that now, naturally enough, something more than the negative countenance of silence is demanded; and the menace is, that, if we dare to open our lips, except to admit the constitutional right and Christian duty of man to hold his fellow-man as property, we do it at the risk of being mobbed and outlawed. For this monstrous and Heaven-defying despotism, and for the outrageous lengths to which' it is now pushing its demands, we are indebted to the do-nothing method of dealing with it. It hat all come from that, from letting the evil thing alone,—alone to grow, of course, unchecked. It is the standing still, and keeping silent, which this nation practised so thoroughly for half a century that we actually forgot that then was a human being on our soil that was not free, when there were actually millions in that miserable plight,—it was this closing of the eyes to slavery, until we lost sight of its existence, that has enabled oppression to extend wide its 
<c04>
branches, and strike deep its roots, and diffuse the death-distilling influence which has paralyzed the conscience and the Religion of the land, and as deadened our ordinary human sensibility that we can hardly distinguish bitter from sweet 
No, my friends, it is not possible in this matter to do nothing. God help us! we cannot be neutral. What passes for neutrality is but another name for downright interference and meddling with human rights, with the rights of property, and especially with that right of property which every man has to own himself, and which is the foundation of all rights of property. It is the neutrality, which has been, pretended, that has fed oppression with victims by the hecatomb, and has generated and deepened the black clouds that threaten to hide forever the beacon light! of Hope which has been kindled on this continent, As we cannot be neutral, as we must do something, what are we to do?
This question, which has been steadily coming home to now for some years with increasing weight, in one shape or another, has recently been pressed upon us with sudden and great urgency, by events which, fresh as they an in all minds, and still profoundly agitating the nation at large, then is no need that I should detail more particularly than to say, that they compose the incidents of an attempt to answer the great question in a certain way, namely, by resorting to a certain degree of physical force, in order to the deliverance of the oppressed; an attempt, the aim of which, as its leader declared, (and upon his word all who knew him rely,) was, with the utmost humanity possible, with a careful avoidance of all personal injury to the master, save in self defence, to provide a way of escape for the slave, and to arm him against recapture on his way to the mountains, or to a free soil beyond the borders of our slave soil; an attempt, undertaken not without the hope that in Virginia, as in Missouri, it might be carried out’ without the snapping of a gun.' Such was the object of John Brown, a man of such impressive truthfulness and dignity of character that the light of his high personal qualities broke at once through the blinding mists of rage and terror that gathered round him’ upon the very threshold of his enterprise, and commanded the respect and admiration of those who overpowered him, and dragged him to the scaffold. 
Considered, therefore, in its intention, this enterprise was not an express and formal attempt to solve: our great problem by asserting the right of insurrection. It was not designed to stir up the slaves to a murderous assault upon the persons and families of their masters. So it may be affirmed that no man in the North, no anti-slavery man, certainly, not even John Brown himself, ever contemplated instigating the oppressed to rise upon their oppressors, and put them to the sword. All that he sought was to assist the slaves to escape from the house of bondage, and to provide them with arms to defend themselves from being retaken. 
I do not imagine there is a man among us so destitute of common sense and humanity as to think of inciting the slaves to acts of vengeance and murder. No friend of the black race can regard such a thought with any feeling but of horror. Why, the first intimation of the existence of such a purpose would be a signal for the instant outbreak of a war of extermination upon that unhappy people.  It has been thought that it would help certain party and political purposes to charge certain persons at the North with this bloody design. But of those who made this charge, I do not suppose that any believed it, but those who were bereft of their senses by rage and terror. It is not in the people of the North to entertain any such murderous idea. Indeed, so utterly incapable do I hold them to be of any such savage intent, that I can hardly bear to seem to be defending them against the charge. 
But it is needful to say what I am saying: we must expect this charge to be made, we must reconcile ourselves to the humiliation of uttering our protest against being accused of these bloody designs, so, long as we avow, as the great mass of the people all over the North, all over the South, yes, and all over the world, do avow, the lawfulness, under any circumstances, of resorting to brute force, of drawing the death-dealing sword for God and for man. So long as we maintain the right to shoot and stab, to right any wrong, we are fairly open to the suspicion of being ready and willing to shoot and stab to any extent; not only because we are extremely liable to confound our passions with our principles, and to persuade ourselves that we are striking for God and for the Right, when we are only gratifying our anger or our revenge, but because, the right to use violence in any case being maintained, as a principle, we do virtually stand upon the ground of its lawfulness in all cases. It is a principle upon which no restriction can be put, for it asserts aggression to be the dictate of self-defence, and uses nut merely a shield, but a sword, and a sword not merely to ward off, but to strike. The distinction is made, I know, between the offensive and the defensive. The line that divides these two seems to be very easily and broadly drawn, but it is very sensitive, and sways to and fro with the slightest breath of human emotion, and may at any moment be obliterated by the surges of passion. What act of war is then so bloody and inhuman that it has not been justified at the moment, and after wards, upon the ground that it was rendered necessary for the self-protection of somebody?
So long, therefore, as we assert the right to use the sword upon any occasion, we lay ourselves open to the charge of being ready to use it needlessly, because we are, in fact, liable to use it so; because, when we an aggressive in defence, it is impossible to distinguish aggression from defence. Why, the bare physical exertion required to render a blow effective creates a heat in the blood, and the hot blood goes to the brain, and when the mind is heated, the ordinary effect of heat follows. The thoughts and images that rise in the mind an dilated; trifles an magnified into grave offences; the wild suggestions of an inflamed fancy are taken for self-evident facts, and then all the curbs of Reason and Humanity an consumed in the heat, and the passions rush all abroad to the work of blood and rapine, like so many demons let loose from the abodes of darkness. 
So plainly true is all this, that while I heartily honor John Brown for his generous purpose and for his heroic courage, while I freely allow that wherein he was wrong he had this excuse, that he was justified by the public sentiment of the world, which recognizes the sword as the lawful instrument of Justice and Liberty, I nevertheless see, that in resorting to forced in drawing the sword for the stave, he was wrong, and that the means which he employed tended to hurt the cause which it was in his great heart to serve. With all his can so to organize the enterprise which he undertook in behalf of the slave as to keep it strictly within the bounds of humanity and self-defence which he resolved to observe, he was not able, even on the threshold of his attempt, to prevent s shedding of blood, a sacrifice of life, which his purpose and his method did not contemplate, and which aroused against him and his little company a ferocity so savage that it wreaked its fury even upon the dead bodies of those of his friends who fall at Harper's Ferry. Wise and self-possessed as he was and with ill his experience of the barbarity of the Slave Power, and because, as I believe, he was full of the blessed idea of restoring to the oppressed the sacred rights of which they are robbed, be appears to have lost all foresight of the cruelty and bloodshed which would inevitably flow from the frenzy of fear and wrath that the first flash of his drawn sword would certainly kindle in these against whom it was drawn. Ha did not take into account the undeviating law, that violence produces violence, and that the force, which he i intended to employ very guardedly, and under the steady restraint of a watchful humanity, would look, in the eyes of those against whom it was directed,
<c05>
like nothing but what it was, pure, untempered brute force and so would be sure to arouse a force in them which would regard no restraints. Had be been successful in his first enterprise, had every thing gone as he intended, and a refuge been obtained in the mountains, it would have told fearfully upon the black race, whose blood all over the South would, I believe, have run like water, and whose chains would instantly have been trebled in weight; while at the North, all who sympathize with them would have been the objects of a far fiercer persecution than they have yet dreamed of. I know that the slave has friends here, whose fidelity no persecution, however violent, can shake, but only confirm. I believe, too, that they are prepared for every trial that an uncompromising adherence to the Right may involve. Only the more earnestly to be desired is it, that no unnecessary occasion should be given to the spirit of persecution, that no needless obstacles should be thrown in the way of the great and holy cause of Abolition, It is not worth while that the difficulties with which it has to contend should be aggravated by the employment of methods of serving it, which, to say the least, are questionable, and which many of its most faithful friends consider positively and upon principle wrong.
That such consequences as I have mentioned would have resulted from the success of John Brown's attempt, we may see plainly enough from what has actually followed upon its failure. In some of the slave States, it is seriously proposed, as you know, either to drive out of them all free persons of African blood, or reduce them to the abject condition of slaves. In Kentucky, a company of white people, resembling the primitive Christians in their blameless and devout lives, have been driven into exile, for no reason but because they had pity on the enslaved, and held oppression to be sinful before God. In the city where I dwell, persons, from whose education and position better things were to be expected, have publicly counseled the violent suppression of the most precious principle of our American institutions, Free Speech; counsel which only the commendable firmness of our civil authorities prevented from being carried into effect with blood and fire. And all over the South, every Northern stranger is narrowly watched, and many have been brutally treated and driven away, and a reign of terror inaugurated, under which the bloody law of the Suspect, without needing to be enacted, is going into full operation.
These things are the inevitable consequences of the intrusion of the drawn sword into the great conflict, and they show what far more bloody results would have come, not to the free white people of the South, not to the slaveholders, but to the slaves and their well-wishers, had not the sword that was drawn been instantly driven back into the sheath. 
The recent attempt, therefore, which is stirring the heart of the country, ’educating the nation.' as Wendell Phillips loves to say, teaches us very pointedly what we are not to do for our enslaved brother. Most solemnly does it repeat the command of Jesus to his rash and ardent friend:’ PUT UP THY SWORD INTO THE SHEATH.’
The sword can only wound and kill the body, and upon the mind it can have no effect, but to madden it with rage or drive it wild with terror; thus, so far from convincing the understanding, or strengthening the sense of justice, or breathing into men the spirit of repentance and humanity, closing both heart and understanding against the Truth. Every body knows this. Every body knows that a blow is not an argument, that stabbing and shooting prove nothing, that physical force displaces the greater force of Truth. 
The force of Truth, on the other hand, living in a man, sounding in his voice, beaming from his countenance, expressed in his whole person,—that it is that goes to the heart, straight to the heart. No cannon ball goes swifter. The shield which the advocates of wrong hide behind to escape it, the fortifications which they throw up to keep it out, and all the extreme measures to which they have recourse to defend themselves against it, the depths of absurdity into which they plunge to get out of its range,—do they not all betray the fact that the truth is felt and feared? When, some thirty years ago, in the city of Boston, a solitary voice was uplifted, publishing the truth, that to hold a man as a slave is a sin before God, and, as such, must be forsaken without a moment's delay, and the State of Georgia at the other end of the country set a price of five thousand dollars on the head of him who dared to publish this truth, the proof was decisive that the great wrong was hit in the heart.
The force of Truth is indeed so great, that when men will not, through its arguments and persuasions, forsake their falsehoods, it compels them to act out the evil that is in them, and which refuses to yield to any gentler treatment, and so they get a taste of its quality in the ridicule and shame which they incur, and the shattering collision with facts into which they rush. This way which Truth takes with the refractory is a violent, and oftentimes a bloody process; for the devils, which she thus arouses and dislodges, rend and tear their victims, and make them mischievous to others as well as to themselves. Nevertheless, the world is greatly obliged to the Truth, whenever she renders it this valuable service. But because her faithful words are often followed by riot and bloodshed, as quickly as if they were so many pistol shots, there are not a few who see no difference between the sword of steel and the sword of Truth, and hold it just as disorderly to employ the one as the other; and for their part, they protest they would as life be struck by the hand as by the tongue. Perhaps they would, so far as the mere pain is concerned. But then is all the difference in the world between the wounds inflicted on the body by muskets and sabers, and the inflammation of the mind caused by the word-winged shafts of Truth. The wounds of the body are positive injuries, disfiguring, and disabling perhaps to the extent of destroying life, and who shall tell the worth at that? The wounds made by the Sword of the Spirit, when that sword is wielded in love, without heat or malice, however much they may irritate, and notwithstanding the violent spasms they may occasion, tend to heal and make sound the whole man. The fits of profane wrath into which men are thrown by the Truth, are often signs of quite an advanced state of grace, Paul sat out from Jerusalem, breathing threatenings and slaughter against the Christians, but before he reached Damascus, be was a Christian himself, of the first order.
Therefore, because the Truth is so great, let the sword be put back into the sheath. We need something stronger than that, and Truth is as much more effectual than any brute force, as the last most deadly invention of modern military science is than the war-club of a New Zealander. 
As I see the immeasurable superiority of intellectual and moral power over all the revolvers and rifles and artillery that ever have been or ever will be devised, as I hold this superiority of the power of the mind over the force of the body to be as true as the shining of the sun there in the heavens, I believe that unless men lose their senses, and are bereft of the commonest faculties of discernment, they must, sooner or later, recognize this truth; recognize it, too, so clearly, that they will be at a loss to conceive how men, laying claim to any civilization, could ever have been so absurd as to undertake to fight against evil with physical force, when the invincible Sword of the Spirit is always within reach. If men are for ever incapable of apprehending this truth, how will it help the mater to hack them in pieces with the sword, or blow hem into atoms with gunpowder? 
But another reason why I confidently believe that men will come by and by to see this vary valuable truth as clearly as they see the light of day is, that to wield the Sword of the Spirit requires that quality, in its highest degree, then which there is nothing thus
<c06>
so fascinates us all, men and women, weak and strong, wise and simple; Personal Courage. It is this one quality, and only this, that reconciles mankind, age after age, to the brutal absurdity of war. Beacuse4 the use of the sword indicates personal courage, we acquiesce in this irrational method of serving the cause of Liberty, and Right; nay, we magnify the work of violence and blood, as the most glorious of all human achievements, and warriors are the world’s heroes and saints. But there is a far higher courage, there is a far more during spirit than his who knows how to fight. There is a braver than he. It is the man, who knows how to die; who never thinking to insult the Truth by employing in her behalf any weapons but her own, speaks her message in love and without fear, prepared to suffer violence, but never to commit it; who, in a word, is so brave that he holds it cowardly to draw the sword. Is not such a spirit possible? The profession of non-resistance to force by force, I am wake, looks suspicious,-the pretext, it may be of the timid, of those who dare not confront a draws sword, or a loaded revolver. If it be only this, it serves and must inspire only contempt. But, rare as it is,-the exalted valor of which I speak,-it is not impossible. Men and women, under the inspiration of conscious right, have manifested it, over and over again. The late Isaac T. Hopper gave us some relish of its quality, who, when a kidnapper leveled a pistol at his heart, threatening to shoot him if he advanced a step, quietly replied to the threat: 'I am ashamed of thee,-thee's too old,-thee ought to know better, and moved on. Captivated, as we all are, by exhibitions of personal daring, this highest form of courage, the valor that flings away the sword, must take the heart of the world, and triumphing over the imagination enlisting all the fine arts in its service, Painting, Poetry and Music, will level every strong-hold of iniquity, though it bristle all around with artillery loaded to the mouth.
It is because of this grander courage, because there is a surer method for the abolition of wrong than the method of the sword, I reply to the question,-what are we to do for the slave?-we are not to draw the sword, or when it has been rashly and unwisely drawn, as it was by Peter in the Garden, as it ahs been by John Brown at Harper's Ferry, it must be put back into the sheath, to remain there for ever, unstained by a single drop of human blood.
It is true, as your minister, faithful and well-beloved has said, all the great charters of Humanity have been written in blood; and therefore he justifies the shedding of blood. It is because they were written in blood, blood shed by their champions, that they have so often proved to be a dead letter; because they have sanctioned the bloody arbitrament of the sword, the dear cause of man's deliverance has to be fought for over and over again. Revolutions effected by force always end, sooner or later, in reestablishing the tyranny they undertake to overthrow. And our boasted American Revolution is no exception to this truth, but an impressive instance of it.
It is high time that the savage attempt to convert men by killing them, by wholesale murder, should come to a full end. The time and the country in which we live, with all the uproar with which they are ringing, furnish a grand opportunity to <illegible> for the Truth with the Truth, in the accorded right of Free Speech, of which, struck down, as it now is, at the South, and threatened at the North, I still have faith that the people of the Free States will not consent to be deprived. Of this right we cannot indeed be divested, without our consent, although we may be forced to pay a price for the exercise of it. But there is no price, not even life itself, that is not cheap in comparison with this more than royal prerogative. Only the grander will be the opportunity of serving Truth and Freedom by suffering for them, by showing how highly they are to be prized, allowing no blood to be shed, no lives to be sacrificed for them, but our own. They are worth that sacrifice, a thousand times over. What! is it held a sweet and honorable to a proverb to die for one's native land, and shall it not be far sweeter and more honorable to die for that which is the renown of all lands, the desire of all nations? To be willing to cease from life, rather than take the life of the meanest human being that breathes— this is the highest service to the God of Truth and Love which any man can render. This is God-like. This is being made perfect in love Greater love hath no man than to lay down one's life for his friend's and his foes.
Thus serving God and man by a self-surrender, which knows no reserve or stipulation, we shall art, by any means, relinquish, we shall assert, and most faithfully exercise, the first sacred Right of Nature, THE RIGHT OF SELF-DEFENCE only we do not consider the faint breath of our nostrils, the frail life of the body, subject to many pains, lasting only a few uncertain years,—we do not mistake this shadow for our very self, to defend which we are to cut and thrust and shoot in all directions, and cause human blood to flow in torrents. But the life that we are to guard from every wound and every sum is the life of the sacred. Heaven-descended mind. That is our dear self. To defend that, to preserve it free and pure, free from the bondage of fear, pure from every injurious thought, we roust be ready, at any moment, to let the life of the body go, with perfect composure, having, in the consciousness of s deeper life than that, an intuitive conviction that thus to lose one's life is to find it forever. It was when the sword of steel was taken out of the band of John Brown, as he himself said, and he was left with only the Sword of the Spirit, that he had a new experience of a higher power than the force of arms. When he was a prisoner, and doomed to death, when he went to the scaffold. with the serenity of the fine country around him in his heart as well as in his eye, then it was that he was robed and crowned with victory. Then shone forth the heroic quality of the man, brighter than any diadem. Then friend and foe were alike touched with the nobleness, and a right loyal thrill of admiring sympathy went through the world.
One word, and I will detain you no longer. I have endeavored, my friends, to give some expression to my deep conviction of a vital principle of the Gospel of Peace and Truth, a principle which, so long as it continues an abstraction, the despotic wrongs under which the world writhes may be subverted, but only to reappear in forma just as terrible. I believe in the truth and indescribable worth of this principle. I have not had the slightest hesitation, —I have been glad to utter my faith freely here. For how else, but by a difference, could I better testify the honor and the love in which I hold the devoted minister of God and brother of Christ, who still ministers here, though absent, whose heart is a five coal upon the altar of Humanity, a shining and a burning light, and for whose health and welfare unuttered prayers are constantly ascending far end wide? May Heaven bless him and you, and in times like the present, and in such times as may come, we know not at what hour, may we, one and all, be faithful to our light!
JUVENILE MEETING AT WEST CHESTER, PA. Our beloved friend, JOSEPH A. DUODSALES, writes as follows:
'My meeting for the little ones is over. They came by hundreds. It is the first time I have spoken in an Orthodox church in West Chester. Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, &c., were present, filling the house. I had a thrilling story of a little blind slave child, which brought from tears from the eyes of the dear children who perhaps, had never heard anything of the wrongs of the bleedings and oppressed in our land. I had others on unselfishness, justice, integrity, purity, &c., and the little slave story went off grandly with the rest. The superintendent and ministers gave me their blessing. But the sweetest and best of it all was, the hundreds of little ones passed at the foot of the pulpit stirs, and each little man and maiden gave ”Uncle Joseph" a grip of the hand, and some of the <illegible> little once gave a hiss into the <illegible>
