THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents —one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pannsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELA PHILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, 
Our Countrymen are all Mankind 
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. No. 48. BOSTON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1860. WHOLE NO. 1562.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Tuskagee (Ala.) Baptist.
ALABAMA BAPTIST CONVENTION.
The Alabama Baptist Convention Declares for Secession.-We were ready to go to press, when the following document was presented to the Baptist Convention by Rev. B. Manly, D. D., and seconded by Hon. W. P. Chilton, and unanimously passed by the Convention. It was late at night, (Monday night, Nov. 12,) and was the last act of the body. After the paper was read, a few remarks were made, prayer was offered, all rose from their knees, and voted unanimously, members of the Convention, the congregation, women as well as men. Northern fanatics will see, ere long, whether the South will live in a Union under Black Republican rule:-
The members of the Baptist State Convention of Alabama, though assembled for different purposes, find ourselves together at a moment when issues for the most grave and serious character are brought upon the country. While possessing no authority to pledge or bind the churches or religious bodies we represent, and expressly disclaiming any wish in any form to do so, we are constrained, as men, as, citizens, as Christians, to give full place in our hearts to the love of country.
Standing aloof, for the most part, from political parties and contests, our retired and quiet position does not exclude the profound conviction, based on a long and unquestionable series of facts, that the Union of States of this confederacy has failed, in important particulars, to answer the purpose for which it was created. From the administration of the Federal Government, as things are,-especially with reference to our peculiar property recognized by the Constitution,-we can no longer hope for justice, protection, or safety.
We have supposed ourselves entitled to equality of rights, as citizens of this Republic. We are not willing to surrender them even at the risk of life and all we hold most dear.
While, as yet, no particular mode of relief is before us, on which to express an opinion, we are constrained, before separating to our sacred homes, to declare to our brethren and fellow-citizens, before mankind, and before our God, that we hold ourselves subject to the call of proper authority in defence of the sovereignty and independence of the State of Alabama, and of her right as a sovereignty to withdraw from this Union, and to make any arrangement which her people, in constitutional assemblies, may deem best for securing their rights. And, in this declaration, we heartily, deliberalely, unanimously and solemnly UNITE.
From the Charleston Mercury of the 17th.
LETTER FROM A BAPTIST CLERGYMAN.
We commend to our readers the following letter to a gentleman of this city. It was written by a prominent and leading minister of the Baptist denomination, now a Professor in the South Carolina College. The view it presents is no less striking than true, and will address itself to the hearts and understandings of a great and influential class of readers. The fervid enthusiasm that animates our people finds a beautiful exemplification in this letter, and it will not diminish an earnestness and devotion to our cause to feel and believe that it has the sanction of religion as well as of patriotism:-
COLUMBIA, S. C., Nov. 14th, 1860.
I am glad to find a coincidence of opinion between us. Like you, I had clung to our Union as associated with the blood sufferings of our grandfathers. It was endeared by the reminiscences of the past, and cherished as the fruit of those toils which were narrated to us when children by our grandfathers, who shared the perils and sacrifices of the Revolution. But it is no longer what it once was; and we should be false to our blood and our ancestral traditions, if we were to submit to Black Republican rule. I am for immediate secession. My profession interdicts the use of arms, and I have no son old enough to offer to the Commonwealth, but all that I have is at her command. The sublimity of this great struggle kindles my imagination, and raises my heart. It is not simply a contest between different forms of civil polity or of civilization. It is the conflict between Divine revelation and human reason between the Providence of God and the devices of man. Our institutions are scriptural, sanctioned by the practice of patriarchs and prophets, and the precepts of the Savior. The fanaticism that assials us is the product of infidelity, of rebellion against God, that presumes to be wiser than the Scriptures, and would substitute its disorganizing dogmas of liberty and equality for the conservative teachings of the New Testament. We Southern ministers are the only preachers who proclaim an unmutilated Bible. Northern ministers have suppressed or perverted its teachings, and dare not say, 'Servants, be obedient to your own masters,' &c. In this view, the struggle upon which we have entered assumes the grandeur of a divine mission. We are the champions of God's truth, and he who falls in the contest will fall a 'blessed martyr.' How fortunate is it that our duty to our country coincides with our duty to God, and patriotism is sublimated into religion! I feel that God is with us.

THE SOUTH CAROLINA CADETS AT WEST POINT.
The Columbia South Carolinian of November 17, publishes the following defiance:-
WEST POINT, November 9, 1860.
Mr. Editor: Sir-From what we have seen and heard, South Carolina will, undoubtedly, at an early period, redeem her assertions, take her destinies in her own hands, and proceed at once to organize for herself a new and separate government, (a government of which our beloved Calhoun would approve, were he with us at this time,) one in which the benefits are equally distributed to all.
Now we, her sons and representatives at the United States Military Academy at West Point, are eager to manifest our devotion and affection to her and her present cause, so will we, simultaneous with her withdrawal, be found under the folds of her banner, fighting for liberty or equality.
Though the reception of a diploma here at the National Academy is certainly to be desired by all of us, yet we cannot so stifle our convictions of duty as to serve the remainder of our time here under such a man as Mr. Lincoln as Commander-in-Chief, and be subject at all times to the orders of a government, the administration of which must be necessarily unfriendly to a commonwealth which has, so far, preserved a spotless record, and of which we are justly proud.
We hereby swear to be true to her lone star in the present path of rectitude, and if, by chance, she goes a stray, we will be with her still. All we desire is a field for making ourselves useful.
GEORGE N. REYNOLDS, J. S. WEATHERBY,
HENRY S. FARLEY, JNO. R. BLOCKER,
JNO. Y. WOFFORD, J. B. BOATWRIGHT,
JAS. H. HAMILTON.
<c02>
A WOMAN'S WORD.
To the Editor of the Charleston Mercury:
In your paper of yesterday you paid an eloquent, and, I would fain believe, a deserved tribute to the patriotic devotion of women.
At this period, our sex at the South have grave duties to perform. We would animate our husbands and our sons, and strengthen them for the great conflict that is at hand, by every means in our power. Let us, women of Carolina! prove that the same noble spirit which incited the matrons and maidens of 76 is alive and glowing in the spirits of their descendants. I am myself a widowed mother, but I have said to my three sons, that if any one of them should be craven enough to desert their State now, to temporize in her councils, or to be backward if her honor calls them to the field let him never look upon my face again! In the thrilling words of Volumnia to the wife of Coriolanus, Hear me profess sincerely. Had I a dozen sons each in my love alike, and none less dear than thine and my good Marcius- I had rather have eleven die nobly for their country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.'
A CAROLINA MOTHER.

PROCLAMATION.
Gov. John J. Pettus, of Mississippi, has issued a proclamation convening the Legislature of that State in extra session on the 26th of the present month, to adopt measures for the better security of the people and property of the State, in view of the popular decision by which Mr. Lincoln has been elected to the Presidency. We copy the essential portion of the proclamation of the Governor 
Whereas the people of the non-slaveholding States have, in various forms declared purposes hostile to the institutions of the slaveholding States, and the State Governments of nearly all the Northern States have evinced a settled purpose to evade their constitutional obligations, and disregard their oaths in carrying on this war on the rights and institutions of the Southern States; and whereas the recent election of Messrs. Lincoln and Hamlin demonstrates that those who neither reverence the Constitution, obey the laws, nor regard their oaths, have now the power to elect to the highest offices in this confederacy men who sympathize with them in their mad real to destroy the peace, property and prosperity of the Southern section, and who will use the powers of the Federal Government to defeat all the purposes for which it was formed; and whereas the dearest rights of the people depend for protection, under our Constitution, on the fidelity to their oaths of those who administer the Government:
Now, therefore, that the State of Mississippi may be enabled to take into consideration the propriety and necessity of providing surer and better safeguards for the lives, liberties and property of her citizens than have been found or are to be hoped for in Black Republican oaths, I, John J. Pettus, Governor,' &c , &c. 
The Jackson Mississippian, in giving publicity to the above proclamation, earnestly urges 'a large and general attendance' at the opening of this extra session of the Legislature, of citizens from the several counties of the State who are friendly to the objects in view. ' There is wisdom,' its says, ' in a multitude of counsellors. Let the young men come in their numbers! Let the old men come! Rise, fathers, rise! Rome demands your aid.' The purpose of this invocation cannot be misunderstood.

SECESSION AND REPUDIATION.
We find the following in the Montgomery (Ala.) Mail:-
If the North elect Lincoln, as it may possibly do, the merchants of that latitude must wait for their Southern debts until another and better crop puts our people in a fix to pay. We regard it now as a fixed fact, that if Mr. Lincoln succeeds, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Texas will go out at once; and that the other cotton States indeed the greater part of the South will promptly follow. But in respect to the money due by our merchants in the North-the North must wait; it will be paid eventually? but they must wait until all the exigencies of our new condition shall have been provided for-until we are armed and fortified-until good crops bring us full pockets. We are for paying them every cent that the South owes them; but in the contingency contemplated, the South will owe duties to itself which it cannot neglect. In the event indicated, our merchants must have an extension of one full year at least.'
The following article from a secular paper which has great influence with the dominant political party in this State, so fully expresses our own views upon the subject to which it relates, that we copy it entire. The present is a time for consideration with all patriotic and Christian citizens, and we are glad to see so much thoughtfulnees in the community in connection with the agitated state of the public mind.-Boston Recorder.

From the Springfield (Mass.) Republican.
THE VEXED QUESTION.
We have always held the 'Personal Liberty Laws' and other legal obstructions thrown in the way of the rendition of fugitive slaves to be useless and pernicious. To present this view now may be misinterpreted into a pusillanimous yielding to Southern clamor. But no matter; it is magnanimous to confess and repair a wrong, and if the free States have been wrong in this matter, it will be honorable in them to correct the error. We do not suppose it will be done under the present excitement, because it will look like an attempt to conciliate the disunionists; but there is no harm in looking at facts as they are, and preparing to act when the proper time comes. It is very well understood that on this point alone is the South able to make out a prima facie case, either of violation of the Constitution or of injustice to the slave States on the part of the North. And here they do make it out It is of no use to quibble about it, and attempt to force another construction upon the language of the Constitution; there is no shadow of doubt that the framers of the Constitution intended to provide and did provide for the rendition of slaves, and although the present Fugitive Slave Law contains provisions repugnant to all the established principles of law, and repulsive to all the sentiments of humane and Christian men, it is constitutional in its intent and scope, and is so pronounced by all competent judicial authorities. It is not strange that a law so barbarous in its spirit and so regardless in some of its provisions of the rights of the race exposed to its influence should encounter resistance, and that men and women everywhere should use all the means within their power to shield and protect the fugitive negroes. This feeling, so universal in the free States, will prevent, as it always has, the return of and considerable number of fugitive who have once touched free soil. The Personal Liberty Laws were not needed to make this fact certain, and they do not in the slightest degree contribute to it. On the contrary, they hinder it, by prompting the slave owners to a more obstinate determination to recover their property, and by enlisting the more energetic
<c03>
efforts at the general government. Under the most stringent of these ' Personal Liberty Laws,' negroes proved to be slaves are just as inevitably returned to their masters, and the only difference is that they make the process more expensive and annoying. These Northern retaliatory laws, therefore, while they do not prevent the return of a single negro to slavery, have the effect to exasperate the South, and give her occasion to complain that we refuse to fulfil an article of the compact most essential to them. 
We have not touched the moral argument, that, slavery being wrong, we cannot assist in the return of a slave, or allow it, if we can prevent it. For an individual acting on his own private responsibility, that mode of treating the question may suffice. But the State can take no such position with any honor or consistency. If we cannot stay in the Union as it is, and fulfil the contract as it is, then the only honorable course is to go out of the Union by revolution, as South Carolina proposes to do. Daniel Webster said, in a speech in 1851, at Capon Springs, Va.:-
I do not hesitate to say, and repeat, that if the Northern States refuse wilfully and deliberately to carry into effect that part of the Constitution which respects the restoration of fugitive slaves, the South would no longer be bound to observe the compact. A bargain broken on one side is a bargain broken on all sides.'
All the New England States, and New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin and Iowa have laws designed to embarrass the action of the Fugitive Slave Law-those of Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire being the most stringent. We suppose none of them are so drawn as to be in direct violation of the Constitution of the United States, and certainly no one of them is so cunningly compacted that it will prevent the rendition of a negro who is proved to be a slave. What is the use, then? Why should we provoke the other section of the confederacy by laws which mean nullification, which are unconstitutional in spirit, while we have not the courage to go the whole, and nullify the Constitution boldly and squarely? It is a mischievous folly, and we believe it has been one of the chief obstructions to the growth of the Republican cause, as it is palpably the source of the worst practical difficulty with which the party has now to contend. If this sort of sentimental legislation were out of the way, the South would not have left a solitary ground of complaint that would bear examination.

SELECTIONS. 
APPEAL IN BEHALF OF THE FUGITIVE.
Extract from a Tract-just published at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston-entitled, The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: an Appeal to the Legislators of Massachusetts. By L. MARIA. CHILD.'
It is well known that Southerners have repeatedly declared they do not demand fugitives merely to recover articles of property, or for the sake of making an example of them, to inspire terror in I other runaways; that they have a still stronger motive, which is to humiliate the North; to make them feel that no latitude limits their mastership. Have we no honest pride, that we so tamely submit to this? What lethargic disease has fallen on Northern souls, that they dare not be as bold for Freedom as tyrants are for Slavery? It was not thus with our fathers, whose sepulchres we whiten. If old Ben Franklin had stood as near Boston Court House as his statue does, do you believe he would have remained passive, while Sims, the intelligent mechanic, was manacled and driven through the streets, guiltless of any crime, save that of wishing to be free? My belief is that the brave old printer of'76 would have drawn down the lightning out of heaven upon that procession, with a vengeance.
 What satisfactory reasons can be alleged for submitting to this degradation? What good excuse can be offered? Shall we resort to the Old Testament argument, that anodyne for the consciences of ‘South-side' divines? Suppose the descendants of Ham were ordained to be slaves to the end of time, for an offence committed thousands of years ago, by a progenitor they never heard of. Still, the greatest amount of theological research leaves it very uncertain who the descendants of Ham are, and where they are. I presume you would not consider the title even to one acre of land satisfactorily settled by evidence of such extremely dubious character; how much less, then, a man's ownership of himself! Then, again, if we admit that Africans are descendants of Ham, what is to be said of thousands of slaves, advertised in Southern newspapers as ‘passing themselves for white men, or white women'? Runaways with blue eyes, light hair, and rosy complexions'? Are these sons and daughters of our Presidents, our Governors, our Senators, our Generals, and our Commodores, descendants of Ham? Are they Africans? 
If you turn to the favorite New Testament argument, you will find that Paul requested Philemon to receive Onesimus, 'no longer as a servant, but as a brother beloved.' Is that the way Southern masters receive the fugitives from injustice' whom we drive back to them? Is it the way we expect they will be received? In 1851, the intelligent young mechanic, named Thomas Sims, escaped from a hard master, who gave him many blows and no wages. By his own courage and energy, he succeeded in reaching our Commonwealth, where mechanics are not compelled by law to work without wages. But the authorities of Boston decreed that this man was 'bound to such service or labor.' So they ordered out their troops and sent him back to his master, who caused him to be tied up and flogged, till the doctor said, 'If you strike another, blow, you will kill him. ”Let him die,' replied the master. He did nearly die in prison, but recovered; to be sold farther South. Was this being received as a brother beloved'? Before we send, back any more Onesimuses, it is necessary to have a different set of Philemons to deal with. The Scripture is clearly not obeyed, under present circumstances. 
If you resort to the alleged legal obligation to return fugitives, it has more plausibility, but has it in reality any firm foundation? Americans boast of making their own laws, and of amending them whenever circumstances render it necessary. How, then, can they excise themselves, or expect the civilized world to excuse them, for making, or sustaining, unjust and cruel laws? The Fugitive Slave Act has none of the attributes of law. It two highwaymen agreed between themselves to stand by each other in robbing helpless men, women and children, should we not find it hard work to 'conquer our prejudices' so far as to dignify their bargain with the name of law? That is the light in which the compact between North and South presents itself to the minds of intelligent slaves, and we should view it in the same way, if we were in their position. Law was established to maintain justice between man and man; and this
<c04>
Act clearly maintains injustice. Law was instituted to protect the weak from the strong; this Act delivers the weak, completely into the arbitrary power of the strong. ‘Law is a rule of conduct, prescribed by the supreme power, commanding what is right, and forbidding what is wrong.' This is the commonly received definition of law, and obviously none more correct could be substituted for it. The application of it would at once annul the Fugitive Slave Act, and abolish slavery. That Act reverses the maxim. It commands what is wrong, and forbids what is right. It commands us to trample on the weak and defenceless, to persecute the oppressed, to be accomplices in defrauding honest laborers of their wages. It forbids us to shelter the homeless, to protect abused innocence, to feed the hungry, to ‘hide the outcast.' Let theological casuists. argue as they will, Christian hearts will shrink from thinking of Jesus as surrendering, a fugitive slave; or of any of his apostles, unless it be Judas. Political casuists may exercise their skill in making the worse appear the better reason, still all honest minds have an intuitive perception that no human enactment which violates God's laws is worthy of respect By what law of God can we justify the treatment of Margaret Garner? the surrender of Sims and Burns? the pitiless persecution of that poor little.' famished hand'?
There is another consideration, which ought alone to have sufficient weight with us to deter us from attempting to carry out this tyrannical enactment. All history, and all experience, show it to be an immutable law of God, that whosoever injures another, injures himself in the process, These frequent scuffles between despotism and freedom, with despotism shielded by law, cannot otherwise than demoralize our people. They unsettle the popular mind concerning eternal principles of justice. They harden the heart by familiarity with violence. They accustom people to the idea that it is right for Capital to own Labor; and thus the reverence for Liberty, which we inherited from our fathers, will gradually die out in the souls of our children. We are compelled to disobey our consciences, and repress all our humane feelings, or else disobey the law. It is a grievous wrong done to the people to place them between these alternatives. The inevitable result is to destroy the sanctity of law. The doctrine that ‘might makes right, which our rulers consent to teach the people, in order to pacify slaveholders, will come out in unexpected forms to disturb our own peace and safety. There is even-handed justice' in the fact that men cannot aid in enslaving others, and themselves remain free; that they cannot assist in robbing others, without endangering their own security.
Moreover, there is wrong done, even to the humblest individual, when he is compelled to be ashamed of his country. When the judge passed under chains into Boston Court House, and when Anthony Burns was sent back into slavery, I wept for my native State, as a daughter weeps for the crimes of a beloved mother. It seemed to that I would gladly have died to have saved Massachusetts from that sin and that shame. The tears of a secluded woman, who has no vote to give, may appear to you of little consequence. But assuredly it is not well with any Commonwealth, when her daughters weep over her degeneracy and disgrace.
In the name of oppressed humanity, of violated religion, of desecrated law, of tarnished honor, of our own freedom endangered, of the moral sense of our people, degraded by these evil influences, I respectfully, but most urgently entreat you to annul this infamous enactment, so far as the jurisdiction of Massachusetts extends. Our old Commonwealth has been first and foremost in many good works; let her lead in this also. And deem it not presumptuous, if I ask it likewise for my own sake. I am a humble member of the community; but I am deeply interested in the welfare and reputation of my native State, and that gives me some claim to be heard. I am growing old; and on this great question of equal rights, I have toiled for years, sometimes with a heart sickened by 'hope deferred.' I beseech you to let me die on Free Soil! Grant me the satisfaction of saying, ere I go hence-
'Slaves cannot breathe among us. If their lungs
Receive our air, that moment they are free!
They touch our country, and their shackles fall!'
If you cannot be induced to reform this great wickedness, for the sake of outraged justice and humanity, then do it for the honor of the State, for the political welfare of our own people, for the moral character of our posterity. For, as sure as there is a Righteous Ruler in the heavens, if you continue to be accomplices in violence and fraud, God will not ‘save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.' L. MARIA CHILD.
A FALSE PHETENCE.
The Personal Liberty Act of Massachusetts, about which so many outsiders complain, has no perceptible weight in the accusations of the Southern extremists. Were it as powerfully operative as it has been practically of no effect, it could not essentially harm South Carolina or the Gulf States, where the excitement now rages. When any case arises, its constitutionality can be soon tested, and if unconstitutional, our own Courts would not hesitate to say so, and to set it aside. That act was passed during the Know-Nothing rule, and was consequent upon the excitement produced by the ‘rendition of Anthony Burns; and who does not I remember that United States Artillery and Marines garrisoned a Massachusetts Court House at that, time; that the Massachusetts Volunteer Militia lined the streets of Boston to preserve the public peace; and that the whole power of the Government was invoked to send back into slavery one poor fugitive? But now, when treason stalks abroad boldly in Southern cities, when Northern men and women are maltreated and deprived of rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution as clearly as anything can be, do we see the slightest attempt by State or General Government to enforce the laws? What a contrast! It was, as we have said, under the influence of the Burns excitement that the Personal Liberty Bill was passed. The next year, a proposition of repeal was pending, when the bloody assault on Senator Sumner intervened, and very naturally prevented any further action. Later, under Gov. Banks, some of the most stringent sections were stricken out, and it remains to be seen whether any further action will be taken in the premises. If the Massachusetts legislators are not influenced by a sense of justice and right, it is very certain that they will do nothing upon compulsion, and under the pressure of blatant and inflammatory threats. The outcry against that act is a mere pretence; the Personal Liberty Bill ‘is as good as any other bugbear for the agitators; but it is foolish to say that this furnishes any real cause for dissolving the Union, or for encouraging the Secessionists. Old Massachusetts is the worst abused State in the Union, and whether her own recreant sons or traitorous lips which seek a pretence for ‘plunging the world in ruin' denounce her, she can well afford to look calmly down, and pursue her straightforward course, unmoved by heir abuse and denunciations.- Salem Register.
<c05>
From the New York Tribune, Nov. 21st.
LETTER TO A SOUTHRON,
To the Honorable James R. Chesnut, of Camden, Sou Carolina, U. S. Senator.
MY VALUED FRIEND: 
What is all this fuss above in your State? One would think that the North was going to visit her with thunder and bludgeone and fire and brimstone, and tar and feathers—in deed, that we were about to retaliate upon the Palmetto State all the insults, and injuries, and abuse and wrongs which we have endured from her for the last fifteen years. On the contrary, all here is a placid as a Summer lake. The people know very little of what is going on in South Carolina, an care less.
Our boys here have been in the habit, on gal days, of marching about the streets with cockade in their hats; but it is an amusement I did not know men resorted to until I saw the account from your State. A few men parading the street with blue cockades must present a truly imposing and sanguinary aspect, why did not our Wide Awake think of the cockade?
My most honorable friend, you threaten Secession.' What for? I can't discover the cause, the mode, or the benefit. You say it is because we have elected Lincoln for President. Well, I suppose we had as good a right to elect Lincoln as you had to vote for Breckinridge. I believe we have infringed no law or right. His election, therefore, can furnish no just cause of offence. And how do you propose to do it? Wearing cockades is a harmless matter-somewhat eccentric, to be sure, but quite harmless. I would suggest, also, the three-cornered hats of Revolutionary notoriety. This would make a grand show. 
Your State proposes to levy an army of 10,000 men. This is moderate indeed; for if you are determined upon an internecine war, all that will be needed to take care of your two-fisted cattle, aye, and many more as 400,000 of a hostile race, strong, determined, and having no restraint of conscience, when roused, must be a formidable element in your society of a smaller number. You propose to raise $ 1,000,000 to carry out your plans. Offer, just now, your State bonds to your sympathizing Union-lovers in Wall street! Perhaps you can sell them. If you should, I will thank you to send me a note of it, and tell me how much premium is paid for them. Perhaps, though, you expect to sell them to your own non paying banks. It so, I recommend that you employ Mr. J. Quincy, Jr., to draw up a short account of the Continental currency for circulation in your State. After all, you may need more than a single million. It costs us $80,000,000 per annum to carry on our Government in time of peace. I am afraid your resigning Federal officers will hardly be content with their pick at $1,000,000. No, we at the North understand these things better, and we must advise you to add thirty or forty millions to your first levy. I would not be faithless, nor undervalue the capacity of your plucky little State; but is it not possible, barely possible, that your revenues may fail? A tax of $50 or $60 on each slave would bear hard upon that species of property; and then, as to revenue from imports, a revenue cutter or two I admit it would not be cordially friendly in the Black Republicans but a revenue cutter or two in the offing of Charleston would have an ugly aspect, and then the first drop of blood shed by the Black Republicans would set all cottondom on fire. Why, my friend, we don't shed blood; we leave all the pleasurable sport of hanging and burning with you. Lincoln is a peaceable man, and (though I say it privately, I am not in his confidence,) I venture the opinion that starving you out would be the worst, and certainly the easiest and most natural resource. If you don't want Judges, and Marshals, and Postmasters, and imports, why, we can't and won't force them upon you.
But I see that Toombs threatens to levy 10,000 soldiers in Georgia and march North, and when he again crosses Mason and Dixon's line, it will be, he says, with a sword in his hand. His enmity is against the Constitution, for letting old Abe Lincoln be elected. He may just as well, then, tear out the leaves of an old statute book and make them the target, at home, for his soldiers to shoot at, and so avenge himself upon the Constitution. Or, it may be, he means to fight down public sentiment; for that, however, blank cartridges would do his work as thoroughly as leaden balls. But if he marches upon Washington, and attempts to execute his treasonable projects, he and his ten thousand will find it cannot be done without the friendly aid of more ' tombs' than one. 
After the 4th of March next we shall not be governed by the Democracy, and shall make a note of all bullying, brow-beating, and bludgeoning. The North are slow, and mean to be about right; and when they know they are right, they will go ahead.
For thirty years the whole country has been kept in an uproar and feverish excitement by the threats of ‘secession' and 'nullification' in South Carolina. She has been dissatisfied, supercilious, domineering, impudent, and abusive, carrying her point by bullyragging, and not by reason; and, by her refractory courses, she has brought dishonor upon the good name of the whole country. 
Friend Chesnut, I have read your stirring speech at Charleston with uncommon gusto. It is truly characteristic. The sentiments are Carolinian, and full of grit such as naturally sprout up in the dry and driving sands which compose your soil. It will do good, depend upon it. Do you remember what Pope says about ' Vice,' &c.? So your speech 'needs but to be seen' to have the same excellent effect.
But, my dear friend, have you ever read a treatise on constitutional law, and especially on the law of ‘secession,' published in 1830, by one Andrew Jackson, L. L. D.? Is it possible you have not read it? Then let me recommend it to your earnest perusal, It is worthy of the closest study; for it was penned by a doctor of the common, civil and canon law, and though you are not familiar with its contents, ‘I have heard that no work on law was ever read with so much interest and advantage by the fathers of the secessionists in Sooth Carolina, and a great omission it was that they did not ordain it a school book for the benefit of their hot-blooded offspring.
But are you certain that 10,000 men will do up the work? We have no intention of fighting you; ‘but if you come up and fight us, that is another matter; then it is quite possible that an army of over 10,000 may be needed. 
Perhaps you rely upon the aid of Governor Wise, for be, too, promises to raise and equip 10,000 men for a Northern expedition. Nay, with this puissunt force, he promises to overunn the Free States, conquer Canada, and even shake the fast-anchored isle with his thunder. If we had not had a foretaste of his prowess in the Osawatomie war, we might hope; as it is, we do tremble a great deal in anticipation of his formidable irruption. We, however, hardly believe that he can accomplish all the feats he promises, even with the gallant chivalry of Virginia, without the aid of the horned and cloven-footed fellow, who once carried on a like war on his own account; still, in our distress, we remember that even he got worsted. 
But, friend Chesnut, you have doubtless read the Greek classics, and, among the rest, Xenophan.
<c06>
His account of the wonderful retreat of the 10,000 you will remember, has been famous, in all time. But if your South Carolina 10.000, and General Toombs's 10.000, and Gov. Wise's 10,000, all come down upon us, the consequence will be awful. The glory of that retreat of the 10,000, Greeks will be squelched out, eclipsed, and utterly forgotten, in the more nimble retirement of the 10,000 under the solemn Toombs, the discreet Wise, and the puissant Carolina chief.
I have heard it said that you have 400,000 head of bimaneous cattle, which, a few months ago, were worth $1000 per head. We don't know much about this kind of stock up here, but some of the papers say the emeute, in your State, has reduced their value $250 each, equal to $100,000,000. Now, my valued friend, is not this abolishing slavery to the extent of one-quarter? and if this trivial spurt of disaffection, this threat of secession, by irate politicians, abolishes one-quarter of your slavery, who knows but the execution of your threat will do up the job entire? It has always been preached up by the Garrisonians, that disruption would abolish slavery; and hence they have prayed for it and labored for it. Now you know, my very dear friend, that I am a Black Republican; but you do not know-you cannot imagine how my heart bleeds, to see you and your orthodox proslavery friends cooperating with Garrison, and Phillips, and Smith, to verify their prophetical prognostications. My dear friend Chesnut hobnobbing with Garrison, and Phillips, and Smith, to abolish slavery in South Carolina! Tell it not in Gath: publish it not in the streets of Boston.
But were you not a little hasty in, resigning your Territorial honors? Only think of $3,000 a year, beside pickings and stealings! But, friend Chesnut, we are sorry for you. When we think of poor South Carolina, our eyes water; they become encrusted with salt. Poor South Carolina, poor in population, poor in poverty, poor in reputation, and poorest of all in statesmanship. Why, in 1833, the great men of South Carolina gave dignity even to treason. But Calhoun is gone, and Hayne is gone and Chesnut is left! You are not to blame for it; a Higher Power has taken away Calhoun and Hayne, and left Chesnut. Pity 'tis,' so; but, I say again, you ought not to be blamed for it.
I see that your merchants refuse to pay Northern claims. That is right; that is, if anybody is to be cheated, it should be those merchants who have been driving a heavy trade in packing up their principles along with their dry goods. But you, also, refuse to receive Northern, manufactures; right again. Go at it yourselves. Your boundless deserts of sand offer the most captivating.inducements to the manufactures; right again. Go at it yourselves. Your boundless deserts of sand offer the most captivating inducements to the manufacture of glass; with 400,000 negroes, you can supply all Christendom with glass. Go at it, by all means.
South Carolina almost equals, in wealth and population, that splendid adjunct of this State, Long Island! Only think of the 'Secession' of Long Island! We should hate to lose her. But, still, Long Island might float off into the ocean, and so far as the wealth, power, and population of this State are concerned, she would hardly be missed. Ask Gov. King what he thinks of Long Island setting up on her own account. Magnificent little Kingdom!
Yours, without 'secession,'
40 N. LATITUDE.

From the Boston Journal.
SECESSION.
We have been content to leave to the Southern press the consideration of the abstract right of a State to secede from the Federal Union. It is a discussion in which they are more intimately concerned than we of the North, for nothing is more clear to us in the future, as the natural result of existing causes, than that a Southern Republic, whether composed of one or of half a dozen States, would contain within itself the elements of weakness and decay. It could not exist, in fact, independently, and must put itself under the protection of some powerful nation. This is conceded by the South Carolina secessionists who are courting the favor of the French Emperor. But Louis Napoleon is altogether too shrewd a statesman and ruler to meddle unnecessarily with, the affairs of another continent, after having declared, for nonintervention on his own. Besides, if France could not prevent its own colonies in the West Indies from being revolutionized by the negroes, how can it effectually protect a cotton confederacy with an even larger proportionate slave population? It needs no prophet's ken to predict that the scenes of the servile insurrection in St. Domingo would be re-enacted on this continent within ten years, if the cotton States should cut loose from the Federal Union.
Some of these considerations have previously forced themselves upon South Carolinians. The National Intelligencer has just reproduced a letter which Mr. W. W. Boyce, now a secessionist, wrote to a Southern Rights Convention in 1851. Some of his objections to secession are these. They apply with equal force to the present state of affairs, and must commend themselves even to some of the South Carolinians:-
'The first great fundamental, unanswerable objection to it is, that it is the disunion of the South-words of such fearful import, that I will not weaken them by elaboration.
2. South Carolina cannot become a nation. God makes nations, not man. You cannot extemporize a nation out of South Carolina. It is simply impossible; we have not the resources.
3. From the weakness of our national government, a feeling of insecurity would arise, capital would take the alarm, and leave us. But it may be said, let capital go. To this I reply, that capital is the life-blood of a modern community, and in losing it, you lose the vitality of the State.
4. This national government would be a very, very costly machine. The cost of a government is in inverse proportion to its numbers. A small national government is necessarily far more expensive than a large one. Look at the small German States, ground down with taxation. So it would be with us. The federal fleets would cut off all import duties, and the immense burden of the government would have to be raised by direct taxation. 
5. The feeling of insecurity arising from the weakness of our national government, together with the burden of increased taxation, would cause, or rather continue, an immense emigration. Emigration is naturally going on all the time from the old States to the fertile El Dorados of the West. Put any further burdens on the citizens of the old States, and you add immensely to this stream of emigration. Unfortunately this emigration, in the event of your becoming a separate nation, would be only from, the white, race, and you would therefore be going down the declivity of ruin with, fearful velocity.
6. Following the emigration, and a natural effect of it, would be an immense deprecation, of property; lands, first, more land being thrown into the market than the demand required; then negroes, as they would be cut off from the Western market. Millions would be lost to the State in this way.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
7. Secession is against the wishes of the other Southern States. Ought not they to have some influence with us? Should we not defer to our allies, who have twenty times the interest in the institution of slavery that we have? How can we ever hope for a Union of the South if we, a mere handful of the Southern people, insist on enforcing our opinions on the rest of the South? A Southern Union implies a modification of the extremes of all opinions.
8. A large minority, at least, of our citizens are opposed to secession. If there were no other objection, this should be conclusive.
9. Secession, separate nationality, with all its burdens, is no remedy. It is no redress for the past; it is no security for the future. It is only a magnificent sacrifice of the present, without in anywise gaining the future. Secession, gallant as may be the spirit which prompts it, is only a new form of submission.
For the various reasons I have stated, I object, in as strong terms as I can, to the secession of South Carolina. Such is the intensity of my conviction upon the subject, that if secession should take place-of which I have no idea, for I cannot believe in the existence of such a stupendous madness- I shall consider the institution of slavery as doomed, and that the great God in our blindness has made us the instruments of its destruction.ï¿½

From the Missouri Democrat.
COMPLICITY OF THE PRESIDENT WITH THE SECESSIONISTS.
There is a good deal of circumstantial evidence to warrant the presumption that Mr. Buchanan is an accomplice in the desperate plot to dissolve the Union and cast the country into civil war. Yesterday we copied an article from the New York Evening Post describing the deserted, dismantled condition of Fort Sumpter and Fort Moultrie, at the entrance to Charleston harbor, and of Castle Pinckney, within the harbor. We publish a second article to-day, from the same journal, in which the facts are presented with more minuteness. It appears that, of the three strongholds, Fort Moultrie alone is occupied, but the garrison is so small-numbering but forty-five or fifty men-and the walls of the fort are so imperfect that it would fall an easy prey to an attacking force. The United States arsenal in Charleston, where there are arms enough to equip as large an army as South Carolina could organize, is also defenceless. These facts have been brought, repeatedly to the notice of the President and the War Department by officers of high rank in the U. S. Army, without producing the slightest effect. Indeed, the neglect exhibited bears all the traces of design; and a whisper to that effect, we understand, is passing through the ranks of the service. The revelations in the Evening Post have emanated from no doubtful authority. At least such is the belief in New York city.
The hypothesis of Mr. Buchananï¿½s complicity in the treasonable schemes of the Disunionists is countenanced by other circumstances, especially by the conduct of his cabinet officers. Secretary Cobb openly declared fur disunion before the election. The panic on Wall street was the consequence of his assertions and predictions. The telegraph brings us the news that Floyd and Black have threatened to resign if any attempt is made by the Federal authorities to resist the nullification of the Federal laws. Secretary Thompson, it is well known, profoundly sympathizes with the disunionists, and Secretary Cass is as fertile of gloomy vaticinations as Cobb. It will be also remembered that the Presidentï¿½s organ has steadily advocated disunion since the nomination of Breckinridge, nor can it be overlooked that Mr. Buchanan himself has not raised his voice, either in the way of warning or remonstrance, since the secession movement began to assume a formidable front. The promised proclamation is not yet forthcoming. These various acts of omission on his part, and of commission on the part of his secretaries, are calculated to beget profound suspicion. The striking language made use of by Black, one of the delegates from Pennsylvania, in the Cincinnati Convention, where he addressed the South in the language of Ruth, ï¿½Whither thou goest I will go,ï¿½ &c., will rise to remembrance in connection with the other circumstances mentioned. That remarkable speech was understood by the whole Convention as a pledge that Pennsylvania would go with the South in the event of a dissolution of the Union. Fortunately the said pledge cannot be redeemed, for the State has repudiated Democracy with a vengeance; but it is not impossible that Mr. Buchanan may keep the unholy covenant, through the instrumentality of which he became President.

From the Boston Atlas, Nov. 20th.
A GEORGIAN BANISHED FROM HIS NATIVE STATE.
Hitherto, it has been a sufficient pretence at the South for almost any outrage, that its victim was a Northern man. The enormity of the thing in hand would be still more increased if he came from New England; while, if he hailed from Massachusetts, he was sure to be visited by a double quantity of the diabolical. But things have now changed a little. At least, there is an exception to the rule. The South, with an ingratitude as well as inhumanity that is almost without precedent, has now turned upon its own <illegible> bone, and perpetrated an outrage upon one of its own citizens. The particulars are as follows:ï¿½
The steamer Joseph Whitney, Capt. Loveland, which arrived at this port yesterday from Savannah, brought as passengers Joseph William Ribero and family, consisting of himself, wife and two children. Ribero is a native of Savannah, but has forcibly been sent to Boston, and for no crime whatever-hardly a pretence of any. He is a carpenter, and so far as appears, or is known, is a worthy man. A few days since, he was at work repairing a bridge, ten miles from Savannah, over the Skiddaway river. He had eight negroes in his employ. On the 8th inst., a man named Simmons gave Ribero a newspaper, and he sat down on a log to read it, shortly after which, the following dialogue occurred between him and a slave:ï¿½
ï¿½Massa Joe, whatï¿½s de news?ï¿½ ï¿½Oh, nothing but politics,ï¿½ he replied ï¿½Whatï¿½s politics?ï¿½ asked the negro. ï¿½Voting and so on,ï¿½ said Ribero; ï¿½the North is fighting for freedom, and the South for slavery.ï¿½ ï¿½Well, will the nigger be free if Lincoln is elected?ï¿½ asked the negro. ï¿½I donï¿½t know; that is more than I am able to tell you,ï¿½ said Ribero. The negro returned to his work, and Ribero kept on reading.
As was subsequently ascertained, some of the negroes told their overseer that Ribero said the negroes would be free if Lincoln was elected. The overseer informed his employer, and the planter presented the case before the ï¿½Regulatorsï¿½ of Savannah. On the first of last week, the planters of the vicinity, armed with revolvers and bowie-knives, met to try Mr. Ribero for his offence. They empanelled a jury of thirteen men for the purpose, although some were for shooting him, and others for hanging him, without any preliminary ceremony whatever. The farcical sitting was held, but without giving Mr. Ribero any notice. In the course of an hour, the verdict of the jury was communicated to him, the decision being that he should receive thirty-nine lashes, have one side of his hair and whiskers cut close, and be sent to Boston. A man named Dr. Waring acted as barber, and cut off his hair and whiskers, which were very heavy, on the left side, leaving the other side. He was then tied to the top of a sapling bent over for the purpose, stretched up until his toes barely touched the ground, stripped to the skin, and whipped by two negroes. His wife says that his side is cut like meat scored for the oven. They then took him to the isle of Hope, and kept him there until dusk. He was then placed in a carriage and carried to Savannah, and put immediately on board the steamer, without opportunity to communicate with any of his friends.
The captain of the steamer refused to take him under these circumstances, and when the Committee who had charge of him found that out, they told him, ï¿½All right;ï¿½ he might go ashore if he wanted to. He did not dare to do this, he says, and he signed a paper which declared that he left the place of his own free will. On those representations, aided by the paper, the captain consented to take him. The next day permission came for him to go on shore, but he declined to do so, as his life would have been in danger. He, however, in the meanwhile, was enabled to join company with his wife and two children, and they accompanied him to this city. The evening previous to the boat leaving, some men called on Mrs. Ribero, at her house in Savannah, and asked her if she was ready to go to Boston. ï¿½To Boston!ï¿½ said she; ï¿½who with and what for?ï¿½ ï¿½With your husband,ï¿½ said they; ï¿½he
<c02>
is going.ï¿½ ï¿½No he is not,ï¿½ said she; ï¿½my husband is at work at Skiddaway.ï¿½ They told her that she did nï¿½t know half as much about her husband as she pretended to; that they knew all about him, and that he was already on board the Joseph Whitney. She packed up a few things, bid a hasty adieu to her friends, and joined her husband aboard the boat.
Mr. Ribero could not obtain his tools, and his family were obliged to leave Savannah with little preparation for abandoning their home. They are poor, and of course without means of a livelihood. He expresses a willingness to work, and, we doubt not, will procure it in our city. It becomes the charitably disposed, and all who abhor outrage and injustice, to aid this victim of Southern oppression.
Among the schemes suggested for punishing the prisoner, when he was seized, a few were in favor of giving him over to the city authorities. But this suggestion was voted down, and the ï¿½Regulatorsï¿½ seemed to think, after they had got Ribero aboard the steamer, that they had done a very bold act without authority. Some of them brandished their pistols and knives, and said they wished he had attempted to run away from them. The whole thing was the work of a lawless mob.
Ribero is thirty-two years old. His wife is about the same age. Her feelings, while upon the wharf yesterday, among perfect strangers, broke out in the most touching manner. The oldest boy is twelve, the youngest four. They are bright looking.
The audacity of this whole thing is only surpassed by its cold-blooded inhumanity.

BEIGN OF TERROR IN GEORGIA.
To the Editor of the New York Tribune:
SIR,-In the Boston Journal of the 16th, I saw an article copied from the Tribune of the 15th, in regard to my late expulsion from the city of Augusta, where I have resided for some years. That justice may be done all parties, I deem it my duty to relate the facts in the case. For five years I have resided in Augusta, but owing to the impaired state of my health, I left there one year ago and came North, where I remained until the 31st of October. I then sailed from Boston, per steamer South Carolina, and arrived in Augusta on Monday, the 5th inst. Everything passed pleasantly until Friday morning, when I received a note, as follows:ï¿½
ï¿½DR. THAYER: You are hereby notified to leave the city at the earliest possible time, or abide the consequences. PHILLIP,I. M. HILL.ï¿½
Being sick in bed, I sent for a friend, who came at once and took the note to the Mayor. He called at once, and said every effort should be made to stop the thing. Suffice it to say, the authorities did all in their power to suppress the excitement, but all to no effect. At 3 1-2 P. M. I was attacked by three ruffians in front of the Plantersï¿½ Hotel, who used every exertion to put me into a carriage, and take me to Hamburg, S. C., where my fate would have been sealed. They could not succeed, and began to drag me along the walk, when my wife and daughter heard the noise, and came to my rescue. They caught me one on either side, and begged them to release me, which, after using many oaths, they did, saying, ï¿½Madam, you being a woman, we will give up.ï¿½ She thanked them. We then returned to our room, where our friends came to our relief in great numbers. From this time the excitement increased rapidly; a large crowd had gathered around the house; speeches were made by the most influential men of the city, and every effort used to disperse the mob; but all to no effect. They seemed like so many hungry wolves.
At 5 1-2 P. M., my friends decided that my only safety was immediate flight, as it was impossible to control the mob and defend us, which then amounted to some 500 and more. A carriage was brought to the rear of the house on the back street, to which we were conducted and driven rapidly away, leaving our baggage behind. We were accompanied by some of the most responsible men of the city, who took us ten miles on the Savannah road, where we arrived at 8 P. M. Here we waited till 1 oï¿½clock, when we got on the cars for Savannah, where we arrived at 7 1-2 A. M. We went directly to the steamer Alabama and took our room, and kept close till the sailing of the boat at 4 P. M.
In regard to the cause of my expulsion, I have no doubts that two Northern men, both from Massachusetts, were the instigators of the trouble. One of them took a solemn oath that if I made him pay his bill, he would ruin me, so that I could not live in Augusta. His bill was settled by a third party who gave me $50 more than I had offered to take. The other was also incensed at a bill for medical attendance, though less than the law allowed me to charge, and has since done all in his power to injure me by circulating various reports without the least foundation. His name was given in court as an evidence to appear against me to prove my abolition sentiments. Such are the characters of many Northern men who go South, and the North are judged by them.
Let me here say that these vigilance committees and mobs are composed of the most low, drunken, irresponsible class of the community, and the instigators are often Northern men. That no blame may be attached to the respectable and responsible portion of the citizens, I will say that they extended the hand of sympathy and friendship, and volunteered their services and lives to defend me from an infuriated mob. They have my sympathies, and ever shall have. Nobler hearts never beat than those of the true whole-souled Southerner. Would to God there were more like them! I omit calling any names, for, by so doing, I might involve some of my friends in trouble.
Since my arrival North, I am informed that my baggage has been forwarded to me, by express, and will come safely to hand.
F. R. THAYER, M. D. 
Worcester, Mass., Nov. 16th, 1860.

SOUTHERN OUTRAGE ON A NORTHERN MAN. 
BOSTON, Nov. 20th, 1860.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The following extract is taken from a letter received in this city this morning, dated Atlanta, Ga., November 12th:-
ï¿½I wrote you when at Augusta, and then intended to stay there through the winter, but the excitement grew so great, and so much indignation was felt against Northern men, that all were ordered to leave, and I knew that if I stayed there, although I had not lisped a word on political topics, I should be in danger of being strung up. I am at this hotel, and if I had signed my name as coming from the North, I should not have got off short of seventy-five lashes. Democratic papers North say that this lynching is all false, but it is not so Men have been whipped and driven from the city of Atlanta-a place of 20,000 inhabitants. I saw a man who had been a practising physician for five years, against whom suspicions arose, and while on his way to the Court House to have the thing looked into-as they knew he was innocent, but wanted to have his blood-a mob of five hundred seized the horses, knocked off the driver, took the physician out, and started to drag him across the river into South Carolina, where they would have hung him in five minutes. They were prevented by the entreaties of the Mayor and other prominent citizens. There is no suchthing as law here. It is the most desperate country I ever travelled in. Why, they would take the life of a Northerner as quick as that of a puppy. It would frighten you if you could hear the bar-room talk of the roughs. I shake in my boots for fear they will detect me. For Godï¿½s sake, donï¿½t write me till I get settled.ï¿½
In a postscript added, he says:-
ï¿½I enclose-dollars, with which you will oblige me by settling my bill at 
the- House, which in my hurry I forgot to pay.ï¿½
This letter was opened by some one at the hotel or post-office in Atlanta, the money taken from it, and the following written therein:ï¿½
ï¿½This man is dï¿½d rascal and traitor, denies his country. I have opened this letter and looked at the contentsï¿½suspecting the same from that section-ï¿½and send you per his request. What a coward and traitor to principle is he! [Signature] ROGERS.ï¿½
Whether he has been arrested, or what has been done with him, it is impossible to tell now. However, comment on the above is unnecessary. 
Being personally acquainted with the writer of the letter, I have no doubt of its correctness in every particular. He left this city two weeks ago to engage in business at Augusta, but was obliged to leave, for reasons already given in his letter. When it becomes common for letters to be broken open, then the sooner the mails are discontinued, the better. Yours truly, ORONO.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 30, 1860.

NO SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS. 
The following petition is now in the hands of reliable friends of freedom, in all parts of the Commonwealth, for immediate circulation. It is precisely the same which, for the two preceding years, has been signed by thousands of the most virtuous and humane portion of the people, and which ought to be subscribed by every man and woman in Massachusetts. Those to whom it has been sent are earnestly urged to be up and doing, for the time is short between the present and the period for the assembling of the Legislature. Let every family, and every person, be tested by its presentation; let it be (as it will) a revelation of character and of purpose; and let the world know how many there are among us who ï¿½remember those in bonds as bound with them,ï¿½ and arc therefore for protecting the fugitive, or, on the other hand, how many are still for allowing slave -hunters to seize their prey with impunity on the Puritan and Revolutionary soil of the old Bay State, and to act as their accomplices in kidnapping.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person, who has been held as a Slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes ï¿½service or laborï¿½ to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.

REPEAL OF THE PERSONAL LIBERTY LAWS.
That the slave-hunters of the South and their Northern abettors should be clamorous for the repeal of the Personal Liberty Laws in the Free States, in order that no protection may be given to any victim claimed as a fugitive, is nothing strange; but that a single Republican journal should be found so demented or so brutal as to join in this fiendish cry, is indeed passing strange-especially on the pretence that such repeal would at once conciliate the tyrants and traitors at the South, and give repose and stability to Mr. Lincolnï¿½s administration! Nothing will appease them but a surrender of all manhood on the part of the people of the North, and entire conformity to all their diabolical purposes. They are inexorable as death, and as insatiate as the grave. Their principles are those of burglars, highwaymen and pirates, and their practices arc a great deal worse. In support of their hellish slave system, they would (if necessary) anni-hilate the very existence of the North; nor stop at the commission of any crime, however monstrous or devilish.
As an offset to the despicable article on this subject from the Springfield Republican, which may be found in THE DEPARTMENT OF INFAMY on our first page, we copy the following sensible and spirited paragraph from the Traveller of Saturday:-
ï¿½Those cravens who recommend that the Personal Liberty Law of Massachusetts should be repealed, ï¿½ought at least to show that such a proceeding would satisfy the South. There is not a fact, however, that can be adduced in support of the proposition that repeal would be accepted by the Southern ultras in a fraternal or a generous spirit. They would justly despise us for such an exhibition of cowardice. If the law is to be repealed, it should be so disposed of on principle, and not because we would throw a bone-and a dry bone, too-to the South. If wrong in itself, the law should have been removed from our statute-book before the Presidential election, and not have been kept there for the purpose of deceiving men. There is no fact better established than that the secession cry and movement are not owing even to Mr. Lincolnï¿½s election, much less to the existence of a few Personal Liberty laws; but that the secessionists regard that election and the passage of those laws only as occasions for what they are doing, what they have been resolved to do for years, according to the admissions of the honest and plain-speaking men of their party. Hence the repeal of all the laws mentioned would not move them from their purpose, or cause them to waver in seeking to accomplish that purpose. Let Massachusetts repeal the law, and she would humiliate herself in vain. This is no reason why she should maintain the law, if she believes it to be wrong; but she must not expect to satisfy the secessionists by repealing it, except in so far us they would be satisfied with the spectacle of her self-degradation. The day on which that law shall be repealed will see her Republican party go to wreck.ï¿½
That last remark is ï¿½as true as the gospel.ï¿½ Let the Republican party show any disposition to back down from its anti-slavery professions, at the dictation of the Southern overseers, and it will be broken as quickly as a rope of sand. It owes its success entirely to those professions, and to abandon them will be certain defeat and an everlasting disgrace.
The Springfield Republican grossly reveals the moral profligacy with which it has been uniformly conducted as pertaining to ï¿½the vexed questionï¿½ of slavery. It frankly admits, (what it is useless to deny,) that ï¿½the framers of the Constitution intended to provide, and did provide, for the rendition of slaves,ï¿½ and it is in favor of executing the inhuman provision, because it is in the bond! As if every such stipulation were not null and void because of its intrinsic villany! As if ï¿½framing mischief by a lawï¿½ were not a doubly hateful act on account of its legislative character! As if the impudent and murderous plea for the crucifixion of Jesus by his enemies, ï¿½We have a law, and by that law he ought to die,ï¿½ availed them any thing?
The Republican further admits that ï¿½the present Fugitive Slave Law contains provisions repugnant to all the established principles of law, and repulsive to all the sentiments of humane and Christian men,ï¿½ though ï¿½it is constitutional in its intent and scopeï¿½; yet that journal goes for removing from the statute-book every obstacle in the way of its enforcement at the North! In one breath, it pleads that the Personal Liberty Law is of no real value, because without it the humane feeling of the people ï¿½will prevent, as it always has, the return of any considerable number of fugitives who have once touched free soilï¿½; and in the next, that if we cannot stay in the Union as it is, and FULFIL THE CONTRACT AS IT ISï¿½-mark that! ï¿½ï¿½then the only honorable course is to go out of the Union by revolution, as South Carolina proposes to do.ï¿½ We by no means dissent from the conclusion, as to the duty of dissolving the Union. That duty is imperatively imposed upon the North by every moral and religious consideration. Yes, ï¿½the covenant with deathï¿½ must be annulled-ï¿½the agreement with hellï¿½ must not stand. It is not decent for the North to wait for the South to take the initiative. It ought to declare the conditions of the Union no longer to be tolerated by a moral and Christian people. Now that the South avows her readiness to withdraw, let the North joyfully and promptly acquiesce in the measure.
The Personal Liberty Law in Massachusetts will not be repealed, but it will be amended, and made effectual for the protection of every hunted fugitive coming within the limits of the State. This is the first duty to be done. Let the brand of VILLAIN and KIDNAPPER be put upon every man who is for the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law on our soil. Let every journal that counsels compliance with Southern demands be left without a subscriber, and its editor be denied admittance to the society of the virtuous and upright. Let things be called by their right names, and the abettors of slavery ranked among the vilest of the vile.

Read the excellent speech of Mr. Dodge of Chatham, in 1858, now first published.
<c04>
ARE THEY GUILTLESS?
Abolitionists are apt to err through excess of charity; and Wendell Phillips made a serious error of this sort, in his otherwise admirable discourse before the 28th Congregational Society of Boston last Sunday.
Mr. Phillipsï¿½s subject on this occasion was ï¿½The Pulpit.ï¿½ And his text was an extract from an apology lately made by Rev. Dr. Ellis of Charlestown for the stupidity of the existing pulpit. 
After representing that the true function of the pulpit is to improve the hearers-to direct its process of education to the improvement of their characters, a work that the mere cultivation of the intellect neither does nor tends to do;-after showing how Mr. Parker brought his whole life into his pulpit, made its scope as wide as the necessities and aspirations of humanity, and excluded from his preaching no subject belonging to the welfare of his people;- and after showing how the pulpit of the popular churches, both orthodox and heterodox, not only shrinks from attempting this, but, instead of being a moral agency, is often content to be merely an appendage to the factory, merely an agency of wealth,- Mr. Phillips made the charitably erroneous statement to which I wish to call attention.
He said that the occupants of the pulpit were not to blame for this state of things; that he would not find fault with them; that they were sincerely afraid to trust their people with the whole truth; and that they did, on the whole, as well as they knew how.
No doubt there are many clergymen who, being stupid as well as pious, and, having accepted with implicit faith the falsities and absurdities included in their theological education, continue, with perfectly honest intention, to teach those impostures to their people. No doubt, as many a Catholic priest truly believes in transubstantiation, so many a Protestant ministers truly believes in the equal absurdities which form a part of his creed. These men, deceived persons who are thrown by circumstances into the class of deceivers, may be acquitted of guilt; but their case is very different from that of the intelligent and sagacious persons who lead the various ecclesiastical associations; who exercise a controlling influence over their more simple or more modest brethren; and who contrive that in tracts and Annual Reports, in religiousï¿½ newspapers and ï¿½theologicalï¿½ magazines, and in associations for sectarian propagandism, as well as in the pulpit, the truths which would interfere with their credit and influence shall be kept from the knowledge of their people; shall be kept back by concealment and evasion as long as that is possible, but, in the last extremity, by plump denial and falsehood.
Now, all these men preach against falsehood, as they do against other shabby, contemptible, discreditable sins. They expressly forbid deception to their hearers, and represent that no temptation or inducement will authorize the use of it. But whoever will examine, comparing and collating, with cautious scrutiny, the writings of the clerical managers of the American Tract Society, and of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and of the ï¿½religiousï¿½ newspapers which have defended these bodies, for fifteen years past, will see that deliberate deception, aggravated by sanctimonious pretences, has been used whenever it was needful to sustain their accustomed policy.
Take another instance.
The observance of a Sabbath, by the people, is essential to the power and influence of the clerical class. The people must come to church on Sunday, or the minister loses the most plausible reason for demanding the payment of his salary. And since, most obviously, the pulpit does not attract the mass of the people, the problem is how to get them to church regularly without being attracted.
Many just and excellent things have been said about the advantage of a day of rest from ordinary labor, occurring as often as one day in seven, so that avarice may not keep its laborers in unremitting toil, and so that the minds and bodies of all classes may be refreshed. This is just and true, but it does not answer the clergymanï¿½s purpose. It does not assist his professional influence, it does not pay his salary, it does not put him forward as a needful mediator between God and man.
He solves the problem by telling his people-ï¿½God requires you to observe Sunday as a Sabbath, and to make regular church-going part of that observance! And God has given this command in the Bible!ï¿½
No doubt many unintelligent or stupid people, ministers and others, really believe these declarations; just as the unintelligent or stupid among the Roman Catholics believe it a duty to cross themselves with holy water. But when a minister writes a tract or a sermon to enforce the keeping of Sunday as a Sabbath, and looks into the Bible for evidence of the three statements above rehearsed, he necessarily sees that it is not there. He knows that he tells a falsehood when he says it is there. But he says it, nevertheless. And the whole teaching of the popular religion is so managed as to impress these three false statements upon the minds of the people as true.
Again, if you seek a conference with one of those men upon this subject, desiring to be informed precisely what and where is the authority for the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath, you will find every sort of dishonest artifice used to induce you to accept an insufficient answer as a sufficient one. You will first be told that the observance of the Sabbath was ordained at the creation. When you turn to the record of the creation in Genesis, and show him that neither command nor the slightest intimation is there given that men are to observe a Sabbath, your Reverend friend will tell you that though the narrative does not say so, it must mean so, because the fourth commandment refers back to this, sayingï¿½not Observe a Sabbath day, but - Remember THE Sabbath day! When you further show him, that the passage to which the fourth commandment refers back is only four chapters back, in the sixteenth chapter of Exodus, where the first command to men to keep a Sabbath is recorded, he insists on the fourth commandment itself, (which he solemnly calls ï¿½a command of the Moral Law,ï¿½) as ample, both in authority and minuteness of specification. When you turn to that, and show him that this command directly specifies Saturday, the seventh day of the week, as the day of this observance, he claims that the day has been changed. When you ask him who has authority to change Godï¿½s ï¿½Moral Law,ï¿½ he replies that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, has changed it. When you ask to see the command, you are told that he authorized his Apostles to change it. When you ask to see the passage where he thus commissioned them, you are pointed to the general command to them to preach the Gospel. When you ask to see their precept, (the result of this pretended commission,) commanding Christians to observe Sunday instead of Saturday as a Sabbath, the clerical <illegible> refers you to their example. When you turn to the passages where this example is recorded, and show him that not one of them establishes his point, and that the whole of them fail to establish anything like it, he falls back on the advantages of a day of rest, and assumes that these advantages are equivalent to a law. And finally, when you show him that the expediency of periodical cessation from labor is entirely a different thing from the obligation to regard a particular day as sacred, he tells you that opinions will differ, and finds that he must leave you to attend to indispensable business. Thenceforward cart-ropes will not drag that man to return to this discussion with you. But you will find that he goes on teaching his congregation, and his Sunday school, the same old lies, that God commands them to observe Sunday as a Sabbath, that part of the duty of the Sabbath is going to church, and that these commands are distinctly specified in the Bible.
In my judgment, the men who pursue this policy should not be held blameless.ï¿½C. K. W
<c05>
SPEECH OF MR. DODGE,OF CHATHAM,
Delivered in the Massachusetts Legislature, March 26, 1858, against the Repea lof the Personal Liberty Bill. 
MR. SPEAKER-I do not know as I ought to consume the time of the House, when there are so many gentlemen, far more able than myself, who wish to speak upon the question before the House. But, Mr. Speaker, the House will bear me witness that I have not trespassed on the time and patience of the House, in making long speeches; for my speeches here far exceed all others that have been made on the floor of this House for brevity. And now, Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Boston, Mr. Sprague, has told us that he cannot forget that there are other States besides Massachusetts-that there is a Virginias, a South Carolina; neither can I forget, sir, that in those other States, millions of my fellow-travellers to I eternity are crushed beneath the iron hoof of slavery, bound fast with the chains of involuntary servitude, and doomed, with their posterity, to be hewers of wood and drawers of water, and with their sweat and blood enrich those who claim to be their owners. Neither can I forget, Mr. Speaker, the remarks that fell from the lips of the distinguished gentleman from Newburyport, (Mr. Cushing,) on the floor of this House, during the present session. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Newburyport said he believed that God had made the white man to reign, to rule, to conquer, and to be obeyed. And now, sir, what does the gentlemanï¿½s language imply? Why, if it implies anything, it implies this: that God has made the colored roan to be conquered, to be ruled, and to obey the white man. Mr. Speaker, this reminds me of the horrible doctrine of John Calvin, that God had made, predestinated, elected and fore ordained a small part of the human family to be saved, and by the same decree reprobated others to be damned. And now, Mr. Speaker, the doctrine of the learned gentleman from Newburyport is this: that one-sixth of the population of the globe was made and ordained by the Creator to conquer and rule over the other five-sixths.
And we are told that the white man is naturally prejudiced against the colored man. But, sir, this prejudice, Oh we are told, it is an instinct of our nature an innate principle of the soul. Mr. Speaker, this prejudice exists only where slavery exists, or has had an existence. It does not exist in France, England, Scotland, Ireland, Belgium, Holland, the German States, Denmark or Sweden. But it is the very spirit of Cain, who murdered his brother; the spirit of the heathen, whom Paul described as, being hateful, and hating one another; the same spirit which now prompts the Chinese to look down upon European nations as barbarians; the same spirit that once led the proud Jew to shun the polluting touch of the Samaritans; which now in turn crushes him through all the cities of Europe, that throw open their doors to the colored man; the same spirit that erects the deadening influence of caste against the Gospel to heathen India And yet it holds the bad preeminence of being the only instance in which, man despises his brother on account of the color his Maker gave him.
But, Mr. Speaker, let us contemplate this prejudice on a small island, sixteen thousand miles from Boston, in the Strait of Malacca, called Pulo Penang. More than thirty years ago, there had been collected in a small town of some twelve or fifteen thousand inhabitants, under the English flag, a representation of all the principal cities of Europe and Asia. There could be seen, at one view, the Hindoo temple, the Chinese Pagoda, the Mohammedan mosque, the Catholic cathedral, the Protestant church. And the buildings displayed the varied architecture of the different nations, from the thatched hut of the semi-bar-barous Malay, to the palace of the English Governor. And, swarming in its busy, crowded streets, could be seen the various costumes of the East and West, with almost all the known varieties of the human form, features and complexion, from the equator to the pole. More than fifty different languages were spoken every day in the market. The laws were printed in more than forty. The superintendent of the police could speak and understand more than twenty. There stands the Russian, and next to him the pallid Dane, he of the flaxen hair and light blue eye, the whitest man on the globe; by the side of whom, the haughty Carolinian might almost mistake himself for one of his own yellow slaves. The florid Hollander is there; the ruddy Englishman, the darker Frenchman, the swarthy Portuguese, and the ï¿½still darker Spaniard, proud of his descent from the African Moor, who taught him and Europe the use of the so-called Arabic figures. The Moor himself is there, and bears close resemblance to his Spanish cousin. The Turk is there, the Persian next, and next, the princely Arab, the most majestic of men, with his flowing beard and sparkling eye; the descendant and representative of Abraham-and yet, the Arab is a colored man! The Chinese, too, is there; the delicate-skinned native of Nankin, and the tawney emigrant from more Southern provinces. The Jew of Amsterdam is there, as white as the proper Hollander, who despises him; and he takes cordially by the hand the black Jew of Coromandel, who also is there, descended, as we all know, from the same parents stock, yet lacking little, save his hair, to prevent his being classed with the Ethiop. The Hindoo, too, is there, the Chooliob, the Malay, and the dark Lascar, whose long flowing hair of glossy jet prevents you from deciding him a negro. The African, also, is there.
And now, Mr. Speaker, will the learned gentleman from Newburyport tell us how many distinct races of men his wisdom will please to write down in Pulo Penang? Where will you draw the line of demarcation between the white and colored man? The gradation is perfect, the chain is unbroken; between; the Dane and African, there is no chasm. 
What sayest thou? Art thou not become dumb? Hath not God made of one blood all the nations of men, as he hath said? or wilt thou correct the error of Moses, and give us a new edition of thy Makerï¿½s workmanship? 
Open now thine eyes on this world in miniature; and remember it is but a specimen of the myriads of mankind in all nations and ages. It may be well to remind thee of that vast assembly which will one day be collected, of all kindreds and tongues and nations. Open now the book of the Divine law! How readest thou? Does it say, thou shalt love thy white neighbor as thyself?ï¿½ Will you send over those vast continents to search out the little corner of the world where the sixth part of the human family reside- those whose faces (according to the learned philosophy of the East.) have been bleached by the white rains or snows of the North, to such deathly paleness?ï¿½ Will you look your Maker in the face, and tell him you find a natural instinct in your bosom, which he has planted there, and which forbids you to love any of his equal children except the white man? 
But, Mr. Speaker, we are told that the negro is of an inferior and degraded race. But who are you? An American-a descendant of Europeans, and proud that the Anglo-Saxon blood flows in your veins! But who are the Europeans? The noble ones of the earth!-the men of literature, civilization, science, and true religion! And from whence did they derive their literature, civilization and religion? Europeans were hordes of naked barbarians a few centuries ago. Yes, but they drew wisdom from the Greeks, the Romans and the Hebrews. And they are drawing still. See those ponderous volumes of classic and sacred literature! But whence did the Romans, the Greeks and the Hebrews derive their civilization and letters? The Greeks and Romans were once savages. Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were plain men, dwelling in tents; no record is made of their literature. And when God determined to make of them a great nation, in what school of learning did he train up their
<c06>
appointed legislator to deliver and guide? Moses, we are told, was learned in all the knowledge and wisdom of the Egyptians.
To whom did the Greeks and Romans look up to for instruction in letters and arts? To the Egyptians, Where did Rome and Athens, in their prouder days send off their princely sons to be educated? as some have sent their sons from this country to the Universities, of Europe. They sent them to Egypt-Ethiopia! But who were the Egyptians and Ethiopians? Negroes! yes, negroes! with woolly hair, flat noses and jetty skin; for thus are they described by <illegible> the prince of historians, who journeyed among them. The statue of the Sphyux, one of the wonders of the world, surviving the wreck of centuries, exhibits these same features at the present day.
In what page of ancient literature is it written that the Africans were accounted an inferior race? Sir, the Romans were wont to mention the most excellent Ethiopians The Greek imagined their deities resided among them. Minerva, the Goddess of Wisdom, was supposed to have been an African Princess. Atlas, whose shoulders sustained the world, and even the great Jupiter Ammon himself, were located by the mythologists in Africa.
These fables teach us who were then accounted the nobles of the human race. But all at once, within the last three hundred years, since the enslavement of the African race on the American islands and continent, the wonderful discovery is made, that the Ethiopians, the tutors of the whole civilized world, are become an inferior race.
Mr. Speaker, a pale-faced young sophomore in college will feel his dignity insulted, if you ask him to recite in the same class with a pious and intelligent young colored man. Why? He belongs to an inferior and degraded race. But what book do you hold in your hands, young man? ï¿½Euclidï¿½s Elements, sir,ï¿½ is the answer, and the air and tone inform you of his conscious pride of intellect in having been able to master and appreciate its precious contents. But who was Euclid?-who? The father of mathematical science-a negro, who flourished some three thousand years ago.
But, Mr. Speaker, even the clergy are not free from this unnatural prejudice; for some of our learned Doctors of Divinity, chin deep in the huge volumes of theological lore transmitted down from the early fathers of the Christian Church, will write grave treatises to prove that the curse of Cain is righteously visited by atheistic hand upon the negroes, the posterity of Ham. And yet, the same learned divine will swell with more than usual dignity of conscious knowledge when, in his polemical and theological strife, he can quote on his own side of a contested question the arguments, or even the opinion of a Cyprian, a Cyril, or a St. Augustine? And tell me, learned Doctor, who are these -Cyprian, Cyril and St. Augustine? They were pious and learned Christian divines, many centuries ago, and they-were negroes. Mr. Speaker, does that learned disciple, and does the learned gentleman from Newburyport, expect to sit down with them in heaven, and continue to speak of their countrymen, as being of a degraded caste? 
Mr. Speaker, I hope the Persona Liberty Law of 1855 will not be repealed, or even modified for if you do either, you open a gap for the entrance of slavehunters and kidnappers upon the free soil of Massachusetts, for the reaction of former scenes, and sending back to bondage beings possessed of equal rights to freedom with ourselves. 
But, Mr. Speaker, it has been asked, will you place the slaveholder upon the same footing with a murderer? Why, sir, slavery is the sum of all villanies-the very embodiment of all crime; and not only the vilest sin that ever saw the sun, but a sin for which even perdition itself has scarcely an adequate place of punishment. Therefore, I hope the Personal Liberty Law will remain on the Statute Book 
 IN THE WEST 
I find here a reading community, and a vigorous anti-slavery sentiment, waiting only for a channel of expression. They see, and abhor, in their own Black Laws, the spirit of the Dred Scott decision They cannot tolerate the Fugitive Slave Law, whether Constitutional or not-and hail as the harbinger of victory, Mr. Giddingsï¿½s doctrine, that, ï¿½in case of an insurrection, it is the duty of the government to give relief to the master by freeing the slavesï¿½; and they are ready to thank him for his defence of that doctrine. They seize, like hungry lions, Mr. Sewardï¿½s noble sentiments-ï¿½If, therefore, in this land, there are any who would rise, I say to them, in Godï¿½s name, good speed!*** If there be any here, who would go abroad in search of happiness, they have had, and shall always have, a cheering word, and such efforts as I can consistently make in their behalfï¿½.
The people are ready to demand of the next Congress the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, and of the Indiana Legislature the repeal of the ï¿½Black Lawsï¿½ they ï¿½Black Lawsï¿½; they will petition, also, for a Personal Liberty Bill, and are determined to interfere with slavery in all ways consistent with justice and the laws of God. They see the issue before them, and are nearly ready to fall back upon their humanity, and with common law, common sense, and the common interests of all mankind on their side, defy the odds against them. 
A few weeks since, a woman, from Texas, who had been claimed as a slave, and worked without pay for thirty years, whipped her master, who insulted her and sold her child-escaped, was taken, and broke jail; and overcoming with her battered arms and blistered feet chains of mountains of difficulties reached, and passed from here to Canada. It is not necessary to say she had the spirit of a woman and a hero; she had learned the philosophy of endurance, not like Diogenes, by lying down upon burning sands, or embracing status covered with snow; she ate, and slept, and woke, without regard to circumstances, and saw in the bright north star an excellent chandelier. Her ankles were still festering from the manacles, her back and face wore the deep scars of the whip; in a terrible battle with her master, her skull had been fractured, and trapanned; and, to identify his property, he had cut off a finger, and branded with a red-hot iron the three initials of her name upon her right breast. The people who entertained her in this country could say, as did Diogenes in Lacedemonia, we ï¿½have seen children,ï¿½ but never before discovered a woman. Is it any wonder that the people are tired of waiting for their leaders, and are seeking for a child to go before them?
Northern Indiana, like Northern Ohio, is treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath that is to be revealed in this nationï¿½s calendar. The current of public opinion cannot be stayed, though its channels may be widened and turned to more fertilizing purposes; and the work of to-day should not be deferred till to-morrow.
Now that election is over, you will perhaps look for us to say, ï¿½The winter of our discontent is passedï¿½; but we have seen in this Presidential election only a kind of summer solstice, in which the people were resting from their labors to enter the more vigorously into autumnal harvests; and if a great work is not done in the West, this fall and winter, the fault will not be in the heads or hearts of those noble men and women.
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFING 
William S. Bailey, of Newport, Ky., having revived the issue of the Free South, which was destroyed by a mob some time ago, has been arrested for publishing incendiary documents. He was at first bailed, but afterwards surrendered by his bondsmen and now lies in jail. This noble man deserves the sympathy and admiration of the friends of freedom every where. No braver, no more self-sacrificing friend of the oppressed has yet made his appearances. 
NOVEMBER 30. THE LIBERATOR. 191
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ERROR CORRECTED
TO THE EDITOR:
A little communication of mine in your last paper has this mistake: The word believing should read believing. The close of the sentence will then read-'when such as Giddings, Sumner and Love-joy have taught men the lesson of thus absolutely believing both the promptings of reason and the dictates of the heart. 
It is indeed a sad charge to bring, and it is not strange that type should stumble in declaring it. God knows my heart was full and my eyes ran over, when it was penned.
But what is the fact? Have not Sumner and Lovejoy sifted and winnowed slavery out of the Constitution, till not even semi-colon, comma, or even parenthesis of it can be found there, in the estimation of most of the Northern and Western Republicans? Have they not wrung language dry of epithet, invective and anathema, in their endeavors to execrate and curse slavery as it deserves? Have they not pronounced the Fugitive Slave Law 'cruel,' 'diabolical,' 'damnable'? and those who will execute it, as scarcely better?
And when honest men and ardent haters of slavery have believed them, and have supposed them as honest as themselves in their professions, then they have led them or to support a candidate who scorns, spurns and spits upon all anti-slavery interpretations of the Constitution, and blasphemes all conscientious regard for that 'Higher Law' which would hold men back from supporting slavery, and returning to bondage the victims that had escaped!
If there be anything in the doctrine of human accountability, that those will have much to answer for who have thus led men astray-far rather would I be the open-mouthed Democrat, bellowing my own slaveholding, slave-loving depravity; a ghastly warning to all the sensible and reflecting against my own folly and wickedness!
It seems to me these are times for apostolic adherence to truth and honesty, though martyrs' crosses studded every highway and byway in the land.
PARKER PILLSBURY.
Concord, N. H., Nov. 25, 1860.
THE WEST BROOKFIELD MEETING.
The Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society held its quarterly meeting on Saturday evening and Sunday, Nov. 17 and 18, at West Brookfield. It held one session on Saturday, and two on Sunday, afternoon and evening, the numbers in attendance increasing throughout. Since the Society had last met in that town, a new, spacious and handsome Town Hall had been erected, and in this, well lighted and warmed, the meetings were held.
The President of the Society, JOSIAH HENSHAW, of West Brookfield, called the meeting to order, and made some very appropriate remarks in opening. After which, anti-slavery addresses of a thorough nature, touching both the politics and the religion of the people of the land, were made by Samuel May, Jr. of Leicester, and E. H. Heywood of Boton, and heard with attention.
At 1 P.M. on Sunday, the Society, with many others, again came together in the new Hall. Appropriate Scripture passages were read and a prayer was offered, by Mr. May.
E. H. Heywood offered resolutions expressing gratification at the recent success of the Republican party, as indicative of a growing anti-slavery sentiment, and as a great gain, in some respects, upon all recent administrations of the National Government, yet expressing distrust of any positive good from the new administration, pledged as it is to uphold the United States Constitution, the Fugitive Slave Law, and other slaveholding measures, including the disfranchisement of the free colored man, and the denial to him of the rights of citizenship.
Another resolution demanded the passage of a Personal Liberty Law which should make Massachusetts a free State in fact as well as in name.
Resolutions were offered by Mr. May, concerning the African Slave Trade, now so extensively carried on by American citizens, and condemning, in tones of merited severity, the refusal of the American Board of Foreign Missions, as its recent jubilee meeting in Boston, to take any action or hear any testimony in regard to that iniquitous traffic, and calling upon the supporters of the Board to withdraw from it all further countenance; also, condemning the apathy and practical infidelity of the American Churches, (with a very few honorable exceptions,) in regard to the whole subject of the enslavement of four millions of human beings in the land, with its brutalizing effects on both slaves, masters, and all connected therewith. 
H. Ford Douglass, of Illinois, followed in a very eloquent and hearty speech in support of the Abolition movement and its principles. He made respectful and affectionate mention of Capt. John Brown and his friends, while trusting that it might not yet be too late to settle this question of slavery without recourse to violence.
Dr. Cutter, of Warren, made some inquiries of the last speaker, as to his exact position in regard to the John Brown movement, to which Mr. Douglass replied in full.
In the evening, the resolutions being again read, Joseph A. Howland, of Worcester, (formerly of West Brookfield,) addressed the meeting in a spirited and interesting speech. He reviewed the history of the Anti-Slavery cause in West Brookfield-especially the determined efforts of the Congregational Church there to crush the cause and its friends-and showed how confirmatory it all was of the truths which the Abolitionists had always spoken. He also commented on the pro-slavery attitude of ABRAHAM LINCOLN, quoting certain words of his as to the Fugitive Law, &c. He was asked by Mr. Gott, of West Brookfield, if he had with him his authority for those remarks. Upon which Mr. Howland produced a report of a speech of Mr. Lincoln's, and read from it a part of the remarks referred to, and promised to send to the inquirer the full proof of his charges against Mr. Lincoln. Mr. Gott said he did not, himself, call in question the correctness of what Mr. Howland had said, but persons around him expressed doubts about it.
Addresses by Messrs. Douglass and Heywood followed, and were received with marked attention and interest.
A collection of $14.42 was made in behalf of the cause. The resolutions were adopted by vote, and ordered to be published.
We regret that this order of the Society cannot be complied with. The resolutions in question, in their original draft, were taken by the Secretary to the office of the Worcester Spy, together with a notice of the meeting, for publication. A brief, but somewhat altered notice was published, but the resolutions were withheld. The Secretary went to the Spy office to inquire into the matter, and was told that the resolutions were lost!-lost, as a friend suggests, either carelessly or carefully. And the suggestion is called for, as this is not the first time that the Spy has refused to publish documents offered by the officers of this Society, and denied them a fair hearing in its columns, and given it as its excuse that the documents were unfortunately lost! The course of the Spy is both sad and significant.
The West Brookfield meeting was a very good and hopeful one. Much pleasure was expressed in hearing Mr. Ford Douglass, it being his first appearance in that part of the County. The hospitalities of the faithful Abolitionists of the place were unstinted and cheering.-M.
We advise everybody in Boston and its vicinity to go and see Capt. E. C. Williams' Panoramic Representation of a South Sea Whaling Voyage, now on exhibition every evening at the Melodeon. It deserves the highest encomium and the fullest attendance. By all means, go and see it.
<c02> 
SECESSION FLAG. 
Charleston, S. C., just now, is emphatically a city of banners. They flutter from windows, house-tops and liberty poles, and over the streets, suspended by cords from window to window. Most of the large street banners are made of silk, and contain handsomely executed designs. The ladies and the artists are busy, day and night, preparing new ones. Each man strives to outdo his neighbor in the banner line. We are told that the city presents a novel and beautiful sight from this fluttering of blue, white and scarlet silks. The Charleston Courier describes one banner thus:-
'The banner shows on the South a full portrait of Hon. A. G. Magrath, late Judge of the United States District Court for South Carolina. On his left is a chair on which he has thrown the judicial robe, and on his right is a cannon, which he has just fired. Above is the inscription—"The first gun for State action." On the other side is a Palmetto tree, with the Colonial and the State flag of South Carolina, crossed on the trunk, and above is the following extract from a late address of Judge Magrath: 'The time for deliberation has passed; the time for action has come."' 
Mr. G. F. Marchant, manager of the Charleston Theatre, has a large banner hanging from the 'Temple of the Muses,' (for little Patti is singing there now.) 'This banner,' says the Courier, 'is made of the finest fabric; it is composed of three stripes, blue, white and red. The blue and red grounds each bears a star. On the white, stands a palmetto resting on two bales of cotton. Above the tree is a large brilliant star, which represents South Carolina. Underneath the tree is the following apothegm:—"Dieu et Nos Droits"—(God and our Rights.')
A banner on Vendue Range, the great auction mart, raised by an auctioneer, has the inscription, 'South Carolina, Going, Going, Gone.'
Another is inscribed thus:- 
'The tree that made Fort Moultrie strong,
[a Palmetto tree,]
Will never bend to Yankee wrong.' 
Here is another:—'The Pavilion Hotel has unfurled a well executed banner, showing a portrait of Calhoun, with a Palmetto tree, a star, and other devices, with the initials S. C., meaning either "South Carolina," or "Southern Confederacy," as the case may require. The motto is the memorable sentence of the great Georgian, Troup,—"The time for argument has passed: let us stand to our arms." '
AUGUSTA, Ga., Nov 24.—Mr. Memminger, in a speech at Greenville, advised a thorough preparation by the people of South Carolina for war, as a State could not secede without a conflict with the Government. 
JACKSON, Miss., Nov. 23.—The Congressmen of this State met in this city to-day, and unanimously declared for a Southern confederacy. The secession movement creates great enthusiasm throughout the State. 
RICHMOND, Va., Nov. 23.—The officer who offered a regiment of New York volunteers to South Carolina, is a graduate of West Point, and a son of a former captain in the navy. 
ACCEPTANCE OF A TENDER OF VOLUNTEERS FROM TENNESSEE BY THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH CAROLINA. A letter was exhibited to us yesterday from Gov. Gist, of South Carolina, accepting the services of a gentleman of this city, who tendered a corps of volunteers, which he proposes to raise, in the event they should be needed by South Carolina in the defence of her rights and honor.—Nashville Union. 
The Mobile Register, one of the most conservative papers in Alabama, says:—'An absolute repeal of the personal liberty bills, and all acts infringing the fugitive clause of the Constitution, must be made an indispensable condition of Southern continuance in the Union.'
Hon. John Forsyth advertises in the Mobile (Ala.) Register for eighty able-bodied men. He wishes to form a military company for the protection of the honor and rights of Alabama. 
AUGUSTA, Ga., Nov. 23.—Stringent Resolutions offered in the Georgia Legislature.—Resolutions have been offered in the Legislature demanding the repeal by the Northern States of laws obstructing the rendition of slaves; also, an enactment by Congress, removing obstructions by territories to the introduction of any kind of property—such action being contingent on Georgia's remaining in the Union. 
A special Charleston (S. C.) dispatch says the secession flag has been hoisted in the armory of the Savannah Republican Blues, who lately visited New York. 
NEW WAY OF SQUARING ACCOUNTS WITH SOUTHERN CREDITORS. The Boston Journal learns that a dry goods firm in this city, who had a claim for $1000 against a Southern trader who would not meet it with the 'ready,' adopted a novel course, by which their account was canceled and a negro slave obtained his freedom. The firm sent orders to their attorney to attach a slave belonging to the trader for the debt, cause him to be sold, buy him in for the firm, and then send him to a Northern city. The anti-slavery principles of the house forbade their receiving the price of a fellow-man, and so they determined to turn their claim to a good account by freeing a slave with it. We are pleased to record so noble and generous an act. COLLECTING NORTHERN CLAIMS.—We learn that the bar of Lowndes County, Alabama, met at Hayneville on the 14th, and passed the following resolution:
'Resolved, That we will not in future collect or receive for collection any claim in favor of any merchant, or other creditor, living, or doing business, in any non-slaveholding State, against any citizen of this State; and that we will use our influence to prevent such collections by others, as far as we properly can.' 
A Richmond dispatch states that Adjt. Gen. Richardson says there are now armed and equipped 10,000 young men, the elite of the State, with a reserve force of 20,000 more. He says, from the tone of his letters, a decided purpose exists everywhere in the State to resist Federal aggressions. 
A negro in Lancaster county, Va., made a revelation to the authorities a few days since, to the effect that the negroes were to meet at the Court House at a certain time, break open the jail, seize the arms there deposited, and commence indiscriminate slaughter. He stated that means of escape were provided by a vessel lying in the creek. 
NOT THE USUAL WAY OF DOING IT. Isham S. Bolt, of Laurenceville, S. C., had become so much harassed by fear of negro insurrection, that he blew his brains out on the 16th. The more usual plan in such cases of anxiety like this is to hang a pedlar. 
OUT OF EMPLOYMENT. There are now in this city between one and two hundred hands out of employment, most of whom have been discharged because of the derangement of the money market. If business does not revive before the winter sets in, hard times may be anticipated with the working classes.—Richmond (Va.) Dispatch. 
The ladies of Charleston, S. C., have anonymously presented a laurel crown to the editor of the Mercury. In acknowledging it, the recipient says-'The beautiful wreath with which some unknown, gentle hand has crowned us, we shall value; and trust, that in the accomplishment of the great revolution in which we are engaged, the Mercury shall not be altogether unworthy of the tribute offered.' 
SECESSION BONNET.—The Charleston Mercury gives the following description of a bonnet worn by a South Carolina lady:— 
'The bonnet is composed of white and black Georgia cotton, covered with a net work of black cotton, the streamers ornamented with Palmetto trees and Lone Stars, embroidered in gold thread, while the feathers are formed of white and black worsted.'
What would our Lincoln ladies think of a distinctive bonnet of Connecticut corn-cobs, trimmed with pumpkin vines, and ornamented with wooden nutmegs?
The following extract of a private letter from a lady in Mississippi (says the New York Tribune) comes to us from a source which renders its authenticity certain. Under existing circumstances, it will be read with peculiar interest:—
'We have had a great excitement about an insurrection that has been in contemplation among the negroes in our State. Last night was a dreadful night with some people here. They couldn't sleep, sat up all night watching, expecting every minute the negroes would come in and kill them all. We have a lady staying here (a Miss B., late of Kentucky) who was badly frightened. I couldn't prevail on her to undress.
'I would hate awfully to be on a big plantation with two or three hundred negroes on it.
'In W- County, about twenty miles from us, the excitement was greater than here. There were several white men implicated, and a great many negroes. They hung some, and whipped others nearly to death.' 
INSURRECTION.—An insurrectionary plot was discovered on Tuesday, among the negroes on the plantations of W. C. Cleveland, Harp, Simmons, Davison, Johnson, and others in Crawford county. A. V. Dreer and Cullin Davison, from Pennsylvania, the latter a school teacher, were the ringleaders. They have been arrested, and, with forty negroes, are in jail.-Augusta (Ga.) Dispatch, 9th.
<c03>
COLUMBIA.—The editor of the Yorkville (S. C.) Enquirer has found an appropriate name for the new Southern Confederacy. He says:—
'The secession of South Carolina seems now to be a fixed fact. A Southern Confederacy seems to be probable. We have a name to propose for it. 
'Columbus was defrauded when this continent was called America. Everybody recognizes the wrong. We can make an offset to that by giving his name to the choice part of it. Besides, this secession emanates from Columbia, S. C., as its central point. Herein we find a double suggestion: one is that Columbia be the capital of the Southern Confederacy, and the other is that the Confederacy be named and known as the Columbia Confederacy, or the Republic of Columbia.' 
DISUNION LEADERS. The New York Evening Post has this notice of the movements of two noted men who are now active in South Carolina and Georgia:— 'The men who desire to revive the African slave-trade for their profit are very noisy, and labor hard to inflame the popular feeling. J. W. Spratt, who has already distinguished himself by elaborate speeches in favor of the re-opening the slave-trade, was the principal speaker at the meeting held in Charleston, on Friday evening last. It was he who offered the violent resolutions which the meeting adopted. In Georgia, it is Q. C. L. Lamar, the man who made himself infamous by his connection with the affair of the bark Wanderer, and the landing of a cargo of slaves on our coast, who undertakes to raise a body of minute men for his State. These people are all putting forth their utmost activity in fanning the flame, in hope of seeing the slave-trade revived in a Southern confederation. They have a favorite speculation in view, and this is the way they are trying to render it successful.' 
PORT OF CHARLESTON. The Charleston collector still lives, and the port of Charleston is yet open. Witness the dispatch to Collector Schell of New York:— 
'CHARLESTON, Nov. 13,1860.
To A. Schell, Collector: It is rumored that clearances are refused at this office. Contradict it. The business of the office goes on as usual. 
W. F. COLCOCK.' 
Hon. R. B. Rhett does not scorn to point his eloquence with something that, in a man of lower stamp, might be called blackguardism. For instance, in a speech at Charleston the other day, he spoke of Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Hamlin as follows:— 
'They have elected a Southern renegade—spewed out of the bosom of Kentucky into Illinois—and a Northern white-washed or octoroon mulatto, to be President and Vice President of the United States.' 
Does the secession mania in South Carolina need to be excited by such stimulants as these, or does Mr. Rhett indulge in them from the pure love of the thing?
FOR CHARLESTON.—The steamship Marion left this port yesterday for Charleston, with about the usual number of cabin passengers. The ordinance requiring steamship owners to give heavy bonds for the support of steerage passengers who would otherwise be an incumbrance on the city of Charleston, being still in force, Messrs. Spofford & Tileston were obliged to refuse a large number of applications for steerage tickets. The result was, that many poor mechanics and workmen who have been employed to go South, and others who think that their chances for employment will be quite as good there, notwithstanding political troubles, as they will be here during the winter, sought a conveyance by other steamship lines running to ports the local authorities of which have not yet decided to repel Northern emigration. For although the Charleston ordinance visits no penalty whatever upon the emigrant, it excludes him quite as effectually by requiring bonds for his support, which no shipper could safely enter into at this time, when Abolitionists have made Northern people almost universally hated and shunned at the South.—New York Journal of Commerce. 
MORE PASSENGERS RETURNING FROM THE SOUTH. The steamship Nashville, which arrived at this port on Saturday, brought back from Charleston forty-nine steerage passengers, who were not allowed to land by the Mayor of that city. The steamship Adger, of the same line, on her last trip, brought thirty-two steerage passengers, who were sent back by the same authority. The steamship Florida, of the New York and Savannah line, which reached here on Friday night, also brought back several steerage passengers who were not allowed to land at Savannah. The passengers were mostly mechanics and laborers. They were treated with politeness by the local authorities, and their expenses of returning were paid for them. 
Until further notice, the Savannah and Charleston steamers will not carry hence steerage passengers.— lbid. 
SAVANNAH, Ga., Nov. 23.—Abduction of Free Negroes. It is rumored that six free negro seamen were forcibly taken from the barque N. W. Bridge, and have not been heard of since. Also, that three negro sailors, belonging to brig Wingold, had been taken from Fernandina (Florida) jail, and removed to parts unknown. A Fernandina paper confirms the latter report, and says that it was done for retaliation, but condemns the proceedings. It is probable that the Florida Legislature will pass an act to prevent such negroes from being bought. 
THE GREAT CASE. The arrest of nine of the alleged rescuers of the negro woman Eliza, who is claimed under the Dred Scot decision, as a slave by a citizen of Nebraska, whence she escaped, already excites much interest among the members of the bar in this city. The Times and Herald, with indecent haste and upon its own motion, has already tried the case, given the opinion of the Judge, sentenced the prisoners, and restored the serenity of the public mind. We beg our sapient contemporary to observe that its eagerness to impose fines, visit with imprisonment, and settle grave questions of law, is not likely to be gratified. The men under indictment will make a struggle in the Courts, and long before their trials are concluded, the attention of the nation will be devoted to them. That journal will find that the guarantees of freedom in the territories will not be readily given up.—Chicago Tribune. 
While the South is clamoring for the repeal of Northern Personal Liberty Laws, the North is constantly reminded, by outrages committed upon unoffending persons, within her borders, that the freedom of the citizen cannot be too carefully guarded. A notable case in point is that of the colored man, John Thomas, kidnapped the other day in this city, confined in the United States Grand Jury Room, and conveyed to Virginia without any warrant or process whatever. This man, who, by the act of his master in sending him into a free State, is no longer a slave but a free man, is boldly seized, and borne off to slavery. At the last advices, the man was in custody, at Richmond, awaiting the arrival of his late master, from Kentucky. This is a case of which Marshal Rynders, District-Attorney Roosevelt, and all the United States Commissioners deny all knowledge. And yet the man was kept a prisoner without a warrant, in the Grand Jury Room of the building which they occupy, and as we learn, when the habeas corpus was applied for in his behalf, was hurried out of the State, by one of the Assistant United States Marshals. This act is in flagrant violation of the law of this State. Whether the kidnapped man be free or slave, his abductor has committed a crime punishable by imprisonment at Sing Sing.—New York Tribune. 
At the close of the evening services at Plymouth church, Brooklyn, Sunday, Mr. Beecher presented to the audience a mulatto girl, twenty-two years old, named Louisa, who had been purchased from her master in Maryland by Mr. Seibold of Washington, for $1,200, in order to obtain her liberty. Mr. Beecher stated that $400 had been raised, leaving $800 more required for her freedom. The sum of $511 was collected, and Mr. W. H. Sage gave his name for the balance. In the collection was a gold ring, which Mr. Beecher placed on the finger of the girl, saying it was her freedom ring; and as he did so, she fell prostrate on the platform before him. Mr. John B. Gough gave the girl fifty dollars to pay her expenses to Washington. 
THREATS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT ELECT. The Chicago Tribune says: 'It is an unfortunate commentary upon the seceders' course, the fact that anonymous and threatening letters, addressed to Mr. Lincoln, are thought to be necessary to support it. Of these he is daily in the receipt of perhaps a dozen, each atrocious. Death is the least of the ills with which he is threatened. Death, preceded by the torture, and followed by the pains of fire and brimstone, is the least with which he can be excused. These excite only contempt in him to whom they are addressed. Though coming from a hundred different parts of the South, they agree in one thing—that there is an organized band, or brotherhood, every member of which takes an oath to compass the President's death. The letters are evidence of nothing except the hate and impotent malice of those who write them.' 
Ceredo, Eli Thayer's settlement in Virginia, voted for President as follows:—Bell 55, Douglas 23, Breckinridge 17, Lincoln 10.
<c04>
THE VOTE OF NEW YORK ON FREE SUFFRAGE.
Counties. For. Against.
Albany, 5800 11,269
Alleghany, 4677 2929
Broome, 2613 3287
Cattaraugus, 4755 3655
Cayuga, 5722 4257
Cautauqua, 5855 4265
Chemung, 1511 2070
Chenango, 3972 3507
Clinton, 2838 3190
Columbia, 1881 5640
Cortland, 2865 1860
Delaware, 2753 3772
Dutchess, 2033 7259
Erie, 5575 12,244
Essex, 2565 1874 
Franklin, 1903 1733
Fulton and Hamilton, 1011 3087
Genesee, 3127 2714
Greene, 548 4530
Herkimer, 3414 3702
Jefferson, 6073 6470
Kings - -
Lewis, 1902 2554
Livingston, - - 
Madison, 5881 3271
Monroe, 5552 7605
Montgomery, 598 5029
New York, 1640 37,471
Niagara, 2684 4408
Oneida, 8455 9685
Onondaga, 8590 7680
Ontario, - - 
Orange, 850 7442
Orleans, 2796 2405 
Oswego, 7420 5518
Otsego, 4308 5472
Putnam, - maj., 1268
Queens, 481 5763
Rensselaer, 5747 8609
Richmond, 145 2530
Rockland, 60 2472
St. Lawrence, 8890 4413
Saratoga, 2084 5490
Schenectady, 552 2215
Scoharie, 1021 4639
Schuyler, 1745 1866
Seneca, 1778 3246
Steuben, 5382 5880
Suffolk, 981 4190 
Sullivan, - - 
Tioga, 2371 3063
Tompkins, 3124 3291
Ulster, 1313 8719
Warren, 1952 2128
Washington, 4733 3691
Wayne, 4331 4289
Westchester, - - 
Wyoming, 3568 2590
Yates, - - 
Total, 172,477 273,073
The returns from Kings, Livingston, Ontario, Sullivan, Westchester and Yates counties, and the official report of New York, will probably swell the vote to 185,000 for, and nearly 300,000 against suffrage, showing a great change in public sentiment in our favor since 1846.—Anglo-African. 
CALEB CUSHING. It is reported in the dispatches that the ladies of South Carolina have started a subscription for a testimonial to Caleb Cushing. The gift which wins most favor is a miniature in silver of the brig James Gray, owned by the Cushing brothers, which hoisted the Palmetto flag on sailing into the port at Charleston. That act was certainly worthy of a reward of some kind, and perhaps nothing could be more fit than a visible memorial of the fact that Massachusetts could furnish men base enough to commit an act so false to State pride, and treacherous to every patriotic instinct. But the time will come when even Caleb Cushing would as soon have in his house a model of the immemorial ship 'built in the eclipse, and rigged with curses dark,' as that of the James Gray which could do so shameless a thing.— Worcester Spy. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS'S LECTURE.—Whatever may be thought of Mr. Phillips's general sentiments or course of procedure with reference to slavery and national affairs, his eloquence and power must be conceded. While we differ with him very widely in both sentiment and principle, we would not withhold one iota of credit due his extraordinary power and eloquence. His eloquence on Tuesday evening was most masterly, and his logic was as acute as his eloquence was brilliant. We confess, for one, that we were charmed and utterly carried away, but it was not more by his brilliant rhetoric than by his masterly logic. There is but one way to get rid of his conclusions, and that is to deny what he claimed to be true. Admit the truth of his history, and there is no escaping his conclusions. 
There is one thing gives a charm and power to his eloquence over all but the most cold-blooded, and that is his manifest sincerity. He believes what he says, and what is more, his heart is in it. His performances are no mere cold, heartless, soulless literary efforts— huge masses of glittering ice.— Maine Temperance Journal, Portland.
PRESENTATION TO GOV. BANKS. The people of Waltham, on Wednesday evening, assembled at Rumford Hall, to bid farewell to Gov. Banks and his family, and present them some tokens of friendship previous to their departure to the West. The hall was beautifully decorated, and crowded with people. Mr. F. M. Stone addressed the Governor, and presented to him a massive silver salver, a silver pitcher and a silver goblet, which were richly engraved and properly inscribed. To Mrs. Banks was presented a gold hunter watch, chain, and broach. It is the first lady's watch manufactured by the American Watch Company. Gov. Banks made an appropriate reply. 
AID FOR KANSAS.—A meeting called by Nathaniel P. Banks, William Appleton, F. W. Lincoln, Jr:, and others, was held at the Tremont Temple, Boston, Friday night, to consider the wants of the people of Kansas in their present destitute condition. Hon. Amos A. Lawrence presided, and there were addresses in explanation of the needs of the Territory by Rev. Daniel Foster, Rev. Mr. Dennison and Dr. Miner, all of Kansas. A committee was appointed to obtain contributions. The meeting was very moderately attended.
AID FOR KANSAS. In order to aid the movement to relieve the distress of the population of Kansas, the undersigned will forward, free of charge, contributions in money or clothing intended for the use of the sufferers, and addressed to the Committee at Leaven worth. You will aid a deserving charity by publishing this notice in your columns. 
Yours, &c., THOMPSON & CO., 
American Express, 8 Court-st., Boston.
LINCOLN IN THE SLAVE STATES.—The vote of Lincoln in the slave States, thus far reported, is as follows:— 
Missouri, (estimated) 17,000
Delaware, 3,751
Maryland, 2,198
Virginia, 1,500
Kentucky, 2,150
Total, 26,599
THE BANNER STATE.—Pennsylvania is the banner State. Lincoln has a majority over all the slavery-extension factions of 63,735. New York comes next, but her majority over the combinations and factions is only 48,977. New York polls 674,829. Vote of Pennsylvania 474,829. The Empire and the Keystone cast, together, 1,136,710 votes. 
There were over two thousand visitors upon Messrs. Lincoln and Hamlin, in the Tremont House, Chicago, last Friday, and the reception passed off pleasantly. Both gentlemen would remain in the city over Sunday, leaving on Monday, the one for home and the other for Washington.
EMIGRATION TO HAYTI. The first vessel sent by the Haytian Bureau of Emigration will sail from Boston on the 22d of December next—the anniversary of the departure of President Geffrard from Port-au-Prince, to begin the Revolution, which terminated in the establishment of the Republic of Hayti. A large number of passengers have been engaged. 
A letter from Walla Walla, Oregon, dated Nov. 3d, says that Captain Dent, who has been to the scene of the massacre of the emigrant party by the Indians, found a dozen of them alive, who had been subsisting on the- dead bodies of their companions. One family, named Myers, consisting of the mother and five children, together with a brother-In-law, were subsisting upon the dead body of the husband and father. Several perished from starvation. 
A slave who proclaimed his right to freedom because Lincoln was elected, was arrested, but subsequently released, having excused himself by saying he was drunk when he made the remark. 
Mr. J. T. Tieman, of New York, attended a Coroner's inquest upon an unknown person, and identified the body as that of his father. He ordered a coffin for it, returned home, and found his father eating his dinner!
<c05>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH 
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary. 
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress. 
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready. 
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country—new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise. 
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without. 
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery. 
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
SARAH P. REMOND,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.

JOHN BROWN ANNIVERSARY.
CALL FOR A CONVENTION.
A Public Convention will be held in Tremont Temple, Boston, on Monday, the third of December next, (the first anniversary of the martyrdom of John Brown,) for the purpose of discussing the great question of our age, 'How can American Slavery be abolished?'
This Convention has been called by a number of young men, unconnected at present with any organization, with a view of assembling 'the old men to counsel' them in their destined earnest warfare with the distinguishing and overshadowing crime of their country. They do not purpose to take any part in the debates themselves; for the greater number of them believe in the method of John Brown, which needs no defence and requires no advocacy. Neither do they desire to hear eulogies on the heroic captain; for they regard it as criminal trifling to waste the hours in which four millions of slaves suffer, in praising any man whatever. Such duties are occasionally necessary, as when felons sought to brand John Brown as a felon; but they ought not to be persisted in when such necessities are past. Rather let us devote our time and energies to the task of continuing the hero's life, by seeking to accomplish that for which he lost it. 
Invitations have been extended to the leaders of the different anti-slavery bodies, to the Governors of all the Free States, to the prominent statesmen of the Republican party, and to various men and women of eminence who have distinguished themselves by the advocacy of the doctrines of freedom.
Three sessions will be held, one in the forenoon, one in the afternoon, and one in the evening. 
For the Committee,
JAMES REDPATH, Sec'y.
Boston, Nov. 21, 1860.
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, made in January last, or previously, are now payable, and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day. Donations in behalf of the Anti-Slavery cause will be faithfully consecrated to the redemption of the millions of 'the suffering and the dumb' of our land. All payments should be made to EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer, or E. H. HEYWOOD. General Agent pro tem., 221 Washington street. 
SIXTEENTH COURSE. 
The Second Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by H. FORD DOUGLASS of Chicago, on Sunday evening, Dec. 2d, in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock.
Admittance, five cents.
CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH will speak at South Danvers, Saturday evening, Dec. 8.
SITUATION WANTED.
A young woman acquainted with Book-keeping, both double and single entry, desires a situation as an Amanuensis, or otherwise to do any writing or copying. Inquire of R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office.
LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. 1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, Boston, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR.
<c06>
DIED—In Salem, Nov. 8th, after a long and distressing illness of typhoid fever, LARKIN WOODBERRY, Esq., aged 67 years and 8 months, greatly respected and lamented for his sterling qualities and rare integrity of character. For more than a quarter of a century, he resided in Manchester, and was among its prominent business men. In the cause of Anti-Slavery, of Temperance, of Peace, he was ever zealous, outspoken, unflinching. As early as the fall of 1844, he hung out of his shop window a flag, on which was inscribed the pregnant motto, 'No Union with Slaveholders!'—and when Southern purchasers came to Manchester, he was invidiously pointed out to them as a 'Garrisonian Abolitionist,' and they dealt with him no more. But he nobly said, 'If I cannot sell my furniture without sacrificing my principles, I will keep it until it falls to pieces.' His hospitality was ever generously extended to all the advocates of suffering humanity. Of course, he had to encounter much opposition, and make many sacrifices, on account of his radical views; yet, in spite of popular prejudice, so exemplary was his life, that he was elected to various positions of trust in Manchester, and was chosen to represent the town in the Legislature. He was not connected with any religious sect, but his piety was none the less deep and genuine. In 1857 he removed to Salem. His remains were conveyed to Manchester for interment. His funeral services were held in the Congregational church, and conducted by the Rev. Mr. Redding. Notwithstanding the unpropitious state of the weather, the house was well filled by those who knew and appreciated his worth, as 'that noblest work of God, an honest man,' and a true friend of his race. 
In New Bedford, Mr. HENRY O. REMINGTON, a well known and much respected colored citizen.— Some two weeks since, while engaged in his business, he accidentally drove a splinter into one of his thumbs, under the nail, a portion of which only was removed at the time. A few days after he was attacked with lock-jaw, and his sufferings were intense, which he bore with great fortitude. Mr. Remington was born in Rhode Island, and was 43 years of age. He was a kind and affectionate husband, a good citizen, and a true friend of the oppressed.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at 
Fall River, Sunday, Dec. 3.
Westport, Tuesday, Dec. 4.
North Dartmouth, Wednesday, Dec. 5.
Dartmouth, Thursday, Dec. 6.
Fairhaven, Friday, Dec. 7.
New Bedford, Sunday, Dec. 9.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at 
Leominster, Tuesday, Dec. 4.
Sterling, Wednesday, Dec. 5.
Lunenburg, Friday, Dec. 7.
Winchendon, Tuesday, Dec. 11.
Ashburnham, Wednesday, Dec. 13.
Westminster, Thursday, Dec. 13.
Gardner Centre, Sunday, Dec. 16.
South Gardner, Tuesday, Dec. 18.
East Templeton, Wednesday, Dec. 19.
Hubbardston, Friday, Dec. 21.
Barre, Sunday, Dec. 23.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Fall River, Tuesday evening, Dec. 11th.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D.,
No. 34 AUBURN STREET, BOSTON.
Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases. 
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. 
Nov. 23. 3m.
CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
PORTRAIT OF
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very highest style of the lithographic art, and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH. 
C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street, Boston.
Historical Pictures Retouched.
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. 'Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of 'Woman's Right to Labor.' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on 'Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1.
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought * *. An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'—Norfolk County Journal.
'By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.'—Bangor Whig. 
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'—Portland Transcript.
Published by 
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY, 
245 Washington street, Boston. 
Oct. 26. 3t
DR. E. A. KITTREDGE
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment. Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street. 
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12.
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
FOURTH EDITION.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publisher.
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct.5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>

POETRY.
For the Liberator
THE FIRST ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING IN NEW YORK
I love to think of thirty years ago
When that small band, so noble-hearted, met, 
And durst assert that slavery was a sin
Of darkest dye, abhorrent in God's sight
Who made of one blood all of human frame.
It is a stirring thought to dwell on that 
Small, but heroic band. No trembler there
Though some were women delicately nurtured. 
To hear, in fancy hear, the well-drest mob,
Six hundred strong, shout, yell, and threaten death!
It is a thrilling tale of brave endurance
For righteousness, and love, and pity's sake
Some of that noble band have left this world,
Called to their Father's presence, who declares
Through  his beloved Son, that such are his,
His own true children, who are merciful
And just, as He, th' eternal Just One, is
 And those who yet remain to carry on
The blest, the holy work begun together
The world may see how much they have performed,
When, it looks backward to that night, so dark.
So fearful to the slave
But now the dawn
Has broke ; and though the rays of Freedom's sun
Are still obscured by clouds, yet the remainder
Of that small band may see its noon-day splendor
Ere they rejoin those gone before in heaven.
Tenterden (England.)
JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator
'LET THE UNION SLIDE!' 
Is the North to be down-trodden,
Beneath the Southern heel
As if their flesh were sodden
And their hearts had ceased to feel?
To all the high-wrought fancies
Of these words must they submit
And receive with slavery Kansas
Because the South sees fit? 
If o'er that Freedom glorious, 
For which our fathers died, 
Slavery must be victorious, 
ï¿½THEN LET THE UNION SLIDE!' 
For it is not worth the keeping
If, o'er our fathers' graves, 
Man-shackled man-is weeping, 
That half his race are slaves! 
'LET IT SLIDE,' then-this great Union-
Pronounce the compact dead! 
With the South no more communion, 
If Slavery still must spread! 
There is land, thank God! for freedom, 
North of Potomac's tide: 
Let the South keep slaves, and breedï¿½ em-
But, ï¿½LET THE UNION SLIDE!' 

For the Liberator. 
A FREE MAN IN CHAINS.
BY AUGUSTINE CALDWELL.
Recently, in the city of Washington, a free colored man (whose wife was a slave in Virginia) was imprisoned for endeavoring to save his little son from being sold to the far South! 
In yonder dark jail, shut from the fresh air, 
Lies a brother in chains-go, mark his despair!
The crime he committed, the deed that was done, 
Was striving to save his own bright-eyed son! 
The wife of his bosom, his tenderest friend,
Is owned by the man to whose will she must bend:-
Ah! what has she known but sorrow and care, 
And the wearisome lot her children must share? 
Her dear, loving boy, in childhood's glad hour, 
Must be crushed to the earth by a slaveholder's power; 
And that father-a free man-for trying to gain
His own precious child, be bound with a chain! 
O fathers! who list to your dear children's glee, 
And watch them with joy as they dance round the Knee,-
Who stroke their fair heads, and gently caress,-
Than this father in bonds could you have done less? 
O, who can behold, without sorrow and pain
Transactions so brutal, so covered with shame 
In a land, too, proclaimed as THE HOME OF THE FREE
A refuge to which all oppressed ones may flee
Salem, Nov. 4, 1860

INDIAN SUMMER. 
At the open window I sit and see
The gorgeous clouds that are passing by
And the soft south air is bringing to me
Perfumes as sweet as its June buds lie;
Even the bees are humming to-day
And I catch the sound of children at play. 
Did I not see the changing leaves 
Brilliant in coloring as the sky, 
And the reapers binding their golden sheaves, 
I should say the summer had not gone by:
It seems as if Nature had paused to think 
Before it should reach October's brink. 
But with every breath of the scented breeze 
There is rustling down a withered leaf, 
And I hear the sighing among the trees 
That is like the prelude to a grief-
And though the sun shines with a splendor like June,
By this I should knowï¿½ ï¿½tis a fall afternoon. 
ï¿½At the open window I sit and see 
Clouds that are passing-hopes that are past, 
And the soft south air is bringing to me 
Memories crowding thick and fast; 
And some of the dreams I recall to-day 
Are swept by the withered leaves rustling away. 
At the open window I still remain,
And my soul is vainly trying to see 
Over the losses-on to the gain-
Knowing how much that gain would be. 
Teach me, O teach me, how to wait 
For the summer so endless-Heaven so great! 

SNOW FLAKES.
BY S. WILSON. 
Blow! blow! breezes blow-
Waft to us the pearly snow! 
Hasten, hasten, wind and gale, 
Spread your wings, they never fail;
Clothe the world in garments fair-
Make earth look less bleak and bare.
From the sky, from the sky-
From their airy homes on high,
Drive the fleecy flakes of snow 
To the quiet vales below: 
Gently, gently fling them down, 
Forming winter's snowy crown. 
Wrap the earth in garments while-
Make the barren fields seem bright: 
Blow! blow! breezes blow-
Waft to us the pearly snow. 

THE ACRES AND THE HANDS
Who hath ordained that few should hoard 
Their millions of useless gold, 
And rob the earth of its fruits and flowers, 
While profitless soil they hold? 
Who hath ordained that the parchment scroll 
Should fence round miles of lands, 
While millions of hands want acres, 
And millions of acres want hands?
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
A TOUCH-STONE FOR REVIVALS.
The leading article in the New York Observer of Oct, 25th is entitled, ï¿½An Apology for Revivals.' The editor of that paper is moved-by the fact that some of his own fraternity, the conductors of papers calling themselves ï¿½religions,' speak slightingly of the lateï¿½ great revival'-to answer:- the question, 'Areï¿½ American Revivals Genuine?' And he reaches a conclusion satisfactory to himself upon this subject, by certain statements respecting the characteristics, and the results, of that ï¿½revival.'
As might be expected from the character and the accustomed policy of this editor, he makes no reference to the fact that in the great movement referred to, in which thousands of souls have been claimed as converted from sin, and converted to holiness, the great, gigantic, all-pervading sin of our country has not received the slightest check, discouragement or diminution. Within the three years claimed as the period in which a special Divine influence has been  a operating, slavery has not only continued to strengthen and extend itself, but has put on, more conspicuously and emphatically than ever before, an aspect of impudent arrogance, systematically trampling upon freedom of speech and of the press, and perpetrating the most atrocious violence, throughout the whole South, upon the persons and the lives of those who uphold civil and religious liberty.
This last ï¿½revival' has been claimed to have attained its desired success, and to have produced its appropriate fruits, in the South as much as in the North. Not a single slaveholder is known to have ceased from his oppressions, not a single slave-trader or slave-breeder to have discontinued his customary operations, among the many thousands who have joined the churches in the Southern States. Not a single slave is known to have been emancipated as a consequence of his master's (so-called)' conversion.' 
The reason of this becomes apparent when we observe who were the manufacturers, and what the instrumentalities, of this' revival.' The most obviously pro-slavery clergymen in the North were conspicuous in arranging for it before it came, and directing it after it had come; and they so controlled the prayer meetings which were the principal means of carrying on the work, that not a word should be said in them of the great sin of America, not a word of the most prominent duty of the nation and its individual members, not a word of the oppressions of the slave-carried on by the very sects which gathered their harvests from the revival, and defended by the very clergymen who were fashioning its converts after their own image-and not a word of the complicity in that wickedness steadfastly maintained by the American Bible Society, the two American Tract Societies, and the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.
The American Church is well known to be' the great bulwark of slavery.' Perhaps the next most powerful influence in support of that wickedness is the trade of the North. It is evident, then, that the trade of the North will not be rendered less pro-slavery by alliance with the Church, but rather more so. And thus it has actually been seen, through the three past years covering the rise, maturity, and established influence of the late revival. The prayer meetings of the business-men' have been as thoroughly pro-slavery as their counting-rooms. What wonder, when those prayer-meetings were managed by such men as Drs. Adams and Blagden in Boston, and Drs. Spring, Bethune and Prime in New York? The whole influence of this revival has been craftily and successfully directed to such an education of the newly fledged church-members as should buttress the pro-slavery influence of the Church, simultaneously with its theological influence. 
This result might have been materially modified in this city, and in other parts of New England, had the popular and powerful clergymen who manage the Boston Tract Society, and who, by their criticism of the National Society in New York, have gained for themselves the name of being opposed to slavery, chosen so to modify it. Had the Congregationalist thrown its influence in that direction, and had Mr. Dexter, with Drs. Stone and Kirk, resolutely insisted upon freedom to turn the influence of the prayer-meetings against the great and popular sins, as well as the little and discreditable ones, we might have seen a different result. But they chose not to do so. They chose to preserve unity in a Church fully committed to the support of slavery, rather than to purify their portion of it at the risk of displeasing their clerical brethren. They chose to join in the exclusion of controverter topics' from the prayer meetings, to fraternize with Drs.  Adams and Blagden as Christian ministers, and to welcome their converts as Christians, and proclaim them in public as trophies of Divine grace, in spite of the demonstrations of intensely pro-slavery character in their business and politics, their whole 'life and conversation consequently, men of this sort found the same 'rest' in the pews of their churches, which Mr. Choate found in his pew at Dr. Adams's church. 
In the particular now mentioned, as well as in one yet to be mentioned, the late revival resembled all the revivals in the American Church for fifty years past. The Observer ask 'Areï¿½ they Genuine? And the true answer must be, Without doubt, they are genuine efforts, by the clergy, to increase the numbers, influence and power of the churches which give them their power and influence. No doubt there is a very sincere direction of talent and skill to this end. Every convert' is an accession of power to the church and its leader. But the invariable relation of these' revivals' to slavery, the constancy with which they give it efficient encouragement, giving, at the same time, active discouragement to the use of all means suited to overthrow it, is sufficient, of itself, to show that the ï¿½conversions' in question are not conversions from sin, nor to righteousness. They diffuse and fortify churchianity, not Christianity. 
One boast of the revivals is of the conscientiousness produced in their converts; and they certainly do discourage the unpopular sins, such as drunkenness, profaneness, petty larceny. To a person who has openly disregarded common morality, and the decencies of civilized life, there is the same gain in joining the church as in joining any respectable association. The connection strengthens him against temptations of that class. But most of those who join the church have already led outwardly respectable lives; and since church-membership fortifies these- persons in their guilty tolerance of slavery, and incites them to a firmer stand than ever against opposition to slavery, it is worth our while to inquire to what particular ends their new-born conscientiousness is directed by their clerical leaders. 
We find it to be mainly directed to the diligent performance of ceremonial observances; a Sabbatical use of Sunday, a formal system of morning and evening Bible reading, a regular attendance on Sunday meetings, church-meetings and prayer-meetings, and a punctilious use of water-baptism and the Lord's Supper, (so called.) For these the clergy deceptively plead the precept and example of Jesus of Nazareth. But even where they can truly quote his authority, (as in the inculcation of private prayer and self-examination,) their crafty instructions and explanations bend even these to the support of their Pharisno-puritanical system; asking the newly awakened conscientiousness of their converts inquire, not whether they have shown their love to God by doing good to men, but whether they have been punctual at church and prayer-meeting, mindful of Sabbaths and sacraments, and diligent in Bible reading and tract distribution; and turning even their communion with God into a studious self-fortification in the habit of these observances. 
While the main current of ï¿½revival' influence tends
<c03>
in this direction, any special and extraordinary development of conscientiousness that appears in the subjects of this influence is usually found to run in the same grooves. So, when a pupil of the Church has become doubly saturated with devoutness, overflowing with warmth and zeal, be inquires no more than before how the church may be turned from her guilty complicity with slavery ; how the clergy may be induced to oppose the chiefly prevailing sins; how that system of caste may be broken down which the churches nourish here, while they send missionaries to oppose it in India; how slavery, the foundation of American caste, may be done away; none of ; noneï¿½ these things! What such a doubly zealous convert does inquire and exhort may be read, ever and anon, in the ï¿½religious' papers,' (so called,) namely, how Sunday may be more thoroughly kept as a Sabbath, and how those who do not regard it as such may be compelled to act as if they did. How important it is to observe a particular posture in public prayer. How great is the desirableness of reading through the whole Bible every year, and what arrangement of chapters for Sundays and week-days will enable any one to gallop through it in this length of time. How the regularly appointed fasting should be made more literal, and more Jewishly austere, and the regularly appointed Thanksgivings be more solemnized, guarded against undue cheerfulness, and conducted church-wise rather than otherwise. And how men should promote reverence for the Bible by carefully restricting the use of its peculiar phraseology to serious subjects, purposes and occasions. Nay, so far is this sort of manifestation of church-developed conscientiousness sometimes carried, that a writer in the New York Evangelist recently maintained, at length, and with great earnestness, that it is wrong for Christians to eat butter and cheese. And he quoted, seriously seeking to turn it to the enforcement of this lesson, the application of conscientiousness, made in the following account of' An Ordination of ye Olden Time': 
'When ye services at ye House were ended, ye
Council and ye other Dignitaries were entertained at ye House of Mr. Epes on ye Hill near by, and we had a Bountyful Table with Bear's Meat and Vennisen, ye last of which was shot in ye Woods near by; ye bear was killed in Lynn Woods near Redding. After ye blessing was craved by Mr. Gerrish of Wenham, word came that ye Buck was shot on ye Lord's Day by a Pequot Indian, who came to Mr. Epes with a lie in his mouth like Annanias of old. Ye Council thereupon refused to eat ye Vennisen, but it was afterward agreed that Pequot should receive forty stripes save one for Lying and prophaning ye Lord's Day, and restore to Mr. Epes ye cost of ye Deer, and considering this a just and Righteous-Sentence on ye sinful heathen, and that a blessing of God had been craved on ye Meat, ye Council all partook of it but Mr. Shepherd, whose conscience was tender on ye point of ye Vennisen.' 
This anecdote from the early history of the Massachusetts colony is rehearsed by Rev. John L. Seymour, of Charlestown, Portage Co., Ohio, in a letter to the New York Evangelist, as well exhibiting the relation between the devout cheese-eater and the! guilty cheese-maker.' 
This gentleman calls himself the ministerial servant of a cheese-making church.' He thanks the editor of the Evangelist for his negative answer to the question of another correspondent-Is it right to make cheese on the Sabbath? He declares that the world can better dispense with butter and cheese than with the Sabbath, and assumes that the editor will agree with him in deciding-' If the manufacture of butter and cheese necessarily involves the violation of the Sabbath, let it be discontinued.' 
Mr. Seymour then proceeds to show, by a detail of the labors essential to the profitable management of a large dairy farm, that the making of cheese necessarily involves labor on Sunday, and proceeds to say that he is inclined to put it upon this broad basis:-
'Is it right for Christians to eat butter and cheese 
'It is not right. The consumption involves the manufacture, and the manufacture involves the violation of the Sabbath, which is a violation of the law, of God, and therefore it is not right.' 
I will mention here but one more of the many indications that these revivals have more of priestly croft than of Divine influence about them, namely, the gross deceptions that are systematically practiced by their clerical leaders, in moulding into- church furniture the pliant material committed to their hands. They assure their credulous people that the system which they preach is Christianity; as taught in the Bible, and conformed to the precepts and example of Jesus of Nazareth; but examination will make manifest that in many particulars they depart from all these, following and enjoining, instead of them, ï¿½the traditions of the elders,' the customs of their Puritan forefathers. One of these customs, in compliance with which our clergy pervert and violate the Scriptures of both Old and New Testaments, is the use of Sunday as a Sabbath, and the pretence that these Scriptures require it to be so used. 
One of the most immediate and conspicuous effects of aï¿½ revival' is the practice of Sabbatism among its converts, proceeding from the deceptive representation of the clergy that God requires it of them. And though they have the Bible, and might, if they would, understand its real teaching upon this subject, they read that book so exclusively through the spectacles of clerical paraphrase, as to remain ignorant! that it plainly teaches the following things respecting a Sabbatical observance of one day in seven:-
1. That the first injunction given to man to observe a Sabbath was given to the Jewish people, while they were making a long journey through a desert country; and that the whole of this injunction was, that on Saturday, the seventh day, they should remain quietly in their places, neither pursuing their journey nor going out in search of food. This is recorded in the 16th chapter of Exodus. 
2. That the next injunction upon this subject (supposed to have been given about a month later, and recorded in the 20th chapter of Exodus) was also given to the Jews, directing them toï¿½ remember' carefully to follow the Sabbatical observance just in before appointed. It occurs in the Jewish Decalogue, repeats the designation of Saturday, the 7th day, as the one to be observed, and specifies the manner in which it is to be observed, namely, by abstaining from all manner of work. 
3. That numerous subsequent declarations, by writers of the Hebrew Scriptures, affirm that the Sabbath was designed to be peculiar to the Jewish people, a mark to distinguish them from all other nations, a custom, like the observance of the passover, intended specially to characterize that people, 
4. That wherever the word ï¿½Sabbathï¿½ is used in the Bible, in the New Testament as well as in the Old, it invariably means Saturday, the seventh day of the week. 
5. That the hypothesis of ï¿½a change of the day,' it assuming that under the Christian system God requires all men to transfer to Sunday that special veneration which the Jews were required to manifest towards Saturday, is a pure fiction of the clergy, having not one word to support it in either Old Testament or New, and plainly disproved by many passages in the New Testament. 
6. That Jesus of Nazareth was systematically and purposely a Sabbath-breaker; that he was recognized and persecuted as such by the Jews; that when charged with this as a crime, he not only defended himself, and justified himself and his disciples in their Sabbath-breaking, but plumply denied the very ground on which the Hebrew decalogue based its injunction of Sabbatical observance, (namely, the assumption, that God rested after six days work,) saying,' ï¿½My Father worketh hitherto, and I work;' and that, on this very ground, devout Jews refused to accept him as their expected Messiah, saying, in their Jewish darkness-' This man cannot be of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath day.' 
7. That Paul repeatedly and conclusively argues,
<c04>
for the instruction of his Jewish fellow-converts, that, having embraced the Christian System, they were entirely delivered from the laws of the Jewish system, they were among which he particularly specifies the Decalogue, ï¿½the ministration of death, written and engrave in stones,ï¿½ and also specifies, on repeated occasions, the abolition of the whole Jewish law of Sabbatical observance; and that he repeatedly and conclusively argues, for the instruction of his Gentile converts, that they were under no obligation to observe either the Sabbath, or a Sabbath, of. one day in seven.
These specifications, which may be verified by any one who will study the teaching of the Bible on this subject, show one group of the deliberate deceptions which are imposed on the subjects of Americanï¿½ revivals' by their clerical leaders. Just as far as these converts' are led into Sabbatical observances as a duty to God, they are led away from the Bible, and away from true Christianity, by the very men who pretend to be followers of both. Yet these very men, after having manufactured a' Christian Sabbath' without being able to show a single command for it in the Bible, have the effrontery to apologize for slavery, and to shelter slaveholders in the church, on the ground that the Scriptures contain no verbal prohibition of slaveholding!
Many more indications might be pointed out, of a fatal discrepancy between Christianity and the system taught to the subjects of American, revivals. But even these are sufficient to enable us to answer the Observer's question. 'The late revival,' which excludedï¿½ controverted topics' from itsï¿½ business men's prayer meetings,' departed from Christianity as much us from common justice and common humanity. Pretending to follow the precepts and practice of Jesus, it not only gave many instances of flagrant disregard of both, but taught gross deceptions in his, name; inculcating Sabbatical and other ceremonial observances which he opposed, misleading the consciences of its subjects in the same way as the Scribes and Pharisees whom he denounced, and utterly refusing the work for which he declared himself especially sent-' to preach deliverance to the captives.'-
C. K. W.

MEETING FOR THE INDIANS. 
The meeting in behalf of the Indians, held on the evening of Nov. 19th, in the lecture-room of the School street Universalist Church, in Boston, was organized by the election of the Rev. Mr. Miner as Chairman, Dr. Gardner as Vice Chairman, and Dr. Huntley as Secretary.
Father Beeson opened the exercises by stating that the subject to be discussed was second to none now before the country; for though the Southern States were panic struck, and quaking with fear lest every eastern man among them should be a John Brown spy or an emissary seeking their destruction, yet all this was groundless fear. The people of the East had no wish to harm their Southern brethren. But look at the condition of our frontier Indians! It is not an imaginary fear that disturbs them, but an awful reality. A worse than John Brown murderer, with rifle and revolver, is on their track, and all their pleasant homes are being usurped, leaving them no where to fly for shelter. 
The North, too, is panic struck, lest its trade should be suspended. Well, suppose it should be for a while; there is yet enough feed food and raiment in our stores, and exhaustless material for the supply of every need within our reach. But not so with the Indians. They have no garnered stores, and at this moment, hundreds of them are dying of starvation' on the snow-covered mountains of the far West. They have no politicians or pulpits or papers to plead their cause, while the grossest falsehoods are spread abroad to their prejudice.
The speaker made strong allusion to the efforts and failures of missionaries. He gave them credit for having done their best, but not the best which can be done. He said that we had no more right to find fault with the missionaries on account of failure, than we had to find fault with the mail contractors of fifty years ago, who required weeks to perform what can now be done in hours. Neither should the church find fault if moral reformers devise a plan for the civilization of the Indians as much superior to existing methods as railroads are to ox teams for rapid travel. The difficulty is not (as is generally supposed) with the Indians; they would be friendly and peaceful, and as progressive in the attainments of civilization, if properly treated, as any other race. But the difficulty lies in a lack of appreciation of their capacity and needs, together with a disposition on the part of many to victimize and oppress them, of which the following is an illustration. 
In the early part of last summer, an Indian family pitched their tent in the suburbs of Providence, R. I. The eldest boy was a deaf mute, in his seventeenth year. He was induced by two white scoundrels to knock down an old man, whom they represented to him as intending to whip him, &c. These rascals took the old man's money, leaving him with the idea that the deaf and dumb Indian had taken it; and for this he was imprisoned. After he had lain in jail six months, the facts came out, and he was discharged without a trial. But during the time of his confinement, his poor, anxious father had become reduced to extreme distress by poverty and care for his son, and when liberated, he had no means to remove him to his people or to provide for his subsistence, and those to whom he applied for aid paid no proper attention to his case; so that the second night after his release, the father and son sat or lay on the sidewalk of the street all night, not having their tent or any means to procure better accommodations. 
Thus our Western Indians are denounced as savages, and left uncared for, to be outraged by unprincipled border-ruffians, as this boy, who was denounced as a thief, and punished for a crime which others committed. But a friend became acquainted with his case, and by proper effort, he will be placed in the Deaf and Dumb Asylum at Hartford, acquire a trade, and the power to commune with the great world of thought. And it is a moral certainty that is a similar effort upon a larger scale would place all the tribes in a position to become self-sustaining, progressive and prosperous communities. 
The subjoined resolutions were read by the speaker, and the following reasons given for their adoption: 
1st. On Thursday next, according to the proclamation of the Governor of this State, we are to offer thanks to Almighty God for the power which we possess to relieve the oppressed, and to console the afflicted. Now, unless we use this power for the Indian, as well as for others, this very acknowledgment is our condemnation.
2d. Regard for our own good name, and for the interests of our children, demands of us a care for the Indians; otherwise, our instruction to virtue, love and justice is stultified by our practice, and it is in vain to inculcate the Golden Rule, while our nearest neighbors-our poor Indians and negro slaves-are left to perish for want of care and sympathy. And if this Indian race should thus be allowed to become extinct, our children of the future will think of their fathers with shame and regret for their cruelty and neglect.
3d. But we cannot thus act with impunity; retribution will come, and has already commenced ; and unless a voice of love and sympathy goes from the East to the West, giving assurance to the Indians of better protection and justice, they will yet be made the instruments for our punishment. It cannot be otherwise, for as sure as God rules, the same measure that we mete shall be measured to us again.
[For the resolutions, see Liberator of last week.]
The Rev. Mr. Miner expressed himself as being discouraged by the smallness of the meeting, and the hopelessness of accomplishing any thing by the adoption of the resolutions, and, therefore hoped that the mover would consent to withdraw them.
<c05>
Dr. Gardner arose, and in a very earnest and able speech dwelt upon the necessity and importance of the movement. He said, if the clergy and the churches failed to help these sufferers, and left them to perish through neglect, let humanity, in its own unshackled yearnings, come to their relief. He said that he did not agree with the last speaker, that the resolutions should be withdrawn. They had too much of practical reality to be laid aside. He would rather move that a committee be appointed, and another meeting convened to give them a more attentive consideration.
Mr. Capen made some very pertinent remarks to the same purport. A gentleman from Oregon, whose name we did not learn, also spoke in graphic language of the nobleness of the real Indian, and of the duty and feasibility of perpetuating the race by simply being just ourselves in dealing with them.
The motion to adopt the resolutions and appoint a committee of seven to arrange for a ratification meeting at an early period was unanimously adopted, and the meeting adjourned.

From the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican. 
ANOTHER CRUSADE AGAINST FREEDOM. 
How do the truthful, unprejudiced events of history demonstrate the unending antagonism between Slavery and Liberty! They are irreconcilable, and can never dwell in peace together. All our Kansas, struggle was but an illustration of this natural repugnance between these two ideas. The weapons which each chose to accomplish its purpose were consonant with the character of the ideas themselves, Slavery seized the bowie-knife, the gun and the revolver, overthrew the ballot-boxes, or stuffed them, as the exigency of the case seemed to demand, destroyed free thought and speech, and applied the torch to the humble homes of freemen. Liberty, arrayed in the robe of charity, that suffereth long and endureth much, stood upon the defensive only, ever appealing to the arbitrate of reason to know whether her cause was good. Slavery was foiled-defeated-and to-day is banished by legal enactment from our soil.
But the stern lesson taught it here has not been heeded. Once more within our borders the torch and the brutal arm of violence are invoked on behalf of Slavery.
The large body of land in Southern Kansas known as the Cherokee Neutral Lands, has been settled upon by the whites, at the suggestion of the Indians, and at their instance-the Indians desiring to dispose of it as soon as possible. The settlement was made with the full knowledge of the Indian Agent, and without any dissent from him. This land is said to be the finest part of our Territory, offering the most enticing attractions to immigrants. Several hundred settlers had built them snug houses on these lands, and were surrounded with all the evidences of a thrifty pioneer life. When, lo! with hardly a note of warning, the Indian Agent-a man by the name of Cowan-followed by a company of United States soldiers, surrounded their houses and applied the torch to them, and in a few hours their homes were ashes! Mr. W. M. Hutchinson, who has been living in Bourbon county for a few weeks past, in a letter to the Leavenworth Times, thus depicts the horrible scene:-
ï¿½They came on Cow Creek, a branch of the Dry Wood, and there showed the same relentless spirit. The news of their destructive raid traveled before them, and the settlers on Dry Wood rallied to the number of three or four hundred, who sent a committee of conference to visit theï¿½ Colonel." The committee contended that whatever might be his right to disturb the settlers further south, they, on the Dry Wood, were on what is called theï¿½ eight-mile strip," and that they were on no part of the Cherokee tract, but on lands now subject to preemption. At least, they contended that since that question was! yet in a measure unsettled, they should be favored and allowed to remain until a new survey could be made, and the whole matter legally adjusted. 
To hasten our particulars, something that they called a ï¿½treatyï¿½ was finally agreed to, and a written pledge was signed on the part of the citizens, that they would abandon that district previous to the 25th of November next, provided the agent would spare; their dwellings at this time, and leave the country. Accordingly the incendiary withdrew, but threatened them in this wise, as he was leaving: That if every one of them did not leave before the day specified, he would burn not only their houses next time, but all their feed, grain, and everything he could find valuable. 
When this news came to our citizens in this portion of the county, they immediately sent down delegations to learn the facts, and report. Some of those gentlemen have returned, and report a most distressing scene. Seventy-four houses have been burned, and at least one hundred families turned out upon the bare prairies, all by that subtitle acquaintance of ours, called the power of the Federal Government. I have, during the last twenty-fours, conversed with at least twenty persons from that country, and all give it as the saddest scene ever witnessed in Kansas. Women and children are now sheltered in the bushes along the creeks, mourning their hard fate. They feel disconsolate-almost sick of life. Some say they would as soon die as leave the country they have been laboring so hard to improve during the last six years. In fact, the whole community are quite discouraged, and know not what to do. They almost feel deserted-as cast out from everybody. If they don't belong to Kansas, or to anywhere else, and no arm appears to protect them, or show them any sympathy in this sad hour, what, they ask, is to be their fate?'
The first inquiry is, Why is all this fiendish, wanton cruelty? At whose instance, and for what purpose? It is the old answer: Slavery demands it. Those settlers have the is fortune to cherish and love the doctrines of liberty; they are opposed to the enslavement of man by his fellow. We live near the borders of two Slave States-Missouri and Arkansas. The latter wants these Indian lands to be settled by those -who believe Slavery right and just.
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs is a citizen of Arkansas, and a most bigoted pro-slavery man. It is not long since he was in Kansas, and we presume his own State. Beyond a doubt, this ghastly scene of destruction- this turning of women and children from their homes at this inclement season, and exposing them to the rigors of winter, was at his directing. Can any other reason be assigned? 
It will be recollected that the Democratic Senate wanted to exclude these neutral lands from the limits of our State, for no other earthly reason than to form, as soon as possible, a Slave State on our southern border.
Mr. Greenwood knows enough of our Kansas history to understand that a few resolute, confederated: Free-State men can hold at bay a whole State devoted to Slavery. He has adopted a war-of extermination at the outset, hoping thereby to settle the matter at once in favor of the peculiar institution.
We believe the plans of the Slave Power will be thwarted. A sister State south of us, powerful and strong and free, will soon offer us her hand, and ask our friendship. She will receive from us a hearty and glad welcome. - Non ignara mali, miseris securer disco. Having suffered persecution, we know how to commiserate the persecuted.

THE LECTURE OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
No man in America could have written a lecture of such absorbing interest as that of Tuesday last, upon the same subject, excepting Wendell Phillips. It was a labor of love for him to hold up a life- picture of the greatest representation of the negro that has ever appeared, and glorify him in the face of the world; and there were very few among his hearers on Tuesday, who did not sympathize, for the hour, at least, with the orator and his subject.
We are not qualified to criticize the array of facts presented by Mr. Phillips; we only know, that whether exact, modified by prejudice, or exaggerated by imagination, they were presented in a style which, charmed every hearer and moved every heart. During some portions of the narrative, we remember distinctly to have seen tears gathering in the eyes of men as well as women- a sufficient proof of the orator's great powers of narration.
As an orator, Mr. Phillips is without a rival in this country; as a scholar, he is surpassed by few; and, although his subject may not be popular, and his opinions may be extreme, and even fanatical, he holds his audience by a spell, and electrifies them with the fires that are burning in his own soul.
If the lecture of Tuesday did no other good, many found in it an incentive to examine an interesting and hitherto neglected 
chapter of history. Whether the picture of Toussaint L Ouverture was drawn to the life, or was in part a work of imagination, it was a glorious representation of a great and good man; and the contemplation of such a character can be productive of nothing but good.-Portland Advertiser.
<c06>
THE MAN ON HORSEBACK COMING
We perceive by the Newburyport Herald, that Hon. Caleb Cushing is anxious to deliver himself of a speech in regard to the present crisis, and avails himself of that transparent device of wordy politicians, a letter from his townsmen and friends inviting him to address them on the state of the Union. His union-saving efforts will require two evenings, and those of Saturday and Monday next have been assigned for his harangue. The tenor of his letter of acceptance indicates that he intends to favor Massachusetts with another lecture on her offences and her duties. The General has hereto fore given us a string blast about the ï¿½march, march, march' to manifest destiny; he has tried the ï¿½crushing-out' process; he has denounced Massachusetts for her short-comings and her long-goings, her sins of omission and of commission ; and now, since the brig of which he is a part owner has hoisted the Palmetto flag in the port of Charleston, and the Palmetto ladies have talked of presenting to him a silver testimonial, he is anxious to defend secession, or urge excuses for South Carolina, and seizes the first opportunity to plunge into the dissonant din of the raving ideologies of the hour.' We think we see, ï¿½in the perspective distance,' a Caleb Cushing, different from the gentleman at present bearing that name, who, a few years ago, took pleasure in defending Massachusetts from just such assaults as are now daily made upon her, and whose eloquent words, warm from a patriotic heart, were the delight of every Massachusetts man. Massachusetts may have sinned, but Mr. Cushing is not the man to reproach her in words of learned length and thundering sound.' She may have erred, in the intensity of her love of liberty and her hared of oppression, but he is not the Mentor to accuse her of being false to the teachings of her patriot sires, or too sensitive to the aggressions and pretensions of slavery; for from the lips of no one of her sons have fallen warmer word of praise for her attachment to the principles of liberty, stronger expressions of undying adherent to her fortunes, nobler testimonials in defence of her good name and fame, or bitterer denunciations of the oppression and tyranny which stir the hearts of her people to their very depths. We appeal from Caleb Cushing, the calculating apologist of South Carolina, to Caleb Cushing, the warm-hearted defender of Massachusetts- Salem Register.

MR. WINTHROP IN 1847.
Extract from a speech made by Hon. Robert C. Winthrop in 1847, in the U. S. House of Representatives:-
'I have no time (said Mr. W.) to discuss the subject of slavery on this occasion. But I must not omit a few plain words on the momentum issue which has now been raised. I speak for Massachusetts. I believe I speak the sentiments of all New England, and of many other States out of New England, when I say that, upon this question, our minds are made up. So far is we have power constitutional or moral power, to control political events, we are resolved that there shall be no further extension of slavery in the territories of this Union. This is not a matter to argue with us about, 
I do not intend to be driven from a firm expression of purpose, and a steadfast adherence to principle, by any threats of disunion from any quarter. If territories are to be conquered and annexed, we shall stand fast and forever to the principle that, so far as we are concerned, these territories shall be forever the abode of freemen.' 
BENTON ON SECRETARY COBB.-The Louisville Journal of 7th inst. puts on record the late Col. Boston's opinion of Secretary Cobb:-
ï¿½We have received a communication from Mr. R. J. Lackey, late of the Treasury Department, who repeats to us these characteristic remarks, made to him upon a certain occasion by the late Colonel Benton:-
ï¿½Mr. Lackey, there is Cobb-he the big-bellied one of Georgia, not he the long-legged one of Alabama-once had a little faith in him-none now, sir-all the good shelled off- yes, sir, shelled off-only cobb left, rotten cobb at that, sir. He wants to get ahead of Toombs,' lean dog for a long chase'- Cobb's a fat man-fat men are apt to be lazy, so he'll take the short cut to camp of nullifiers-mark it, sir! Wants to obtrude his seat in Senate, sir; afflicted also with prevailing Presidential disease. Great God, what are we coming to? Don't agree with President on tariff-ruin us, sir, in Pennsylvania-he is one of the President's higher clerks, and President ought to kick him out-kick him out, sir delicacy should make him resign, but he fill not do it, sir, as long as he gets that $8,000 per annum, payable monthly in hard American gold coin-no, sir-no!"ï¿½
NEGRO EQUALITY. Some of the Anti-Republican journals have had a great deal to say about the heinous doctrine of negro equality. What will they say when they learn that the slave holders regard the negro as equal to the white man when the Government foots the bill, and the profits go into the master's pockets? It is stated that the white men employed in the Government Navy Yard at Pensacola, Florida, have held a meeting, and remonstrated against the negro hands receiving equal wages with the whites. They base their objection on the Southern idea of the inferiority of the negroes; but the masters do not admit such ï¿½difference when anything is to he made out of the Government.
The Charleston Mercury finds that it does not pay, even in South Carolina, to advocate disunion. It says:ï¿½'How is it with Southern presses, faithful to the rights and institutions of the South? Take the Charleston Mercury, which for thirty-five years has been a prominent press in the South-what has been the fate of its editors? The fast ruined-the second barely earned a narrow subsistence-the third injured, but sold out in time-the fourth died a ruined man. The fifth is our humble selves, of whom we will say nothing.'
The Philadelphia Press says,' Mr. Lincoln is solemnly committed against all attempts to interfere with slavery in the District of Columbia, and we believe he will do his utmost to enforce the execution of the fugitive slave law.' Will he indeed? New York is the third city of the civilized world, in population containing about 900,000, white London has 2,500,000, and Paris 2,000,000; St. Petersburg and Philadelphia have 600,000 each; Vienna, Berlin and Naples about 500,000 each. London contains 121 square miles.
The very large use of threshing machines in the Western country has brought with it a large number of deaths. The Indiana papers state that, in that State, during the last few weeks, thirty persons have been killed or maimed for life, owing to carelessness or inexperience in using these machines.

IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP.
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS.
THREE- FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause of derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Con<illegible> Weakness of the Sates Organs, Prolapsus <illegible> and disease of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astounding cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER
No.29 Summer Street, Boston.
For sale by all Druggists. 
Oct. 26. 6w.
