THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents — one square for $ 1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:— FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM LLOYD GARRIISOON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 18. BOSTON, FRIDARY, MAY 4, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1532.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
MONSTROUS DECISION ON THE SLAVE TRADE.
The Charleston Mercury publishes in full the monstrous decision of Judge McGrath, of the U.S. Circuit Court for South Carolina, in the case of Capt. Corrie, of the yacht ’Wanderer,' charged with landing slaves on the coast of Georgia. This decision occupies more than four columns in that paper. Judge McGrath denies that importing Africans into this country, who were not free in Africa, is an offence against the Act of 1820, under which Capt C. was arrested, and therefore punishable as piracy. The Act, as construed by Judge McGrath, only condemns as piracy the seizure and importation of persons who are free. Upon this point the judge remarks as follows:—
The whole scope of the Act of 1820, in regard to the 4th and 5th sections, is not perceived unless the 3d section of the same Act is also considered. The 3rd, 4th and 5th sections embrace all the cases in which robbery may be committed, and whether that robbery may be committed, and whether that robbery relates to the rights of property or the rights of persons. As in the 3rd section, whatever may be the subject of the property, if stolen, is declared piracy, for which, upon conviction, the offender shall suffer death; so in the 4th and 5th sections, the right of personal freedom is protected, and he who violates it by force or fraud, in whatever stage of the transaction he is detected, is a pirate, and upon conviction, shall suffer death. Such crimes are piracies, because robberies. Robberies, because by force, fraud, or indirect piracies, they deprive the negro or mulatto of his right to freedom—that right to freedom being a presumption upon which the Court is to act, when the servitude recognized by the Constitution and laws of the United States are not to exist in the particular case. But if that presumption is repelled by proof of antecedent servitude, then the intent to make a slave, or rob him of his right to freedom, cannot be sustained, for he cannot be robbed of that which he did not possess. And the possession of the negro or mulatto, under such circumstances, would be a violation, according to the circumstances, of some of the laws passed for the suppression of the slave trade, but it is not a piracy, nor a violation of the Act of 1820.
I have said that the object of the law was to protect his right to freedom a negro or mulatto, by force or fraud taken with the intent to make him a slave. And that every one of the offences mentioned in the 4th and 5th sections, which are but successive stage in the same transaction, relate to the negro or mulatto so taken. If this is not so—if the several offences, as set forth in the 4th and 5th sections, relate only to a negro or mulatto not held to servitude by laws of either of the States or Territories of the United States, and have no reference to the mode in which the possession of such a negro or mulatto was acquired, then the master of a vessel who purchases a negro or mulatto in Brazil or Cuba, and lands him upon the shores of the United States, or upon another part of the coast of Brazil or Cuba, with intent to sell him again, is a pirate. If it could be necessary to show that this was not the piracy which the Act contemplated, it is but necessary to bear in mind that if a passenger shall land, with intent to sell, one hundred negroes or mulattoes, purchased by him in Cuba, he is subject to fine and imprisonment. But if the captain of the vessel purchases but one, and lands him with the same intent, he would be considered a pirate, and must suffer death. The piracy would, then, not consist in the wrong done to the negro or mulatto, nor in the landing or selling him; but in the fact that in the latter case, it was done by the master, or one of the crew of the vessel. Surely, the statement of such a consequence would be of itself sufficient to show that the construction which leads to it must be alike irrational and illegal. But the Act itself shows that it is not merely landing with intent to sell the negro or mulatto, which is an offence declared by it to be piracy; for one of the offences specially described is transferring or delivering over to any other ship or vessel such negro or mulatto with tent to make him a slave. This, done by the crew or ship's company, or any one or more of them, is declared piracy; but it is nowhere declared by this Act that anything done on board the vessel to which the negro or mulatto is transferred is piracy; nor will it do to say that the crime is as much in the vessel to which the negro or mulatto is transferred is piracy; nor will it do to say that the crime is as much in the vessel to which the negro or mulatto has been transferred, as to that from which he was transferred.

CHEEVER MEETING IN GLASGOW.
The people of Glasgow, Scotland, held a large meeting on the 19th ult., in the Merchant's Hall, in the day time, to express sympathy with Dr. Cheever of New York, and raise funds for his support.
Bailie Blackie presided, and on the platform, among others, were the Rev. Dr. Buchanan, the Rev. Dr. Smyth, the Rev. Dr. Robson, the Rev. Dr. Robertson, the Rev. Dr. Taylor, the Rev. Dr. Lorimer, the Rev. Mr. Russell, the Rev. Mr. Knox, the Rev. Duncan M ‘Gregor, the Rev. Mr. Batchelor, the Rev. Alex. Fraser, the Rev. A.G. Forbes, and the Rev. D.M'Crae.
Rev. Dr. Buchanan proceeded to deliver one of the most extraordinary speeches we have ever read. Instead of imitating the example of Christ and his disciples, to whom he refers, instead of pausing to think that precisely what the Apostles did, the Christian people of this country are doing, he involves the whole American Church in the deepest sin, as if they were sinners above all men.
It there is any fact well established beyond all doubt, it is this: that the work of emancipation has been arrested, and the evils of slavery have been vastly augmented, in consequence of this crusade. Abandoning the very practice and precepts which Dr. Buchanan recommends, the anti-slavery sentiment was arrested in the slaveholding States. The reaction then began, and has grown ever since, and all the pro-slavery feeling at the North, and much of it at the South, is referable to the measures of men like Cheever, and Garrison, and Phillips, who have no more love for the colored people, no more philanthropy, no more piety, no more prudence than the host of good men who give their time and money to the promotion of Christ's kingdom in the earth. The leading abolitionists of this country are infidels; they despise the Bible, and care not a jot for the example of the Apostles which Dr. Buchanan commends. We are well aware that our statements will make no impression on the minds of Dr. Buchanan and his associates, but it is our solemn duty to assure them that they are acting under totally erroneous information respecting the state of things here; they are doing immense injury to Christianity and philanthropy, they are upholding the hands of the worst enemies of the slave in America, and although their own conscience acquits them, and their judgment approves the course they are taking, we will not be true to our trust of we do not tell them emphatically that they are doing a great wrong, for which God will hardly allow ignorance to be an adequate apology.
<cO2>
Surely, if the American churches are worthy of the exalted eulogies pronounced upon them by the same lips that in the same breath reproach them with the blackest guilt, they might be presumed to know something in reference to their duty towards four millions of people among whom they dwell. And if, as Dr. Buchanan says, it is so desirable to, cherish good feeling between British and American Christians, it is high time our brethren over the water both knew and felt this great truth, that the speeches of such men as Candlish and Guthrie, Buchanan and Smyth, are fast wearing out the links of love that bound the hearts of the two people together. We mean to love them still, for we are bound to love our enemies; but no American with a true heart in his bosom can feel that Drs. Candlish and Guthrie are his friends, until they repent them of their speeches in the Edinburgh meeting a few weeks ago.
We can tell our Scotch brethren that there are thousands of ministers in this country who are far more consistent abolitionists than the man whom they are glorifying. It is a well known fact in this community, that Dr. Cheever has not denied the statement, that he has long held a slaveholder in his church, with whom be was on terms of social intimacy, and to whom, with a full knowledge of all the facts, he gave a certificate of good standing in his church and dismission to another. It is a well known fact that the distinction of color was maintained in his church until a few months ago, when a colored man was expelled from a seat in the body of the house.  Dr. Cheever disavowed and denounced the act, but the fact then appeared that, up to that time, the same custom prevailed in his church, which is common in the churches generally in this country.  We presume that in Dr. Buchanan's church in Glasgow, the coachman does not sit with his master: it may be so: if it is so, we will state the fact when we learn it. The lordly foreigner who went with his negro servant into Dr. Cheever's church would not permit the servant to sit with him, hut put him into a pew behind. When he was told that another seat would be provided for the servant, he left the house in disgust!—as if he had not been guilty of the very offence he resented in others. The aristocrat would not allow a negro to sit with him, but he thought a negro good enough to sit with Dr. Cheever's people. This circumstance’ revealed the sentiment of the foreign abolitionist, and the inconsistency of the church on Union Square. And now, when we hear that intelligent Christian gentlemen in Scotland are holding meetings of sympathy with a church that has no shadow of a claim on any one outside of its own walls: and in such meetings are denouncing the American Bible Society and the American Board of Foreign Missions as guilty of enormous sins, that deserve the judgments of God; when such men as Drs. Buchanan, and Smyth, and Candlish, and Guthrie treat with contempt the testimony of the wisest and best men in the world, who love Christ and every suffering son and daughter of Adam; when our Scotch brethren “refuse to hear the truth, and pour out their fierce invectives against men and institutions whom the Holy Ghost is employing to work righteousness in the earth, we are filled with wonder, and we ask ourselves if indeed it can be possible that these men have been left to believe a lie! Are there no men whose evidence they will receive ? Let them ask Dr. Edgar of Belfast, or Dr. Cunningham of Edinburgh, and learn who are the true friends of humanity here? We assure them that the men they applaud are the last men in America who will do anything to ameliorate the condition of a slave.— New York Observer.

LETTER OF REV. DR. GUTHRIE. 
The Boston Post publishes the following extract of a letter from’a great and good man,' (?', commenting upon one written by Rev. Dr. Guthrie, of Scotland, to the Philadelphia Presbyterian, in reply to some severe strictures upon his recent speech condemnatory of American slavery:—
Have you happened to see the letter of Dr. Guthrie, a clergyman of Scotland, to the editor of the Presbyterian, a newspaper printed in Philadelphia ? It not, you can find it in the number of that able and conservative journal of March 24th, and also, in the same number, a reply to the letter, conceived in a spirit of noble Christian patriotism. 
The letter of Dr. Guthrie is full of significance. In connexion with the object out of which it springs, (the raising of material aid for Dr. Cheever,) and in connexion with the teachings of the pulpit in the Northern and Northwestern States, it is suggestive of impending calamities. It, in effect, justifies the John Brown invasion.  It calls down upon our country war and the prostration of prosperity until we change fundamentally our present system of governmental organisation. It makes no allusion to the fact that negro servitude was introduced into our Colonies’ by British power and British cupidity, and against earnest remonstrances by the colonists or the other fact that the present generation, without knowing how to divest themselves of it, are dealing with an institution entailed upon them, for good or for evil, by the mother country. I say, without knowing how to divest themselves of it, because, although Abolitionism thunders its anathemas against slavery, human wisdom, on neither side of the Atlantic, has not yet been able to suggest a plan for the emancipation of the negro race in the Southern States, which any just minded man can pronounce practicable; any plan which can be carried out with safety or advantage to the two races. And yet hear the doom which this professed teacher of the doctrines of the Prince of Peace fulminates against us! He says;—
'Let me say, in conclusion, that no lasting peace or true prosperity can be yours till the evil thing (“domestic servitude”) is put away.'
But how is it to be’ put way' ? Only by a fundamental change in our present confederated system. But this learned Scotch Divine makes no reference to such a change through peaceful instrumentalities. He must know that our Union is to stand, upon the compact under which we live, and which recognises the institution planted here by his ancestors, or that it is to fall. Indeed, Dr. Guthrie does not pause to consider the fact that there are, with us, existing constitutional obligations; nor does it seem to occur to him that there is, in the United States, such a thing as a written and signed compact under which we enjoy our multiplied blessings. Or, if be does, he evidently relies upon recklessness, and gathering strength of sectional animosity, to push forward the doctrine of’ an irrepressible conflict' to a successful issue, and thus, under the semblance of constitutional authority, to trample out the Constitution itself.  There is to be’ no lasting peace nor true prosperity,' we are told, until the works of WASHINGTON, and his companions in arms, and of MADISON, and his associates in convention, are shivered in atoms, or buried in dust. Ought it not to have occurred to the writer of that letter, that no country ever yet made such progress, in so brief a period of time; ever yet enjoyed such wide-spread and equally diffused prosperity, as that which has fallen to our own America; that no nation ever yet more fully realized the blessed peace of a common brother-
<cO3>
hood than these United States—until, in an evil hour, unreasoning passion, stimulated by philanthropists like the Rev. Dr. Guthrie, came and struck its bloody shield to summon the hosts of mischief to the work of destruction ?
Why it is that this subject of a foreign power, which bombarded our cities, desolated our homes, devastated our new and feeble country, slew our citizens, and harassed the people of the colonies with seven years of relentless war, now, that the might of foreign arms is known to be vain against the prowess of our united strength, sends his gloomy voice of doom across the ocean to inflame us to the madness of intestine and fratricidal war? What is his purpose, his object, his hope ? What the purpose, object, hope of those with whom he acts? 
Dr. Guthrie can hardly fail to know that neither all the branches of the Federal Government combined, nor any majority of the people of the Federal Union, can rightfully ’put away' forever what he denominates the ’evil thing,' nor molest it, nor meddle with it, until they have first’ put away' the Constitution. If, then, he is right in the assertion of his letter, what a dark destiny lies before us! We are to pass through the blood and chaos of dissolution in order gather up the elements of’ lasting peace' and’ permanent prosperity’ from the wreck of universal ruin! Is this doom which Dr. Guthrie, in language positive and oracular, pronounces the suggestion of a wild and disordered imagination, or is it an actual, a fearful thing, already working out before our eyes it results of lost peace and paralyzed prosperity, and advancing rapidly to its inevitable consummation ? One would fain believe the former; but, when we observe what is going on around us, and listen to the ominous tones of the pulpit and the press, with regard to a’ higher law' than that which guarantees our civil rights, as citizens of the sovereign States which compose the confederation, let us not be too sanguine, or indulge in childish hopefulness. Is there not some evidence of danger in the fact that the public pulse is barely quickened to-day, by declarations of disloyalty to the Constitution, which, even twenty years ago, would have startled the nation? How strangely would such a denunciation as that of Dr. Guthrie have fallen upon the ears of our countrymen during the first fifty years which succeeded the Declaration of Independence! If we cannot stay this swelling tide of abolition fanaticism, and consequent sectional rancor and frenzy, you and I, even in our brief remaining yean of earth, are likely, I fear, to see—no! not to see, likely, far off spectators, but to mingle with all that is dear to us in the fearful chaos of violent national disruption.  Who shall survive, and come up from the ruins into the ’peace’ and’ prosperity' beyond, promised by Dr. Guthrie, Dr. Cheever, and their co-laborers on both sides of the ocean, it does not matter much to enquire!'

SCOTCH MINISTERS ON SLAVERY.
The utterance of Drs. Candish and Guthrie against American slavery, contemporaneously with Mr. Spurgeon, is strongly condemned by the Christian (!!) Intelligencer, (Dutch Reformed!!) particularly the toast alleged to have proceeded from Dr. Guthrie. Says that paper: — 
'We are strongly persuaded that both these men are extensively ignorant of what slavery is in this! country, how it stands connected with our civil! institutions, and what the effects of immediate emancipation would necessarily be—worse to the slave even, than to the master. We extenuate in this way the horrible sentiment conveyed in the toast,—”The next negro insurrection, may it be successful! “ O God! if the last had been successful, who could have told its horrors? The scenes at Fulleghar and Delhi would have been only ordinary horrors, to those that would have been enacted. And a minister of the Gospel in Scotland stands up in the presence of Christian men and women, and says, may these things come! Shame, shame, shame! He must have been ignorant of what he was saying, or of what the effect of his toast, could it be realized, would be, or he could not have said any such thing. Even Scotch prejudice and religious bigotry, wonderful as some of their developments made in past time have been, are not adequate to such a wish.'

SELECTIONS.
THE HERO OF AMERICA. 
Extract from a very eloquent and forcible discourse, entitled’ Herod, John and Jesus, or American Slavery and its Christian Cure,' preached in Division Street Church, Albany, N. Y., by Rev. A. D. MAYO: 
What is Herod doing, and what does he propose to do in America?
Herod is the type of irresponsible despotism. Every nation is, sooner or later, threatened by the’ tyranny that consists in the subjugation and use of the weak by the strong for their pleasure. A majority of the governments of the world have been, and still are, only the few oppressing the many, I under forms of society invented to perpetuate the original wrong. Our republic, like every previous republic, is menaced by this foe to human nature— irresponsible despotism. Though partially seen all directions, this tyranny culminates in the Slave Power of this Union, and with that institution as a lever seeks to upset the whole fabric of our national freedom. 
Our American Herod is the enslavement of four million colored laboring men and women by three hundred and fifty thousand white men and women. This white aristocracy has reduced the slave race to the condition of property by the annihilation of almost every natural right that separates humanity from the brutes. The slave has no legal property, no lawful marriage, no independent possession of himself. He is said to belong to the master whose property he is; and as the laws by which he is seemingly protected are made by the master, the power is virtually irresponsible. This aristocracy of three hundred and fifty thousand slave-owners thus holds a vast population in complete slavery. It has possession through its wealth, concentration and hereditary prestige of the whole social system in the slave States. Through political privileges, a by itself forced into the national Constitution, and by its unity of interest, it bas hitherto managed to bold and administer the government of the United States, and greatly to embarrass the development of free society in the whole country.
American Slavery is a military despotism perpetuating itself through the forms of law. Every enormity and crime that belongs to irresponsible tyranny, is exhibited in its past history and present state. It began in the invasion of an unoffending people, and their subjugation by sword, fire and chains; a war of invasion, compared with which John Brown's foray was an Indian-summer day' pastime. From the hour when the first shipload of negroes was bought in Virginia, it has been a relentless armed possession of the conquered race. It began in the Old Dominion with a code of slave laws so barbarous that they were a scandal to human nature, fit precursor of Modern Virginia Jus-
<co4>
tice. Old Gov. Berkley raged against the printing press and free speech is that colony, very much as the dignitaries of that State now rave against’ incendiary publication.' The Slave Power entrenched itself in its present citadel before the organization of the government. It forced itself into the Constitution of the United States by the same kind of threats with which it now holds the nation under to intolerant rule. Driven from seven States of the North, it seized nine others, far more extensive, fertile, and better situated for its purposes. It resisted the repeal of the slave trade as long as it could, and then continued it in defiance of law, and has now practically re-established it. It wrenched Missouri from Freedom in 1820, by threats that were as treasonable as John Brown's carpet-bag constitution. It drove the country into war with a neighboring power conquered Texas, New Mexico and Utah, a territory fifteen times the size of New York, and doomed it all to slavery; and threatened to dissolve the Union, because it could not thus curse California, another vast province, three times as large as Hew York, on the Pacific. It broke the most solemn compact ever made between the North and the South, to subdue Kansas—another empire three times the sice of our State—to itself. It invaded. Kansas with the sword, and it did not hide its constitution in a carpet-bag; bat took it out, and put it on the people; and by the help of arms, stolen From a United States arsenal, fastened a slave government upon that territory, under which she yet groans. It slew more than a hundred men in that territory, and wasted tens of thousands of property. It has now proclaimed, by its courts, that more than 1,000,000 square miles, including all the territory of the United States, is slave territory; and is about to assert its right, by the same court, of carrying slaves through every free State. It has practically re-established the slave trade, and by the connivance of the government, sends out its armed hordes to threaten neighboring States with whom we are at peace. It is openly proposing to subvert lie Constitution of our country, and change the United States from a republic to an oligarchy, in which the Slave Power shall rule by force and fraud, as surely as an aristocracy ever governed a subjugated people.
From the beginning, American Slavery has been practically the rule of the sword. It governs its laves by a police and code, the most barbarous that lists in the civilized earth. It suppresses every lass that can disturb its possession; either, by social oppression, as the poor white, or by banishment and plunder, as the free black. It denies the constitutional right of protection to any citizen of he United States, supposed to be dangerous to itself; and by the mob, the duel, the recreant court, defies all attempt to maintain the privileges of American freemen on slave soil. It claims the right to rob the United States mail, and insults the government at every turn. Through the hands of its parasites, it has slain scores of men on free soil, for no other crime than liberty. From the day when it shot Lovejoy, in Illinois, for the crime of free printing, to the present hour, its whole career has been one of unbridled insolence. It has halt killed one Senator on the floor of Congress, and has just hot another in California; and has threatened every eminent statesman and philanthropist of the United States with death. Who shall draw up this dreadful record of blood, and show the names of its victims, murdered under the lash, burned at the stake, hunted with dogs and guns; women violated, men shot and scourged? The history of these enormities, within the last fifty years, would appal the civilized world, could it be gathered in one book. And now it has crowned its infamy by hanging a man on the charge of treason and murder, each of which it has committed over and over again.
And this is the bloody despotism, that now howls through the land, against the noblest and purest men and women in America; calling them’ Traitors,' ‘Agitators,' ‘Infidels;' setting up its pettifogging lawyers to accuse them of treason, and its base journalists to offer a price for their life, and its clergy to read them out of the church; plotting to get eminent Northern men before its courts, to be skin by a jury or without a jury; accusing us of sedition, and arming itself, not to resist as who never invaded it, but to subdue us into compliance with its demands. Treason!  Why, the Slave Power, for the last forty years, has been organized treason against the existence of a republican government. Agitation! Why, the country bas rocked to and fro, from the first day of its existence, with the struggles of this despotism for dominion. Murder! Summon the ghosts of the victims of slavery, and let them tell the tale! Violence! Who has filled the land with mobs against free speech and liberty? Who, in 1856, forbade the people of fifteen States from voting for one presidential candidate, on peril of death? What power is now threatening on the floor of Congress to dissolve the Union, if a President of a hostile party is elected?
Is it strange, in view of these cries, that the Slave Power thus boldly accuses Freedom of all mischievous and base things? It is the old trick old despotism. Just as Francis Joseph and Pope Pius stigmatize the freemen of Europe as’ Heretics,'‘ Traitors,'‘ Enemies of God and social order,' so does our oligarchy maintain its rank among the world's oppressors, by persistent calumniation of all the friends of liberty. The Slave Power is the great liar of the western continent. It perverts history, poisons character, breaks faith, plots and undermines, bribes and circumvents here, just as every tyrant does abroad—just as despotism always has done since Cain killed his brother, and lied to God about the evil deed. Thus while itself’ the sum o all villanies,' the Slave Power lives by charging all the crimes of the decalogue on the freemen of the land. 
It is the law of human affairs, that every despotism finally assails not a class, but human nature. There is a dreadful logic in tyranny that drives its I supporters from point to point to the last result o crime and blasphemy. The Stave Power set out with denying human rights to the negro; but it has found that the negro, being a man, is tied to every; other race and every sacred interest. To keep him down, it mast keep everybody else down, and crush freedom everywhere. Herod began with the desire to play the king; be was driven from crime to crime, till he stole his brother's wife, beheaded John, and helped to crucify Jesus. When the Slaw Power declares a negro no man, it declares; you and me no better than a negro, if we stand is its way It would kill a Senator of Massachusetts, a President of the United States, as quick as a runaway slave, if either realty blocked its path. It wonk forbid the white children of Ohio to read as soon the negro children in Mississippi, if this were nee essary to secure its power. It would proclaim martial law in New York, and fill the can of the Cantral Railroad with soldiers, as soon as in Virginia, if New York threatened to abolish it. Though good men are often found in as dominant aristocracy, despotism never yet stopped at any enormity. It swallowed the massacres of Rome, toe horrors of a St. Bartholomew's day, the slaughters and confiscations of Napoleon. It is capable, in America, of all it ever has been, or now is capable elsewhere. It is as determined to pat out liberty here as in Aus-
<c05>
tria. Despotism and Freedom are foes from eternity, and to all eternities to come. One must die: the only question in America is— which shall subside, the Slave Power or Freedom ? The’ irrepressible conflict,' of which so much is now said, is not a conflict between the people of the different sections, of this republic, bat a duel between the two opposing forces in the republic, from which only one will come out alive. I nave-no doubt which party will he left on the field. I believe the Slave Power is to be broken down within half a century, and Freedom become the law in America. 
No wonder the Slate Power is driven to insanity. Baffled as by spirits at every turn; losing every conquest; its oldest State invaded by free emigration; its newest rising into a free republic, what can it do but fly to arms, and spend the money with which it ought to educate its people, to buy Sharp's rifles and revolvers at Hartford and Springfield, and cocked hats and gold lace in New York, to shoot— whom? Does it want more of our blood? We have ten thousand men, women and children, who, ill go to the scaffold, if need be, as cheerfully as martyrs ever went to the stake. What then? Can it hang oar literature? Can it bayonet our school? Can it manacle our busy hand ? Can it set a police over our growing corn, and wheat, and gross? Can it shoot our immortal souls? Can it fight duels with the eloquence that peals through a thousand churches? Can it gibbet the prayers of four million slaves that storm the throne of God, and day and night cry out: ‘How long, oh Lord! how long?' Can it empty its rail can and hotels of thoughts of freedom? Lo! they are burning in a million hearts within its own homes; they are dividing its own soul in twain!

ESPIONAGE OF THE SOUTH.
We are in a fair way to learn by experience the truth of Senator Seward's’ irrepressible conflict' doctrine, and his prediction that we must either have freedom for oar whole country, or the whole must be devoted to slavery.  Never before were such gigantic strides made by the Slave Power, towards universal rule, as since the Harper's Ferry insurrection. In past yean, only the outskirts of freedom were attacked by border-ruffianism, but now the enemy is emboldened to strike home, and New York is the place where the lash rings, carrying terror, not to the crushed, oppressed, helpless African, but to oar city merchants, the lordly occupants of the mansions in Fifth Avenue, who are just beginning to find that they have a master. A Southern journal offers to certify the soundness of mercantile firms on the slavery question, on the payment of the small sum of fifty dollars each, at the name time inserting a black list, warning Southern merchants of certain houses suspected of Republicanism, with whom they must have no dealings. Forthwith there is a great fluttering; the firms on the black list are alarmed, and rush into print to repel the foul slander, and to demonstrate their hearty and unconditional submission to King Cotton; while the favored houses can think of nothing more expressive of their hearty fellowship, or better calculated to secure the patronage of slaveholding Christendom, than to send on a few magnificent bells for the ornamentation of temples prostituted to the Moloch of Oppression, from whose spires, Sabbath after Sabbath, they may sound the triumph of Southern pride, and the ignominy and sycophancy of a degraded North.
But slavery stretches out its arm of terror not only over the North, but over its own favorite sons. A few weeks ago, the Tennessee Baptist was taking to task some of the religious journals of the North, because they were unsound on the slave question but now the editor, Mr. Pendleton, is himself suspected, and pronounced by the Southwestern Baptist an unsafe man. Even Dr. Fuller, of Baltimore, is called on by the Southwestern editor,’ in the name of the Southern people,' to say whether he entertains views like those of Mr. Pendleton.
With this reign of terror at the South, and such abject sycophancy at the North, we need not wonder that the slaveholding ministers and editors are foaming with rage because they cannot lay hands on the youthful Spurgeon, who happens to reside in a country where the almighty power of the dollar is not recognized. But if they cannot reach Spurgeon, they fancy they can reach his publishers, and so are sending back his works to Messrs. Sheldon & Co., with clamorous demands that they should repudiate the sentiments of the hated abolitionist. No peace for them, so long as the bust of Spurgeon has a place in their front window. As an illustration of the spirit of slavery, we present our readers with a letter from Dr. Fuller to the Baltimore True Union, which, while professing to defend the publishers of Spurgeon's sermons, denounces his letters as an ebullition of folly and fanaticism, and vilifies John Brown with a bitterness of invective scarcely surpassed by the most violent partisan print. The following is the letter:— 
'Dear Brother,—For some yean, Sheldon k Co. have devoted their energies most nobly to the cause of Baptist literature, giving perfect satisfaction to the South as well as the North, and maintaining a, dignified and independent position. They have published Mr. Spurgeon's sermons; and the Independent accused them of expunging passages assailing slavery. This is pronounced false by Mi. Spurgeon, himself, as you have seen.
 Meanwhile, the house is placed in a false attitude, and is in danger of suffering wrongfully, on account of the foolish letter of Mr. Spurgeon, lately pub-lished in the Watchman and Reflector. No wonder such an epistle should strike all pious men with amazement and disgust. A reckless fanatic, his hands red with blood, visits Virginia, and under false pretences, living among a peaceful, hospitable and happy people. At midnight he leads his banditti forth to commit treason and murder, and shoot down innocent men, white and black. The willful murder of Mr. Turner was so shocking that his loving mother became a lunatic, mod has just died such. 
This felon, a minister of Jesus extols as a saint. Even in reference to his defence, the Saviour said,” My kingdom is not of this world, else would my servants fight.” An ambassador of this Saviour, commissioned to preach peace and to exemplify his master's spirit, declares that an armed assassin, abusing the confidence of a neighborhood which I treated him kindly, and discharging his rifle again • and again into the bosoms of unoffending fathers,' - and husbands, and brothers, is a Christian martyr who “lives in his heart”! 
Messrs. Sheldon & Co. have nothing to do with fills monstrous ebullition of folly and fanaticism; and I trust the South will do them justice, and continue to them, is <illegible> sincerity, that confidence which they never have, and I have reason to believe never will disappoint. 
I write from a sense of equity, and a wish to, place this respectable house in its tree position at t the South.  R- FULLER. 
P. S. Will the Southern Baptist papers, especially the Tennessee Baptist, do an act of justice by publishing this article?'
‘Thou shalt not bear false witness,' is precept 
<cO6>
which has quite dropped out of the slaveholder's decalogue. What respect can we have for religion that teaches men to draw such a picture as the above, of a man whose bosom ever throbbed with the broadest and most sincere philanthropy? If Dr. Fuller has read the testimony of the Charlestown witnesses he knows very well that, so far from’ shooting down innocent and unoffending fathers; husbands and brothers,' John Brown never raised his rifle, except in defence against an armed foe. Slaveholding clergymen are ready enough to calumniate John Brown, first as an infidel, and then as a cold-blooded murderer; but we never hear their voice lifted against the vindictive barbarism that burns and tortures negroes, imprisons or warns off, under pain of death, inoffensive white citizens, and raises armies to invade and plunder unoffending States upon our borders. Contrast with these heartless calumnies of an American doctor of divinity the frank, honest verdict of a Russian journal, the Northern Bee, published under the imperial eye, and enjoying, if rumor be correct, the especial favor of the Russian Government. Commenting on the correspondence between Victor Hugo and Gen. Henningsen, this journal says:—
'In one of the American newspapers, an official defender of slavery, we find a long letter in answer to one of Victor Hugo, on the condemnation of John Brown. To this voice of the poet, imploring the justice of the United States in favor of the unfortunate—to these words of fire, this tribute paid to the memory of a defender of a sacred cause, a reply is made by a fillibuster, one Gen. Henningsen, a zealous companion of Gen. Walker.  Truly he is a fit advocate of such a cause. The juxtaposition of those two names has a high moral and philosophic signification.  When one of the greatest cotemporaneous poets raises his voice in the defence of human liberty, there starts up as his adversary a man who, in spite of every right and every duty, invaded the territory of a people incapable of resistance—an adventurer who, in this age of civilization, recognizes only one principle—the right of the strongest.'
Which is the barbarian, despotic Russia or Republican America?—American Baptist.

MADISON COUNTY, KENTUCKY.
A letter addressed to the Cincinnati Commercial of the 7th ult., by an eye-witness of what occurred there, reports:—
Monday, the 26th of March, twenty-four men, armed, came to Berea, and commenced scouring the country and searching the houses for Mr. Hanson, who had returned to take care of his property. The mob first went to the residences of Messrs. Preston, Bland and Huley. The most they did was to insult the wives of those gentlemen. At Mr. Wright's they threatened to take him out of his bed, and paint him. They then proceeded to Mr. Waters s, cuffed him, pulled his hair, drew pistols, talked indecently to his wife, and in various ways attempted to provoke him to fight. Thence they proceeded to Mr. West's, who was sick—in the last stages of consumption. He saw them coming, and requested his daughter to shut the door. The mob came, broke down the door, searched the house, insulted his wife, and left, saying they would’ bring out a buck nigger for the benefit of his daughter.' After making other calls, they went to Mr. Burdit's, six miles from Berea—drew pistols on his wife and daughters—threw beds on the floor—said they held the women as much accountable as the men. They left, after making a thorough search, and returned to Berea. The Bereans, in the meantime, rallied and sought to defend their wives and families from further violence.
Fifteen men, armed as best they could, were on their way to Mr. West's, learning he had suffered great violence, when they were met by the mob. The mob called out to them in the following manner:—' What in hell are you doing with your guns?' The Bereans replied,’ We are going to defend our families from violence.' The mob now bore down upon them in a full gallop, crying, ’Shoot, shoot!’ A number of the Bereans made ready to fire. This made a halt in the mob. The leader of the Bereans told them’ not to fire until it was necessary, and then to shoot for some porpose.' Part of the mob dismounted, and making a breastwork of their horses, commenced the attack by firing fifteen or twenty shots. The Bereans made ready a second time; but obeying orders, did not fire. Seeing that a fight was inevitable, twelve of the Bereans now moved a short distance to a high point of woodland, and determined to resist to the last. Three remained, and as the mob came up, two fired, and then went to their comrades on the hill. The mob fired several shots at the three as they retreated. 
The mob now held a council, and concluding that twenty-four men were not force enough to take fifteen, returned to Richmond for a sufficient force, which, as they said,’ would come the next day, hang the Bereans, and burn their houses.'
Two hundred and nineteen men, armed and equipped as mob law directs, came on Tuesday, tore the roof off and a log out of a dwelling-house, also the roof off a meat-house. They then proceeded to Hanson's mill, disposed of the roof, smashed up the castings, chopped the wood-work, injured the boiler, leveled the furnace and chimney. They finished the work by breaking open his tool-cheat and scattering the tools about, altogether injuring property to the value of one thousand dollars or more. The mob left—and next in order was a meeting at Richmond. 
The card, from the mob, published to-day, tells a different story from this; but these are unmistakable proofs that these are the facts. Unroofed buildings, broken doors, and a good mill destroyed, speak for themselves.

A PREACHER DRIVEN FROM HIS WORK.
The Milford (Del.) News gives the following item of Border news:—
'Benjamin Brown, a colored Methodist preacher, sent by the Conference to labor among the colored people of Milford and Slaughter Neck, was arrested on Friday last, at the instigation of some of the citizens of Slaughter Neck, for being a non-resident. He was taken before Enquire Revill, who was compelled by law to fine and imprisonment. It seems that, besides preaching on Sundays, he had opened a school in which free colored in great numbers were learning to read and write, and thus excited the opposition that was manifested in enforcing an inhuman law. The preacher is said to be a quiet, peaceable, intelligent man. His work among the free negroes of this vicinity was elevating and improving them; but this many white men are opposed to, never seeming, while they abuse the negroes for their immoral and vicious practices, to consider that it is their ignorance and degradation that make them so and to remove which, intelligence and moral elevation are absolutely necessary. Ignorance is the mother of vice, and knowledge is the father of virtue among all classes of men. Many of our citizen
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United states Constitution is’ a <illegible> with death and
 an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.... There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHER, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution... No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' 
——WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
have signed a petition to the judge for this county for permit to allow Brown to remain and attend to the duties to which he has been assigned by Bishop Scott; but the judge has not yet granted it. Brown was ordained a deacon in the Church by Bishop Waugh, late of Baltimore, and two eldersï¿½ orders by Bishop Baker. A son of Brown was also engaged in teaching in Milford, but, on receiving notification, he left the town and probably the State. ï¿½Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.ï¿½

ONLY A SCHOOLMASTER.
The Democratic press have sneered at Mr. Sanborn for presuming to resist an illegal arrest, and to present a memorial to the United States Senate, because he is ï¿½only a schoolmaster.ï¿½ This expression shows, in a striking manner, the degeneracy of the modern democracy. Once the Democratic party of America was the champion of the rights of all men. No one was too weak, or too bumble, to be deprived of his just and equal legal rights. No one was to be oppressed on account of poverty, or lowliness of station. Peasant and philosopher, scholar and schoolmaster, were equal rights, one uttered in all sincerity, became only a lure to entice the simple into its ranks. Then the political rights of a certain class were denied and annihilated, on account of the accident of color. Any outrage was excusable, if the suffer was ï¿½only a nigger.ï¿½ Now the rights of white men are attacked. Already, in one-half the Union, they are proscribed for their opinions, their lives are endangered if they express them, and they are expelled with violence from their homes for believing that slavery is an evil. At the North, too, we are beginning to feel the effects of this policy. The United States Senate usurps a jurisdiction to which it has no legal right; one which, if allowed, would turn it into a star chamber, worse than ever degraded England; its warrant is attempted to be executed in an outrageous, and, as the supreme Court decides, an illegal manner. The injured individual appeals to the Senate, and the whole Democratic press, from the Boston Post to the New Bedford Times, join in the cry that he is a lawless and impertinent person, because he is ï¿½only a country schoolmaster.ï¿½
This is the inevitable consequence of admitting the rightfulness of slavery. The denial of political equality to on portion of the community will lead to the extension of the doctrine to another. Equal rights will be denied to the many, and peculiar privileges claimed by the few. Let this usurpation be resisted, and those who oppose it will be thought entitled to no redress because they are only ï¿½school-masters.ï¿½ perhaps only ï¿½tailors,ï¿½ or some other occupation deemed degrading by the privileged class. Should any of these unfortunate individuals, however, deserting an hones occupation, labor to advance such a party, and receive the usual reward of party services, they will be the very ones who will look down with the greatest contempt on their former fellows, the noisiest in their party yelpings, and the most servile in their obsequiousness to those who, while they use, must despise the,-New Bedford Republican Standard.

MR. LOVERJOYï¿½S MISTAKE.
Mr. Lovejoy, in his recent speech in the House of Representatives, said slavery was not an institution, but a practice-an obvious truth, as applied to slaveholding in the aggregate. But he should have made an exception in favor of Louisiana, as he doubtless would, if he had been in possession of the New Orleans Courier, of the 14th inst., containing the following advertisement of public property by the Governor of that State:
STATE OF LOUSIANA, EXECUTIVE OFFICE.
WHEREAS, at the last session of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, an act was passed, and approved March 15th, 1860, entitled, ï¿½An Act providing for the sale of the Slaves belonging to the Internal Improvement Department of the State,ï¿½ which act makes it the duty of the Governor to cause to be sold, in the city of New Orleans, for cash, to the highest bidder, after sixty daysï¿½ notice, and under such regulations and restrictions as he may prescribe, all the slaves belonging to the Internal Improvement Department of the State, except eight.
Now, therefore, I hereby appoint, authorize and direct CAMILLE E. GIRARDEY, Auctioneer, to sell, on SATURDAY, the ninth day of June, 1860, at auction, tot he highest bidder, for cash, all the above mentioned Salves. The said Slaves will be warranted only as to title, and no slave will be delivered tot eh purchaser, or act of sale passed, until the purchase money shall be deposited in the Louisiana State Bank to my order.
The Slaves will be in New Orleans during the week preceding the sale, subject to the inspection of buyers. A list of the Slaves to be sold is appended hereto.
Given under my hand and the Seal of the State, this fourth day of April, A. D. 1860, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-fourth.
(SEAL.) THOMAS O. MOORE,
Governor of the State of Louisiana.
Barlow, Bill Evans, Dan Griffin, Dan Wadkins, (tolerable engineer.) Frank Johnston, Fountain, Geo. Carey, Ike Woodburn, Dick Richardson, John Smith, (rough blacksmith,) John Read, Joe Younger, (crippled in one hand, but good,) Jake Reuben, Simon, Saul Erwin, (pilot,) Saul Marsbeck, (fiddler,) Sam Richardson, Tom Tillman, (mate of boat, ) Hawkins, (carpenter,) Wait (cook,) Henry Dungannon, Buck, (Billy,) Charles Williams, Churchill, Major, (fiddler and fisherman,) Sam Johnston, (rough carpenter,)George Washington, (Pilot,) George Thomas, Lindsay, Wilson, (engineer and blacksmith,) James Crosby, Ned Randall, Armstead, Joe Kinney, Anthony Terrell, Riasprater, Larkin, Isaac Keller, Jeff Juliet, Preston, Andrew, Orange, Tom, (pilot,) Dick Griffin, George Read, (mate of boat, ) Molton Anderson, Henderson, Choctaw, Lee, Robert, Wesley, Joe, (galley, ) Old Frank, (blacksmith, )Frank Green, Judge, Bob Polk, London, Levi, Tom Hooper, Commodore, Joe Croighton, (cook,) Edmunds, Pleasant Green, John Lewis, (carpenter, ) Johnson, Anthony Williams, John Williams, Joe Jackson, Sterling, Frank Mingo, (runaway-blacksmith,) Frank code, (runaway,( Dick Glover, (runaway,) Peter Wade, Tom Allen, Tom Robertson, Tom McCoy, Collins Burket.
Total, 79 engineers, blacksmiths, pilots, carpenters, cooks, laborers, etc., including our old friends Dick Richardson and John Smith, both of whom were expected to be at the Charleston Convention early next week. Verily, slaveholding is an institution, as well as a practice, in Louisiana. It has risen from the skulking protection of local law and municipal regulation s to the dignity of Sate patronage, being just as much an institution there, as the Illinois and Michigan Canal here. The State buys Dick Richardson and John Smith; the State flogs and pickles Dick Richardson and John Smith, as often as it chooses; the State works Dick Richardson and John Smith on the levees and public buildings; the State sells Dick Richardson and John Smith at public suction, and guarantees title to the purchasers; the Sate holds up Dick Richardson and John Smith, to the total confusion of Mr. Lovejoy and all who believe that slavery is a practice, not an institution,-Chicago Tribune.

A SLAVE AUCTION.
Here are some of the horrors of the slave traffic as exhibited in Richmond, Va., and communicated to the N. Y. Evening Post, by one of its correspondents:-
The city of Richmond is one of the most beautiful in all the South. The streets are wide, well lined with trees, and the houses are generally surrounded with pleasant grounds, and some few are very costly and elegant. The State House is ordinary, compared with the improvements of the city generally. The Governorï¿½s mansion is on the square with the State House, and is a respectable building compared with it.
But who can describe the slave market? Within sound of the debates in the legislature, where liberty is called more valuable than life; in the sight of the State House square, and within three streets of the equestrian statue of Washington and the tall bronze of Patrick Henry, with his arms extended and his brow knit, in the attitude in which he said, ï¿½Give me liberty, or give me death,ï¿½ is the slave market, where, daily, human beings are sold like cattle. I will describe one dayï¿½s transactions. In the morning, I took two of the ladies of the part to the slave auction, that they might see the vile institution as it is. In five minutes, the sight to the a was so crushing that I was obliged to remove then at once. I determined to see it through, and returned to witness the hellish sight. The sale
<c02>
proceeded in this way: The auctioneer had the appearance of a Methodist parson, black clothes, white cravat, and otherwise had the appearance of a respectable man, until you thought of his occupation.
This auctioneer was assisted by a negro man called Major, whose business was to order the negroes up the block, to strip them naked to show the buyers, &c., &c.
First, a negro man, Tom, was brought out of the pen. Major, in a stern voice, ordered him on to the block; then Major took off his shoes and stockings, then rolled up his pants to his body; then rolled his shirt sleeves up to his shoulders, then came up the buyers-the most coarse, bloated, brutal men that can be imagined-one would feel of Tomï¿½s arms, another of his legs, another of his toes, &c. In the mean time, the auctioneer is crying-ï¿½ $1, 150,ï¿½ ï¿½$1,200.ï¿½ ï¿½He is a fine fellow.ï¿½ ï¿½Tom, tell them you are sound, and can do a good dayï¿½s work,ï¿½ &c. Then a buyer in the crowd calls Tom to him, and seizing his upper jaw with one hand, and his lower with the other, drags open his mouth to its utmost extent, and there holds it while he counts Tomï¿½s teeth, and calls two or three more, to see if they all agree upon Tomï¿½s age. Then they tell Tom to walk fast some hundred feet up and down, and then listen to see if his wind is sound. Then Tom is questioned, to ascertain if it is certain he is sound, and can do a good dayï¿½s work.
In sight of all this fiendish brutality sits Tomï¿½s wife, with one child at the breast and two more clinging at her feet, and she looking as crushed as though all in the infernal regions had their pawn upon her.
Second-Then a fine looking girl, nearly white, was taken out of the pen. She was about eighteen, and felt her degraded condition. Major ordered her on to the block, and the bidding commenced. Then the brutal buyers came around, and not content with asking her every indelicate question, they directed Major to strip first one part of her person, and then another, until I wondered the thunderbolts of Heaven did not pierce the building in which these diabolical scenes were enacted.
Then this poor creature was called down, while the bid was standing at 1,200, and her mouth stretched open in the same way, to see that she was really young and had no throat disease, then she was made to walk and almost run up and down, in order that the buyers could discover any concealed lameness or defect, if any existed. 
There were some twenty more sold at this auction; all equally brutal and aggravating as those I have described.
Here this scene is going on every day-until the people of Richmond have become so much infernalized by its influences that they cease to regard it.
Then there is a slave trade between Richmond, Mobile and New Orleans. The slaves an all herded like cattle till they are ready for shipment; and in the atmosphere, filled with such a moral poison, are educated the children of Richmond. Well may we ï¿½tremble, when we remember that God is just.ï¿½ Never can I hear Richmond mentioned, without seeing this slave auction; the poor crushed victims, parents and children, torn asunder like dogs, with no eye to pity, no sympathizing tear. Who can estimate such wrong, or sufficiently condemn the clergyman who refuses to raise his voice against such wrong and robbery?

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MAY 4, 1860. 
REMOVAL. 
The office of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and also that of the LIBERATOR, have been removed from 21 Cornhill to the Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, directly opposite Franklin Street-third story. The change of position is a very desirable one, and the accommodations are more spacious and agreeable. 

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Seventh Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the city of New York, at the Cooper Institute, on TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, May 8th and 9th, commencing each day at 10 oï¿½clock, A. M.
Independent of all religious and political organizations, and dealing impartially with them all, this Society continues to pursue its grand distinctive object, THE IMMEDIATE AND TOTAL ABOLITION OF AMERICAN SLAVERY, without regard to geographical boundaries, by moral instrumentalities alone-animated by a spirit which seeks the safety, happiness and prosperity of every section of our widely-extended country, ï¿½knowing no East, no West, no North, no South,ï¿½ as such. Its ï¿½treasonï¿½ is embodied in the Declaration of Independence, and its ï¿½fanaticismï¿½ in the Golden Rule. Declaring that man cannot be the property of man, it measures men, parties and institutions by this simple and unerring test, and will not yield to any compromise, or consent to any postponement of the claims of justice and humanity. 
We trust it is needless to remind the members and friends of the Society, that never were greater vigilance and activity demanded on their part than at the present time. The nation is just entering into another Presidential election, which will probably be unparalleled on the score of popular excitement, and which will present a powerful temptation to many to swerve from the strict line of rectitude, by lowering the Anti-Slavery standard for the sake of party success. ï¿½Let the dead bury their dead.ï¿½ Let us eschew all compromises and compromisers, and be faithful to our rallying-cry, ï¿½NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!ï¿½
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, C. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMME.
The arrangements for the Anniversary meetings of the American Anti-Slavery Society for 1860 are not yet completed, but they will not very much, probably, from the following programme:-
Tuesday morning. May 8th, 10 oï¿½clock, [in the Cooper Institute.] The President, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, in the chair. Speakers-WM. LLOYD GARRISON; Rev GEORGE B. CHEEVER, D. D.; ROBERT PURVIS, Esq., of Byberry, Pa.; Mrs. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, of Seneca Falls, N. Y.; WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq.
Tuesday Afternoon, 3 oï¿½clock.-Meeting of the Society for business, not for public addresses, in the Committee Room, rear of the platform, in the Cooper Institute.
Tuesday Evening, 71/2 oï¿½clock, [in the Cooper Institute.]-Addresses by Rev. W. H. FURNESS, D. D., Philadelphia; Rev. BERIAH GREEN, of Whitesboroï¿½ N. Y.; Rev. ARTHUR. B. BRADFORD, of Newcastle Pa.; Rev. J. R. W. SLOANE, of New York. 
Wednesday Morning, 10 oï¿½clock, [in the Cooper Institute.] Speakers-Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, of Salem, Ohio; Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse; EDMUND QUINCY, of Boston; Rev. GEORGE F. NOYRS, of New York.
Wednesday Afternoon, 3 oï¿½clock, [in the Cooper Institute.]- Speakers- WM. WILLS BROWN; Rev. M. D. CONWAY, of Cincinnati, and others.
[We repeat, that the programme is liable to be changed in some of its details, to suit the convenience of speakers, or for other imperative reasons. We have not announced the name of any speaker who is not positively expected to be present, while we have forborne to mention several whom we hope to see, but of whose attendance we are not sure.]

NEW YORK ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Anniversary on Wednesday Evening, 71/2 oï¿½clock, [in the Cooper Institute.]-Speakers-THRODORE TILTON WENDELL PHILLIOS, WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
<c03>
DR. KIRK ON ï¿½LIBERTY.ï¿½
On Sunday evening test, Rev. Edward N. Kirk, D. D, addressed the Boston Young Menï¿½s Christian Association, (so called,) taking for his subject ï¿½Liberty.ï¿½ This subject (even apart from Dr. Kirkï¿½s pretensions of being an opposer of slavery) would have led a true minister of the Gospel to show the Association the sin and shame of their recent action in sending delegates to express their fraternal union with sundry associations of slaveholders and pro-slavery men, and their recognition of them as Christians. Nothing more emphatically shows the depth of corruption and the callousness of conscience generated by the teaching of the American clergy, than the fact that a Convention of Young Menï¿½s Christian Associations, (so called,) from the Northern as well as the Southern churches, was appointed to meet, and did meet at one of the chief centres of the slave trade in this country, then to meet slaveholders and slave-traders as Christians, without the slightest objection being raised, or the slightest objection felt, to so monstrous a proceeding. The influence of slavery, and the membership of slaveholders, are freely admitted in all these Associations; but all objection against slavery, all mention of it as one of the mightiest obstacles to the diffusion of Christianity, all organization of efforts in opposition to it, an excluded from these meetings (as from the revival prayer-meetings all over the country) as ï¿½controverted topicsï¿½!
A minister of the Gospel, I say, speaking before such a body, on such a subject, would necessarily have made reference to this systematic violation of Christian principle, the perpetrators of which had applied to him for religious instruction. But Dr. Kirk pursued his usual custom of speaking smooth things, likely to be acceptable to the audience before him. So he blazed away against the Romish clergy and the Socialists, (not one adherent of whom, probably, was within the sound of his voice,) and then, with amazing hardihood, told those who had just been recognizing the New Orleans slaveholders as Christians, that-American freedom is founded on Christ, on Christianity, and the Bible! And while ministers preach this doctrine, the country is safe!-C. K. W.

THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY SUNDERED BY ï¿½THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.ï¿½ SOUTHERN SECESSION!!
The National Democratic Convention which assembled at Charleston, S. C. on the 23d ult. for the purpose of nominating a Presidential candidate, has proved to be little better than Pandemonium itself-for ten days presenting scenes of the hottest contention and the wildest excitement, in consequence of the attempt of the Southern wing to dragoon the party into an endorsement of all that the South demands for the support, extension and protection of slavery and the slave trade, and the Northern (Douglas) wing resisting. Here are the conflicting propositions:
Resolutions introduced by Mr. Bigler.
First-Affirming the Cincinnati platform.
Second-That all citizens have a right to settle in the Territories, without their rights of person or property being impaired, either by Congressional or Territorial legislation.
Third-That the Democratic party stands pledged to the doctrine, that it is the duty of the government to maintain all Constitutional rights of property, of whatever kind, in the territories, and to enforce the decisions of the Supreme Court in reference thereto.
The fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh resolutions are the third, fourth, fifth and sixth of those reported by the majority.
THE MAJORITY [SOUTHERN] REPORT.
The following is the majority report:-
Resolved, That the platform adopted by the Democratic party at Cincinnati be affirmed, with the following explanatory resolutions:-
First-That the government of a Territory organized by an act of Congress is provisional and temporary, and during its existence, all citizens of the. United States have an equal right to settle with their property in the Territory, without their rights, either of person or property, being destroyed or injured by Congressional or Territorial legislation.
Second-That it is the duty of the federal government, in all its departments, to protect the rights of persons and property in the Territories, and wherever else its constitutional authority extends.
Third-That when the settlers in a Territory, having an adequate population, form a State Constitution, the right of sovereignty commences, and being consummated by their admission into the Union, they stand on an equality with the people of other States, and a State thus organized ought to be admitted into the federal Union, whether the constitution prohibits or recognizes the institution of slavery.
Resolved, That the Democratic party are in favor of the acquisition of the Island of Cuba, on such terms as shall be honorable to ourselves and just to Spain, at the earliest practicable moment.
Resolved, That the enactments of State Legislatures to defeat the faithful execution of the Fugitive Slave law are hostile in character, subversive of the Constitution, and revolutionary in their effect.
Resolved, That the Democracy of the United States recognize it as the imperative duty of this Government to protect the naturalized citizen in all his rights, whether at home or in foreign lands, to the same extent as its native-born citizens.
Whereas, One of the greatest necessities of the age, in a political, commercial, postal and military point of view, is a speedy communication between the Pacific and Atlantic coasts; therefore, be it
Resolved, That the national Democratic party do hereby pledge themselves to use every means in their power to secure the passage of some bill, to the extent of their constitutional authority by Congress, for the construction of a Pacific Railroad from the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean, at the earliest practicable moment.
THE MINORITY [DOUGLAS] REPORT.
The report of the minority is as follows:-
Resolved, That we, the Democracy of the Union, in convention assembled, hereby declare our affirmation of the resolutions unanimously adopted, and declared as a platform of principle, by the Democratic Convention at Cincinnati, in the year 1856, believing that Democratic principles are unchangeable in their nature, when applied to the same subject matter, and we recommend as our only further resolutions the following:-
That inasmuch as differences of opinion exist in the Democratic party as to the nature and extent of the powers of a Territorial Legislature, and as to the powers and duties of Congress, under the Constitution of the United States, over the institution of slavery within the Territories-
Resolved, That the Democratic party will abide by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States over the institution of slavery within the Territories.
Resolved, That it is the duty of the United States to afford ample and complete protection to all its citizens, at home or abroad, and whether native or foreign born.
Resolved, That one of the necessities of the age, in a military, commercial and postal point of view, is speedy communication between the Atlantic and Pacific States, and the Democratic party pledge such constitutional enactment as will insure the construction of a railroad to the Pacific coast at the earliest practicable period.
Resolved, That the Democratic party are in favor of the acquisition of the Island of Cuba, on such terms as shall be honorable to ourselves and just to Spain.
Resolved, That the enactments of State Legislatures to defeat the faithful execution of the Fugitive Slave law are hostile in character, subversive of the Constitution, and revolutionary in their effect.
The Douglas platform being adopted by the Convention, some half a dozen of the extreme Southern States bolted, and nearly all the others will doubtless follow. Reconciliation seems impracticable.
We copy from the Anglo-African, (see last page.) a report of the proceedings of a public meeting recently held in New York by the colored people of that city, in opposition to the new scheme of AFRICAN CIVILIZATION. It appears to have elicited so much feeling, pro and con, that the meeting broke up in confusion, making deliberate action impossible. One thing, however, is certain, that the free colored population of the United States have good reason to be jealous of say scheme which seeks their removal to Africa, or any considerable portion of them, no matter on what pretence; and that the idea of effecting their colonization by their own consent is utterly chimerical. This is their native land, and they will cling to it forever.
<c04>
A WORD FROM WASHINGTON JAIL.
CARD FROM THADDNUS HYATT.
To the Friends of Constitutional Liberty of all Parities:
FRIENDS: This night closes the fifth week of my incarceration ï¿½in the common jailï¿½ at Washington. I have thus far refrained from uttering any complaint, or from entering into any defence of my motives, or into any explanation of the reasons that have governed my actions. I do not propose to do so now. But in answer to the following question which has been put to me, viz.: ï¿½Why did you not test this matter before a State court?ï¿½ I reply by pointing to the attempted kidnapping of Sanborn at Concord. While I was at Boston, my counsel, Hon. S. E. Sewall, called on this same Freeman, (the Marshal,) who was subsequently engaged in the Concord outrage, and desired some assurance from him that I should have an opportunity of testing the matter before the State court, in case he should be ordered to serve a precept on me. But Freeman would give no such assurance; so I found myself liable to be seized at any moment on the departure of the cars South, and hurried to Washington. In this condition of things, word came that the Senate had, by resolution, ordered me to its bar. Before leaving Washington, I had reason to suppose that this privilege, as I then regarded it, would not be accorded me. But on its being ordered, my counsel, Messrs. Sewall and Andrew, with the concurrence and earnest recommendation of the venerable Judge Fletcher, formerly of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, advised me to obey the summons, proceed to Washington, and appear before the United States Senate; they and I supposing that this august body had inadvertently fallen into error, and that a respectful argument would be cheerfully listened to by them. I followed my counselï¿½s advice; but on getting to the bar of the Senate, I then countered an effort to entirely prevent the argument from being heard; and when, mainly through the exertions of those noble and true men, Charles Sumner and John P. Hale, this outrage was prevented, another equally as abominable and much more sneaking was committed. The men who were to pass judgment, and who have actually sentenced me to this ï¿½human styï¿½ for life, LEFT THE SENATE! stayed away until after my defence was read, and then came in and passed sentence upon me! and the partisan papers of the country, to a large extent, have gloated over this exhibition of irresponsible power!!
Suppose that, instead of this sentence being upon one man, it were upon a hundred or a thousand, and it might as well be, and suppose that, instead of taking away my liberty, they had taken away my life-and the Senate have the same power over one as the other-what then? Suppose the Senate had brought to the block 200 citizens for alleged contempt of their authority! The principle would have been precisely the same. Is the country prepared for this?
The following-letters, which are a few of many received, are my best vindication:-
JAY HOMESTEAD, Katonah, N. Y., April 12, 1860.
THADDEUS HYATT, Esq.:
DEAR SIR-I received this evening your note of the 10th April, and cheerfully accede to your request that I will act as one of the Committee to decide the question of the best legal essay for which you have offered a prize, in connection with either Messrs. Andrew and Sewall of Boston, or Messrs. Evarts and Barney of New York. I gladly take this opportunity of expressing the warm interest my family and myself have taken in your manly and disinterested resistance to what seems to me a very dangerous assumption of power on the part of the Senate. We have begun to learn at home what we might have been taught by the history of other nations, how easy it is in the name of Democracy to drift into Despotism. I think the importance of the principle involved in your case can hardly be overestimated. Your imprisonment for the maintenance of your rights as a citizen will compel the attention of the people to the question of their common law liberties and their constitutional guaranties; and, in common with thousands of your countrymen, I beg you to accept my thanks.
I am, sir. very respectfully and truly, yours,
JOHN JAY.
NEW YORK, April 12, 1860.
DEAR SIR-Your letter of the 10th inst. reached me this morning. I appreciate the importance of the subject in which you have invited a public competition, and which will receive, I doubt not, a thorough and able discussion under such auspices. I regret to think that my professional engagements will not permit me to undertake this service. The other gentlemen you have named are entirely competent, and I think you will have no difficulty in adding to their number if desirable. Thanking you for your request, and begging you to receive my sympathy in the persecution which you now suffer, and my best wishes for a prosperous issue to the contest in which you are engaged, I am, very truly, your obedient servant,
WM. M. EVARTS.
THADDEUS HYATT, Esq.
WEST MEDFORD, Mass., March 19, 1850.
THADDEUS HYATT, ESQ.:-
SIR:I am personally a stranger to you, which is to me a matter of regret, for, when speaking of you, I should regard it as an honor to be able to say, ï¿½He is an acquaintance,ï¿½ or, ï¿½He is a friend of mine.ï¿½ But the man, his spirit, all that makes the man, I see-and, may I say, admire. My dear sir, I thank you; I congratulate you; I envy you. Would God I were able to be, and had the good fortune to be in your stead, in Washington jail, for the same cause for which you are there! Well, such opportunities do not come to every man, nor to any man more than once or twice in an age. John Bunyan, John Hampden, and other worthies, friends of religious liberty, and martyrs in the cause thereof, will hereafter see the name of Thaddeus Hyatt associated with theirs by the muse of history, while she is entering upon her everlasting tablets the names of those to whom the world is indebted for whatever is left to it of freedom from the clutch of tyrants, whether the tyrants have sat on thrones or in Senate halls. I say, my dear Sir, I envy you your good fortune. If you will believe me, I did for a moment entertain the thought of addressing to the Chairman of the Senateï¿½s Inquisitorial Committee an anonymous letter, telling him that if he would summon an old and early preacher of Abolitionism in West Medford, near Boston, by the name of John Pierpont, who was known to have been in Kansas about the time that Dr. Howe was there, it was possible that something might be got out of the old man, more than most people supposed was in him. But considering that such a step might induce more expense than I was able to bear, and considering, moreover, that I disapproved of anonymous letters, and that I have never attained the grace of doing evil, even practising deception, that good may come of it, I soon dismissed the thought, though I did hope that some one would have the spirit, who could afford the means to resist the tyranny before which so many good men were bending, either because they did not know their rights, or, knowing, did not dare maintain them. And now being informed that you have the pluck to fight the battle, while I envy you the crown of this martyrdom, I cheerfully concede it to you, only saying, ï¿½Felix opportunitate!ï¿½ The world, whose eyes are upon you, will know you, and the time is coming, and even now is near at hand, when the Senate of the United States, [not a judicial, not a legislative, but only a fractional part of a legislative body,] if up to the feeling of ï¿½genuine shame,ï¿½ it will be profoundly ashamed of itself, and wish, but wish ï¿½too late,ï¿½ to take your place, as a refuge from the storm of public indignation and contempt. So, my good Sir, ï¿½never say die;ï¿½ but continue to command, and in your prison walls to know, that you enjoy the reverence which is the voluntary tribute that the world pays to moral heroism. Very cordially yours,
JNO. PIERPONT.
For publishing the above letter, laudatory as it is, I make no apology, in face of the very ungenerous and untruthful one of a Washington letter-writer, published in the New York Tribune, of the 16th March without editorial ï¿½note or comment.ï¿½ I had supposed myself entitled to different treatment in the Tribune, though I did not look for it in the N. Y. Times or N. Y. Herald. 
Dr. Geo. B. Cheever writes as follows, under date of April 4:-
ï¿½MY DEAR FRIEND HYATT:I rejoice in our firmness, and in behalf of multitudes of freemen insulted in your person, I thank you for the integrity and nobleness with which you have thrown yourself into the breach against the despotism of the United States Senate.
Ever most truly and respectfully yours,
GEO.B.CHEEVER.ï¿½
<c05>
Wendell Phillips, under date of April 3d, says:-
ï¿½I have watched your course, and the debate you provoked in the Senate. I blush for-, but-strikes me baser. For yourself, we feel you have done your whole duty, and been equal to the crisis. Take my heartiest thanks though I would do nothing to mar your position or weaken your testimony, and applaud your pluck; still, as the press will not make for you that attention your attitude deserves, [shame on the -,] is it not allowable to consider whether an appeal on habeas would not afford you a fair chance of saying honorably to the nation, when that appeal fails, as it will. ï¿½There, fellow citizens, I have exhausted all the means you offer me of constitutional resistance; my duty as a citizen is done; and since my incarceration wakens no such feeling as it should, I shall, in my best judgment, try other methods to rouse the public-not die here in vain.ï¿½ I recognize the value of your suggestion, that you wish to avoid too early an appeal to the judiciary, lest you get a precedent against Freedom. Thatï¿½s good sense in Massachusetts or New York, where some hope of speedy change in public opinion, which is the breath of the bench, exists. But with my slight hope of any such change in the Federal Government, I should not let such a consideration weigh with me. Give what weight you can to my suggestions, and believe, whatever you conclude to do, you shall have my constant and hearty and most devoted aid to wake the people to a proper appreciation of your service to liberty.
Believe me faithfully yours,
WENDELL PHILLIPS.ï¿½
The above are sufficient to show that the great and good are with me, though the politicians are not. I add but one more letter of sympathy, as it is short and to the point:-
DIXON, Lee Co., Ill., April 1, 1860. 
THAD. HYATT:-
DEAR SIR: Permit me, an entire stranger, to address you a few lines, expressive of sympathy for you in the circumstances of your incarceration. There are circumstances which connect a gibbet with glory, and deprive a jail of its gloom. Thank God, there are men who can defy them both for the sake of humanity and right. The principle you represent is a correct one, and in vindicating it, you command the admiration and respect of every lover of liberty and law. If ï¿½resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,ï¿½ you are on the right track, and for a consolation, remember the glorious but much abused motto of the old Dominion, ï¿½Sic semper tyrannis.ï¿½ I have faith in that motto, because I have faith in God. The sympathies of the wise and good are with you.
Yours, for the truth and right,
ALEX.M. GOW.
From the above it may be seen that Godï¿½s compensations are sufficient for all the crises of life. In answer to those of my friends who desire to know what is to be the issue of this matter, I can only say that at present this is not within the ï¿½counselsï¿½ of my ï¿½will.ï¿½ THADDEUS HYATT.
WASHINGTON JAIL, 16th April, 1860.

THE U.S. CONSTITUTION AND SLAVERY.
CAMBRIDGE, April 28th, 1860.
HON. OWEN LOVEJOY:
SIR,-With few exceptions, your speech in the House on the 5th inst. is all that true freedom can demand. But these exceptions are of such a nature as to greatly impair its merits, if they do not corrupt its whole character; therefore they should be faithfully pointed out.
After denouncing slavery in the boldest language as ï¿½worse than robbery, than piracy, than polygamy-more criminal, more injurious to man, and consequently more offensive to God,ï¿½ as having nothing else to excuse or justify its continuance, you come to the plea ï¿½that the Constitution guarantees slavery.ï¿½ You say:
ï¿½I deny it. In no article, in no section, in no line, in no word, in no syllable can there be any recognition or sanction of human slavery found in the Constitution of the United States. It is not there. It always recognizes human beings as persons, and never as property. It does not use the word ï¿½slaveï¿½ or ï¿½slavery.ï¿½ It is as well known as any historical fact can be known, that the framers of the Constitution so worded it, that it never should recognize the idea of slave property from the beginning to the end of it.ï¿½
Of course, then, whatever the Constitution provides and guarantees for one man, it does for every other, without any exception on the unconstitutional plea of any person being a slave. If it guarantees natural liberty to one, it guarantees it to all who come within its jurisdiction. If it secures the privilege of the habeas corpus to one man under its jurisdiction, it secures it to all, admitting no obstruction to its process on the unrecognized plea of slavery. If it implies any protection to one man against the most fragrant crime, against robbery and violence, it implies the same protection to every other, without regard to the assumed rights of the perpetrator on the ground that he is a slaveholder. In a word, if it guarantees any natural rights, any protection, any favor, in any way, to any body, it does not allow these guarantees to be nullified on the unconstitutional claims of the slaveholder.
Now, then, what are some of the most clearly expressed and prominent guarantees of the Constitution? 1st. The preamble, which you quote, declares who are its subjects, and what are its objects:-ï¿½We, the people of these United States.ï¿½ ï¿½The peopleï¿½ of a country is a phrase in common usage, and always means all the people, when standing unqualified as in the preamble of the Constitution. And you say, ï¿½It always recognizes human beings as persons.ï¿½ Persons are people; consequently, there can be no doubt that all human beings, then in the United States, were included in this phrase-ï¿½The people.ï¿½ ï¿½We, [all] the people of these United States, to establish justice and to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and to our posterity, and to provide for the general welfare, do ordain this Constitution.ï¿½ You add another clause of your own, which may mean something fatally important, or may be simple tautological nonsense, viz., ï¿½and to secure the natural rights of every human being within its exclusive jurisdiction.ï¿½ Justice and the blessings of liberty cover all natural rights. These it is the express object of the Constitution to secure to all the people of these United States-throughout the whole extent of which, the Constitution declares itself to be the Supreme Law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. But if your phrase, ï¿½within its exclusive jurisdiction,ï¿½ does not mean where it is the Supreme Law-and it is everywhere such-it means simply within the territories, the forts and arsenals, the District of Columbia, &c.; there only to secure the natural rights of every human being. The people, all the people of these United States, were much more particular to secure the natural rights of every human being in the then unpeopled territories, and the forts and arsenals, and the little District of Columbia, than in all the thirteen States where they themselves resided! I think this is your meaning; it is the ridiculous assumption of that Republican party to which you belong- that party which, to-day, can; do much more for human rights in these territories where they do not live, than at home where are their wives and families-that party which pledges itself to fight slavery where it does, not exist, but to let it alone when it does exist, so long as it remains quiet, and they are not called upon to go and reduce it to submission. Your language is susceptible of no other meaning than that here given, unless the phrase, ï¿½within its exclusive jurisdiction,ï¿½ modifies the whole sentence, and makes it mean, ï¿½We, the people of these United States, to establish justice, and to secure the blessings of liberty, and to provide for the general welfare, and to secure the natural rights of every human being in the territories, forts and arsenals, and in the District of Columbia, do ordain and establish this Constitution.ï¿½ This makes it equally ridiculous. I ask you if this is not the actual Republican construction of the Constitution to-day? You expressly admit this yourself, when you say, ï¿½As a federal law-maker, I concede that the States have a right to sport this fungus of slavery, because it is beyond my reach.ï¿½ Yet you say, ï¿½I took the oath to support the Constitution, because my heart is loyal to it; every part, and parcel and portion of it I believe in; I always defended the Constitution, because it was for libertyï¿½!
<c06>
No doubt you detest slavery, which you so vividly describe and boldly denounce; and you are doubtless sincere when you affirm that the Constitution is for liberty, and no where for slavery. But you are in the Republican party, whose policy, equivocal position, hypocrisy, and eager desire for success, distract and confuse every effort you make.
You could not fail to see that a Constitution, ordained expressly to protect the just rights of commerce upon the sea and land, and to secure the natural rights of property, which in no line or <illegible> countenanced or sanctioned piracy and robbery, would not only not place these evils beyond the reach of those sworn to sustain that Constitution, but it would obligate all such to apply all proper means, especially those therein recognized, to put down piracy and robbery.
But you seem to be ready here to reiterate the slaveholdersï¿½ doctrine, adopted by the Republicans, of ï¿½State Rights.ï¿½ You have adopted it, so far as it relates to holding slaves; and I know of none who practically apply it to any thing else. Admitting this, you contradict all you say about the Constitution being every where for freedom, no where for slavery. If the Constitution guarantees ï¿½State Rights,ï¿½ and ï¿½State Rightsï¿½ involve the right to hold slaves then the Constitution sanctions and sustains slavery.
Were you once out of the mists of Republicanism, you would see clearly that this doctrine of ï¿½State Rights,ï¿½-fatal to freedom, neutralizing the power of the Constitution to effect its specific and expressed object,-is no where recognized by the Constitution. True, the State governments are all recognized, but only as subordinate to this Supreme Law of the land. What the Republicans have adopted this absurd slave holdersï¿½ doctrine for, unless it be to excuse them from the responsibility of doing any thing for freedom in the States where slavery exists, and to lift them into power, it is difficult to see.
But, leaving this fatal inconsistency, you say of the slaves, they are ï¿½men as much entitled to freedom as you and I. The argument that proves my right to my children, gives the same title, the same sacred claim, to every father. They, as I, get it from their God, and no human enactment can annul the claim. No, sir, never! Therefore, every slave has a right to his freedom, in spite of your slave laws. And I insist that any laws for enslaving men have just the same moral force as the arrangement among robbers and pirates for distributing their spoils.ï¿½ If then, there be anything in the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of any state, to sanction slavery, how can such laws remove it beyond your reach, and give the slaveholders therein ï¿½a right to sport it? Who in the least respects ï¿½the arrangement among pirates and robbersï¿½?
You say, also, the men now in slavery in the States not only have the same natural rights that you have, but the Constitution, recognizing them no where as property, but every where as persons, ordained by their fathers-who were a part of ï¿½the peopleï¿½-to secure to them the blessings of liberty, guarantees to them everything it guarantees to you. What are some of these guarantees?
1st. That the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus-which in England made slavery impossible, and does so among us for every person to whom its privilege extends-shall not be suspended.
2d. That no person shall be deprived of life or liberty, except by due process of law. What due process of law has there ever been to deprive these four million people of the United States of their liberty? None whatever. Senator Mason himself, in 1850, stated in the Senate, that there existed in no State even the form of a statute establishing slavery. Every body knows, or ought to know, that there is not a particle of constitutional law in the country for the establishment of slavery. There never has been any, nor has there ever been even the form of a ï¿½due process of law.ï¿½
Many other guarantees, making slavery impossible, might be cited, but these are enough. These are direct and explicit. They are ï¿½the supreme law of the land, any thing in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.ï¿½ There can be no possible ï¿½State Rightsï¿½ to supersede these express provisions of the Constitution. They are obligatory on every man sworn to support the Constitution. It is incumbent on you, as a federal law-maker, to so legislate in congress as to apply these provisions to every human being in the land. Instead of placing the slave in the States beyond your reach, the constitution, according to your own claims, brings him within your reach. I charge you with perjury, and criminal recklessness to human liberty, if, believing as you do that the Constitution makes these guarantees without exception, you do not demand the practical application of them in behalf of the slaves in the slave States.
You say-ï¿½Sir, I am going to invoke the aid of the General Government to protect me, as an American citizen, in my rights as an American citizen. I claim the privilege of going any where and every where within the limits of this American Republic, as a free citizen, unmolested.ï¿½
Now, Sir, what rights can you claim under the Constitution that any other native-born citizen may not claim? You demand of the General Government protection as an American citizen, in your rights as such, in your right to go everywhere, within the limits of this republic, as a free citizen unmolested. And will you not concede this to the black man of the South, whom you confess to be, under the Constitution, a free citizen equal to yourself? Will you hesitate longer to claim this right for him?
You say he has a natural rights to his liberty equal to your own. Natural rights are always implied parts of every Constitution, unless expressly abrogated. This right of every man to liberty is not abrogated, but reaffirmed, in the Constitution, and without any qualification or exception, as you state. This right is declared, in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the country previous to the present, to be self-evident. Is not all self-evident truth an implied part of every Constitution? You will admit then, that by the strongest implication, by the expressed provisions of the instrument itself, the slave is as much entitled to his freedom as you are, and that you can have no shadow of an excuse, ï¿½as a federal law-maker,ï¿½ for not seeking by every means to extend to him blessings by ï¿½the privilege of the habeas corpusï¿½ which the Constitution puts into your hands.
You say, ï¿½Long enough has the nation crouched and cowered in the presence of this stupendous wrong. Here and now I break the spell, and disenchant the republic from the incantation of this accursed sorceress.ï¿½
Was this an idle boast of yours, or did you utter this while you lay, back-broken, as you confessed when you said, ï¿½It is beyond my reachï¿½? Who ï¿½has crouched and cowered before this stupendous wrongï¿½? Not the Democratic party. That party is the bold advocate and supporter of the wrong. It has been the part of the Republican party to crouch and cover-that party in which you are held, spell-bound, confessing slavery beyond your reach. Yes, you are spell-bound, even while you utter that ï¿½tremendous philippie,ï¿½ boasting to break the spell when you had already confessed that it had broken your own back. See how you cower: ï¿½I conclude the States have a right to sport this fungus of slavery.ï¿½ ï¿½I deny no one their rights. The slave States are equal to the free States. It is a poor, pitiful and paltry patriotism that cannot taken in the entire extent of its country; but I do deny that slavery has the same rights as freedom in this country.ï¿½ You had already said, ï¿½I say it has no right upon earthï¿½; but you proceed, <illegible>, ï¿½I tell you of the slave States, you must emancipate
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
your slaves. It belongs to you, not to us. You must transform them from slaves into serfs. We shall not push you. If you want a quarter of a century, you can have it; if you want half a century, you can have it.' This was said after you had broken the spoil. How clear it looks! Despotic Russia says her serfs have a right to freedom, and must have it. You of the Republican liberty party of democratic America, who say the slave has as much right to his liberty as you or I, and confess that the Constitution guarantees it to him, and obligates you to see that he has it, say to the slaveholder. 'Make him a serf-we shall not push you. You can have fifty years, if you want it.'
You say, 'My honest conviction is, that all these slaveholding laws have the same moral power and force that rules among pirates have for the distribution of their booty, that regulations of robbers have for the division of their spoils. Than piracy, than robbery, slaveholding is worse-more criminal, more injurious to man; consequently, more offensive to God.' Now, imagine yourself before a band of pirates and robbers, uttering these bold words: 'States legalizing and protecting piracy and robbery are equal to States which forbid these evils, and refuse to participate in them! As a federal law-maker, I concede that the States have a right to sport these fungi of piracy and robbery. And, as a Republican, I will protect you in it there, but you must not extend the area of this iniquity. We shall not molest you where it now is. I deny no one his rights. It is a poor, pitiful and paltry patriotism that cannot take in the entire extent of its country. But I do not deny that piracy and robbery have the same rights as honest trade and productive labor. I tell you, you must transform your piracy and robbery into gambling and respectable cheating. We shall not push you. If you want a quarter or even half a century, you can have it. The nation has cowered to you long enough; here and now I break the spell!'
And Mr. Garrison says, 'This is the boldest anti-slavery speech ever delivered in Congress.' The boldest plea ever there made for social, natural, and constitutional rights so long and so extensively tram-pled down in our country! This surprised even Republicans, and caused the boldest of them to rejoice, while the weakest trembled! This made the tyrants rave furiously! What must they have had hitherto? There have been Hale, and Giddings, and Sumner, and Seward, and an army of others, and not one of them has come up to this, which, on examination, proves to be a mere sham fire of noise and smoke!-a blank cartridge pointed to the territories where there is no one to hit, though it threatens the slave holder should he go there.
Such is the very best thing, you Republicans pledged to support slavery where it is, can do for us! How long, O pretended defenders of Liberty, will you abuse our patience? How long will you continue to consume our energies in baffling our efforts, and distracting our counsels for liberty? How long must we tolerate you in this abuse of trust? Shall the poor slave never one true friend to fearlessly and justly plead his cause, and demand his rights, in the councils of the nation? Sir, you feel the blood of a brother, murdered by slaveholders, calling out to you from the ground! The late martyrdom of brave, noble men at Harper's Ferry, appeals to you! Four million slaves, as much entitled to liberty as you, hold out their bleeding, wounded hands, beseeching you, in their behalf, to be just and true! God and the dearest interests of your country call upon you to be faithful! The oath you have taken to support an antislavery, liberty-favoring Constitution, obligates you to move forward with practical measures towards direct and immediate emancipation! That you may yet do this, we beseechingly pray.
J.H.FOWLER.
'THE GARRISONIAN ULTRAS.'
To the Editors of the Rochester American:
Your paper of the 9th inst. has an article headed, 'The Garrisonian Ultras,' which does vast injustice to a class of persons, that, in the present attitude of the Anti-Slavery cause, it is bad taste and worse economy for Republicans falsely to assail.
Your authority in the case is very questionable, in the first place. Frederick Douglass's Paper, were its owner at his post, would never have been the vehicle of so vile accusations; for though Mr. Douglass has his views on several questions, and I mine, widely differing, there has never, to my knowledge, been anything us requiring any misrepresentation in their statement or defence.
Since, by the ungodly tyranny of this slaveholding nation, he has been most cruelly exiled from his native land, his paper has been edited by a certain Mr. Pryne.
During the past winter, I have spoken in Rochester ten or twelve times, if not more; and have several times borne testimony to the many excellencies of Frederick Douglass, as a man of enviable talents, and an abolitionist in his own way. And since his flight to England, I have written my friends there in approval of his course in thus escaping, while censuring in the strongest terms I could command, Dr. Howe, a white gentlemen, and one of the wealthy and influential leaders of the Republican party, for seeking similar shelter in Canada.
All winter, I looked in vain for one word of recognition of my presence in the city from the pen of this Mr. Pryne. Not the most rabid Democratic paper in New York could have been more indifferent to a discussion of the claims of the slave in your midst.
And now, as soon as I am out of the city and out of the State, this pro tempore editor has opened upon me a volley of representations worthy only of the New York Herald, or its co-worker in sin, the New York Observer. And you, gentlemen, have (as I trust unwittingly) given the mischief all the advantage of your wide circulation and influence.
Permit me now to say, that it is absolutely false that I ever 'advocated a Personal Liberty Law, and at the same time advised my hearers not to vote.' Equally false is it, and, if possible, more diabolical, to say that, when asked to explain my position, I 'intimated that the questioner was a fool.'
All winter, we have advocated a Personal Liberty Law-and always before the election, everywhere, I for one urged the importance of electing to the Legislature only men as would favor it.
As to the Federal Government, we have made the following resolutions our text, in probably twenty meetings, and advocated their doctrines in every one we have held through the campaign:-
Resolved, That the so-called governments of the slave States are but organized bands of robbers, living by plunder on the avails of unpaid and unpitied toil.
Resolved, That it is the solemn and imperative duty of Northern Senators and Representatives to return at once to their respective constituencies, and take immediate measures for the formation of a new Northern Republic, that shall be indeed FREE-an asylum for the oppressed of all nations; uncursed by tread of slaveholder, unstained by blood of slaves.
Our non-voting theory is this:- Mr. Seward, in his late speech in Congress, admits and defends all the Constitutional Compromises for slavery ever claimed by Calhoun or endorsed by Webster. We Garrisonians accept that interpretation of the Constitution, and have for many years. But we do not mean to observe it-to swear to observe it; or to elect Mr. Seward or any other Federal officer to do these evil, immoral deeds. Consequently, we stand outside the Federal Government, and demand its overthrow, as a sin against justice and God.
My private position is this, when any party will construct this platform:-Immediate and unconditional Emancipation, or immediate dissolution of the Union, I will be among the first upon it; would even be, in the absence of better man [or women] its first Presidential candidate.
PARKER PILLSBURY.
Concord, N. H., April 15, 1860.
<C02>
FUGITIVE SLAVE RESCUE IN TROY.
Running Fight with the Officers-Recapture and Rescue.
From the Troy Whig, April 28.
Yesterday afternoon, the streets of this city and West Troy were made the scenes of unexampled excitement. For the first time since the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, an attempt was made here to carry its provisions into execution, and the result was a terrific encounter between the officers and the prisoner's friends, the triumph of mob law, and the final rescue of the fugitive. Our city was thrown into a grand state of turmoil, and for a time every other topic was forgotten, to give place to this new excitement. People did not think last evening to ask who was nominated at Charleston, or whether the news of the Heenan and Sayers battle had arrived-every thing was merged in the fugitive slave case, of which it seems the end is not yet. 
Charles Nalle, the fugitive, who was the cause of all this excitement, was a slave on the plantation of B. W. Hansborough, is Culpepper county, Virginia, till the 19th of October. 1858. when he made his escape, and went to live in Columbia, Pennsylvania. A wife and five children of his are residing there now. Not long since, he came to Sandlake, in this county, and resided in the family of Mr. Crosby until about three weeks ago. Since that time, he has been em- ployed as coachman by Uri Gilbert, Esq., of this city. He is about thirty years of age, tall and quite light-complexioned, and good-looking. He is said to have been an excellent and faithful servant.
At Sandlake, we understand that Nalle was often seen by one H. F. Averill, formally connected with one of the papers of this city, who communicated with his reputed owner in Virginia, and gave the in-formation that led to a knowledge of the whereabouts of the fugitive. Averill wrote letters for him, and thus obtained an acquaintance with his history. Mr. Hansborough sent on an agent, Henry J. Wall, by whom the necessary papers were got out to arrest the fugitive. 
Yesterday morning, about 11 o'clock, Charles Nalle was sent to procure some bread for the family I by whom he was employed. He failed to return. At the baker's, he was arrested by deputy United States Marshal J. W. Holmes, and immediately taken before United States Commissioner Miles Beach. The son of Mr. Gilbert, thinking it strange that he did not come back, sent to the house of William Henry, on Division street, where he boarded, and his whereabouts was discovered.
The examination before Commissioner Beach was quite brief. The evidence of Averill and the agent was taken, and the Commissioner decided to remand Nalle to Virginia. The necessary papers were made out and given to the marshal.
By this time it was two o'clock, and the fact began to be noised abroad that there was a fugitive slave in Mr. Beach's office, corner of State and First streets. People in knots of ten or twelve collected near the entrance, looking at Nalle, who could be seen at an upper window. William Henry, a colored man, with whom Nalle boarded, commenced talking from the curb-stone in a loud voice to the crowd. He uttered such sentences as 'There is a fugitive slave in that office-pretty soon you will see him come forth. He is going to be taken down South, and you will have a chance to see him. He is to be taken to the depot, to go to Virginia in the first train. Keep watch of those stairs, and you will have a sight.' A number of women kept shouting, crying, and by loud appeals exciting the colored persons assembled.
Still the crowd grew in numbers. Wagons halted in front of the locality, and were soon piled with spectators. An alarm of fire was sounded, and hose carriages dashed through the ranks of men, women and boys; but they closed again, and kept looking, with expectant eyes at the window where the negro was visible. Meanwhile, angry discussions commenced. Some persons agitated a rescue, and others favored law and order. Mr. Brockway, a lawyer, had his coat torn for expressing his sentiments, and other me-lees kept the interest alive.
All at once there was a wild hulloa, and every eye was turned up to see the legs and part of the body of the prisoner protruding from the second story window, at which he was endeavoring to escape. Then arose such a shout! 'Drop him!' 'Catch him!' 'Hurrah!' But the attempt was a fruitless one, for somebody in the office pulled Nalle back again, amid the shouts of a hundred pair of lungs. The crowd j at this time numbered nearly a thousand persons. Many of them were black, and a good share were of the female sex. They blocked up State street from First street to the alley, and kept surging to and fro.
Martin I. Townsend, Esq., who acted as counsel for the fugitive, did not arrive in the Commissioner's office until a decision had been rendered. He immediately went before Jude Gould, of the Supreme Court, and procured a writ of habeas corpus in the usual form, returning immediately. This was given to Deputy Sheriff Nathaniel Upham, who at once proceeded to Commissioner Beach's office, and served it on Holmes. Very injudiciously, the officers proceeded at once to Judge Gould's office, although it was evident they would have to pass through an excited, unreasoning crowd. As soon as the officers and their prisoner emerged from the door, an old negro, who had been standing at the bottom of the stairs, shouted,'Here they come,' and the crowd made a terrific rush at the party.
From the office of Commissioner Beach, in the Mutual Building, to that of Judge Gould, in Congress street, is less than two blocks, but it was made a regular battle-field. The moment the prisoner emerged from the doorway, in custody of Deputy Sheriff Up-ham, Chief of Police Quin, Officers Cleveland and Holmes, the crowd made one grand charge, and those, nearest the prisoner seized him violently, with the intention of pulling him away from the officers; but they were foiled, and down First to Congress street, and up the latter in front of Judge Gould's chambers, went the surging mass. Exactly what did go on in the crowd, it is impossible to ray, but the pulling, hauling, mauling and shouting, gave evidences of frantic efforts on the part of the rescuers, and a stern resistance from the conservators of the law. In front of Judge Gould's office the combat was at its height. No stones or other missiles were used; the battle was fist to fist. We believe an order was given to take the prisoner the other way, and there was a grand rush towards the West, past First and River streets, as far as Dock street. All this time there was a continual melee. Many of the officers were hurt-among them Mr. Upham, whose object was solely to do his duty by taking Nalle before Judge Gould in accordance with the writ of habeas corpus. A number in the crowd were more or less hurt, and it is a wonder that these were not badly injured, as pistols were drawn and chisels used. 
The battle had raged as far an the corner of Dock and Congress streets, and the victory remained with the rescuers at last. The officers were completely worn out with their exertions, and it was impossible to continue their hold upon him any longer. Nalle was at liberty. His friends rushed him down Dock street to the lower ferry, where there was a skiff lying ready to start. The fugitive was put in, the ferryman rowed off, and amid the shouts hundreds who lined the banks of the river, Nalle was carried into Albany county.
As the skiff landed in West Troy, a negro sympathiser waded up to the waist, and pulled Nalle out of the boat. He went up the hill alone, however, and there who should he meet but constable Becker? The latter official seeing a man with manacles on, considered it his duty to arrest him. He did so, and took him in a wagon to the office of Justice Stewart, on the second floor of the corner building near the ferry. The Justice was absent.
When the crowd on the Troy bank had seen Nalle safely landed, it was suggested that he might be re-captured. Then there was another rush made for the, steam ferry-boat, which carried over about 400 persons, and left as many more-a few the latter being soused in their effort* to get on the boat. On landing in West Troy, there, sure enough, was the prisoner locked up in a strong office, protected by officers Becker, Brown and Morrison, and the door barricaded.
Not a moment was lost. Up stairs went a score of. more of resolute men-the rest 'piling in' promiscuously, shouting and execrating the officers. Soon a stone flew against the door-then another-and bang, bang! went off a couple of pistols, but the officers who fired them took good care to aim pretty high. The assailants were forced to retreat for a moment. They're got pistols,' said- one. 'Who cares?' was the reply, 'they can only kill a dozen of up-come on.' More stones and more pistol shots en-sued. At last the door was pulled open by an immense negro, and in a moment he was felled by a hatchet in the hands of Deputy Sheriff Morrison a but the body of the fallen wan 'blocked up the door so that it could not be .hut, and a friend of the prisoner palled him out. Poor fellow! he might well say, 'Save me from my friends.' Amid the pulling and hauling, the iron had cut his arms, which were bleeding profusely, and be could hardly walk, owing in to fatigue.
He has since arrived safely in Canada,
FUGITIVES REMANDED TO SLAVERY.-New York, May 1.-Two fugitive slaves, from Maryland, were arrested in this city yesterday, and, after an examination before Commissioner Botts, were ordered to b sent back to their owners, in Liberty (!) district, Md. They are new on their way there. There was no disturbance-[doubtless because the affair was manage with the secrecy of kidnapping.]
<c03>
SAD OCCURRENCE. This morning, Mr. John W. Browne, a lawyer of this city, took the Fall River train, for the purpose of going to Middleboro', to attend the Probate Court. On the way, he appears to have changed his mind, and got from the train at the East and West Bridgewater station. He took the next train of can for Boston, but, at a few minutes before 10 o'clock, when the train was coming from Braintree to Quincy, and going at the rate of thirty-five miles an hour, he suddenly jumped from the ears, upon which he was standing. Conductor Dimon soon stopped the train, and people ran to him, but he never breathed after they got there. The above facts we learned from Mellus's South Braintree Express.
The deceased was a native of Salem, and was a brother of Charles Allen Browne and A. G. Browne, of this city. His age was about 60 years, and he was educated at Harvard, being a classmate and an intimate friend of Charles Sumner. He resided on Kingston street, and had an office at No. 19 Court street, having a good business, and was in comfortable circumstances. Formerly he resided in Lynn, but for the past twelve year has had an office in this city.
His friends can hardly conceive of there being a cause why he should have committed this act. He was in rather poor health, having overworked himself in his profession, and for the last two weeks has kept quiet, in consequence. The deceased' was of nervous temperament, and somewhat eccentric in his habits, and was very much esteemed by all who knew him. He was principally employed as a conveyancer, and had impaired his health by industriously searching real estate records, etc.
He leaves a wife and one child, a daughter, about sixteen years old.-Boston Traveller, Monday evening.
The intelligence of the death of Mr. BROWNE will occasion wide-spread sorrow, as he was greatly beloved and admired for his many estimable qualities of head and heart. His reflective faculties were large and active; his conversational powers uncommon; his daily life a pattern of beauty and excellence; his culture esthetic and refined. With a conscience Largely developed, a nature highly sympathetic, a heart warm and tender towards every form of human Buffering, he early interested himself in the cause of reform and progress, and especially in the Anti-Slavery struggle. But he modestly shrunk from public conspicuity, when he might easily have reached it, both as a speaker and writer. As to the manner of his death, there can be no doubt that it was wholly unpremeditated. Abandoning his contemplated journey midway because of ill health, and returning to the city by the earliest train, he was unquestionably thrown from the platform of the car while seeking fresh air, the speed of the train being very great at the time, and he losing his balance through weakness or faintness. Most deeply do we sympathize with his bereaved wife and child, and profoundly lament the loss of a gifted and It loved friend.-[Ed. Lib.
THE LATE HOMICIDE IS KANSAS. The telegraph, a few days since, announced the shooting of Deputy U. S. Marshal Arms, at Topeka, Kansas, by a man named John Ritchie, whom he was attempting to arrest. The full particulars of the affair have come to hand, in an extra from the office of the Slate Record, published at Topeka, which gives the evidence adduced before the coroner's jury and the justice of the peace before whom Mr. Ritchie was examined. The Record states that the crime with which Mr. Ritchie stood charged was that of mail robbery-a false charge trumped up during the troubles of 1855-6, in order to punish him for his active efforts in the Free State cause during that period, which had rendered him very obnoxious to the administration officials.
From the testimony adduced before the coroner's jury and the court, it clearly appeared that Arms was under the influence of liquor when he started to arrest Ritchie; that he had no writ or other official authority for the arrest, and tacitly admitted the fact; that when Ritchie refused to be arrested, he swore hat he should be, and drawing a pistol, followed him into his house; that when Ritchie displayed a pistol, and declared he would not be taken alive, Arms laid that if he (Ritchie) took his (Arm's) life first, tie would have to shoot quickest; and that Arms continuing to advance upon Ritchie, with his pistol cocked, the latter fired, shooting Arms through the neck, and killing him instantly. After hearing the evidence and the arguments in the case, the Justice [Miller) decided that the case was one of justifiable homicide, and discharged the prisoner.
THB GREAT PRIZE FIGHT.-NEW YORK, April 28th. -The Vanderbilt arrived at her dock at 8 o'clock. She left Southampton at 61/2, P. M., on the 18th, having made the passage in nine days, fourteen hours, notwithstanding westerly winds part of the passage, and blinding snow storms.
The great tight took place early on the morning of the 17th inst., at Fernborough, near Aldershot. The fight lasted two hours and six minutes. In the first dozen rounds, Sayers was knocked completely off his legs. Tom's arms, owing to the severe fighting, suffered much. Thirty-seven rounds were fought, when the people rushed into the ring, and Savers' referee was crowded out. The pugilists were then ordered to desist from fighting by the referee.
Both men went to grass on the last round. Sayers fell almost every round. Heenan's eyes were quite blacked up towards the last, and at the last round he was quite blind. Heenan showed splendid fighting throughout the contest. Heenan shows much more punishment than Sayers.
Tom drew the first blood. On the tenth round Heenan completely lifted Tom from the ground, and threw him with the greatest ease. The eighth round lasted twenty minutes, ended in Heenan going down. The seventh round lasted thirteen minutes. Wonderful skill was displayed on both aides, but Tom was easily knocked off his pins. It is not known whether they will fight again or not. The opinion of the public was divided as to who was the better man. [The better man, forsooth!-what low brutality! what a terrible satire upon the civilization of the nineteenth century! 'Let dogs delight,' &c.]
A SLAVE CASE DECISION. A decision has recently been given in the U. S. Circuit Court of Alabama upon a slave case of the United States vs. Horatio N. Gould. This case involved the question of a purchaser's right of property in negroes illegally brought to this country, and then sold to him. Stripped of its legal phraseology, the charge was simply this: That the defendant, without any participation in the illegal importation, did, within the said District, hold, sell, or otherwise dispose of, as a slave, a negro who had been previously imported by some other person. The question then was, whether this was an indictable offence against the laws of the United States. The court decided it was not, and the following is the main point:-
'Slaves being by the Constitution placed on precisely the same footing as. all other property, Messrs. Armistead & Boyles argued, the federal juristiction extends over them in precisely the same manner and the same extent, but no more than all other property. Thus, so long as unbroken merchandize arrives in unbroken bulk, the federal jurisdiction extends over it, but as soon as the cargo is broken and the merchandize dispersed among the several purchasers, it can only be reached by process of the State courts. Hence, whatever laws Congress may enact against the original importer of African slaves, they cannot be made to apply to the purchaser who acquired the property within the limits and by the laws of an individual State.'
ANOTHER SLAVE CASE DECISION.-On the 22d of January, 1859, Charles Fisher, held to service or labor in the State of Kentucky, was arrested in Kansas Territory, by the legal guardian of the persons and property of two infant children named Hutchinson, from whom he had escaped. A rescue was thereupon attempted, and the Leavenworth Herald publishes this decision of Judge Pettit, of the 1st District Court of the United States for Kansas Territory, in the case o j the United States vs. Lewis L. Weld, on an indictment for assisting in the escape thus attempted. The Judge takes the position that there was no legal ground for prosecution, inasmuch as the Fugitive Slave Law doe' not authorize a pursuit and reclamation by a guardian, Provision for reclaiming fugitive slaves the property of minors, he maintains, has been entirely omitted form the law.
INCENDIARY DOCUMENTS IN MARYLAND.-The Kent County Conservator says that his Honor Judge Carmichael has decided that it is not necessary for postmasters to inspect each issue of a newspaper to see if incendiary sentiments are contained therein; that if the general reputation of a paper is of that character a postmaster is justified in withholding such paper and that any postmaster delivering such paper, knowing in character or tendency, renders himself liable to all the penalties enacted for circulating incendiary documents. He also directed the Grand Jury to notify each postmaster in the county of this decision. The several postmasters, we learn, in pursuance a e this decision, were directed to refuse all applications far the New York Tribune, the jury deeming that paper an incendiary sheet. Postmasters delivering said paper, we an requested to state, will be prosecuted in every case.
<c04>
BRUTALITIES IN KENTUCKY. Cassius M. Clay, at the Republican State Convention of Kentucky, stated, that on his death bad, West, one of the Bereana, informed him that while his daughter was watching by him with final devotion, she saw horsemen leaping the fence into the yard, surrounding the house, and sprang to the door and closed it. She then dosed the back door, when it was knocked down, and herself with it, by one of the ruffians, who walked over the door with her under it, injuring her person. One of them, with a pistol at die dying man's breast, demanded all the information be had about the Bereans, and the daughter was forced against the cupboard with a pistol, the same demand being made of her.
TWO DELEGATES THAT' PREPARED' FOR THE CON-VENTION.-An altercation occurred and a fight ensued between two delegates to the Charleston Convention, at Knoxville, Tenn., oh Friday last, which resulted in one of the parties having his arm broken with a stick in the hands of the other, whereupon the maimed man stepped back and drew a pistol, and shot hit adversary, the ball taking effect in one arm and breaking it, when they were separated, both parties having broken arms. Both were lawyers and residents of Knoxville, and named respectively Spencer and Graham. Notwithstanding their severe injuries, both expressed their determination to attend the Convention.
THE PECULIAR INSTITUTION.-The Charleston correspondent of the New York Herald says that an interesting episode in the serenade of the Gilmore Band, in that city was the suppression, by order of the police authorities, of the drums-bass and tenor-it being against the law to have such music in the streets of Charleston after ten o'clock at night. The roll of the drum is to be the signal to arms in case of a servile insurrection at night. What a sensation the drum corps would create in Charleston at midnight!
Northern Democrats must feel highly complimented by the remarks of Mr. Burrows, of Arkansas, in the Charleston Convention, last Saturday. 'He considered them worse than the Black Republicans! He did not care whether the Black Republicans whipped them, or they whipped the Black Republicans. Of the two, he considered the Black Republicans as the most open and manly foe of the South.
A CARGO OF SLAVES LANDED IW TEXAS.- The Government has received reliable information that a cargo of Africans has been successfully landed upon the coast of Texas very recently, and a secret agent from the Land Office has been dispatched to that quarter for more definite information.
A negro named Frank Buckner undertook to sell two of his own children into slavery a few days since. Instead of accomplishing this profitable little trade, he got into prison, and is likely to serve the State for the present.
Slave Trader Acquitted.-Capt. Land, the mate, and supercargo of the brig Virginia, charged with being engaged in the slave trade, were acquitted on Tuesday last, in the United States District Court at Norfolk. Of course!
Steamboat Explosion.-The steamer Calhoun exploded her boiler at Columbus, Ga., on Tuesday, killing six negro deck hands, mortally wounding acting Capt. Crawford, and seriously injuring two passengers and Hugh Atkins, engineer.
Advices by the steamer Star of the West state that a fire occurred on the 19th of March in the valley of Trinidad, extending along the valley. All the standing cane on the sugar estates for eighteen miles was swept down. Loss estimated at a million and a half. It is estimated that it will reduce the production of sugar on the island over eight thousand hogsheads.
The dwelling-house of a man named Hobbs was burned at Orange, New York, yesterday afternoon, and four children of Mr. H. perished in the flames. Mr. Hobbs and two of his children were rescued, badly burned. Hobbs set the building on fire himself, and is under arrest.
THE NEW TRACTS. Packages of these Tracts, especially of' The New Reign of Terror in the Slave-holding States,' were sent out last week to the following places, and we shall be glad to learn that they reached their destination safely:-To Lydia Mott, Albany; Samuel J. May, Syracuse; Susan B. Anthony, Rochester; Alonzo J. Grover, Earlville, Ill.; J. B. Campbell, Clinton, Iowa; T. Chandler, Adrian, Michigan; William Crow, Grinnell, Iowa; Rev. N. T. Johnston, Topsham, Vt.; Rev. John E. Palmer, Lower Waterford, Vt. Larger packages were previously sent to New York City. Philadelphis, and Salem, Ohio. Friends, wanting these publications, will please address SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washing, ton street, Boston.
The General Agent of the Liberator acknowledges the receipt of the following sums from subscribers in Scotland, forwarded by Andrew Paton, Esq., of Glasgow:-
James Whittet, Perth, to Jan. 1st, 1860, $4 80
Mrs. Nichol, Glasgow, to Jan. 1st, 1861, 9 60
Wm. Caird, Port Glasgow, to Jan. 1st, 1860, 3 00
Wm. Roberts, Glasgow, to Jan. 1st, 1861, 6 00
Andrew Paton, Glasgow, to Jan. 1st, 1861, 6 00
Boston, April 27,1860.
RECEIPTS 
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from April 1, to May 1, 1860.
Samuel May, to redeem pledge, $50 00
Charles Mitchell, Boston, donation, 1 00
Friend in Maine, l 00
Collections by A. T. Foss.
Westminster, over expenses, 59c, Leominster, do, 9, 0 68 
Mr. Forbush, for tracts, 25c; S. Gardner, $2 25, 2 50 A. A. Burt, 1; Samuel Burt, 1; Fitchburg, 3 90, 5.90
Kingston, 4 80; Jonathan Buxton, 4; Easex, Mass., 5 29, 14 09 
Manchester, 1 82; Fall River, 10, Henry Dyer, Pembroke, 1; Hanson, 2 18, Harwich, 6 89, 10 07
Orthodox churches, 2 12; East Dennis, 4 26, 6 38 
North Dennis, 10 04; Centreville, 1 06; Osterville 2, 13 10 
Nathan Colman 2; Hyannis, 3; Groveland, 3, 8 00
Collections by C. L. Remond.
AtDennis, 3; Groveland, 4 33;Duxbury, 5 17, Worcester, 5, 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. Boston, May 1, 1860.
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING or PR0GRESSIVE FRIENDS.
The eighth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on First Day, the 3d of the Sixth month, [June,] 1860.
This is a Religious Society, bound together by no ecclesiastical ligatures, but by a common tie of brother hood and a common love of Truth, Purity, and Progress. It embraces men and women differing widely in theological opinion, but agreeing in the one great central doctrine and practice of true religion, which is love to God exhibited in love to man. It imposes on its members no farther test of membership than a desire to lead a life of greater personal purity, of more wide-spread practical beneficence, and of more ennobling and comforting religious aspirations. It seeks to inculcate a religion that shall prove its Divine character by bringing illumination to the mind, and inspiring it with a confident and cheering hope of a future life, and that shall, at the same time. prove its fitness for the regulation of human conduct by giving to men an enlarged idea of the dignity of human nature, of the sacredness of liberty, and of every human being to a free and uninherited growth toward the pure pattern and ideal of Jesus of Nazareth. Its annual assemblies are for the purpose of mutual quickening and culture of a religious life, for the enjoyment and profit of social intercourse, and for the furtherance of all moral reforms whose object is the promotion of Truth, Purity, and Freedom. It accordingly gives a cordial and hearty invitation, in view of its coming re-union, to all persons, of whatever sect or creed, of whatever color or condition, who may feel attracted to such a meeting for such a purpose.
JOSEPG A.DUGDALK, MARY A.W.JOHNSON,
ELIEABETM JACKSON, MARY.SMITH,
OLIVER JOHNSON, EUSEBIUS BARNARD,
WILLIAM BAKNARD, MARY.I. BARNARD,
ISAAC MENDENHALL, MIKIAM C.WORRELL,
MARY P.WILSON, MARTHA KIMBER,
JOHN G.JACKSON, SARAM MARSN BAKWARD,
RUTH DUGDALE, DINAM MENDENMAL,
LICK JACKSON, J.WILLIAM COX,
TMOMAS WORRELL, CORA WILSURN,
ANNIE M.STAMBACM,M.D
Communications for the meeting may be addressed to JOSEPH A.DUGDALH, Hamorton, Chester, Country, Pa, or to OLIVER JOHNSON, Anti-slaver office, New York.
<C05>
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
The unequalled success that has attended the application of this medicine in Coughs, Colds. Asthma, Bronchial Affection, Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, Incipient Consumption, has induced many physicians of high standing to employ it in their practice, many of whom advise us of the fact under their own signature: 
DR. WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY RECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS. AURURN, Sept. 6, 1858. 
S. W. FOWLS & Co: SIRS-I most cheerfully add my testimony in favor of the Balsam. We have used in our family in Pulmonary affections. Coughs and Colds, and esteem it a most valuable remedy, and have recommended it in various complaints of this nature with invariably happy results.
W. B. LYNCH, M. D. 
MANSFIELD, Tioga Co., Pa., Aug.. 1858, GENTELMEN-Having used in my practice, the last four years, Wistar's Balsam of wild Cherry, with great success, I most cheerfully recommend it to those afflicted with obstinate Coughs, Colds, Asthma, &c. 
H. D. MARTIN, M. D. 
CAPE VINCENT, N. Y., July 17, 1858. 
GENTLEMEN-After using Dr. Wistar's Balsam for long time, I can say, from repeated observation, that I regard it as one of the best kind of Cough medicines, and take great pleasure in recommending it to the afflicted.
W. H. WEBB, M. D. 
BROWNVILLE, N. Y., July 18, 1858.
GENTS-Having sold Wistar's for two years past, and having used the same myself with great success, I cheerfully recommend it to all who are suffering with Asthma or Consumption. A. A. GIBBS.
Prepared by S. W. FOWLS & CO., Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers everywhere. April 20.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION.
The TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION will be held in COOPER UNION, New York, on Thursday and Friday, May 10th and 11th. Sessions at half-past 10, A. M., and half-past 7, evening.
Wendell Phillips, Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Ernestine L. Rose, J. Elizabeth Jones, Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell and others will address the Convention.
On behalf of the Central Committee,
E. CADY STANTON, President. SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Sec'y.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture at 
Manchester, N. H., Sunday, May 6.
Weare, N. H., Tuesday, May 8.
North Weare, N. H., Thursday, May 10.
Concord, N. H., Sunday, May 13.
Henniker, N. H , Tuesday, May 15.
Bradford, N.H , Thursday, May 17. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in the Melodeon, Boston, on Sunday, May 6th, afternoon and evening; and in Andover, on Sunday, May 13.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will speak on Sunday next, at MONTSERRAT, (Beverly.) in the afternoon.
HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THE next (Summer) Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday, May 2, 1860, and continue Ten weeks. Applications for admission should be made at as early a date as practicable. For particulars, address 
WM. S. HAYWOOD, ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals. Hopedale, (Milford, Mass.) April 3, 1860.
WEST NEWTON English and Classical School.
THE Summer quarter will begin on Wednesday, 25th inst.
For particulars, inquire of the Principal, NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, April 20. West Newton, Mass.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET, BROOKLYN. L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.

CARPETING 
All the Year Round.
J0HN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NBAR WINTER STREET,) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities). Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Coeoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.. Mchl6tf BOSTON, MASS.
Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON.
JUST PUBLISHED: a pamphlet of 36 pages, by HENRY C. WRIGHT, entitled, 'NO RIGHTS NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders bring the Hight and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North.
For sale by BELA MARSH..14 Bromfield street and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill. Price 10 cents.
PHRENOLOGY.
BY urgent request, Prof. N. WHEELER, well known as a <illegible> and truthful Phrenologist, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, corner of Hanover, Boston, where he will make Phrenological Examinations. give written delineations of Character and furnish Charts; heal the sick, impart instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children. tf. March 4.
<c06>
IN PRESS.
AND
TO BE ISSUED IMMEDIATELY.
ECHOES OF
HARPER'S FERRY.
'By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
Their flag to April's breeze unfurled;
Here once the embattled farmers stood.
And fired the shot heard round the world.'
R. W. EMERSON.
COMPRISING the best Speeches Sermone. Letters, Poems, and other utterances of leading minds in Europe and America, called forth by JOHN BROWN'S INVASION OF VIRGINIA; embracing the productions of Rev. George B. Cheever. Wendell Phillips, Rev. Gilbert Haven. Theodore Parker, Henry Ward Beecher, Wm. Lloyd Garrison. Charles O'Connor, Rev. E. M. Wheelock. Ralph Waldo Emerson, Edward Everett, John G. Whittier, Victor Hugo, Henry D. Thoreau, and others, revised by the authors, wits their autographs annexed. With an appendix containing a valuable article on 
'The Value of the Union to the North.'
THE WHOLE COLLECTED AND ARRANGED
BY JAMES REDPATH. 
In 1 vol. 12 mo. 514 pages. Price, $1.25. 
No Library is complete without this remarkable collection of -thoughts that breathe and words that burn' from the best minds in America and Europe. It is also valuable for circulation as a 
Presidential Compaign Document.
NOW READY.
THE LIFE OF
Capt. John Brown, 
BY JAMES REDPATH. 
Of which nearly 40,000 Copies have been sold. 
1 vol. 12 mo., illustrated with steel Portrait, 408 pp. 
PRICE, ONE DOLLAR. 
JUST PUBLISHED, A NEW EDITION OF THE 
Thrilling Narrative 
-OF-
DR. JOHN DOY,
OF KANSAS
0R, SLAVERY AS IT IS-INSIDE AND OUT.
A handsome Illustrated Pamphlet, 130 pp.
Price, 25 Cents.
IN PREPARATION, A NEW WORK BY JAMES REDPATH.
ENTITLED 
Talks with the Slaves 
IN THE SOUTHERN STATES,
During several journeys through the slaveholding section of the Union. An intensely interesting work. To comprise about 400 pages, 12 mo. Illustrated. 
Price, One Dollar.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON STREET. 
A20 lw BOSTON. 
DR. CHEEVER'S GREAT WORK. 
The Guilt of Slavery, 
AND THE 
CRIME OF SLAVEHOLDING, 
DEMONSTRATED FROM THE HEBREW AND GREEK SCRIPTURES. 
BY REV. GEO. B. CHEEVER, D. D. 
THIS work embraces an examination of all the passages in the Bible on the subject of Slavery and Slaveholding as a sin against God and man. It contains a thorough analysis of the Mosaic laws of domestic service, as well as of tributary subjection; and of the national history in illustration of the laws The learned author has spent years of research upon this work, and it is without doubt the ablest effort of his life, and the most thorough demolition of all pro-slavery arguments, based upon the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments.
PRICE,$1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY. 
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
March 9. 6wis
Mrs. Lydia Maria Child's
LIFE OF
ISAAC T. HOPPER,
THE DISTINGUISHED QUAKER PHILANTHROPIST,
IS one of the most intensely interesting and useful biographies of MODERN TIMES.
His was emphatically 
'A TRUE LIFE,
A NEW EDITION.
THE TWELFTH THOUSAND 
Is just published. No library is complete without the record of this TRUE LIFE-a life spent in deeds of the most active philanthropy and benevolence. 
PRICE $1 25.
JOHN P. JEWETT &CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET,BOSTON.
March 9. imis 
The Herald of Progress 
EDITED BY 
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS. 
THIS new Journal of Practical and Spiritual form is commented to the favorable notice of all interested in any of the. pregressive movements of the day. Its columns are open to well written articles upon any and all Reform questions. Unlike most Spiritual papers heretofore published, its emulation at the South is limited by the sentiment there which declares it among' incendiary documents.'
Its tolerant spirit towards every question of human interest, should commend it to all' who love their fellow-men.'
Terms*-$2 per year. To be had of all news agents.
A. J. DAVIS & CO., Publishers,
M30 3t 274 Canal street. New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THREE EPOCHS IN ENGLAND'S HISTORY.
SERFDOM.
We talk of Merrie England, 'Good Old Times,'
Of chivalry, fair dames, barons, and knights;
Of tournaments, and feasts, and such delights,
As this were all; and that no hideous crimes,
Crimes born of Slavery, cursed not our land.
Ok England! serf-tilled England! Freedom then,
Thy infant Freedom, nursed by merchants' hand,
Struggled with kingly tyrants, cruel men,
Who held the poor man had no right to live,
But for their kingly pleasure. From the crown
The taint of tyranny spread quickly down,
Till baron, knight, squire, yeoman, deemed to give
Their toil-worn serfs a hut, coarse, scanty food,
Was all that duty claimed, and self-acquitted stood.
COLONIAL SLAVERY.
The morning dawns, and infant liberty,
Like the young oak, battling with wind and storms,
Takes firmer root; and England's soil is free
From serfdom's withering curse. Tardy reforms
Heal the diseased State, by slavery blighted;
Tardily, one by one, deep wrongs are righted:
Still many a tyranny the law deforms;
Many a cruel wrong it unrequited. 
<illegible> Released from serfdom, Commerce spreads her sails <illegible> the wide world, north, south, west and east:
Art, Science flourish; but o'er all prevails
The wicked art of war: and, not the least
Of England's sins, from Afric's coast she bore
The helpless negro slave to her New England shore.
EMANCIPATION.
He is a slave who calls a man 'My slave.'
As youthful Liberty grew daily stronger
From struggles with injustice, wise as brave,
She saw the giant evil, and no longer
O'er pining Slavery her flag may wave.
Oh what a day for England! With a bound.
As if a weary chain had held her long,
Or as if pressed beneath a burthen strong,
England sprang forward to untrodden ground.
Not in the arts of War she glory found.
But nobler arts of Peace. The great command,
Subdue my earth, O man! make its wealth thine,'
Is not for States where slaves in bondage pine,
But for Free States, where freemen upright stand. 
Tenterden, (Eng.) JANE ASHEY.
For the Liberator.
IMPARTIAL LOVE. 
'Whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?-I. John, 3: 17.
Turn not away empty the man who it poor,
Though what you may give he may never restore:
We all have one Father, and pleased will he be
When our love for each other in deeds he shall see.
Turn not away empty the child of the soil, 
The red man, whom long we have labored to spoil;
With him at the judgment ere long we must stand,
To say why we've robbed him of houses and land.
Turn not away empty the child of the sea.
But give him the pittance he asketh of thee;
O, list to his tale, and relieve, if you can,
For he is thy brother-he, too, is a man.
Turn not away empty the man with dark skin.
For he is thy brother-a heart beats within;
God regards not his color, and neither shouldst thou;
In prayer to the same common Father we bow.
Turn not away empty the man who would flee
From oppression, to dwell in the midst of the free;
But help him, and bid him a hearty God-speed;
Thou shalt feel thou art bless'd e'en while doing the dead.
Turn not away empty the child of the wars,
Who may come to thee covered all over with scars;
But speak of the time when earth's tumults shall cease,
When love shall prevail, and all men live in peace.
Turn not away empty the man who has been
Overcome by temptation-the victim of sin;
But speak to him kindly-sweet hope it may give-
Perchance 'twill incite him a true life to live.
Turn not away empty the least thou canst bless.
But keep thy heart open to all in distress;
Thus thou'it hasten the time when God's kingdom shall come,
And many, through thee, find in heaven a home.
Boston, April 14, 1860. JUSTITIA.
THE LIFE GUAGE.
They err who measure life by years,
With false or thoughtless tongue;
Some hearts grow old before their lime;
Others are always young.
'Tis not the number of the lines
On Life's fast-filling page;
'Tis not the pulse's added throbs, 
Which constitute their age.
Some souls are serfs among the free,
While others nobly thrive;
They stand just where their fathers stood-
Dead, even while they live!
Others, all spirit, heart, and sense-
Theirs the mysterious power
To live in thrills of joy or woe,
A twelvemonth in an hour!
Seize, them, the minutes as they pass-
The woof of life is Thought!
Warm up the colors-let them glow,
With fire or fancy fraught.
Live to some purpose-make thy life
A gift of use to thee!
A joy, a good, a golden hope,
A heavenly argosy!

MUSIC OF SPIRNG.
Then May recrossed the southern hill,
Her heralds thronged the elms and eaves;
And Nature, with a sudden thrill,
Burst all her buds to leaves.
Loud o'er the slope a streamlet flung
Fresh music from its mountain springs,
As if a thousand birds there sung,
And flashed their azure wings.
'Flow on,' the maiden sang, 'and whirl,
Sweet stream, your music o'er the hill,
And touch with your light foot of pearl
The wheel of yonder mill!'
It touched the wheel, and in the vale
Died from the ear, and passed from view,
Like a singing bird that is seen to sail
Into the distant blue;
Died where the river shone below, 
Where white sails through the vapor glowed,
Like greet archangels moving slow 
On some celestial road.
ALL WELL.
No dread of wasting sickness,
No thought of ache or pain;
No fretting hours of weakness,
Shall mar our peace again:
No death our homes o'ershading,
Shall o'er our harps unstring,
For all is life unfading,
In presence of our King.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
DR. BROOKE ON NON-REGISTANCE.
It seems to me that my friend Dr. Brooke has for once been misled by an erroneous first impression, in his comments (April 27th) upon my article on 'The Non-Resistance Principle,' in the Liberator of April 6. He claims a better basis for the rule of life, or the standard by which the rightfulness or wrongfulness of an act to be judged, than authority, whether a text of Scripture, or the precept of teacher, or the mandate of a lawgiver or a legislative body. I think a second reading of my article would show him that I have taken no ground at variance with this. When Dr. Mann declined to take Scripture as authority, I understood him to protest against the prevailing superstition of assuming the whole contents of the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures to be infallibly inspired of God, so that a passage from any part of either should be conceded to overcome all opposing considerations; but I by no meant understood him to reject every thing that is contained in those books, or to refuse assent to true and just ideas when such are found there, and because they ere found there. In writing, I kept in mind his limitation, and claimed no value for any principle, or any expression, because I had found it in the Scriptures. Choosing what, in my judgment, was best, from the whole circle of ethical and religious literature known to me, I never thought of rejecting any idea or any expression because it was in the Bible! On the contrary, finding these best things-the statement of a rule of life better adapted than any previously given to secure the happiness, welfare and progressive improvement of our whole race-among the sayings of Jesus of Nazareth, commonly called Christ, and finding the accordance of his life with these precepts to be so uniform, under all circumstances, as to show that he actually meant what he said, I rejoice to give him the honor of calling this system the Christian system; and I am not in the slightest degree deterred from doing him this justice by the fact that a long series of generations of priests, Catholic and Protestant, have attempted to fix this name upon their theological and dogmatic systems; to pervert it from the maintenance of freedom and love to that of despotic bigotry; and to use it mainly as an instrument to provide their subsistence and fortify their ill-gotten power. I think it is due to that much-abused personage to call the Non-Resistance principle by hit name; and if the name 'Christian' has been so perverted by priests as to have become well-nigh unintelligible in its true meaning, so much the more should that true meaning be upheld, explained and vindicated, as a matter of justice to him.
I repeat it: in my article on Non-Resistance, I quoted nothing from the Bible as binding because it was there; but, finding the best things there, I took them, and gave credit to their author, undeterred by any priestly misrepresentations or popular misconceptions of that author, and undeterred also by the fact that somebody-I know not who-has taken the liberty to bind in the same volume with these best things many others which are not best, and some which are not even good.
If-in choosing the Christian rule for my own rule, merely 'because it is the best I can find or conceive of,' and in proposing to others to govern themselves by whatever may be the best rule they can find or conceive of-I have given 'no demonstration of authority inherent in the standard chosen,' this is an omission which I am unable to supply. I have neither the constitution of mind nor the extent of knowledge necessary for the organizing of a system, or the demonstration that a given system is the best or the only one possible. All I can do is to choose, among those which have come to my knowledge, that which seems to me beet, to report to others what I understand to be its merits, and to hold myself in readiness to receive a better, if any such shall appear. Indeed, it disposes me to be very well satisfied with my statement, that so intelligent a critic as Dr. Brooke says of it-'It seems scarcely possible to doubt that the practice, universally, of what he inculcates as human duty, would work that change in society, which, imagined and prefigured ages ago, is anticipated as a coming Millennium.' If any system, Non-Resistance, Christianity, or any other, fairly tried, will constantly tend toward this, and will accomplish this whenever universally adopted, could we have better grounds for urging its universal adoption? It not this actual conformity to Dr. Brooke's first specification in regard to a ' true standard of morality,' namely, that it must be 'adapted to influence the actual condition and conduct of the whole human race'? I do not see that the fact that Christianity remains 'unknown to and unheard-of by the larger proportion of mankind,' at all prejudices its claim to be regarded as the best system extant Surely, truth is not dependent upon majorities; and the best rule is no less the best because few have chosen to follow it. Neither does the disagreement existing among those who pretend or 'profess' to be Christians as to the essential characteristics of Christianity, or as to the ultimate reasons for it, affect the soundness or the satisfactoriness of the rule I have stated. In fact, in referring (as to a rule preferable to that which I have stated) to the agreement of ' all intelligent persons' in ideas which they have been ' taught by observation and experience' in regard to ' certain immutable properties which inhere in matter and pertain to mind'-I rather think that Dr. Brooke has taken his stand with a minority nearly or quite as small as mine.
In short, my impression is that, however different forms of expression may have seemed to put our views asunder, nothing in my article will be found really discordant with the true, pre-existing social, mental, moral, affectional and religious laws, which necessarily preceded all speculations of men concerning them, and to which Dr. Brooke refers as 'Natural or Divine laws.' Conformity to these I understand to be conformity to God's system-C. K. W.
THE COLORED CITIZENS OF NEW YORK AND THE AFRICAN CIVILIZATION SOCIETY. 
An overwhelming audience assembled in Zion church, on Thursday evening, 12th inst., in response to the following call, appended to which are the names of many of our most respectable citizens opposed to the African Civilization Society:-
THE AFRICAN COLONISATION SOCIETY, OTHERWISE THE AFRICAN CIVILIZATION SOCIETY.
The colored people of New York and vicinity are called upon to past judgment on the African Civilization Society, at a public meeting to be held at Zion church, on Thursday evening, April 12th, 1860, and to declare openly whether they approve of or condemn that society. The undersigned believe that in its operations and influence it is of kin to the old colonization scheme-a supporter of prejudice-and hence a co-worker in the ranks of our enemies. Fellow-citizens, we want a verdict from you! The old society having failed to drive us away from the country, shall this, its child, succeed in coaxing us from our homes under the pretence of our becoming legislators in Africa, and of raising cotton for English capitalists? The meeting will commence at 8 o'clock, and will be addressed by Rev. Dr. J. W. C. Pennington, Chas. L. Reason, Rev. Samuel T. Gray, John V. Givens. Gee. T. Downing, Rev. Jeremiah V. Thomas, Ransom F. Wake, J. J. Simons, and Jeremiah Powers.
Rev. S. T. Gray, Miller Pierce,
Jeremiah Powers, Wm. A. Tyson,
Lewis H. Nelson, Geo. T. Downing,
Daniel Tilghman, Peter P. Simons,
William Leonard, Rev. Chas. B. Ray,
Ransom F. Wake, John L. Hudson,
William J. Hodges, J. J. Simons,
John V. Givens, Rev. J. V. Thomas,
Dr. J. W. C. Pennington, Chas. L. Reason.
The following handbills were extensively circulated and were highly instrumental in swelling the immense throng:-
COLORED MEN, READ! 
It is said we should be slaves! It is said we should go to Africa! A new society has been formed to
<c03>
send us there! It is collecting money for this purpose. Shall this be? Come out! Will you be shipped off? A public meeting to oppose the same is to held on Thursday evening, the 12th of April, at Zion Church, Church street. It will be addressed by many speakers. Let nothing prevent you, come out, crowd old Zion! Admittance free. 
REV. HENRY HIGHLAND GARNET
And Rev. J. Bella Martin, of Boston, will defend the principles of the African Civilization Society, this (Thursday) evening, April 12th, at Zion Church, corner Church and Leonard streets.
At a quarter before 8 o'clock, the audience must have numbered between 1,000 and 1,200 persons, all apparently of the highest respectability, and until eight o'clock an ominous calm pervaded it, such as always precedes a storm. At that hour Rev. H. H. Janet, accompanied by Rev. J. Sells Martin, entered, and was greeted with a round of applause. The gentlemen took their seats in a front pew in the middle aisle, directly facing the reporters, who had their places assigned them inside the altar railings, where were also congregated the getters up of the meeting, Messrs. Downing, Pennington, Simons, Wake, Givens, Powers, and others.
Mr. George T. Downing called the meeting to order, and remarked that it was known that there had been a meeting of the African Civilization Society held at the Cooper Institute. This meeting had convinced them that the said society is but a new edition of the old Colonization Society. A letter from Harriet Martineau had been received, setting forth that certain agents of this society were in Europe, representing that the endorsement of the free colored people of this country had been given to this movement. This meeting had been called to ask an expression from the people of approbation or disapprobation to this proceeding. In a conference it had been agreed that certain gentlemen should act as officers of the meeting, and they had prepared also a number of resolutions which they would offer for its consideration. They had also agreed to limit the speakers to fifteen minutes, as there would be a number of speakers. He then moved the adoption of the regulations and the list of officers.
Mr. Garnet-I object to this proceeding. I hope citizens will not allow a padlock to be put upon their lips. Let us have a fair field and open fight here tonight-that is all we ask. (Applause.)
Mr. Downing-We have come here to-night as a united people; at least that is my mind, and I think that is the mind of those with whom I am associated. We wish to take no advantage of any individual. The arrangements we proposed we thought were best to sub serve the end we had in view. You know there are several announced to speak, who would take an hour and a half if they should all speak but fifteen minutes each. This is a meeting of the public, and we do not want two or three to monopolize the time.
Rev. Mr. Garnet-This is a public meeting. Here gentlemen come and make their arrangements-all done in the dark and in secret places-and then come up here and tell us that these gentlemen whom they have appointed are to speak, and then allow us to get an opportunity if we can. I will pledge myself, if this meeting is conducted on the plan that meetings ought to be conducted, and shall be conducted, in the city of New York-(applause)-if gentlemen will meet us fairly upon the question, we will wait until they have fairly made their statements, and we will pledge ourselves that but two persons in the audience will take the trouble to reply to them. But I stand here as a citizen of New York, invited as one of the public to take a part in this meeting, to oppose this plan, got up in secret places, and dished up in the form of a public meeting. Let the meeting take its course. That is all we ask. (Cheering.)
Prof. Reason-Is not the question on the adoption of the officers?
Mr. Garnet-There is the trick of the matter. The rules and the election of officers come together, so that if we swallow the one, we must gulp down the other. (Laughter and cheering.)
The gentlemen on either side, as well as of the audience, gave their coats an extra hitch upon their shoulders, in preparation for the squall which was plainly visible at no great distance.
Mr. Downing-We do not come here to take advantage of any one. I am in a sacred place. We are very sorry indeed, by the way, that there were twenty or thirty of us who were associated, and every thing which was done in this secret conclave has been set forth here to-night. The arrangements were simply what we thought the best for all parties interested. I for one am perfectly willing to throw open the meeting, and have it open, instead of selecting certain persons to speak; but that was the arrangement we agreed in conference to ask you to adopt, and if it is not your pleasure, you will vote it down. Bear in mind who was the party first to charge motives. We have not charged motives. Our resolutions, which you will hear read, do not reflect upon motives. We have simply come here honestly to ask your verdict, and the reverend gentleman comes here to charge motives. (Great disorder, with applause and hisses.)
Rev. Mr. Garnet-I move to amend the motion, so that the gentlemen nominated as President, Vice Presidents and Secretaries be voted into office; I have no opposition to them. I do not want to hinder the organization of this meeting; but every body who knows me in New York knows that I never will sit still to see any such dark-lantern concern as that.
Mr. Robert Hamilton called for the reading of the call for the meeting, before taking any vote.
Mr. Ransom F. Wake-I object to the reading of any documents before the organization of the meeting.
Mr. Garnet insisted that both of the calls should be read.
Several persons objected to the reading of the handbill without signatures, as it was anonymous. After several attempts on the part of Mr. Downing to speak, amid loud and repeated cries for the call, the Secretary, Mr. J. V. Givens, came forward, much excited, and proceeded to read the call, with occasional comments, which gave much dissatisfaction to the audience as well as to the Committee. He was frequently interrupted by cries of ' Go on! go on!’ Read! read!' 
The respectability of the names attached to this call seemed to exercise a soothing effect on the audience, who apparently hailed with joy this resurrection, they being so well, so long, and so favorably known to this community. The reading through with, Mr. Garnet requested that the other call be read.
Here commenced a scene inside the railing best described when compared with a lot of toads caught in a July shower. Here might have been seen the gentleman of feline appendages, the cat-o'-nine-tails, (Mr. Jeremiah Powers,) switching the sir in hopeless rage, whilst Messrs. Wake and Downing flew about in the vain endeavor to discipline the force. All this while, the audience were vociferous in their demands for the other call.
The Secretary-It is not a call. (More cries of ' Read it,' read that call.’ It shan't be read.')
Mr. Downing-I will read it. Before I read it, I want to make a little explanation. ('No,' Read that call,' and great confusion.)
Mr. Downing attempted to read, but could not be heard in the confusion which prevailed.
Mr. Garnet-Let the Secretary read it.
The Secretary took it to read. (Great cheering.)
Rev. J. Sells Martin-I came to New York to hear-('The call,’ the call.') Just a word, if you please. ('The call, 'Read the call '-great noise.) I want to say this. ('Read it,’ Read the call, 'Order,’ Sit down.') Just wait a minute, if you please, ladies and gentlemen.
Cries of 'The call,’ Read it,' and about a dozen and a half standing about the platform making gesticulations, and adding to the confusion by suggestions which could not be heard.
<c04>
The Secretary then commenced reading the anonymous call, and the confusion instantly ceased. The paper having been read, was alternately hissed and cheered. 
Mr. Downing put the question upon the adoption of the following list of officers for the meeting, and it was agreed on unanimously:-
President- WM. A. TYSON.
Vice Presidents-Rev. Messrs. Gray, Pennington, Hall, Dorrell and Tilmon. 
Secretaries-Messrs. John V. Givens,-Marshall, John W. Hunter, and John V. Degrasse.
The name of Rev. J. N. Gloucester having been suggested for one of the vice Presidents, Mr. Garnet informed the audience that Mr. G. was in Troy.
Rev. Mr. Gray, [the pastor of-Zion's Church]-This is a public meeting. It has been understood that certain matters would be laid before this meeting, and I go in for every man implicated or concerned to speak here, and not to gag any man down. What principles I have within me, I am prepared to let the world know, and if I am opposed to any man's principles, want to put him on a level platform to speak for himself. [Applause.] Let us adhere like gentlemen, like men prepared to do business. We have not come here to tear up and overthrow, but to deliberate upon the subject, and whoever is in the wrong, let the community know it. We can do nothing while the meeting is in confusion. Please to hear us, and let the community judge. 
Something like order being restored, upon taking the stand, Mr. Tyson said that he was in favor of a, fair hearing from all sides. At a meeting of this character, held in a church, it would be well to ask the presence and blessing of God. He would therefore call upon the Rev. Mr. Pennington, who offered a prayer, invoking God's presence, and imploring him to hasten the time when ' Ethiopia shall stretch forth her hands unto God,' and again take her place among the nations of the earth. 
The Chairman said that several letters had been 'received from men in whose long-tried friendship and services the colored people could not but have confidence.
Mr. Wake then read letters from Gerrit Smith, John F. Waugh, Oliver Johnson, William Wells Brown, Robert Purvis, John C. Bowers, Ezra R. Johnson, William C. Nell, and Franklin Turner-all strongly in opposition to any and every scheme for the colonization of the colored people in Africa, on any pretence whatever. The one from Gerrit Smith was loudly cheered, and that of Mr. John F. Waugh read and reread amid laughter and great applause.
The reading of the letters being concluded-
Mr. Garnet said: I wish to hear the letter read to which these letters were in reply. I wish to know whether the statements were true which called forth these replies. I believe there were representations in it which could not be sustained. I call for the reading of that letter. (Cries of 'The letter! the letter!')
Mr. Downing-I stand here an American; I stand here a colored man, feeling the consciousness of having rights, and I stand up here in defence of my rights. ('Letter!’ Letter!') What reason is there for crying out ' Letter,' when an individual gets up, and you don't know but he is going to give that letter? ('Letter,’ Letter.') I have the floor, and no letter shall be read until my rights are respected. ('Letter, 'letter.') Fellow-citizens, it is out of place to read that letter now, because we have not decided whether any more letters shall be read or not. There are more letters-
Mr. Garnet-I thought so. (Laughter.)
Mr. Downing-I wish to state that the gentleman is out of place in calling for the letter, and he knows it ('Letter, letter.') Gentlemen, the fact is-
The rest of the sentence was lost in the cry for the letter from male and female voices, from the floor and from the gallery.
Mr. Garnet-I ask that the letter be read. In that letter I have been charged with being a Colonizationist, and in league with slaveholding. Now I want that letter read.
Mr. Downing moved that the reading of all the other letters be deferred. (Hisses and tumult, and cries of ' Read the letter!')
The President called the meeting to order, and said he hoped the colored men would have more respect for themselves than to copy after the rowdy meetings of white men. (Laughter.)
Mr. Gray-If there is a letter here, I say read it, let it be what it may. (Tremendous cheering.)
Mr. Downing-I want to explain the matter. ('The letter-read it first, and explain afterwards.')
Mr. Downing stated that the letter was not in the house, but he could state every word in it: 'Dear Sir-It has been reported in Europe'-
Mr. Garnet protested against any such proceedings. Gentlemen had read eight or ten letters denouncing him, and bringing charges against him, which, if true, would render him worthy of an ignominious death. He asked that the letter to which these eight or ten letters were a reply should be read. (Great confusion for several minutes.)
Mr. Downing at last succeeded in saying that Mr. Garnet's name was not mentioned in the letter. The letter was as follows-he would give his honor that he repeated it correctly: ' Dear Sir-It has been reported in Europe that the consent of the colored people in the United States, and of the Abolitionists, has been obtained in behalf of the African Civilization Society. We ask you whether the colored people in your place have expressed any such sentiment or not?-whether they approve of that Society or not?-whether they approve of emigration?' That is all that was said. We will publish the letter.
Mr. Garnet-It is extremely singular that gentlemen should have remembered to bring these eight or ten letters, and should forget to remember to bring this one. (Laughter.)
Amid much confusion, while Messrs. Downing, Garnet, and everybody else were trying to speak, Mr. Samuel J. Howard gave notice, as a trustee of the church, that unless order was restored, the lights would be put out and the house closed. Finally, Mr. Downing succeeded in obtaining the attention of the house to the reading of the following resolutions:-
Whereas, The African Civilization Society, in its representations abroad and its workings here at home, is pursuing a policy calculated to build up anew the partially-broken-down wall of prejudice which so hindered our elevation; and whereas, we have reason to believe that besides misleading our own people, it is regarded with favor by cur haters, the Colonizationists, as a new name under which we can be induced, without suspicion, to deny our past hostility to their hated Society; therefore we consider it proper to declare our views of the African Civilization Society by the following resolutions:-
Resolved, That whereas Harriet Martineau has written a letter to this country asking for information in relation to the African Civilization Society, in which she says that certain agents of that Society are representing in Europe that ' the support of the Abolitionists and free people of color in the United States is obtained ' in its favor, we, in response there to, do declare to the world our uncompromising condemnation of and opposition to said Society; we declare said agents representations to be not founded in fact. 
Resolved, That this 'condemnation of and opposition to ' this Society is not because of any indifference on our part to the civilization of Africa, or any other part of God's earth that, needs civilizing; it is not because we would not have a pure Christianity carried there; it is not because we would not have any man go anywhere to benefit his condition: it is not because we are opposed to the cultivation of cotton in Africa; but because we believe the African Civilization Society to be no other than an auxiliary to the 'negro- hating American Colonization Society; (applause, and cries of order;) and that both are alike exercising a depressing influence upon the welfare of the colored man in this country, and would have him save the same.
Resolved, That both Societies partake of a like deceptive character; that, we place as much confidence one as in the other when they assert, through Constitutions or otherwise, that they would colonize us <illegible> with our own content; we believe that our op-
<c05>
pressers- those supporting these Societies with their moneys, hiring colored men to advocate these interests-would use direct coercive measures to force us from our homes, whenever they should deem it their policy so to do. 
Resolved, That as the Republican party is deceptively advancing the ideas, for political ends, of 'shipping off the negro,' with the sole purpose of parrying off the charge of being 'negro- worshippers,' it is unfortunate that a Society with a colored man for its figure-head should exist favoring their ends. 
Resolved, That the existence of this African Civilization Society is further deplorable, because it holds out to those who would have us out of the country, the idea that we may be induced to leave, and there by feeds and gives strength to a prejudice existing against us; because it keeps needful deeds from being done here for us, which might otherwise be done, 
Resolved, That we wish it to be firmly fixed in the minds of our fellow-countrymen, the American people, that we, as a body, in any number, do not intend to leave this, our home-that we intend to stay here-(applause)-to have our children enjoy a victory over hate and wrong, the promise of watch is every ay indicating itself. 
Resolved, That we have not a single worthy, able man to spare from our midst, because of the needful work to be done here-(applause and laughter)-that Africa needs no useful men, and that, in fact, judging from the recent reliable accounts therefrom, there are industry, intelligence, enterprise, and a morality true of the country, which would put to the blush many of those whom the Society would send there; which would alike be true of very many of the dominant class of our country men. 
Resolved, That we earnestly solicit the Rev. Messrs. smith, Cuyler, McClintock, Hague, Bourne, Tyun and others, co-workers in behalf of the African Civilization Society, to do something for us here-here, at home-by breaking down caste in their churches, in their schools, in their shops, in the matter of the elective franchise, as an earnest of sincerity on their part in prating so loudly and so incessantly about their regard for us in connection with the evangelizing and civilizing of Africans, to which prating they have lately added the cultivation of cotton. 
Resolved, That ' The African Civilization Society,' having called at different times to its platform gentlemen who are not only friends of, but members and open defenders of 'The American Colonization Society,' has, by this course, shown a desire to break down the wall of separation between this last named Society, and our known opposition to and detestation of it; and inviting for itself the new name of ' Deceptive Auxiliary to the American Colonization Society,' and we brand it as such. 
Resolved, That our hope for the emancipation of the slave in this country does not rest either on the cultivation of cotton in Africa, nor on the building up of a negro nationality there; but on the radical change of public opinion here, to be brought about by a continued anti-slavery agitation. 
Mr. Downing moved the acceptance of the resolutions. Mr. Garnet objected. Here again rose a scene of confusion beggaring description. Mr. Downing advanced towards Mr. Garnet, and a conference of several minutes' duration ensued. 
Mr. Powers came forward, and moved that the speakers be restricted to fifteen minutes each. 
Mr. Garnet (who all this time had his back to the parties) charged Mr. Downing with having instigated the motion for the purpose of shutting off debate. Mr. Downing referred to Mr. Martin, who suggested that Mr. Garnet was in an error. 
Mr. Downing-Then he is a liar; Mr. Garnet stands here a convicted liar-convicted on the testimony of his own friend. 
Immediately a half-dozen fists shot from Mr. Garnet's eyes, but he made no resentment. Considerable murmuring among the audience indicated disapprobation, and cries of ' Put him out!' ran through the house. Mr. Downing again attempted to speak, but was immediately interrupted. An effort by Mr. Garnet was equally unsuccessful; the greatest confusion prevailed, amid which the trustees declared that they would put out the lights-the reporters escaped to the pulpit, excepting those of the Express and the Anglo-Saxon, (here two extremes met.) and no one could be heard except a few in groups, which were to be seen all over the house, contending, with violent gesticulations, for their several opinions. 
Mr. Downing-Fellow-citizens! for the first time in my life, I sustain to you the relation of a slave. (Cheers and groans.) Fellow-citizens-(cries of 'Sit down,’ Put him out,' &c. This state of things continued several minutes, when Mr. Garnet mounted a chair, and called upon the audience to hear Mr. Downing.) 
Mr. Wake-Slaves! slaves! obey your master! (pointing to Mr. Garnet.) He bids you hear Mr. Downing. Slaves! obey your master!
Canes and fists became very unsteady by this time, in the possession of their owners, and everything betokened a representation of 'Donnybrook Fair.' Gentlemen might be seen everywhere jumping around in pantomimic performances, which would have compelled the Ravel family to yield the hat. 
Finding it totally impossible to proceed further in order, Rev. Mr. Gray came forward and announced the meeting closed, and at the same time Mr. Garnet made a motion that the resolutions be tabled, put it to vote, and it was carried. The meeting then dispersed amid loud cheers for, Mr. Garnet. 
Thus ended one of the most unsatisfactory and unhappy demonstrations ever made in this city, and fairly illustrated the truthfulness of the suggestion of one of our dailies, that there is much work here for a Civilization Society. 
Since the foregoing was written, we have received a copy of ' that letter,' which reads as follows:- 
DEAR SIR-It has been reported in Europe and elsewhere, that the colored people of America are in favor of the movement known as the African Civilization Society. This we believe to be a misrepresentation; we believe this Society to be no other than an auxiliary to the hateful American Colonization Society. A demonstration to that effect is to be made, within ten days, in this city. We have been instructed to address you, and request of you a short letter, to he read at that demonstration. 
Very respectfully, yours, &c. 
New York, April 3, 1360. 
NOTICE-TO THE PUBLIC. 
In the month of June, 1859, a publication was made through the 'Morning Ledger' of this city, announcing the formation of an association, under the title of ' The Central American Land Company,' to which the names of the undersigned were appended, severally, as President, Secretary and. Treasurer, and the name of Mr. J. D. Harris, as General Agent. Although this publication was made prematurely, it was not deemed of sufficient consequence to require public explanation, and was so suffered to pass. Circumstances at the time, or at any time since then, not favoring active measures for furthering the object of the Association, which object was ' the purchase and sale of land in Central and South America,' no action was or has at any time been taken or authorized by us, having that end in view. 
Recently, however, we have been informed by a gentleman from St. Louis, Mr. C. A. Roxborough, who represents in his statement Messrs. H. Clamorgon, A. White, R. Wilkinson, and others, that Mr. J. D. Harris has been there, and at other places, making collections of money, which he represented to be for promoting the object of said ' Land Company.' 
This information having reached us in this authentic shape, it becomes our duty, as well to ourselves as to those who may be misled by the unauthorized use of our names, to state, that Mr. J. D. Harris has not now, and never has had, authority from us to make collections of-money as above charged, or for any other purpose; and that we entirely disclaim any connection with the alleged money operations, further than has come to us through in the sources above indicated. 
We would further state, in justice to Mr. J. D. Harris, (to whom, while setting ourselves right, we desire to do no wrong.) that while in this city, on his return from St. Louis, he was asked by Mr. Justin Holland, upon the authority of a rumor that had preceded him here, whether he had been engaged in the collection of money as charged above, and that he answered, distinctly, that he had not. 
We deem it proper to add, that the ' Central American Land Company,' herein referred to, has never had any active existence; and that we now formally absolve ourselves from any and all connection with it, or with any operation, by whomsoever, that may hereafter be carried on under that name. 
JOSEPH WILSON, 
J. HOLLAND. 
F. H. MORRIS. 
Cincinnati, April 16, 1860. 
<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's 'Restorer,' No. I, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1835.
President J. I. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Worlds's Restorer,' &c', and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor 'Ladies' Respiratory,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' & c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor "Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S.B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THRONELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-no the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement, &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene country, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. Jas. McFARLANE, Paster Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewiston, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti, ) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's she writes to the 'American Baptist,'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
We think that of these fail to convince, nothing less tan a trail will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 87 1/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgary, and will be prosecuted by us a crim in a offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER
Oct 14 Lyeop

