<c01>
THE LIBERATOR.
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1706.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES BY THE CHURCH.
Our two recent propositions, that the Church alone has the mission of emancipating the slaves of the South, and that it will be a very long time before the Church will have discharged that office, have caused a great deal of displeasure among the incendiaries of the Republic-the Abolitionists. We expected this. It is quite natural. The Pilot, because it reaches the great bulk of the Irish Catholic population of the land, carries that population with it; and that population is a tremendous barrier against the constitutional treason and religious heresy of negrophilism. But we have been answered not by distinct, dispassionate logic, but by pretentious wisdom, by Protestant malice to the everlasting faith of Rome, by truthless and scandalous, and wretched analysis and inference, by much unbecoming objurgation, and by the foolish impudence that always marks nincompoops when shabby, mendicant journals fall into their scurvy, inexperienced, unclassic hands . . . . . . . . . . Proceed, ye conspirators against the national life! ye negro heretics, and ye friends of negro heresy! Our propositions remain, and we repeat them. The Catholic Church alone has the mission to emancipate the slaves of the South, and it will be a very long time before the task will be fulfilled.
Protestantism does not give civilization. History proves that it has retarded true human progress; and Sacred philosophy establishes, that its whole capacity is to lead nations to perdition. Negrophily is a veritable “variation” of Protestantism engendered in the frigid, spiritually desolate soul of the Puritan. It is justly named by popular sarcasm—negro worship. With those really indoctrinated by it, it has, as a means for gaining heaven, effectively put out of sight the principles of the Christian faith, What made John Brown attempt a negro insurrection in Virginia? The fanatic creed that negrophily was a true means of eternal life. With what sentiment did all the Abolition churches and rostrums in the empire resound after the execution of that mad-man? With the sentiment that a truer martyr than be, and a holier cause than his, never suffered, never existed. A similar thing is true of the Abolition newspapers. And what is the song," John Brown’s soul is marching on," both in refrain and chorus, which is now sung throughout the North, but a true <Illegible>—a real religious piece of poetry? It is this absolutely. There is no religion in the world, if negrophily is not one. We have heard William Penn compared to our Lord Himself! But the Abolitionists have canonized John Brown for his fidelity to negro worship; and they are, actually, animated by the hope that, by the same worship, the celestial kingdom is wide open to themselves. Some of the early martyrs of the Church went to the stake, chanting canticles of joy; but no martyr in the catalogue ever felt the principle of divine faith more religiously than the Abolitionists feel the principles of negro worship when bawling, “John Brown’s soul is marching on, Glory, Hallelujah!" There are, at least, two millions of people in the North who are irretrievably poisoned by this religion. Some idea of the extent to which it has poisoned them is presented by the fact, that it has made them put the Constitution of their country under foot. With other people, religion has been known to give way to patriotism. The Abolitionists have reversed this order. And what a religion negrophily is! Any variation of Protestantism for a means of salvation, rather than negro worship! Unitarianism itself first! And this how <illegible> religion has seduced Catholics—yes has dcluded a few of them to be its champions. But Nicolaism stole souls from the Apostles; Albigensianism carried off many a victim; and it is not out of the order, either of infernal malice or of human misfortune and duplicity, that negro worship should commit ravages within the fold of the Church of America. There are easy, weak, ductile, corruptible spirits in all places.
How can such a cause be the emancipator of the negro nation? The Church is the liberator. Vile heresy has no commission from above; and no power, without a commission from above, can do so great a thing as to truly emancipate a nation. Negro worship has attempted to do much for its idol; but it has reached the zenith of its power; it has declined rapidly from the zenith; the sane voice of the nation has burst out against it with overwhelming force; it has not emancipated, it has only disordered; it will soon have collapsed, and its object will be entirely defeated. It is a religious fanaticism, and, like other religious fanaticisms, it will go like the froth of the river—accursed by the divine breath.
Slavery is a bad institution. It is the cause of much depravity. But this is accidental, and abolition rhetoric-the poetry and eloquence of negro devotion-have said much more of the vices attached to it than truth would justify. The Church has not assailed it. The Bishops, and Archbishops, and Priests, and Catholic people of the South,—of Maryland, of Virginia, of Georgia, of the Carolinas, of Louisiana, and of the other Southern States, have not assailed it; and for a verity, the hierarchy and priesthood and laity (Catholic) of the North have not assailed it. We know, as well as any negrophilist can tell us, that the Popes that the voice of the universal Church, has always been against slavery. But there are exceptions to all rules in which essences are not concerned; the Church universal has never yet been a revolutionist in circumstances. The Church of every country has always been presumed to be the best judge of the facts co-existing with it, and the Church of America has never yet lifted its voice against slavery. On the contrary, it has tolerated it, nay at a Council in Baltimore, it expressly declared that it would leave the distracting subject of Abolitionism to the ministers of Protestantism; and in the confessional—which is its penal tribunal-it has always bound slaves to observe the laws of their condition. But it has also always bound the master to be just to his slave. The Church of America has not a single movement of Abolitionism, or negro worship, in its bosom. But it is not, for all that, in any way an enslaver. It makes the best of circumstances. Here are facts of universal importance. No single individual in the Church, whatever his position is, deserves any consideration in opposition to them. It would be a heresy to side in their stubbornness with the few Bishops, who, at the Council of Trent, disagreed on certain matters with the decision of the general assemblage. So it would be, to say the very least, extreme foolishness for any Catholic in this country to believe himself bound to take the dictates of any personage against slavery. Men of talent and culture can employ forcible rhetoric, and much may be due to them on account of their position. But to produce a morality is quite a different thing. The institution of a morality, that is, of a law, the observance of which is essentially connected with the attainment of the ultimate end, which is salvation, is not a common power; and we unhesitatingly declare, that the dignitaries who have
<c02>
no power to make such a law should not use language which is calculated to make the people think there is a law, where in reality there is nothing of the kind. Some time ago, the illustrious Archbishop of Orleans—Mgr. Dupanloup—wrote so able a letter against slavery in this country, that we have no doubt that several weak-headed persons have been made conscientious abolitionists by it.
There are Catholics in the West who are now on the verge of firmly believing that salvation is unattainable without ardent abolitionism. How unfortunate this is! And how wretched! False morality is an easy, but a pestiferous production. It is within the capacity of fluent rhetoric; but it is calculated to lead souls to perdition.
Let Catholics hold back. Slavery has many abuses. But no man in the land can make it a morality to turn Abolitionist. The Church of the country goes no farther in the matter than the observance of justice between master and slave—and the conduct of the Church may be imitated by all. Abolitionism is a religious heresy. That it is a pestiferous Constitutional treason, the present rebellion tells. The Church is the true liberator. But the true liberation of the blacks is exceedingly remote. Free labor is a fine theme for stirring composition, and an excellent thing to have. But neither the vituperative unconstitutionalism of O’Connell, nor any other cause that has thus far been brought to bear on the matter, will ever effect it in America. The causes that are in operation, on both sides of the case, give this inference, and give no other. If the Union is irretrievably divided—which may Almighty God forbid!—is not the continuation of slavery certain? 
If the Union is or will be safe, the Constitution is and will be inviolate, and, in that case, is not the continuation of slavery certain? Yes, unquestionably—yes, undoubtedly—yes, for a verity. There is now a spirit pervading the whole. North which tells plainly and loudly that the Constitution, however stretched it is at present, must be restored.— There is a bitter day in store for its enemies.
Some of our contemporaries call us advocates of slavery. The impeachment is a falsehood. We are strict Constitutionalists, and both national and religious morality require of us to be so. We have no malice for the black. But we prefer the integrity and the peace of the Republics to him by countless degrees. What we say on the subject is not the result of prejudice against the religion of negro worship. That is an abomination of the most hideous kind. But let there be no inconfidence. The day of national integrity is not distant.—Boston (Irish Catholic) Pilot.
Selections.
PUBLIC MEETING AT MANCHESTER.
In last week’s Liberator, we printed an abstract of a loyal and eloquent speech lately delivered at a public meeting in Manchester, (England,) by Rev. William H. Channing, now on a visit to that country. Below we give the remainder of the proceedings:—
The Chairman said this was the anniversary day of the Proclamation of Emancipation, and called for three cheers for President Lincoln. They were heartily given.
Mr. S. Watts, Jr., proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer, and Mr. J. B. Forrester seconded it. The latter gentleman, in the course of his address, said we were interested in the spread of republicanism all over the world, and a few hisses and cheers followed the remark. The speaker, in giving his reasons for the remark, referred the audience to the wrongs of Poland and Austria, and a working man, whose accent could not be mistaken, added, amidst great laughter, "Aye, and the wrongs of ould Ireland, too."
Mr. Andrew Jackson supported the resolution, and the announcement by the Chairman that he (Mr. Jackson) was about to return to America, caused him to be received with warm applause. He said, perhaps as he passed through New York, he should be drafted. If so, he would fight for the Union; but if he was taken prisoner, it would not be without a struggle. He had been in slavery once, and he had no desire to be a slave again. A person named Hunt, the other day at Newcastle, took a great deal of trouble to prove that the negro’s ears were longer than his (Mr. Hunt’s); but if negroes had but half the chances that the white people had, a better judgment could be formed of their worth. (Loud cheers.)
The Rev. Mr. Channing, in responding, said that if Mr. Jefferson Davis’s coachman (Mr. Jackson) had gone on so rapidly in the right direction during the eighteen months he had been at liberty, it was sincerely to be hoped that Jeff, himself would follow the example. (Loud laughter.)
Dr. Pankhurst proposed a vote of thanks to the Chairman.
Mr. S. Pope, who had just entered the room, was loudly called for to second the vote of thanks, and after a little hesitation he did so. In the course of his remarks he said: Upon this question, at any rate, although it may be that the course of events is rather turning in our direction, and although it may be that the military successes of the North during the last few months have effected a few conversions even on the Manchester Stock Exchange—(laughter)—and although it may be that the cause of the North does not now in this country need quite the same amount of support and advocacy as it did when you and I first met and discussed the subject together —I confess I felt that there was even now a necessity that every man should show his true colors as an anti-slavery man, and, therefore, in the last few moments, remembering that such a meeting as this was being held in Manchester, I determined that I would not be absent from the assembly; and this is my only apology for intruding upon you so late. (Applause.) I should like the rev. lecturer, in his correspondence and communications with his brother Americans abroad, to remind them that, whatever may be the sacrifices which the North is making on account of its own struggle, whatever may be the heroism that has been displayed by the soldiery of the North, the operatives of Lancashire have suffered in the same cause as they; and the heroism which has been displayed by our working classes in the cause of the slave during the last two years, I venture to say, would challenge comparison with any moral or political heroism of which the world presents a picture. I do hope that no meeting will be held at which any gentleman may speak upon the union and emancipation question, in which this may not be prominently kept before us—that the work we have to do now is to take care that, in the future, the sacrifices we have made are not thrown away. (Loud cheers.) We have not suffered starvation without having a principle to sustain it. We have not resisted the principles of the Southern advocates and those who desire to put false issues before us, without having a notion of what this contest is about. We have not consented silently to endure the hard-
<c03>
ships and privations which the absence of the raw material which sets our machinery in motion has involved, without knowing why we have done so. And I think I only give utterance to the sentiments of the working men of Lancashire when I say that they have endured their sufferings for two reasons, and for two reasons only. First, whatever politicians may say, who are interested in the matter, they have not lost faith in democratic institutions. (Loud cheers.) They do yet believe in those institutions which have secured to millions of their fellow-creatures across the Atlantic a free school, free religion, and a free press. (Renewed cheering.) They do still believe, notwithstanding all that may be said by interested parties to the contrary, that the future welfare of the great country would be very materially promoted and guaranteed by reposing the institutions of the country, as in America, upon the broad basis of the affections and regard of the people. They do still believe in democratic America, and therefore they have willingly endured sacrifices for the purpose of advancing the cause of democracy there. But, above all, the reason is that the working men of Lancashire have been educated in the faith that no man has a right to make traffic in man; that they have been educated in the faith that " the sum of all human villany is slavery;" and I can, I think, without arrogating too much to myself, say that the working-men of Manchester, taking them as a whole, would still continue to suffer starvation and sacrifice for an indefinite period, rather than their food and property should be obtained at the price of the liberty of a single slave. All that I am anxious about in this struggle is this—that no political conviction, no political interest on the other side, no desire for peace merely to establish the Union upon the old basis, should drive us from the friends of the slave on the other side of the Atlantic. From this stern necessity, the result of this war, come what may, must be emancipation to the slave; and we shall never be satisfied with the result until that be achieved. If our sufferings produce not that result, they have been thrown away; and if I have one word to say to this meeting, it is rather to ask you to assure the rev. gentleman present that these are your sentiments, and to ask him that every letter that he sends across the Atlantic—that every communication he makes to his friends there—should urge upon them that in England we believe this to be an anti-slavery war, and that, in truth, the purpose for which we have suffered long in common will not be answered, if they forget that this is the case. (Loud cheers.)
The vote of thanks was then put to the meeting, and carried. The Chairman replied; and a person in the body of the hall called for "three farewell cheers for Andrew Jackson," which were given; and the meeting terminated.

SPEECH OF MR. SUMNER.
The London Star of the 25th ult. publishes a very full sketch of the speech of Senator Sumner on our "Foreign Relations," and has a long editorial, from which we quote:
"The Hon. Charles Sumner has not belied the confidence inspired by a long and illustrious career. He is as firmly as ever the friend of peace between Great Britain and America. His speech at New York, on the 10th of September, is indeed heavy with charges against France and England. But it is an appeal for justice, not an incentive to strife. It is a complaint of hopes disappointed, of friendship withheld, of errors hastily adopted and obstinately maintained. It is, however, an argument which does honor even to those against whom it is urged, and which aims to establish future relations of the closest alliance. Senator Sumner’s chief reproach is this—that we have acted unworthily of ourselves; unfaithfully to our deepest convictions and best memories. We can surely afford to be as severe in our self-judgment as he is in his sharpest accusations. 
The civil war had no sooner begun than we recognized the Confederates as belligerents. In that we were certainly blameless, as a nation, of intent to injure or affront the Federal cause. The warmest friends of the Union acquiesced in it almost as a matter of course. We do not remember that a single voice, among the many which have protested against recognition of Southern independence, protested against the recognition of the South as an armed power. Those to whom it was distasteful assented to it as tending rather to soothe than to aggravate the strife.
It was commonly remarked among us, when we found it resented in the loyal States, that we had done no more than the Federal Government itself. The officers of the Union recognized the officers of the Confederacy by their military titles, arranged with them for the exchange of prisoners, and acted generally in recognition of equality between the belligerents. The Queen’s proclamation of neutrality seemed the equitable and friendly supplement to that act.
MR. Sumner recalls a fact which we would gladly forget, as one for which we can offer no excuse. The recognition was hurried even to the verge of bad faith. It bears date so early as May, 1861,— only two months after President Lincoln’s inauguration, and a few weeks after the fall of Fort Sumter. Immediately that the rebellion broke out, and before the national government had put forth its strength in a single act of repression, we acknowledged the equality of the new government with the old, of an incipient insurrection with a majestic and friendly power.
In the Cabinet it was deliberated upon and decided with a full consciousness of what it implied. It was purposely premature. It was intentionally offensive to the one party, and pleasing to the other. Mr. Adams came—bearing a name that was in itself a credential to all free English hearts—to find, to his bitter surprise, that the government he represented, the Union of his proud allegiance, was placed upon a level with the mushroom republic that had suddenly grown up on a slave plantation. Is it any marvel that loyal Americans have remembered with bitterness an incident so mortifying? Is is not rather a proof of substantial good will and almost invincible amity that the intercourse of the two goverments has been uninterrupted and even friendly? 
But the recognition of belligerency has nevertheless proved fruitful of evil. The commanders of the Nashville, the Alabama, and the rest of that vulture brood would have been, in the eye of international law, the pirate captains that they are in fact. Their burning of ships at sea would be simple felony and arson. It has been alleged, as the justification of these acts, that the Confederate cruiser has no port into which to take his captures—no prize-court to pronounce. That is precisely the reason why he should not be reckoned as an ocean belligerent.
There runs through the whole of Mr. Sumner’s gigantic oration an idea on which we can now only touch. From, the first sentence to the last, slavery is present to his mind. It colors all his reasoning. It inspires him to prodigious eloquence. Not merely as the Senator for Massachusetts, the honored chief-
<c04>
tain of the political abolitionists, but as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, he sees every where the presence of the slave power. Against it he invokes, in periods of classic beauty and of fervid strength, all the moral forces of the mother country. To England he makes a passionate and pathetic appeal—more for her own sake than that of the slave —more for the sake of future than present effects— that she withdraw all favor and succor from rebel slave owners.

JOHN QUINOY ADAMS’S LETTER.
The courtesy of one of our citizens enables us to lay before our readers, this morning, a letter from John Quincy Adams to William Ellery Channing, never before published. This letter is valuable, not only in a historical point of view, but as illustrating the stedfast good faith of our government, even under the reil of the most secret diplomacy, in observing its neutrality and fulfilling the obligations of friendship with a European power. The facts are set forth more in detail here than in the speech which Mr. Adams made in the House of Representatives in May, 1836, when, as he says, the first public allusion was made to them. 
That speech itself is of deep interest. In the morning of the day on which it was delivered, the slavery question was under consideration. Mr. Adams lad vainly endeavored to get the floor, and speak. The Speaker and the House were both opposed to him, and by decisions, which he deemed discourteous and unjust, prevented him from presenting his views. The resolution, "that Congress possesses" no constitutional authority to interfere in any way with the institution of slavery in any of the States of this Confederacy," being before the House, Mr. Adams asked for five minutes’ time in which to prove it false. The privilege was denied him, and the resolution was adopted with nine dissenting voices, among them Mr. Adams’s and Mr. Everett’s.
A resolution, authorizing the President to cause rations to be distributed to suffering fugitives from Indian hostilities in Alabama and Georgia, came up immediately afterwards. Mr. Adams got the floor to advocate the adoption of the resolution, and by an ingenious adaptation of his argument to the case, really made the speech which he wished to make on the resolution quoted above. He maintained that the authority to distribute rations to the fugitives grew out of the war power of Congress and the Executive, and under that power it not only was the right, but it might be the imperative duty of Congress to interfere with slavery in the States. His bold and forcible argument on this subject has been often quoted during the last year, and has been acted on so long that the subject is no longer argued except by the most benighted copperhead.
He then spoke at length against the project of engaging in a war with Mexico to wrest Texas from her, and introduce slavery into that vast State. He maintained that we might thereby involve ourselves in war with Great Britain, if not with France. He then made the disclosures of the facts set forth so fully in the letter we print. He did so, he writes Dr. Channing, in order "to stay the frantic hand of the Southern slaveholders, rushing from the terror of an avenging conscience into the arms of sympathizing slavery in Texas."
The history of these events in 1822 seems to us of special interest, in connection with the masterly exposition which Mr. Everett has recently given in the New York Ledger, and the substance of which we quoted, of Mr. Canning’s connection with the origin of what is called the Monroe doctrine. It was in 1823 that the English Minister, with such importunity, urged our government to adopt the principle embodied in Mr. Monroe’s subsequent message. We here see that, in the previous year, he was alarmed lest France should seize upon Cuba, and that our government was also prepared to say that "it could not see with indifference the occupation of Cuba by any European power other than Spain." Thus both Mr. Canning and our Government were approaching necessarily the ground which they reached the following year, when the Monroe doctrine was pressed upon us by the English Minister, and finally adopted.
It certainly is cause for honest pride that we can point to the honorable course which our government pursued in respect to the Cubans. There was every apology that a greedy nation could ask for seizing upon the tempting Island. There was a splendid opportunity. But the temptation was nobly resisted. Our duty to Spain was fully and honorably discharged.—Providence Journal.

LETTER FROM JOHN QUINOY ADAMS TO REV. DR. CHANNING.
How the United States observed Neutrality in 1822.—
The Reported Project of England to seize Cuba.—The Remonstrance of our Government.—The Proposition of Cubans to join us.—The Agreement between the United States, England and France.
REV. WILLIAM E. CHANNING,D.D., Newport, R. I.
QUINCY, 11th August, 1837.
MY DEAR SIR:
* * * *
I rejoice to learn that you have it in contemplation to give the public your ideas on the appearance in the political world of the new Republic of Texas. 
Mr. Tuckerman wrote to me as you had requested, and I answered his letter, but he had mistaken the time when the transactions to which you desired reference to be had occurred, and supposed they had happened during the administration of my father. My. answer, therefore, must have been unsatisfactory to the object of your inquiries. 
It was in September, 1822, that the events to which I alluded in my speech in the House of Representatives of the 25th of May, 1836, took place. It was the time when the Spanish Government of the Cortes was overthrown by the French invasion under the Duke D’Angouleme. Great Britain became alarmed lest, under the shelter of that Revolution, the Island of Cuba should pass into the posession of France. The French Government fabricated or was imposed upon by a report that the British Cabinet had determined to send a squadron, and take possession of the Island. The people of the Havana, divided into parties between the Cortes and the king, were terrified by premonitory symptoms of negro insurrection, and looking round for a protector. There was a party for resorting to Great Britain, a party for adhering to Spain, and a party for seeking admission to the North American Union, —the last of which was the strongest. A proposition was then made by a secret agent from them to Mr. Monroe to this effect—that they, by a popular movement, of the success of which they had no doubt, would declare the Island independent of Spain, if the Government of the United States would promise them protection, and admit them into their Union under a State Constitution, on the model of those of our Southern States, and with the understanding
<c05>
that, as the population of the Island should increase, they should be at liberty to divide themselves into two States, and have that proportion of representation in the Congress of the United States. As the inducement to the American Government to pledge their protection, they were assured that the alternative would probably be the prevalence of the party, in the Island for the colonial connection with Great Britain, and a resort to her for protection. While this proposition was under consideration of Mr. Monroe and his cabinet, the French Minister at Washington, by a verbal, irresponsible communication, not to the Secretary of State, the only medium of official intercourse between foreign ministers and the Government of the United States, but to Mr. Crawford, the Secretary of the Treasury, asseverated that the French Government had secret but positive information that the British Government had deliberately determined to take possession of Cuba.
The answer of Mr. Monroe to the proposition from the Havana was that the friendly relations existing between the United States and Spain did not permit them to promise countenance or protection to any insurrectional movement against her authority. Their advice to the people of Cuba was to adhere as long as possible to their allegiance to Spain; that an attempt of either Great Britain or France to occupy the Island would present the proposal from the Havana under a different point of view, concerning which the President was not authorized to pledge prospectively the action of the United States, but that the people of the Havana might be assured of the deep interest, which, under all the circumstances that might occur, the American Government would take in their welfare and their wishes. 
It was the opinion of at least one member of Mr. Monroe’s administration, that the occupation of the Island of Cuba by Great Britain should be resisted even at the cost of a war. Their unanimous opinion was, that a very explicit though confidential communication should be made to Mr. Channing, that the United States could not see with indifference the occupation of Cuba by any European power other than Spain; and that rumors had reached the American Government that such an intention was entertained by the British Cabinet, which made it necessary to ask an explanation of their views.
Mr. Rush was instructed accordingly. Mr. Canning disavowed emphatically all intention on the part of Great Britain to take possession of the Island; but avowed her determination not to see with indifference its occupation, either by France or by the United States; and he told Mr. Rush of the squadron despatched by Louis XVIII. to the West Indies, without notifying him of the expedition, and of the schooling he had ordered the British Ambassador at Paris to give the French Cabinet for that sin of omission. Mr. Canning then proposed that, by a mutual understanding between the British, French and American Governments, without any formal Treaty or Convention, Cuba should be left in the quiet possession of Spain, without interference in the Government of the Island. This was precisely the policy which Mr. Monroe believed to be best adapted to the interests and the duties of the United States, and he cheerfully assented to it. There was no further communication between him and the French Government on the subject. So far as France was concerned, the arrangement was left to be concerted between her and Great Britain. The people of the Island of Cuba submitted to the Government of Ferdinand, restored by the Duke d’ Angouleme, and received a Viceroy and Captain General in the person of General Vives, who had been Minister from Spain to the United States; one of the most upright and honorable men with whom it has ever been my fortune to hold political relations He was precisely the man to tranquillize and conciliate the submission of the people of the Island to their old Government; and he so effectually accomplished that purpose, that the Government of the United States heard nothing further of intended insurrection in Cuba, during the remainder of Mr. Monroe’s administration and the whole of mine. 
All these transactions were at the time profoundly secret. The first public allusion to them ever made was by me, in the speech of the 25th of May, 1836, to the House of Representatives. The circumstances of the times no longer required absolute secresy. France, Spain, Great Britain, had all undergone political revolutions, and the abolition of slavery in the British Colonies of this hemisphere had added tenfold terrors to her occupation of Cuba, for the meditation of our Southern Statesmen. I partly raised the veil, therefore, from the negotiations of 1822, to stay the frantic hand of the South-ern slaveholder, rushing from the terror of an avenging conscience into the arms of sympathizing slavery in Texas.
I am, of course, your unalterable friend,
J. Q. ADAMS.
FEEDING REBELS!
The telegraph informs us that the President and Cabinet have been considering the question of longer continuing the practice of feeding rebels within the Federal lines. In view of this fact, we are constrained to say, "sensible at last," Loyal men, we infer, have long been wondering at the accounts received of the people of broad districts of country, filled with rebels, being fed by the commissariat of our army. It is stated that since the capture of Vicksburg, the people populating the country back of that place not only within our lines, but for miles beyond, have been drawing rations with as much regularity as our soldiers. The people are not Union people who have been robbed of the means of sustenance by the enemy or the casualties of war, but rebels. In drawing their rations, no spirit of thankfulness has usually been manifested, but on the contrary the recipients of the bounties conferred have frequently grossly insulted the donors, and indulged in the most bitter demonstrations towards the Government which was feeding them. In some instances at Vicksburg, it was discovered that the contributions furnished, as was supposed, for the support of women and children, were conveyed directly to men engaged in bearing arms for the Confederacy.
That there is something wrong about this will generally be agreed. Cases of hardship will undoubtedly present themselves, as is always the case in war. The citizens fed by the army bare usually consisted of women and children, but they have generally been those whose natural protectors, are in the rebel army. If husbands and fathers and sons do not esteem the obligation which rests upon them sufficient to cause them to provide for the wants of their own households, it is hardly to be expected that the Government they are laboring to destroy should take that task from their hands. Women and children and other helpless parties should not be permitted to perish of want, and the mode of dealing with them, which is said to be under consideration, strikes us as a good one. When they are deserted by those whose natural duty it is to make the needed provision, let them he sent after them.—Missouri Democrat.
<c06>
HENRY WINTER DAVIS ON SLAVERY.
To the Editor of the Exeter News-Letter:
In the month of September, 1829, that uncompromising and devoted champion of universal freedom. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, was dragged from his peaceful avocation, tried before a panel of slaveholding jurors, and sentenced to a long confinement in the dark dungeons of Baltimore, for no other offence than simply pleading the cause of the down-trodden and oppressed slave. In the month of September, 1863,—just thirty-four years afterwards,—Henry Winter Davis, representing the vox populi of this same "Monumental" city, comes to Philadelphia, and, in words of matchless eloquence, addresses her citizens in the same great cause. What a change! Those who, thirty years ago, scorned and spurned the advocates of universal emancipation, are to-day found battling side by side with them for the furtherance of this "great moral movement." How shall we account for this unexampled revolution in the public mind? Aye, my friend, reform will take its course. This great revolution is simply the light of Christianity and the civilization of the 19th century proceeding on their onward course, expelling the darkness from its secreted places, and opening the eyes of the people to their better interests. Henry Winter Davis truthfully explained the cause of this great change when, at Philadelphia, on the 24th ult., in his address before alluded to, he said:
"Gentlemen, the world moves palpably to the eye in this latter day; and the man who supposes he can stand still in the midst of the great moral movement of this world might as well plant his feet firmly in the mud, and say, ‘The world may circle around the sun, but I will not go with it.’ You are parts of the current, and are borne on with it against your will. Day after day you accept what yesterday you would have scouted, and the day before would have thought craziness. Men’s interests are sometimes blinded by their passions, but when their passions are chastised, their interests resume the supremacy."
It will be remembered that, on the 17th of June last, the loyal people of New Hampshire assembled at the Capital of their State, and then and there resolved to sustain the present Administration in its earnest and unceasing efforts to suppress this hell-born conspiracy to overthrow our National Government, and with it our free institutions; and it will also be remembered that, on that occasion, a certain son of Maryland hastened to Concord from his comfortable position at Washington, to "enlighten" the people of the old Granite State upon the all-absorbing subject of negro-slavery. I need not say that this slaveholder’s advocate was Montgomery Blair, the man who, with Wm. H. Seward, was the only person that opposed in the Cabinet counsels the greatest movement of the present age the record of which covers one of the brightest pages of the world’s history. I refer to the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. This man, with principles poisoned by the malaria of a slave climate, came far from representing the voice of Maryland in that great pro-slavery harangue delivered amidst the free atmosphere of your granite hills, as the following words of Hon. Henry Winter Davis will sufficiently attest:
"In Maryland that surrounds your Capital and more than once has felt the tramp of the invader, such is the unanimous sentiment of her people that her Governor has been compelled to hasten up his lagging opinions, and proclaim himself in favor of emancipation, and of a convention next year to effect it; and the only question is whether the enlistment of the slaves will leave any to emancipate."
Neither did this unworthy Cabinet officer speak the sentiments of Maryland when he denounced Wendell Phillips and his “school of politicians" (as he called them), and placed them on the same platform with John C. Calhoun and his co-conspirators. For at this hour of his country’s peril, we find Henry Winter Davis—the true exponent of Maryland’s position at this day—struggling in the same great cause with the Demosthenes of the 19th century for the liberation and elevation of the oppressed slave.
You who oppose the arming of the negro race in defence of your country and your homes, and who denounce the "Garrisonian abolitionists" as a set of "wild fanatics" compare the following extracts, and decide, if you can, which, in your estimation, bears evidences of having emanated from the more "fanatical" brain—the sentiments of him who breathes your New England’s free air, or those of him who inhales the poisoned atmosphere of a Southern Slave State.


Extract from Wendell Phillips’s address, delivered at Cooper Institute, New York, January, 1863.
Twenty thousand slaves, at least, since the war began, have been either shut out of our ranks, or when they got in, have been returned—twenty thousand unanswerable arguments that the Yankee flag does not mean liberty. What does the slave want? He wants, like every ignorant population that cannot read—a fact. And that is what we have to give him. We have to proclaim that proclamation, or it will amount to nothing.
The negro wants a symbol of freedom. How can we give it to him? The quickest way is to put his own color in the United States uniform, with a minie rifle in his right hand.
Extract from Henry Winter Davis’s address at Concert Hall, Philadelphia, Sept., 1863.
Gentlemen, without a negro army, an attempt at emancipation is idle. The President has proclaimed emancipation. A proclamation is a breath, or printer’s ink. It dies of itself, unless there is something living behind it. * * * * If the negroes of the South are to render us any material aid in the suppression of this rebellion, they must have a title to freedom that they will understand to be effectual; and they know that the proclamation is not effectual without something following it, a law of Congress and arms.
* * * *
The President has proclaimed the slaves free.— That paper confers no title; it can only be made a title by arms. The negro’s arm is ready to execute it. Why shall he not be allowed to do it?
 
You who have lent your might and influence to those who oppose the arming of the negro race in defence of our National Government, observe how, in the following extracts, this distinguished orator from Maryland scatters your oft-repeated arguments to the four winds:
"The foundation of our present civil strife is a social institution—the right by law, contrary to the law of nature, for one man to hold another in servitude. You cut up the roots of the rebellion by striking the shackles from the slave. How shall it be done? Congress passed two laws in 1862, authorizing the President to use as many persons of African descent as be might see fit to aid him, organised in such manner as he might think best to suppress the rebellion. The President now, late in the day—in my judgment much later than it ought to have been—has commenced in earnest the organization of negro regiments from the slave elements of the COUNTRY, The "conservatives," North and South, cry aloud against it. No man who does not mean to aid the rebellion will lay a straw across the track of that march. We are informed ‘slaves cannot be soldiers’! There is mighty little of the slave left in the man who has a musket upon his shoulder.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERENCE WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insrrection, Congress has power to early on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has anall its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, <Illegible> and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Slaves cannot be soldiers’! They who have taken leave of absence are likely to keep it. ’Slaves cannot be soldiers’! Then make them free by law of Congress, and let us step the argument. ’You cannot take private property for public use without compensation.’ No; but every man in the United States owes military service to the United States, paramount to all laws of the State; and if the negro owes the service, the master has no right to claim pay for it. The burden passes with the property. The master has been voting upon the negro’s personality for eighty years. We will let the negro fight a little now upon his personality. But it is said, white soldiers will not fight in the same ranks with the negroes. Where have the soldiers said they did not want their aid? Where have they turned their backs upon an enemy because a negro stood facing the same enemy? What officers have thrown up their commissions because they are humbled by being in the same ranks? Are they not, rather, rational enough to say that the musket upon the shoulder of the negro elevates him to the dignity of a man? The Federalist, in its wisdom, foresaw this day in something of its brightness when it said that civil commotions might make a race of unhappy beings emerge to a level of manhood. But we are told, ‘You will disorganize your armies.’ Was Rosecrans’ army disorganized, four days ago, because negroes had been introduced into the army? ’The Union men of the loyal slave States will be disgusted, and they will rebel.’ Where? Western Virginia has abolished slavery since this system has been initiated and proclaimed. Missouri has passed her act of emancipation, made gradual by her Copperheads, because her loyal men would otherwise have made it peremptory and immediate. Who has rebelled? Who that was loyal to the Government has become disloyal? Somewhere, where the negro fever has been lurking under the skin, of course it has broken out; but the fever was there before: it only required a hot day to bring it out. No sound loyal man has a symptom of that in him.”
“But there will be servile insurrections, outrages upon women, massacres of masters, burning down of houses, destruction of great regions of country, everything that the Apocalypse describes before the last day! That mass of freedmen has done no such iniquity anywhere. They have submitted with more than angelic patience to the torments of their masters till the United States has given them an opportunity of freedom; and then, murdering no one, outraging no one, insulting no one, they have marched quietly through the streets of Baltimore to the negro camp, and taken the obligations of the military oath.”
“’It is humiliating to white soldiers to serve in the same ranks with the negroes!’ What say the Army of the Potomac to fifteen or twenty thousand to help them in the next great fight? What said General Banks at Port Hudson? What said General Gillmore at Fort Wagner? Just what George Washington of the Revolution said. Just what Andrew Jackson at New Orleans said. Just what Perry on Lake Erie saw. Just what Barney, with his negro men mingled in with his white men at Bladensburg, saw when other men ran away. Men are men in spite of the skin, and deeper than the skin. The first martyr of the Boston Massacre in 1770 was a negro slave leading the white men. One of the heroes of the battle of Bunker Hill, living forever in the historic canvass of Trumbull, and living more immortality on the page of Bancroft, was a negro. No battle-field of the Revolution that was not stained by their blood. The men of that day shrank at first, and came to it afterwards. The formed no separate regiment; they mingled in with the rank and the platoon of their white fellow countrymen,’ as Andrew Jackson called them. From the days of the Revolution to the days of the war of 1812, prejudice was silent before reason, national necessity, and national interest. It was only when the cotton aristocracy arose that common sense was driven from the minds of men.”
It will be remembered that “that abolition fanatic,” Gov. Andrew of Massachusetts, in addressing the 44th Mass, regiment of colored volunteers previous to their departure South, publicly declared that his fate was linked with their fate. And to-day we find Henry Winter Davis—that unprejudiced Border State patriot—expressing that very identical and “fanatical” idea in the following words:
“Humanity, Christianity, the highest principles, the most ordinary honor combine in crying shame on thus complicating the fate of that innocent people with yours, if you do not mean to make their late also yours.” 
You who are constantly prating about negro equality; you who talk of banishing the emancipated slaves from the country; you who devote your untiring energies in endeavoring to convince the people that the slaves when liberated will overflood the North; and you who contend that the oppressed slave is “lazy and idle“—a being unfit for freedom; ponder well over the following eloquent words and unanswerable arguments of Henry Winter Davis—who ranks among the foremost of Maryland’s loyal citizens in popularity and patriotism:
“When we hear the wretched cry coming from the lowest of the populace, chiefly that which floods us from abroad, about negro equality and the intrusion of negro labor upon white labor, mention to them one or two things which may even meet their intellect. In the first place, if anybody is afraid of negro equality, he is not far from it already; in the next place, if God has made him equal, and only accidental circumstances have made him unequal, you cannot help it: and if He has made him unequal by the laws of nature, and independently of accidental circumstances, then no amount of demagogueism, no amount of abolition enthusiasm can make one hair black or white, or add an inch to his stature, intellectual or moral. When you talk about expelling him from the country, you talk simple craziness. Expel four millions of people! Where are the ships? Where is the land that will receive them? Where are the people that will pay the taxes to remove them? Who will cultivate the deserted regions that they leave? Who will indemnify King Cotton for the loss of his subjects? What will the Cotton-planter do—represented to you as a gentleman who, like Apollyon in the Pilgrim’s Progress, eats and spouts nothing but fire; but you will find a little common sense at the bottom of it all. Let him understand that the negro is free, and that he has to deal with him as a free laborer, or let cotton go uncultivated, and he will hasten to pay him wages, and the negro will be glad to receive them. ’But he will run up North,’ say this same class of people,’ and compete with us for our labor.’ Who ever heard of a free negro running away from where he was free? Who ever heard of a negro running at all, if he be could help it? They don’t run from Maryland to Pennsylvania— why from South Carolina to Louisiana? ’But they are lazy and idle.’ Those who want to keep them as slaves say so, nobody else. We in Mary land have more experience on that subject than anybody else. We have about 200,000 negroes; one half of them are free, the other half are slaves. ’We find that the slaves are lazier than the free negroes. We find that the free negroes have schools, educate their children, lay up money in the Savings’ Banks, and do not crowd the courts as much as the class of white people from across the water. Everybody talks against them, who wants to keep them down below the level of the slave. It is the interest of the people .who own the slave property with which they come in competition to do it; but when there was an attempt made a few years ago to expel them from Maryland, the leading land-holders and negro-holders protested against it, and stopped it because it would destroy the agricultural industry of the State. If we in Maryland did not want to lose one-half our agricultural population, how will they of South Carolina live if they lose it all? Gentlemen, necessity is a teacher that we in this country have yet to learn to respect. We have been in the habit of doing what seemed to us good in our own eyes; frequently it was very bad. We have to learn, and our Southern brethren have to learn more bitterly than we, that sometimes people have to do, what they can do, and not what they prefer to do. When the Southern master is taught that the question is not whether he will have the negro free or slave, but whether he will have him free or no cotton, he will take the negro free. (Applause.) No rebel State will vote to emancipate their slaves. Do not he under any such delusion for an instant. They mean to hold them as long as they can. No rebel State will vote to come back to the Union-—rest assured of it-as long as there is an army in the field; but state the question, do you prefer, now belonging to the United States, to govern yourselves or he governed by Congress; and they will hasten to re-organize a proper State government. So with reference to the negro: if you ask then whether they would rather have the negro free or slave, they will say ‘unanimously’ slave;’ but if you say, ’the negro shall be free; will you pay
<c02>
him wages as a workman, or will you not have cultivators for your fields?’ they will say, ’we will pay him wages;’ and that is no speculation either, gentlemen. At this moment large plantations in Louisiana are cultivated under bargains made between the master and the slave for a reasonable compensation. To such an extent has the depletion of the slave population of the western shore of Maryland gone that some of the most violent secessionists have gone to their slaves, and offered them higher wages than heretofore they would have had to pay white men, if they would stay at home, and not enlist.”
KEYSTONE STATE.
Philadelphia. Oct. 6,1863.

SECRETARY CHASE’S WESTERN TOUR.
COLUMBUS, Oct. 11. Secretary Chase’s reception here last evening was remarkably enthusiastic, not withstanding the lateness of the hour. As the train approached the depot, the Secretary was greeted with cheer after cheer, shouts of “How are ye, greenbacks?” “Hurrah for our old Governor!” “Three cheers for the model Secretary,” &c., &c. A procession was then formed, preceded by a band of music, and he was escorted to the Neil House, where, after renewed cheering, the Secretary, evidently the most surprised man Columbus had seen lately, briefly made his -acknowledgments. He was profoundly gratified, he said, for this unexpected welcome.
He only regretted that they had put themselves to such inconvenience on so cold a night and unseasonable an hour to receive one who was certainly no stranger to them. [Cries of “No inconvenience“-“Glad to see you any time of night.”] It did him good to stand once more upon Ohio soil, and look into Ohio faces. [Cries,” So it does us to have you here.”] He had been absent from home much longer than he had expected to be when he started. It was now over three years since he had gone on to Washington, and though often seeking opportunities to return, he had never been able to leave the Capital, except on business, during all that period. Indeed, he had been gone so long that be hardly knew whether he even had a right to vote in his own State. [Voices: “Of course you have.” “Certainly you have.” “You just come down to your old Second Ward, and we’ll show you.]
But in so grave a contest as this, he could not rest easy in his place, and he had resolved at any rate to come home and try. [Voices: “Bully for you! that was just like you.”] Times had changed sadly during the interval of his absence, but he hoped and believed the darkest days were past. He had said at the outbreak of the war, that the rebellion must be put down, if in doing it we had to come to the old revolutionary standard, and a thousand dollars for a breakfast. [Laughter, and cries of “Well, guess we can stand it.”]
But he begged them not to understand him as meaning that it was within the limits of possibility to come to that, or to make any approach to it. He had no fears for the final result, and he trusted the end was even now approaching. Our armies must now largely outnumber those of the rebels. Already we had half their territory, and the rest nearly twice cut in two. We held their principal cities— New Orleans, Memphis, Vicksburg and Nashville.
Our fleets blockaded their whole coast, and held nearly all their ports. At last, thank God! we had the deliverance of devoted East Tennessee achieved and the Mississippi River opened. [Cheers, and “What we gain we hold.”] There were and must be no steps backward. Soon he hoped we should hear of the fall of Charleston, but whether it fell soon or late, the end was sure, and in that faith he rested. [Cheers.]
He had sometimes thought the war did not go on as fast as it might, that some mistakes might have been avoided and some misfortunes escaped, and he had no doubt they had all at times thought the same. Doubtless he and they had alike thought that if they only had the power, they could push some things faster, or could correct some evils without so much delay; but it was easier to stand off and calmly criticise than it was to do. The President was not unmindful of his responsibilities, and was honestly and earnestly doing his best.
He was sure he might say that much too for him-self, [cries of “That you may,”] and the best thing for all to do was to join in without carping or faultfinding, which, whether just or not, could only do harm, and by upholding the hands of the government, hasten its triumph. [Cries of “That’s so,” and cheers.] We were in the habit of tracing our evils to a peculiar institution. He had himself endeavored to do something towards removing these evils by another peculiar institution to which they had been pleased several times to refer. [Laughter and cries of “Hurrah for the greenbacks!”]
He thought he might felicitate himself, and them too, that the currency was not to break so long as anything in the nation remained unbroken. It was his faith that this struggle was not to end save in the complete supremacy of free labor, and of institutions founded upon it; in a general policy that recognized only free labor, and a financial policy that should be so shaped as to secure to that labor its just rewards. He looked for a safe deliverance from the perils of the present, and for a rich and generous national future. [Loud and prolonged cheering.]
The Secretary was then besieged by crowds eager to take him by the hand, and welcome him back to Columbus; and finally, after more music and more cheers, the assembly dispersed at between 3 and 4 in the morning.

THE PRESIDENTS SPRINGFIELD LETTER
The English papers have commented on the President’s letter to the Springfield Convention. The London Star says:
“President Lincoln’s letter, if it disappoints the expectation of immediate peace, it confirms our faith in the man who has the conduct of the war. It offers no new inducement to the Southern States to return to their allegiance—neither does it attempt to placate the Northern opponents of the Federal Government. But it places in the clearest, strongest light the wicked unreasonableness of the rebellion and the religious duty of all loyal citizens. As a vindication of the Washington Cabinet, it is a master-piece of cogent argument. As an appeal to the spirit of the nation, it is sublime in the dignified simplicity of its eloquence. No nobler State paper was ever penned. It is the manifesto of a truly great man in an exigency of almost unequalled moment. It is worthy of a Cromwell or a Washington. It breathes the calm heroism of a Christian patriot, trusting in the blessing of God upon dauntless exertions in a just cause. It is such as Garibaldi and Mazzini might have written from Rome, if events had placed them at the head of an Italian commonwealth threatened by a formidable combination of enemies to its freedom and integrity. It is the utterance of a statesman who has nothing to conceal; of a ruler guiltless of oppression; of the genius that consists in transparent honesty and unflinching resolution. Addressed to friends and neighbors, to supporters and opponents, it is open to all the world to read. It really challenges the judgment of cotemporary civilization, though it contains scarce a hint of any country but the United States. If it fail there to combine all parties in ardent approval of the President’s policy, it must be because party differences are invincible to logic and persuasion. But, abroad, it must immensely enlarge and strengthen the ever-growing sentiment in favor of a Government that insists upon making citizens of all its subjects, and vindicating the supremacy of the national will against groundless discontent and a 1ocal insurrection.’’
THE TWO REBEL WINGS. No man is more vehement and outspoken against the rebellion and a all its abettors than that sturdy old “war Democrat,” Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York. In a recent speech he sarcastically said:—
“He should like to see the Northern and Southern wings of the rebels, butternuts and copperheads together, and Governor Seymour called to address them. He might well adopt the language of Milton’s devil, ’Friends and Confederates, welcome!’
[Great laughter.] Mr. Dickinson bad said ‘coustitutiion’ as long as the South had said constitution,’ but -when they said‘’ arms,’ he ‘said’ arms. ’ [A pplause.] We might as well expect to preserve the frosts of winter through the dog-days as to preserve slavery longer. He was at much in favor of thoroughly and completely abolishing slavery as he had been for preserving it. He had been in favor of waiting the Almighty’s time. The rebels preferred to take the devil’s time; and there was now no saving it. His only objection to the emancipation proclamation was, that it should have been returnable immediately.”
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1863.

CELEBRATION OF THE THIRD DECADE
OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New York, in May last, it was unanimously
Resolved, That in accordance with usage, and from reasons of obvious fitness, it is proper that the completion of another Decade of the Society’s existence should be marked by a special public meeting devoted to a general review and survey of the cause; and that there fore this Society, when it adjourns on this occasion, will adjourn to meet in the city of Philadelphia, on the 3d day of December next, then and there to celebrate, in an appropriate manner, the thirtieth— and we would fain hope the final—anniversary of its formation.”
In accordance with this vote, the Executive Committee hereby announce that the THIRD DECADE of the Society will be held in Philadelphia, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863.
Historically, it will be an occasion of thrilling interest and joyous congratulation, unequalled in the eventful career of the Society since its formation. Unquestionably, it will be largely attended by the friends of universal liberty, representing every section of the country loyal to the Government. Who among them will need any stronger appeal than the simple announcement of the fact to induce him to be present, if circumstances should permit? Let them make their arrangements accordingly. “Whosoever will, let him come”—come in the spirit of justice and love—come as remembering those in bonds as bound with them—come as one abhorring “the guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man “come to put down the rebellion by helping to exterminate the hideous system from which it has legitimately sprung!
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be in attendance.
[Further particulars hereafter.]
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ) Secretary.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretary.

“PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND.”
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society congratulate its members and friends that, through the madness, rebellion and secession of the South, avowedly in behalf of its Heaven accursed and world-abhorred slave system,—involving the country in a civil, war of the hugest proportions and the most sanguinary character, which still coninues its desolating work,—the constitutional powers of the Federal Government are now ample to decree the immediate and total abolition of slavery. They believe that, as a measure of national peace and unity, of humanity and justice, such a decree should be passed by the ensuing Congress at as early a period in the session as practicable,—thus not only sustaining the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln of January 1st, 1863, but also effectually disposing of that remnant of the slave institution which was exempted by the Proclamation aforesaid, in such munner as may seem most equitable and expedient by Congress.
The warrant for this procedure is to be found in the still greatly imperilled state of the republic, and in the legitimate functions of the Government that may be exercised in such an alarming crisis. By common law, an individual has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law. In view of international law, a nation is an individual, and has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law; one of those means being the destruction of any dynasty or institution that imperils national life. Slavery has struck at the life of the natron, and declared its own existence incompatible with that of the nation. Hence the nation, acting through its official organs, has the right to abolish slavery throughout its dominions; and past events demonstrate alike the necessity and duty of exercising this right without delay and without compromise.
The Executive Committee of the American Anti Slavery Society, therefore, deeply impressed with the importance of a general co-operation of the friends of impartial liberty at this time, in order to influence and secure the action of Congress in the manner described, hereby announce, that they have resolved to put forthwith into the lecturing field as many agents as the funds of the Society will warrant, whose sole work shall be to enlighten the public, mind on this subject, stimulate to a wide-spread movement in favor of universal emancipation, and thus make the recurrence of another SLAVEHOLDERS’ REBELLION an impossible event.
To sustain and increase the number of these agents, the Committee solicit the generous contributions and donations of all who desire to see the speedy suppression of the war, and in the fullest sense “LIBERTY AND UNION“ made “one and inseparable.”
In furtherance of this patriotic and Christian object the “Women’s Loyal National League“ at New York has taken the field, in advance, to procure to a petition to the next Congress, for the total abolition of slavery, A MILLION OF SIGNATURES on the part of the loyal women of the republic. It deserves all possible encouragement and success, and we shall extend to it the heartiest co-operation. But let the loyal men be equally zealous and resolved to be as potentially heard in the same manner, by the same body. Let such a petition be sent to Congress from every city, town, village and hamlet in all the loyal States. No time is to be lost. “One last, best effort now!“
The Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society is WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Mass. Donations may also be sent to OLIVER JOHNSON, Esq., Anti-Slavery Office, 48 Beekman Street, New York, and to J. MILLER MCKIM, Anti-Slavery Office, 106 North Tenth Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries .
CHAS. C BURLEIGH,. BURLEIGH, Secretaries .
Editors of newspapers, friendly to the object here announced, are respectfully requested to insert this announcement in their columns.

ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a million signatures of loyal women to the following petition:—
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition—a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner at to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL effort and consecration are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing— the object is godlike—the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass un-improved.
<c04>
GOLDEN WEDDING.
A Golden WEDDING is not an every day occurrence. To be able to attend one is a rare privilege; but that privilege it was our good fortune to enjoy, in common with a host of others, on Saturday evening last, Oct. 17, at the residence of our widely known and greatly esteemed friends, BOURNE and HANNAH B. SPOONER, at old Plymouth. It was their half century wedding eve. From eight o’clock until “the small hours of the morning,” their commodious rooms were crowded with blood-relations, cherished friends, (quite a number from distant towns,) and much respected fellow- citizens, who, after proffering their congratulations to the fortunate and honored couple, and invoking on them such benedictions as the occasion naturally called forth, mingled in animated social conversation and cheerful amusement,—the hours passing all too rapidly, for
“All went merry as a marriage bell.”
There was no formality observed, no order of proceedings marked out, but everything was left to spontaneous feeling and impromptu action. The following hymn, written for the occasion by a young lady, (we can hardly hope to be in a situation bodily to attend her golden wedding, for we believe she is yet to be espoused, but may she achieve it blissfully!) was sung by the whole company to the tune of Auld Lang Syne:—

GOLDEN WEDDING HYMN.
We come to-night, at friendship’s call,
To take a fond review 
Of olden times and early friends,
The trusted and the true.
Where are they now, those cherished ones,
Who shared life’s hopes and fears, 
Companions of this wedded pair
Of half a hundred years?
Time’s frosts have dimmed the loving eyes,
The dark locks changed to snow;
And some beneath the daisies sleep,—
The loved of long ago.
But, oh! Time’s kindly hand to you
Brings joy, instead of tears,
And lights with golden beams the track
Of half a hundred years.
And friends and children gather here,
To greet ye while they may,
And bear their gifts, of love to cheer
Your “golden wedding “ day
And may ye to the Master bring,
When harvest time appears, 
The golden fruit of faithful toil
Of half a hundred years!
The company were then invited to the spacious dining-room to partake of a collation prepared by the famous caterer, Mr. J. B. Smith, of this city, in a style of elegance and with an abundance of supply to suit the most fastidious taste, and to satiate the sharpest appetite. It seemed to be most thoroughly appreciated by all present.
During the evening, a portion of the Germania Band played many pleasing and popular airs, while the younger members of the assembly kept time in the mazy dance. Some brief remarks were offered by a friend present, pertinent to the occasion; after which some good old-fashioned psalm-tunes were sung, in the spirit of “long ago.” Three rousing cheers were then given for the venerable bridegroom, and three for his bride, when a reluctant farewell was taken of them and of each other. To call them “venerable,” however, in the ordinary sense of that word, did not seem warranted by their hale appearance, which made it difficult to believe that they had been so long united in wedlock. Most loving and felicitous has that union proved, and may it still long continue unbroken by the hand of death! I All their children and grand-children were present to rise up and call them blessed, and to receive a parental blessing in return. It is remarkable that no death has occurred in the family during the whole fifty years.
For more than a score of years, the advocates of the enslaved in our land have had warm and hospitable greeting under the roof of these beloved friends, whose steadfast adhesion to the Anti-Slavery cause has ever been “without concealment and without compromise,” though at no small cost; but whose privilege it now is to see all that is truly loyal in a patriotic sense, and all that is humane and noble in spirit, in our country, blending in one common purpose to secure for that long persecuted but ever righteous cause a glorious victory. So auspiciously culminates their “golden wedding“!
Love’s golden cycle is complete
In wedlock’s perfect chain
Of fifty years—the time how fleet,
Since “one “were made the “twain “!
“!Hail to the happy, favored pair!
!Heaven’s smiles upon them rest! 
And may their children’s children share
A lot as richly blest!

A FACT.
[Translated for the Liberator from the Pionier of Oct. 14.]
From a trustworthy source—the most trustworthy that can possibly be desired—we are informed of a fact which stands unexampled in the history of republican administration and defence, and which makes it difficult to decide whether we ought to wonder more that it was possible, or that it has not yet been publicly known. Those who possess the least insight into the interests of the republic, and the slightest sympathy for the maintenance of its honor, have rightly been both astounded and rendered indignant by a policy which not only permitted the arch enemy of all republicanism to set foot in Mexico without a protest, but was even his accomplice in so far as it allowed him quietly to draw from North American ports his munitions of war, while it refused the procurement of weapons to the government of the threatened neighbor-republic. Already this had been justly regarded and branded as an abasement and half betrayal of this country. But what name it there for an act which delivers directly into the hand of the murderer of two republics the knife for the murder of the third, whose corpse is merely to serve him as a standpoint for the murder of the fourth? The fact of which we speak is this:
Mr. Seward (for whom Mr. Lincoln is responsible), at the time when the French invasion of Mexico was in process, entrusted to the French Ambassador Merrier, from the archives in Washington, all the plans and maps of the campaign of Gen. Scott, in order thereby to facilitate for the invading army the work of slaying the republic.
In a country like Mexico, such plans and maps have a far different value from what belongs to them in an open and thoroughly cultivated region, whose topography is universally known; they have the value of a deadly auxiliary weapon. But even if they were worthless, their surrender would be an act of flagrant dishonesty, faithlessness and infamy, which no government could commit without incurring universal contempt.
For such an extraordinary act, there must exist an extraordinary motive. What can it be?
Did Mr. Seward wish, through a readiness to oblige which should prove its sincerity even by the abandonment of all honor and self-interest, to avert, at the expense of a hapless neighbor, the intervention with which a powerful despot seemed to threaten this republic! Then was he not only the blindest, but also the most cowardly of all statesmen to whom the defence of a republic was ever entrusted.
Or did he think to lure the threatening enemy into a snare which would, in his opinion, lead him to destruction? This would only be conceivable if a blinds ness without a name had caused him to overlook as well the power of the enemy as the notorious fact, that the French Emperor had an understanding with the rebellion of the South, and in it lent support to an ally.
Or shall we resort to the ungrateful supposition that the “first statesman” in America beheld in the French murderer of republics a veritable friend and ally?
Whichever way we turn, whatever be the explanation at which we clutch, we findn one that does not reveal Mr. Seward and his chief to be utterly incapable and unworthy, whether from cowardice or from blindness, of the defence of the republic. And yet from this judgment there is but one escape, which
<c05>
leads to a still more discreditable conclusion: that Mr. Seward has wittingly and designedly betrayed the republic to the most abominable despot in the world.
The menial services of an assassin with the malefactor of the 2nd of December, for the destruction of a friendly and neighboring people, and then a kissing of the hand of the blood-dripping batcher of Poland, in order to seek protection from the malefactor—that indicates the role which the successors of Washington,. Franklin and Monroe play before foreigners in the year 1863 for the defence of the republic. Poor republic! That the Americans yet have blood in their veins is seen only from that which they permit their able leaders to shed so generously without avail; whoever looks in their faces, which no longer blush for shame, might esteem them bloodless.

A BOOK TO BE READ AND CIRCULATED.
TOUSSAINT L’OUVETURE: A Biography and Autobiography. Boston: James Redpath, Publisher, 221 Washington Street. 1863. pp. 372.
This is a volume that appears at a most opportune period to challenge a careful perusal and secure a wide circulation—now that the employment of negro soldiers for the suppression of the Southern rebellion is the settled purpose of the Federal Government. The biography of the sable patriot of Hayti was first published in London, ten years since, by the Rev. John R. Beard, D. D., but is now presented in a more condensed and accurate shape. The autobiography is translated, for the first time, and expressly for the present work, from the “Memoires de la Vie de Tous-saint L’Ouverture,” edited by M. Saint Remy, who says of it—
“After much research, I succeeded in discovering the original manuscript in the General Archives of France. Eagerly, and with scrupulous attention, did I peruse the lengthy pages, all written in the hand of the First of the Blacks. The emotions excited in me by this examination will be better understood than they can be described. The mind is thrown into an abyss of reflections by the memory of so lofty a renown bent under the weight of so much misfortune.’
M. Saint Remy adds, that “Toussaint’s cast of mind may well be judged from the fact that his own manuscript is entirely at first hand, without an erasure or an insertion.” His remains, consigned to a grave under the chapel of the fort in which he cruelly met his doom, were discovered by a captain of engineers in 1850. The top of his skull, which had probably been sawed off at the time of the post mortem examination, and replaced, he deposited in the city library of Pontarlier, and the rest of the head stands on the mantel-piece in the cell where Toussaint was confined and died.
This work has three illustrations: 1. Outline Map of Colonial Hayti. 2. What purports to be an “authentic portrait of Toussaint,” but which looks like a caricature got up for amusement by some waggish artist. 3. Toussaint’s autograph. It is divided as follows:—Book I. From the commencement of the struggle for liberty in Hayti to the full establishment of Toussaint’s power—fourteen chapters. Book II. From the fitting out of the expedition by Bonaparte against Saint Domingo to the submission of Toussaint —eight chapters. Book III. From the ravages of the yellow fever in Hayti until deposition and death of the Liberator—five chapters. Book IV. Memoir of the Life of Toussaint, written by himself in the Chateau de Joux, in a letter to Napoleon Bonaparte. Notes and Testimonies.
This is no catch-penny affair, but a handsomely printed and profoundly interesting volume of one of the most remarkable men in the history of the world; whose case, indeed, has no parallel for its strange vicissitudes from that of a chattel slave to leader, conqueror, statesman, ruler of a liberated race,—at last perfidiously betrayed and transported to France, under circumstances of downright barbarity, where he was torn from his family, and consigned to a dungeon by order of Napoleon I., never to come forth alive. The subsequent imprisonment and death of Napoleon himself, at St. Helena, seem to have been a fitting retribution for his infamous treatment of Toussaint L’Ouverture. Prophetionally did Whittier write, years ago, of the Negro champion
“Sleep calmly in thy dungeon-tomb,
Beneath Besancoan’s alien sky,
Dark Haytian!—for the time shall come,
Yes, even now is nigh,
When everywhere thy name sharbe
Redeemed from color’s infamy;
And men shall learn to speak of thee 
As one of earth’s great spirits born 
In servitude and nursed in scorn,
Casting aside the weary weight
And fetters of its low estate,
In that strong majesty of soul
Which knows no color, tongue, nor clime,
Which still hath spurned the base control
Of tyrants through all time!”
We bespeak for this work the attention and patronage of all who are interested in the redemption of the negro race. Even those who are as strongly as they are unreasonably prejudiced against the race may, on giving it a close perusal, find their prejudice giving place to sympathy, contrition, and even admiration. Every intelligent colored person should try to possess a copy of it, not only for his own gratification, but in I order to make use of the facts embodied in it for the furtherance of the cause of the millions of bondmen, complexionally identified with himself, who are yet I waiting to be actually delivered from their galling fetters. Thus shall the poet Wordsworth’s prediction be realized, in his memorable sonnet upon Toussaint L’Ouverture:—
“Though fallen thyself, never to rise again,
Live and take comfort! Thou hast left behind
Powers that will work for thee: air, earth, and skies.
There’s not a breathing of the common wind
That will forget thee: thou hast great allies:
Thy friends are exultations, agonies,
And love, and man’s unconquerable mind!”

THE LATE LIEUT. L. C. ALDEN.
This lamented officer, a graduate of Harvard College, (Class of 1861) will long be remembered as one of the brightest ornaments of that institution, for his rare scholarship in science and in the classics. He relinquished his love and pursuit of the former, only that he might aid in the preservation of his country through the destruction of slavery. For this reason he chose to be dentified with the colored troops in preference to the white. With what courage and fidelity he performed his duties as an officer, till stricken down by the deadly climate of South Carolina, is testified by the following resolutions, signed by every officer of the 55th Massachusetts:—
CAMP 55TH REG. MASS. VOLS.
FOLLY ISLAND, S.C., Oct. 8, 1863.
Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God to remove from among us our brother in arms, Lieut. LEONARD C. ALDEN:
Resolved, That we deeply lament the loss to the regiment, to the service, and to the cause in which we are engaged, of a brave, faithful and efficient officer, a quiet and unassuming gentleman, a high minded and conscientious man.
Resolved, That in leaving the quiet literary ways into which his life seemed so completely merged, for the activity and troubles of military service, he showed a heroism and pure patriotism which should place his name high in the list of Harvard’s fallen sons.
Resolved, That the circumstances of his death— his loneliness—his nearness to the home to which he had been so fondly looking—the discharge of the mournful funeral offices by strangers—shall only endear the more to us the memory of him whom we have lost.
Resolved, That we tender to the family and friends of the deceased our respectful sympathy in their affliction.
THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND MORE. The President calls for 800,000 volunteers to be organized on the plan heretofore adopted; and if any State fails to raise its quota, then a draft will takes effect on the 5th of January next. The new levies are principally for the purpose of replacing those regiments whose term of enlistment is about to expire.
Gov. Andrew has received a telegram from the Provost Marshal General, that the quota of Massachu setts, under the new call for volunteers, is 15,120.
<c06>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE “AMERICAN BOARD.”
The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, so long an effective ally of slavery, both in theory and practice, has now felt the pressure of a change in popular opinion sufficiently to swing round with the rising tide; and it points now towards the destruction of slavery, as formerly towards its preservation. Among the business transacted at its Annual Meeting, recently held in Rochester, N. Y., and very largely attended, were certain Resolutions on the state of the country. These are drawn up with much sophistical skill, and by the very person who has so often engineered the Board’s pious excuses for favoring slavery instead of opposing it, Dr. Leonard Bacon of New Haven. The Tract Society, having more ready and frequent communication “with the public than a Board for Foreign Missions can have, took its opportunity some time ago to make a gradual changes of front on the negro question, and is now moving smoothly along in the same track with its former Boston Auxiliary, which was first (of the Societies for sectarian propagandism) in making that sagacious movement, and which made no small gain thereby. The American Board, being the last to make this indispensable change of position, found it necessary to use pretty strong terms of opposition to slavery at once, to reach the point which their tractarian friends had reached by nice gradations. So Dr. Bacon peppered his Resolutions with abundance of vituperative epithets against that system. But, although he had thus provided against Scylla, there was a danger yet remaining from Charybdis. The venerable old covies of the Board had not been used to hear slavery spoken of in such terms, and might bolt from voting for them. On reading the Resolutions to the meeting, therefore, Dr. Bacon requested his hearers to notice that there was not, after all, much meaning in them, and that, however severe some of the words might sound, the purport of the sentences as a whole was only what almost everybody now agreed to Having, by this little explanation, assured the salt of the earth and the light of the world that they were safely with “the world” in this transaction, and running no risk of the charge of radicalism, he succeeded in obtaining an unanimous vote, and the Board now pronounce slavery a system of “hideous injustice.”
The position of ecclesiastical and semi-ecclesiastical bodies in this country, first in supporting slavery by choice, and of late years in turning against it by compulsion, has brought out, more perhaps than any other cause, the dishonesty of that portion of the periodical press which calls itself distinctively “religious.” A specimen of this sort, in connection with the Board’s anniversary above-mentioned, appears in last week’s Congregationalist.
The leading article of that paper, devoted generally to strong eulogy of the Board and its operations, makes special reference to the position and attitude of that body twenty years ago, when as at present the meeting was held in Rochester. The majority of the subscribers to that paper are probably inclined towards anti-slavery views; and its Editor, wishing to fortify and rivet their attachment to the American Board, tries to make them believe something utterly false, namely, that the Board held a practically anti-slavery position twenty years ago; and this is the way he manages it:—
After rehearsing the facts that, twenty years ago, the great scheme for the indefinite extension of slavery had not yet begun to be realized—and that there had yet been no Border Ruffianism in Kansas, no Southern infraction of the Missouri Compromise, no Mexican war, no annexation of Texas—in short, none of those numerous developments of the danger threatened by slavery to the very life of the nation, which at length awoke the careless nation to a recognition of its danger—the Congregationalist says—
“Yet at that meeting the question of slavery was agitated, and the declaration was made, as on previous occasions, that’ The Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions can sustain no relation to slavery which implies approbation of the system, and as a Board can have no connection or sympathy with it.’“
At that meeting (1843) the question of slavery was agitated!“ says the Congregationalist.
How came it to be then agitated?
It was brought up by means of “a Memorial from a Committee of the Second Evangelical Congregational Church in Cambridgeport, Mass., requesting the Board to pass resolutions to the following effect: 1. That they will not send agents to solicit funds of slave-holders, nor of churches having slaveholding members .
2. That they will not send slaveholders as mission. aries to the <llegible> nor employ them as agents or secretaries at home.”—
[See p. 67 of the Prudential Committee’s Annual Report for 1843.]
This was the way the subject of slavery came up in that meeting. And the sentence quoted by the Congregationalist as evidence that an anti-slavery character then belonged to the Board to part of the Report of a special Committee on that Memorial, refusing the requests contained in it.
But the same declaration had been made “on previous occasions,” says the Congregationalist- trying to persuade its readers that the Board held a practically anti-slavery position even before 1843. What were these occasions?
They were two, occurring in the two previous years. The passage in question first occurred. in 1841, in the Report of a special Committee on a Memorial from seventeen Evangelical ministers in the State of New Hampshire. The Memorial requested that that the Board would put an end to the studied silence they had up to that time preserved on the subject of American slavery, both because it was right and expedient to break that silence, and because American slavery was such that no man or body of men can innocently maintain a doubtful position in relation to it.
This Memorial, with the names and residences of its seventeen signers, and the reply of the Committee, (including the sentence above mentioned,) may be seen, pp. 58 to 61. in the Annual Report for 1841. The Committee’s Report, refusing the request of the Memorial, was unanimously adopted by the Board.
In 1842, the same sentence was used in the Report of another Committee, and again served its obviously intended purpose of causing to be refused the requests of “several Memorials and other papers on the subject of the connection of the American Board with slavery.
Dr. Woods, who wrote this sentence, understood the art of deceptive evasion as well as Dr. Bacon himself. Its phraseology was an ingenious trick to turn away attention from the real matter in hand. Nobody had charged the Board with approving slavery. The real and just charges repeatedly made were that the Board pursued such a course of policy, party by action, and partly by silence and inaction, as to give of effective countenance and support to that wicked system. One of their missionaries was a slaveholder for years. while in their service; and others of their missionaries were constantly admitting slaveholders to their churches as Christians. The sentence in question then was a deliberate imposture, coined to make a plausible pretence for refusing the requests of petitioners against slavery, and causing such refusal to be; made for three successive years. And yet the Editor of the Congregationalist, perfectly aware of all this, has the hardihood to quote this sentence as evidence of the past rectitude of the Board in relation to slavery!
I do not intend, however, to represent the Congregationalist as worse than others of its class. The Recorder has never scrupled to avail itself of similar methods in its defence of the Board.–C. K. W.
THE BOSTON PILOT. We give in the “Refuge of Oppression “another of those ranting, insolent, incoherent and venomous pro-slavery articles which, from week to week, are found in the editorial columns of the Pilot. - It ludicrously maintains that “the cotholic Church alone(!) has the mission to emancipate the slaves of the South.” and than very complacently adds, “but it will be a very long time before the task will be accomplished“! No doubt of it!
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE ISSUES OF THE HOUR.
The Republic or the Confederacy-The Christ of Liberty, or the Barabbas of Slavery-Which shall Die?
FREMONT, (Ind.) Oct. 9, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON-I left Boston Oct. 10th, on a lecturing tour in Michigan, Indiana and Illinois. As yet, my labors have been confined to Michigan and Indiana—mainly in Indiana. The past fifteen days. I have spoken on an average twice a day-mostly at pothering called and sustained by men and women engaged heart and soul in aiding the Government to crash the rebellion, and to sustain its policy in regard to the only cause and only cure of all our national trials and calamities-Slavery and Abolition. That the republic is now, in the main, pursuing the only policy in regard to these which can inure to its vitality, its strength and its perpetuity, as the national Messiah of freedom to mankind, none can question. The call upon the negro-so long outraged-to come to the help of the Government, and the activity and earnestness displayed by the Administration in mustering them in to the service, are exciting the approval and the admiration of all the friends, of freedom in the West, and especially of the soldiers. Never a solider but approves the policy most heartily-the deserters and disgraced excepted. The recent grand review of his troops by Gillmore on Morris Island, is which the negro regiments were paraded and reviewed with the whites, excites great applause.
But, how little the people of the East understand and appreciate the state of things in Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, in regard to the malignity and desperation of the Copperhead Democracy of these States! To understand and feel it, one must be on the spot, and mix with the people in the daily walks of life. There is more danger of a civil war in these States, than the East dreams of. In New England, loyalty to the Republic is the rule-treason the exception. This is also true in the West, but the exceptions, are much more numerous, open and murderous. Agents from the Confederacy of slave-breeders and pirates are at this hour traversing the above-named three States, organizing, arming and drilling the Copperhead Democrats with a view to the next presidential election, and infusing in to these traitor hearts the same hatred of “freedom, free labor, free society and free institutions,” and of the Republic, based upon them, that animates the hearts of Jeff. Davis Co. I have been in the counties and towns on the Ohio border, and the truth is apparent to all, that bands of armed traitors from Illinois and Indiana, led by the hired and commissioned agents of the Confederacy of slavemongers, are daily passing into Ohio, and scattering over the towns and villages of that State to carry the election of Vallandigham. It is certain many traitors from New York city and Philadelphia are being transferred to Ohio, and that by agents, of the Confederacy. It is well understood and universally believed here, that the Confederacy fought the battle at Chattanooga solely to give triumph to the Copperhead Democracy of Ohio at the polls next Tuesday, the 13th. The traitors all over these three States—speakers, and papers-claim victory to Bragg, and the annihilation of Rosecrans. I had no idea of the murderous malignity of the Democratic traitors to freedom and free institutions till I mingled with them in public and private debate. The elections in Indiana and Ohio, next Tuesday, will be significant mainly as they can be made to bear on the Presidential election in November, 1864. Gov. Morton stands like a rock for the Republic amid the upheaving, mad elements of treason and the Confederacy, that toss and roar about him. Would that a thousand lecturers, in favor of a Republic based on the Declaration of Independence, could labor in these three States the ensuring year!
I am in the family of ENOS NOYES, who represented Steuben country in the last Indiana Legislature. He is an intelligent man, and works hard for a Republic, as the result of the war, that shall practically realize the freedom and equality of man. He has been telling me of the efforts of the Copperhead Democracy in the last legislature to hand the State over to Jeff. Davis & Co., and to affy it to the Confederacy of Pirates, and how they were defeated. The traitors, deliberately planned the extinction of the Constitution and State of Indiana, and of the Constitution and Republic of the United States, and the adoption of the Constitution of the Confederacy, and an alliance, offensive and defensive, with slavemongers. and pirates. They failed; but they are mustering again to accomplish the same end next fall-only county elections being held this fall, the State elections, being next fall-this occurring once in two years.
The Republicans, (and by this is meant simply the friends of the Republic in opposition to the Confederates, or friends of the slave-breeding Confederacy,) all over this region and through the West generally, are accepting the issue as between slavery and freedom, slave labor and free labor. Hence they welcome with enthusiasm, generally, speakers and lecturers, who sustain freedom and free labor as against slavery and slave labor. All who labor to make the Republic an anti-slavery Republic will get a hearing in the West the coming year.
The Republic—its origin, its basis, its object and its destiny; and, the Confederacy—its origin, basis, object and destiny; these have been my subjects in all my efforts, as an efforts as an Abolitionist, the past three years. The Republic, as the Messiah of freedom and salvation to earth’s toiling millions; and the Confederacy, as a thief and robber and pirate, to plunder, rob and enslave all without regard to color, clime, character or country, who live by the work of their hand and the sweat of their brow. The people of the North must decide which of the two shall be “delivered,” and which shall be “crucified.” The Republic and the Confederacy, being based on antagonistic principles-liberty and slavery-which neither God nor man can ever harmonize, cannot exist side by side. One must die. Which shall it be, the Republic, or the Confederacy? The Christ of Nations, and Liberty, or the Barabbas of Slavery and Piracy? The Friend of Man, or the Man, or the Man-stealer and Marauder? For, as to their principles and objects, as governments, the Republic is a Christ to save and bless, and the Confederacy a Barabbas to curse and to destroy. Which shall live, and which shall die? One must die. God hath so decreed. Which shall it be? During the impending Presidential canvas, the people of the North must decide. Those who are for liberty will stand by the Republic. Those who are for enslaving the laborer will go for the Confederacy. But each one will and must go to his own place; and the quicker the better. The God of the oppressed lives, and slavery must die and freedom live; the Republic must live, and bless as it never has done before; and the Confederacy, with its slave-breeding, slave-trading, slave-hunting, women whipping and baby-peddling must be blotted from the records of the world.
My arrangements are made for October, and up to the 10th of November for nearly every day-if my voice and health hold out. Then I shall return East. But, let all who can speak a word for the Republic of Freedom and against the West during the coming presidential campaign. Let the one issue be—Liberty or Slavery—the Republic or the Confederacy-Jesus or Barabbas;-which shall die? The people with ballots, and not the soldiers with bullets, must decide. May God awake them to the great issues of the hour!
Yours,HENRY C. WRIGHT.

OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
FRIEND GARRISON,-Where is the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society? Defunct? I hope not. Formerly, the banner society in the old Commonwealth. Other societies in the different counties seem to be working up, and I trust the Old Colony will not be very far behind. No truer Anti-Slavery men are to be found than reside in Plymouth country. As a friend of the Society, I hope I shall again meet with them. Let President Spooner or Secretary Dyer look into the matter.
STANDISH.
<c02>
CONVENTION AT MILFORD.
DEAR GARRISON:
The Anti-Slavery Convention held by the Worcester County (South) Society at Milford, last Sunday, proved both refreshing and successful. It was truly a revival of the days of “auld lang syne.” The opening meeting, on Saturday evening, was fully attended; and through the day on Sunday, the Hall was well-filled. The faithful-Secretary will, as a matter of course, give the readers of the Liberator a full account of the interesting proceedings.
The remarks of S. S. Foster, on Saturday evening and Sunday, were timely, able and practical. Never, we think, has our faithful brother spoken with more effectiveness, and lucid discrimination. The cause, its needs, and the pregnant hour, were made transcendent and urgent. We were never made to feel more forcibly the import of the oft repeated words-
“Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just.”
Mr. Pillsbury gave to the meeting what little strength he could gather, as the remnant of power faithfully devoted, lo! these many years, to the cause of the slave. He seems to have hung his “harp upon the willow,” and, like Jeremiah, exclaims-”Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears!” And yet he does not fail to quicken the thoughtful, and urge the soul to comprehend, in some degree, the magnitude of the work we have in hand. It may be well that, in such a fearful hour, there should be an imperative call to take a “sober, second thought.” And yet, for myself, I am hopeful, not from the standpoint of principle-I wish it were otherwise-but from the consideration that the wrath of man shall praise the Lord.
Necessity compelled me to be absent from the forenoon and afternoon sessions on Sunday, but I am happy to learn that both meetings were fully attended, and much interest was evinced. Adin Ballou, of Hopedale, quite an absentee of late, was present, and embodied the burden of his speech in a series of Resolutions, which were in part adopted, and placed in the hands of the Secretary, and which, as a whole, or in part, will doubtless appear in your columns. I did not hear them, nor have I read the same, but learn they express the position of Anti-Slavery proper, with the present phase of the country in her trial-hour. Certainly, there is cause for congratulation and thankfulness if we can revive our work, and see eye to eye, at least so far as to consummate the glorious work inaugurated amid tears and suffering more than thirty years ago. Heaven grant that, with a clearer vision and truer souls, we may take heart in love and harmony, and bury, beyond the possibility of a resurrection, the last vestige of negro-hatred and oppression! Is it presumptuous to believe that God has chosen the despised and persecuted Abolitionists—Garrisonian Abolitionists, if you will-to achieve the victory for which all good men and angels are waiting?
Our friend, E. H. Hey wood, spoke at length in the afternoon. It is said the speech was, as a whole, acceptable; yet it was open to a just criticism, which it is to be hoped our friend will in his better judgment receive and profit by. If we even admit that this is the hour to press the abstract doctrine” or the practical doctrine of Non-Resistance, without being false to all our professions and honor, we cannot admit such a discussion upon the Anti-Slavery platform. No, indeed! We must stop just here, and welcome, as of old, “all sorts of folks,” and, if they will come, the “rest of mankind,” to help us roll back to the bottomless pit, from whence it came, the accursed institution of American slavery. And it cannot be doubted that our earnest and faithful brother, who has been saved from giving his time and talents to the service of a poor, shabby, sickly seutimentalism, called so falsely Christianity, will be persuaded not to throw away the staff of accomplishment. We cannot spare him, for the time has come for earnest deeds.
The Convention was eminently practical, and all were led to rejoice at the announcement that the old pioneer Society is going, instanter, to work with every available appliance in the field. Congress is to be besieged with mammoth petitions to decree Universal and Unconditional Emancipation! This announcement was received with enthusiastic demonstration. It is our work for the next six months, and must be prosecuted with unparalleled vigor. The Republicans present were equally enthusiastic. “Instinct is a great matter,” and they see their only hope of perpetuity as a party rests upon the success of the Abolitionists. They must be made to feel,-and how easy is the work!-that every dollar put into the Anti-Slavery treasury is the best and most effectual investment they can possibly make. This point will tell; and on the ground of self-preservation, if on no other, will give a new impetus.
Never was there an hour so ripe for harvest. Never was there a time when the tools of our warfare can be used to better advantage. We must not falter nor hesitate a single moment. The kingdom of Liberty is at hand. The herald is knocking at the door of every humane heart, and we have only to say “Welcome,” and our labors will be crowned with success. Then up, brethren, and never despair! The rainbow is brighter when the cloud is dark. Courage, courage, then, brothers:-
“Watchmen of God! oh, lose no heart,
But learn what God is like;
And in the darkest battle-field
Thou shalt know where to strike.
Oh, blessed is he to whom is given
The instinct that can tell
That God is on the field when He
Is most invisible.
And blest is he who can divine
Where real right doth lie,
And dares to take the side that seems
Wrong to man’s blindfold eye!
Oh, learn to scan the praise of men!
Oh, learn to love with God!
For Jesus won the world through shame,
And beckons thee His road.
God’s justice is a bed where we
Our anxious hearts may lay,
And, weary with ourselves, may sleep
Our discontent away.
For right is right, since God is God,
And right the day must win; 
To doubt would be disloyalty,
To falter would be sin.”
Pardon my prolixity, but my heart has been quickened by this timely Convention. It was in every sense a green spot in our desert and dearth. It was a joy to see our venerable and constant friend, the President, Dea. Henshaw, of West Brookfield. His hoary head is a “crown of glory, being found in the way of righteousness.” Heaven grant that many years of usefulness may be allotted to this faithful servant! But whether many or few-
“That life is long which answers life’s great end.”
“Watchman, what of the night?” The signs are full of promise, provided we work while it is called “to-day.” Let us rally, then, for the last and final struggle, and with “a long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull all together,” we shall throttle the monster, and make the welkin ring with “Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, good will to men.”
G. W. S.
“PLANTATION PICTURES.” We commence the publication, in our present number, of an original work which, when completed, will make about 300 duodecimo pages, entitled “PLANTATION PICTURES,” by Mrs. Emily C. Pearson, the author of “COUSIN FRANK’S HOUSEHOLD,” a volume of absorbing interest, which has already passed through some half a dozen editions. Mrs. Pearson is a gifted writer, whose aim is to instruct as well as to please, and especially to aid the cause of freedom and philanthropy with particular reference to the oppressed at the South. A residence of several years in Virginia has made her familiar with the characteristics and dialect of the slaves, so that her descriptions possess a life like similitude. The reading of her “PLANTATION PICTURES “will furnish an agreeable relief from the mass of grave and serious matter in our columns, from week to week.
<c03>
THE GOVERNMENT AND COPPERHEADS.
Mr. Joel B. Smith was discharged from work on Fort Constitution for no other reason than his loyalty to the Government. Copperheads have ruled so long both sides of our river, that they are very much surprised, that loyal men should presume to interfere with their doings! It is astonishing that so much power should be conceded to them in the management of public affairs; but so it is, and so it must be until a more radical spirit is infused in the powers that are at Washington.
A little circumstance that I will name shows the element that rules here. We are about as loyal here to the Government as the people of New Orleans-a trifle will turn the scale either way. What is wanted is some of the spirit of Ben. Butler, who would quickly separate the chaff from the wheat. But we are used to waiting, and must “wait a little longer.”
THE OTHER OX.
At the last election held in New Hampshire, a copperhead employed by our too confiding Government to oversee the construction of a gun-boat at Portland, Me., left his work, and came to Portsmouth to vote for his friend Marcy to represent his party at Washington. That was all right. Immediately, editors of certain papers began to discover that he was the right man in the right place-just the-man to oversee Uncle Sam’s work! Per-contra, at the election in Maine, the other day, an overseer on the public works left for half a day to vote to sustain the Government Immediately, his “Argus-eyed” superior officer made the discovery, and put another man in his place, and in haste informed the Government that he found the work abandoned, and had appointed another overseer! So, you see, it makes all the difference in this section how a man votes; and I. regret to say, copperhead votes have, for a long time past, been at a premium around our national works. But a change is slowly coming round. AN OBSERVER.
Portsmouth, N. H., Oct. 15, 1863.

WILLIAM ANDREW JACKSON.
Last summer, the coachman of Jefferson Davis, William Andrew Jackson, made his escape from Richmond, and got safely over to the Federal lines. He has just returned from England, after an absence of a year, during which he has spoken at numerous meetings to general acceptance, and every where received testimonials, of which the following are specimens:-
Resolution of the Executive of the Union-and Emancipation Society.
Moved by Mr. Thomas H. Barker, seconded by Mr. J. C. Edwards:
The Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society, in parting with Mr. William Andrew Jackson, on his return to the United States, hereby record their high sense of the value of the Platform services he has ably and faithfully rendered to the cause of freedom, in relation to the present conflict in America.
The Committee have also great pleasure in being able to testify to Mr. Jackson’s consistent and honorable conduct during the term of his engagement as one of their Public Advocates.
The Committee cannot part with their friend, Mr. Jackson, without expressing affectionate solicitude for his future welfare and usefulness; and they earnestly commend him to the kindly recognition of the friends of Union and Emancipation in America.
[For] THOMAS BAYLEY POTTER, President, FRANCIS TAYLOR.
JOHN HART ESTCOURT,
Chairman of the Executive.
Offices of the Union and Emancipation Society, 51 Piccadilly, Manchester, September 21st, 1863.
At a Meeting held in Mount Tabor Chapel, in Sheffield, in the county of York, England, on the 18th. day of September, 1863, the Rev. John Guttridge in the chair, it was unanimously
Resolved, That this meeting, in taking leave of their friend, Mr. William Andrew Jackson, on his return to America, request him to assure the people of that country of our sympathy with them in the great struggle in which they are now engaged, and our sincere hope that success may attend their efforts to rid their country of the horrid and abominable system of chattel slavery; and we earnestly pray that-God, in his ultimate mercy, will bless and protect Mr. Jackson, and give him strength to carry on the work in which he is engaged.
JOHN GUTTRIDGE, Chairman.
COLORED Mario’s CONCERT. This Concert, given at the Meionaon on the evening of the 5th inst., was highly creditable to all who participated in it Mario (Mr. Bowers, of Philadelphia,) has a voice of great sweetness, volume and power, and sung with excellent taste and spirit. All-his songs were warmly encored. Madam Dutton also acquitted herself in a very acceptable manner by her vocal efforts. Madam Josephine Ruffin read effectively several select pieces. There was a good audience present, but we should have been glad to have seen more of our white fellow-citzens present, both for their sake and as an encouragement to those meritorious performers.

LETTER FROM MASON TO JEFF. DAVIS.
The following is a copy of a letter from Mason to Jeff. Davis, and was found among the intercepted correspondence of the latter. It plainly shows the treasonable purposes of the writer at the time of its date:
SELMA, NEAR WINCHESTER, VA., Sept. 30th, 1856.
My DEAR SIR:-I have a letter from Wise, of the 27th, full of spirit. He says the government of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Louisiana have already agreed to the rendezvous at Raleigh, and others will:-this in your most private ear. He says, further, that he has officially requested you to exchange with Virginia, on fair terms of difference, percussion for flint muskets. I don’t know the usage or power of the department in such cases, but, if it can be done, even by liberal construction, I hope you will accede.
Was there not an appropriation at the last session for converting flint into percussion arms? If so, would it not furnish good reason for extending such facilities to the States? Virginia probably has more arms than the other Southern States, and would divide in case of need. In a letter yesterday to a committee in South Carolina, I gave it as my judgment, in the event of Fremont’s elections, the South should not pause, but proceed at once to “immediate, absolute and eternal separation.” So I am a candidate for the first halter.
Wise says his accounts from Philadelphia are cheering for Old Buck in Pennsylvania. I hope they, are not delusive. Vale et salute!
(Signed.) “J. M. MASON.”
Colonel Davis.
REV. H. W. BEECHER. Mr. Beecher has returned from his lengthened tour on the Continent; and accompanied by his friend and fellow-traveller, Rev. Dr. Raymond, he spent Saturday evening in the Tabernacle House, Finsbury, to which Dr. Campbell had invited a number of the leading ministers of the Metropolis to meet him. The conversation mainly turned on the civil war now raging, on which Mr. Beecher expressed himself with great frankness and confidence. Rev. John Graham and Rev. John Kennedy made pointed reference. to some expressions ascribed to Mr. Beecher about the time of the Trent discussion, when he was reported as having said, “They would bide their time till they had settled matters with the South, and then!” The report which reached England stopped there; but not so the speaker, who finished the sentence nearly as follows: Then, then we will show England how we can forgive an injury, and heap colas of fire on the heads of those from whom it comes!
The company were startled at the discovery of the mistake under which they had been laboring, and delighted with the explanation, which showed how unjust had been the condemnation that had been hurled at the head of the great Brooklyn minister.
The subject of Mr. Beecher’s addressing a public meeting in London on the war and slavery was discussed at great length, when the gentlemen generally agreed as to its expediency; some, indeed-more especially Dr. Waddington—contended for its necessity. Mr. Beecher, however, did not commit-himself, but promised to take the subject into consideration.-British Standard.
COLORED ODD-FELLOWS’ CELEBRATION. A procession of about three hundred colored. Odd-Fellows to-day, ending with appropriate oratorical exercises and festivities, is among the latest novelties in Washington since the abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia. Delegates were present from New York, Pennsylvania, Boston, Alexandria, Baltimore, and Canada.
There were two bands of colored musicians, with a profuse display of regalias, banners, &c., with appropriate emblems and several national flags. The dignitaries of the order rode in carriages. The procession was followed by a large crowd of colored spectators, while others accompanied it in carriages of various kinds and on horseback.-Washington Cor. of N. Y. Tribune.
<c04>
ACTION OF THE AMERICAN BOARD ON SLAVERY AND THE REBELLION.
The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions held its annual meeting in Rochester, N. Y. last week, The subject of slavery was introduced by Rev. Mr. Trask, of Massachusetts. A correspondent of the New York Evangelist sneeringly says:-
“In the midst of some business on Thursday, Rev. Mr. Trask, of Fitchburg, Mass., got the floor, and made a speech. Mr. Trask has spent the last thirty years or so, in ’counterblasting’ tobacco; and the more he counterblasted, the thicker the smoke of it has got about him, and the more odorous the effluvia of its mastification. His speech was not now exactly about tobacco, but in favor of the Board’s saying something in favor of the black man. But there was no motion or point to it, and it all evaporated, like the results of his counterblasts, in smoke. Still, it was a quite harmless episode, in which he made many good hits, and pleased the audience a good deal.
It is evident that some of the men who have figured much in this sort of effort are passing away. I notice in more than one the hebetude of age, and in one particularly, who was a giant in his day, there is scarcely more than the power to be here, and to answer the words addressed to him.”
The following is a brief abstract of the remarks of Mr. Trask, as sneered at by the Evangelist:-
Rev. George Trask of Boston arose, and after commending the report of Dr. Bacon, read on Tuesday, as adopted at the last annual meeting, said he desired to make a suggestion to Dr. Bacon or Dr. Dutton. That although he had been much interested in the reports of the Sandwich Islands missions, he wished the Board to recollect that Ethiopia was stretching forth her hands to God; that here, in our country, were some 500,000 persons who had been liberated from bondage and made free, and that millions were to follow, and that if the condition of the Sandwich Islanders had been so much improved by the power of Christianity and civilization, he saw no reason why the condition of the black man, both here and in his native land, could not also be improved. He thought it was time the Board took some action in this matter. He was aware that there were some men in this country who held that the black man was not a man, “but,” said the speaker, “Mr. President, though their heads may be cut in ebony, they are not in copper.” Mr. Trask insisted, further, that such a declaration on the part of the Board would open the purses as well as the hearts of thousands all over the land.
Subsequently, the following report was made by the Rev. Dr. Bacon, of New Haven, and unanimously adopted by the Board:-
The Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, assembled for the annual survey of its works and of the field, cannot but recognize again, as in its last annual meeting, and in that of the preceding year, the civil war which the causeless and cruel rebellion is waging against the divinely ordained self-government, he unity and life of the American people.
Resolved, That we record with a devout acknowledgment of God’s mercies the fact that, in the midst of he sacrifices and the struggles which the nation is making for its own life, and the welfare of mankind in coming ages, the churches which heretofore have made this Board their almoner are still able and wiling to proceed with undiminished force in the work of a spreading the gospel through, the world, and that the contributions of our treasury are increasing, and our missionaries have experienced no other embarrassment than that which arises from the success and progress of their work, outstripping the progress of missionary zeal and self-denial in the churches that have sent them.
2d. Nor is it any less a matter of thankfulness to God, on our part, that under his holy providence, controlling the progress of events, the ultimate and entire abolition of slavery on the North American continent is henceforth, all men see and know, an inevitable and not distant result of the war which was begun for the purpose of securing an indefinite perpetuation and extension of slavery, by the establishment of an empire with slavery as its corner-stone. Without offering or implying any opinion on questions of constitutional right and of ultimate necessity, we do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice, in the certain overthrow of that hideous injustice which has been the great opprobrium of our nation, the great demoralizing influence in our Government, and the great obstacle in the way of all Christian enterprises and institutions; and which, by converting millions of human beings into the material of a horrible traffic, and by the persistent denial of all human rights to millions of slaves for whom Christ died, has made this purifying of our land with fire a divine’ necessity.
3d. We also record our grateful acknowledgment of the enlarged opening that has been made for evangelical labors, in the fact that, since our last annual meeting, hundreds of thousands who were slaves one year ago have obtained a complete emancipation; and in the certainty that the objects which have hindered the evangelization and Christian civilization of the African race in our country are to be completely removed. While we, as a Board of Foreign Missions, are unable to enter into the field thus offered in our country, we rejoice that others arc already entering in, whose labors, crowned with God’s blessing, will provide new instruments and agencies to be employed by us and other Foreign Missionary Institutions for sending the gospel to all the nations and tribes of the African continent.
Action of the Illinois Methodist Conference at Springfield, Ill.
The Committee on the State of the Country reported the following preamble and resolutions:-
Whereas, Our country is still involved in one of the most desolating wars ever recorded in the history of nations; and,
Whereas, So great and so terrible a visitation upon a nation demands a sober and prayerful consideration on the part of all the believers of our holy Christianity; therefore,
Resolved, 1st. That we recognize the hand of God in this terrible war, chastening us for our national sins.
2d. That a correct understanding of the cause of the rebellion is essential to the adoption of appropriate means for its suppression.
3d. That we believe slavery to be the primary cause of this wicked rebellion, and that we can name no security for the Union and permanent peace of the States so long as the evil is tolerated among us.
4th. That we view the proclamation of the President, declaring freedom to the slaves of rebels, as justified not only by military necessity, but by the moral sense of the civilized world.
5th. That the signal victories gained by our armies since the enforcement of the emancipation, proclamation, we believe an indication of the approval of Heaven upon that measure.
6th. That in a time like this, we regard it as the duty of every American citizen not only, to abstain in word and deed from interposing obstacles in the way of the successful prosecution of the war, but to employ all the means God has given to assist in striking down the rebellion and removing its cause.
7th. That the unmistakable providence of God in the events of this war declare plainly that he is compelling the nation to recognize the manhood of the negro, which the system of slavery has been endeavoring to crush out.
8th. That it is a matter of great gratification to all Christians, that the President of the United States, in all his official-proclamations, recognizes so distinctly the efficiency of Christian faith and the over-ruling hand of God in shaping the fortunes of our country.
9th. That in such times as the present, a man who withholds his hearty support from the Administration of the Government may be justly suspected of want of sympathy with and loyalty to the government of his country.
10th. That we cordially approve the policy of the Administration in the enforcement of the conscription act, and the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, touching offences against the Government.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
I. C. KIMBER, Chairman.
Action of the American Unitarian Convention at Albany.
Whereas, Individuals and ecclesiastical bodies have at different times and in different places published opinions on the duties of religious men, that have served to awaken doubts in the minds of the conscientious, and weaken the hands of the Government; therefore,
Resolved, By members of the Unitarian body assembled in Convention in Springfield, Massachusetts,
That we tender to the President of the United States our sympathy and our prayers in this great day of the country’s peril, and of his responsibility;
That while as Christians we are peacemakers, and labor for the spread of peace, we cheerfully offer our life, and that of our own children, for the perilled life of the nation;
That while we owe allegiance to the constituted authorities at all times, we hold it now, when treason and rebellion are abroad, our especial duty, both by word and by act, to express it;
And that, while the privilege of individual freedom is vouchsafed to all, irrespective of color, as a religion right, sanctioned by the spirit and the letter of the Scriptures, we cannot refrain from the expression of our satisfaction at the proclamation of freedom by the Chief Magistrate to millions now in bondage, and the indulgence of the hope that the tremendous scenes through which we are passing will result in the liberty and Christian progress of all.
These resolutions were adopted with an enthusiastic unanimity which furnished sufficient index of the loyalty of the Unitarian body.
<c05>
SPEECH OF MR. CHASE.
Mr. Chase stated in a speech at Cincinnati, the other day, that he considered the rebellion virtually suppressed. He said:
I consider, therefore, my fellow-citizens, that this rebellion is virtually subdued-I know it is not actually subdued. They have large armies in the field, but ours are vastly stronger. Everywhere our armies are stronger than; they are. Therefore I regard the rebellion as virtually subdued.
He fully sustained the Emancipation Proclamation. In regard to intervention be said:
If we are weak they will interfere, but when despotism sees we are strong, it will slink away. (Applause.) I think we have demonstrated some strength in the field. What nation before ever maintained such armies in the field, and was so lavish of its strength?
We are showing our strength to the nations of the earth, and if we simply go on showing our strength there will be no danger whatever of intervention. There will be no danger, because it will not pay. (Cheers.) It is true that Great Britain has behaved very unneighborly.
We used to think this great Anglo-Saxon family was to stand together the world over to establish freedom of the press, freedom of the ballot-box, freedom of thought, freedom of speech, and freedom for all; but of late years, we have seen manifestations of a very unkind and unfriendly spirit; and sometimes I have felt as if I wanted to take old mother England by the hair, and give her a very good shaking.
He alluded to the French movements in Mexico as follows:-
We have got a sort of new empire upon our borders in Mexico. Well, gentlemen, I am not much disturbed about that. Empires will not last long in Central America. (Cheers.) I don’t know how long this empire-if, it gets born-will last. There was an attempt to make an empire in Mexico some time ago, and, if I am not mistaken, it was no great success.
I do not know that the Austrian Emperor will find his bed of roses there, but I am strongly inclined to think that the roses will be very few and the bed very hard. (Cheers and loud laughter.) I am willing to trust to the future, and I am perfectly sure, taking all things into consideration, that the European monarchs 
will, in the end, think it best to keep their institutions at home. I am confident of this. (Cheers.)
CINCINNATI, Oct. 16. Secretary Chase addressed a large assemblage of people in Columbus last night. He congratulated the people upon their victory, and the good effect it would have not only, in this country but in Europe.
It would strengthen the hands of the President and Cabinet, and send joy to the hearts of the army. Had they given 10,000 majority only, it would not have 
sufficed; but the grand 100,000 majority had done the business.
He rehearsed the history of his leaving Ohio three years since to attend the Peace Congress, the policy he advocated, and the result of his transfer from the Senate by President Lincoln to the Cabinet.
He also went into a history of his financial scheme. He referred to his three years’ absence, and feelingly thanked his audience for their kind welcome.
He complimented Governors Dennison and Tod for their fidelity and zeal in managing the affairs of the State.
Mr. Chase left Columbus this morning for Washington.
A Washington correspondent writes:-
“In Mr. Chase’s absence, it may be fitting to say a word or two about him. Fulsome praise of any man disgusts, and I am not going into that business. But I tell the simple truth when I say that when Mr. Chase left Washington, the greatest man, the strongest, the boldest in it, left with him. His finest trait is his inflexible honesty. His financial ability is as nothing in comparison with his honesty. There are thieves in the days of a Republican Administration as there used to be in the days of Buchanan, and I fear about as many of them. They swarm about the departments in this city, an army of outsiders who come to filch what they can from the public purse. It is pleasant to see such men approach Mr. Chase. I don’t think one of them, after an interview with him, ever thought he could succeed in any unlawful designs against that department. Able, honest and humane, Mr. Chase is one of the few real statesmen of our age, and Mr. Lincoln exhibited great sagacity when he determined to put him in his Cabinet.”
To THE POINT.-The following is the closing paragraph of a speech delivered by Secretary Chase at Cincinnati:
Now, fellow-citizens, what have we to do? We have simply to go to work, each in our places, and do our part. You would not have seen me here to-day, if I had not first taken care to provide for the soldiers. (Great cheers.) I had paid off all the claims of everybody, and found I had the snug sum of $25,000,000 ahead, ready to pay the soldiers with on the 1st of November; I therefore thought I had time to come here to vote. (Cheers.)
THE PENNSYLVANIA ELECTION. Secretary Stanton sent to Col. Forney the following congratulatory letter about the result of the election in Pennsylvania:-
WASHINGTON, Oct.14th, 1863.
To John W. Forney, Esq.
Thanks for your telegram. All honor to the Keystone State! She upheld the Federal arch in July, and with steel and cannon-shot drove the invaders from her soil; and now, in October she has again rallied for the Union, and overwhelmed the foe at the ballot-box. EDWIN M. STANTON.
PHILLIPS’S SPEECHES. The Dixon (Ill.) Republican and Telegraph thus speaks of Mr. Phillips’s book:
Mr. Phillips has been so prominently identified with nearly every reform brought before the American people for the last thirty years, that the present work needs but a passing notice. No man, perhaps, has warmer friends or more bitter enemies than Wendell Phillips; but his bitterest opponents-those who differ with him the most widely upon every topic of public interest-can but admit the irresistible charm of his eloquence. Honest in his convictions, and earnest in the advocacy of what he believes to be right, he is one of the few living orators who can hold an audience spell-bound against their will. The publication of this work at the present time is peculiarly appropriate, when events are daily proving the truth of what were once considered the vagaries of an enthusiast. The book contains the best efforts of the author on all the important questions that have engaged his attention during his public career; and will well repay perusal by every one, especially those who sympathize with him, to whom it will prove a most acceptable treasure.
DEATH OF WILLIAM KNAPP, ESQ. We regret to record the demise of William Knapp, Esq., the well-known assistant clerk of the police court, which occurred at his residence at two o’clock this morning. He had been failing for several months, and since June had been incapacitated for the performance of his responsible duties. His death, though sudden, had not been unexpected.
Mr. Knapp was in his 65th year. He was a native of Newburyport, came to Boston at an early age, and upon the organization of the police court in 1822, he was appointed first assistant clerk, which office he held uninterruptedly to the present time. He had charge of the clerical department of the Justices’ court, which court, always presided over by the judges of the police court and under the same clerical jurisdiction, had its jurisdiction transferred to the police court in 1860, upon the recommendation of the commissioners upon the revision of the statutes. Mr. Knapp’s duties were ever on the civil side.
Forty-one years of service as a public servant, undimmed by an act affecting his unyielding integrity, but on the contrary replete with all that could win the love of his associates and the respect of our citizens, had given him a hold upon the affections of the community, the severing of which, will cause his death to be mourned far and wide.
His death removes the oldest of our public servants, deprives the poor of an ever-ready and valuable friend, the Masonic order of a beloved brother, and the Episcopal church of a highly respected member. His memory will long be cherished with that deep interest due to his well known worth. He leaves a widow and two sons.-Boston Traveller.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., August 20. Major Gen. Grant has assumed command of the Armies of the Ohio, the Cumberland, and of Kentucky. He left for Nashville this morning, to assume the direction of affairs at Chattanooga.
Gen. Thomas takes the command of Gen. Rosecrans’ army, Gen. Rosecrans being ordered to Cincinnati to report by letter to the Adjutant General at Washington.
WASHINGTON, AUGUST 20. The belief is strengthened at headquarters to-day that the rebel army of Virginia has escaped entirely from the Army of the Potomac, and that the principal part of it is on the way to Georgia to reinforce Bragg, while only a small portion has been left in Virginia to amuse Gen., Meade and prevent any more troops being sent to Chattanooga while the rebel movement was being executed.
LIVERPOOL, Friday. To-day a Government warrant was received by the customs officials at this port, authorizing the detention and seizure of the two rams recently built by Messrs. Laird Bros. The broad arrow has just been placed on one of the rams.
This is most gratifying intelligence.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SIXTH SERIES.
AT TREMONT TEMPLE
OPENING ADDRESS BY
HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL,
On TUESDAY EVENING, October 27, 1863.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by-
Nov. 3-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 10-BENJ. F. BUTLER,
(subject to the contingencies of the public service.)
Nov. 17-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Nov. 24-CHARLES SUMNER.
Dec. 1-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
Dec. 8-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
Dec. 15-OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM.
Dec. 22-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
Dec. 29-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Jan. 5-JACOB M. MANNING.
B. J. Lang, Organist for the course.
Tickets (admitting the Bearer and Lady) to the Course, $2 each, may be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.’s, 277 Washington street; Ticknor & Fields, 135 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co.’s, 33 Court street; John S. Rogers & Co.’s, 1077 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.
BIBLICAL QUARTERLY of Religious and Moral Science, and the Reconstruction of Biblical Theories according to the principles of all Science. No. I. Daniel with its Apocryphal additions, newly arranged and translated, with a critical introduction, in which its age, authorship, character and interpretation are considered, and the principal questions concerning the book attempted to be finally resolved. By LEICESTER A. SAWYER.
This Quarterly will endeavor to apply the principles of all science to the sciences  of religion and morality, then of all history to sacred history, and then of all interpretation to Biblical interpretation. The second or third number will commence the critical examination of the New Testament.
Terms, $2 a year; single numbers, 60 cents. The first number is in the press, and. will appear shortly. Orders and subscriptions are respectfully solicited through all the United States and Canada, and may be addressed to Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Boston.
HAYTI AND THE MARTYRS OF HARPER’S FERRY.-A CARD.-I have to-day sent to the last addresses of the following parties authority to draw on me at sight for a specified sum, out of a fund contributed at Cayes, Hayti, for the families of the martyrs of Harper’s Ferry:-
To Mrs. Mary Thompson, Mrs. Jemima Cook, Mrs. Leary, widows of John Brown’s men of those names; and to the parents of Kagi, Hazlitt, Stevens, the Coppoes, Anderson, Tidd and Copeland.
If my letters do not reach these parties, I ask their friends to notify them, or to send me their present address.
Anti-Slavery papers, please copy.
Boston, Oct. 5. JAMES REDPATH.
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.-The Sixteenth Annual Term will commence on Wednesday, Nov. 4, and continue seventeen weeks. Lecture fees, $55. Aid will be afforded to a limited number of students needing it. Any person or persons paying to the College $100 can send a student free of tuition through its course of education. Address or apply to the subscriber, at the College, No. 10 East Canton street, Boston.
3t. SAMUEL GREGORY, M. D., Sec’y.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.-Lather Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark’, School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture at Florence, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o’clock.
Subject: The Mysteries and Meanings of the War.
CUMMINGTON CONVENTION will be held in Cummington, Saturday, October 31st, afternoon and evening. CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, PARKER PILLSBURY, EZRAH. HEYWOOD and others will speak.
The faithful, long-tried and energetic friends of freedom in that quarter will gather in large and stirring numbers.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Fitchburg, on Sunday, Oct. 25th, forenoon, afternoon and evening, at the usual hours.
Mr. Garrison will also lecture in Stoneham, on Sunday afternoon and evening, Nov. 1.
MARRIED-On Thursday, the 15th, at the house of the bride’s father, according to the ceremony of Friends, J. WILLIAM COX, of Longwood, Chester Co., Pa., to MARY F., daughter of T. F. S. Smith, of New York city. [No cards.]

BEYOND THE LINES;
OR,
A YANKEE PRISONER LOOSE IN DIXIE.
A New Book of Thrilling Interest.
BY REV. CAPT. J. J. GEER,
Formerly Pastor of George Street M. E. Church, Cincinnati, and late Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. Buckland. With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of the School Visitor,
THIS is one of the most thrilling accounts of adventure and suffering that the war has produced. Capt. GEER was wounded and captured at the great battle of Shiloh; tried before several prominent Rebel Generals for his life, among whom were Hardee, Bragg, and Beauregard; incarcerated in four jails, four penitentiaries, and twelve military prisons; escaped from Macon, (Georgia,) and travelled barefoot through swamps and woods, by night, 250 miles; was fed by negroes in part, and subsisted for days at a time on frogs, roots and berries, and was at last recaptured when within thirty-five miles, of our gunboats on the Southern coast.
The particulars of his subsequent sufferings as a chained culprit are told with a graphic truthfulness that surpasses any fiction.
The work, contains a fine steel portrait of the author, besides numerous wood engravings illutrative of striking incidents of his experience among the rebels. Every Unionist-every lover of his country-every man, woman and child should read this Book of Facts as they actually occurred.
Just published on fine white paper, and handsomely bound in cloth. 285 pages.
Agents wanted in every county and township in the Union, to whom extraordinary inducements will be offered.
Specimen copies will be sent to any person for $1, post paid, with particulars to Agents.
Address all orders to
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
Sept. 11-lt
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
NO. 10. Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro’ Sts., BOSTON
Sept. 23. tf
BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET,
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct. 23, 1863.
A FOLSOM & SON,
MANUFACTURERS OF 
OIL CARPETTING,
-AND-
ROOF CLOTH,
23 WATER STREET,
A. FOLSON, BOSTON.
S. P. FOLSOM, BOSTON,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
STANZAS,
Suggested by hearing PARKER PILLSBURY speak in Mechanics’ Hall, East Princeton, on Sunday, Oct. 11, 1863.
I.
Thou man of mighty mind and noble heart,
So long a champion in the cause of Right! 
Steadfast, unswerving, thou didst act thy part
In the great drama-the fierce moral fight,
Convulsing nations! While gloom like sombre night 
Now veils our land, and God’s avenging hand
Is justly on us laid, still bear thy light,—
Still speak for God and truth in that small band, 
Which yet shall lead the world unto the “promised land”!
II.
Freedom’s bold orator! whose eloquence
Hath filled my soul with admiration deep, 
Thy wondrous diction, magic utterance,
Startles the “Church,” and calls it from the sleep
And apathy of years, bidding it keep 
A watchful eye on Freedom’s just demands,
That she no longer, bleeding, sigh and weep, 
Bound fast by Tyranny’s hard galling bands, 
While Pity mournful sees, and wrings her feeble hands!
III.
Warrior most valiant! in the nobler way
Thou dost for Freedom battle. Though no steel 
Gleams fearful in thine hand, the foe to slay,
All despots still that wondrous power feel,
And tremble on their thrones, that e’en now reel 
Before the surging of Truth’s mighty sea!
Thy WORDS may shame the cannon’s thunder-peal; 
Than spears and sabres far more potent be, 
In planting far and wide the standard of the free!
IV.
Foul Tyranny, dismayed, now stands aghast, 
Hearing pronounced her dread, her final doom!
She sees, appalled, her years of triumph past, 
And shudders on the threshold of her tomb, 
Which for her yawns in terror and in gloom!
She long enough the human race hath cursed; 
And evermore unfruitful be the womb
Which gave the monster birth! 
The breast she nursed
No more such fiends sustain, of all the fiends the worst!
I.
God bless thee, PARKER! in thy mission great;
Give thee a calm, a hopeful, happy mind; 
Whate’er be thy condition or thy fate,
Whatever ills betide, be thou resigned!
E’en in thy woes may thou a comfort find,
A joy, a peace this world cannot bestow;
And when thou leavest all these scenes behind, 
To realms immortal may thy spirit go, 
Where Freedom ever reigns, and purest pleasures flow!
East Princeton, Mass. J. W. N.

LINES TO A CLERGYMAN WHO SAYS SLAVERY IS NOT A SIN.
No sin to buy and sell and hold 
The negro in his galling gyves, 
And pocket the blood-crusted gold,
The price of human hearts and lives? 
No sin to steal an African,
And reb him of each sacred right; 
Wipe from his brow the stamp of man,
And blot the stars out of his night?
No sin to score his quivering back
With the red lash fresh dripping there, 
Because his Maker made him black,
Thickened his lips and crisped his hair? 
No sin to tear his frantic wife
From his outreaching arms of love; 
What God has joined, divorce for life,
Though Heaven forbids it from above?
No sin to steal the clinging child
From the fond mother’s dear embrace, 
And leave her broken-hearted, wild,
And crazed, to curse her ebon race? 
God gave the black a living soul,
A conscience and a heart to feel; 
Wrote freedom on his spirit’s scroll,
And sealed it with his holy seal.
Woe unto him who breaks the chart 
Endorsed by God’s unerring hand, 
A curse shall smite his cruel heart,
His brow shall wear the slaver’s brand.
No greater, grosser crime than this 
Can man commit who steps aside;
Christ in the slave, with leprous kiss,
Is thus betrayed and crucified.
When hoary priest, with honeyed tongue,
Long face and lubricated knees,
Bows low before this brazen wrong,
And prates like the old Pharisees,
We look to see the earth divide,
And falling fire from Heaven consume 
The impious babbler in his pride, 
And leave no mourners at his tomb.
— N. Y. Evening Post. GEORGE W. BUNGAY.

HYMN OF THE HARVESTERS.
We gather them in—the bright green leaves-
With our scythes and rakes to-day,
And the mow grows big as the pitcher heaves 
His lift in the swelt’ring hay.
O ho! a field! for the mower’s scythe
Hath a ring as of destiny, 
Sweeping the earth of its burthen lithe
As it sung in wrathful glee.
We gather them in—the nodding plumes
Of the yellow and bearded grain, 
And the flash of our sickles’ light illumes
Our march o’er the vanquished plain.
Anon, we come, with a steed-drawn car-
The cunning of modern laws;
And acres stoop to its clanking jar, 
As it rocks its hungry jaws.
We gather them in-the mellow fruits, 
From the shrub, the vine and tree,
With their russet, and golden, and purple suits, 
To garnish our treasury.
And each has a juicy treasure stored,
All beneath its painted rind, 
To cheer our guests at the social board,
When we leave our cares behind.
We gather them in—this goodly store-
But not with a miser’s gust; 
For the great All-Father we adore
Hath but given it in trust.
And our work of death is but for life,
In the wintry days to come:
Then a blessing upon the reaper’s strife,
And a shout at his Harvest Home!

OCTOBER. 
My soul has grown too great to-day
To utter all it would: 
Oh, these preventing bonds of clay!
When will my spirit learn to say,
Unfettered, all it should?
I’m out in the free woods once more,
With whispering boughs o’erhead;
Strange influences round me steal, 
And yet what deepliest I feel
Must ever be unsaid.
The glowing, glowing autumn hours!
These wildering gorgeous days! 
This dainty show of painted flowers,-
As though with dusty golden showers
The air were all a-blaze!
This living, shining, burnished wood,
Tricked with a thousand dyes,
Its strong ribs laced with crimson sheen, 
And decked with gold and glittering green,
Like kingly tapestries!
This tangled roof of braided light
Above me richly flung! 
These glimpses of the sky’s soft blue! 
This quivering sunshine melting through!
This wide earth, glory-hung!
How shall I utter all I would?
Alas, my struggling soul!-
It strives to grasp these glorious things, 
As strives a bird on broken wings
To struggle to its goal.-[MRS. C. A. MASON.
<c02>
The Liberator.

PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s Household.”
CHAPTER I.
A CALL, AND WHAT CAME OF IT.
Powhatan, the residence of Hon. Hugh Nelson, was situated on the James,—one of Virginia’s noblest rivers, whose ancient name it bore.
The mansion was a large square building of free-stone, flanked with wings, and built after the style of English gentlemen’s houses of the last century. A flight of ample steps led to a colonnade paved in mosaic, being the entrance to the main hall, which extended quite through the building to a similar vestibule and steps. The first front looked out on the court and coach ring; and, farther on, the sloping lawn, with its groups and avenues of choice trees and flowering shrubs. The second opened on the spacious garden and green-house. On either hand stretched away the plantation of thousands of acres.
Mr. Nelson was a bachelor of forty. Handsome, affable, talented, and with a good stock of diversified knowledge ever at command, he was universally popular among his constituents. Political ambition was his master passion.
Let us glance at the inmates of Powhatan. 
Miss Forsythe, the accomplished governess, and house-keeper pro tem., is returning from the storeroom, having just “given out things” for dinner. She has carefully locked the door,—a duty the Southern house-keeper never omits,—and has some candles in her hand. In deep thought as she passes through the parlor, she puts the candles in her pocket, and lays the keys on the marble mantle. Two little slave girls who attend her roguishly look at each other without speaking, —similar mistakes in the housekeeping line being of late strangely common with her. The children, mischievous and merry, follow winking and grinning in their droll mirth. The governess trips along till she reaches the school-room door, when, turning to the little girls, Kitty and Cary, she says,-
“Bring the basket of carpet rags here;—you must be busy while I give Miss Amelia her music lesson.” 
The children hasten to do her bidding, and, looking in at the study door, Miss Forsythe says to herself,-
“Not in yet! A graceless girl, I must say. Here it is five in the evening, the very time of all others that she would have for her music, and still she is late. I dare say she’s romping with the stable-boys. I must write her uncle, directly. She’ll never make a lady at this rate—never!” putting anxious stress on the last word.
Entering the study, the governess rang the bell. Kitty and Cary came trudging in, bearing the basket of carpet cuttings; and Miss Forsythe, not quite recovered from an attack of ague, calls Frink, the dining-room servant, to make a fire in the grate, while Kitty goes to find Amelia.
At length the delinquent appeared, wearing a sullen look, and making a most awkward entree.
“Come, come,” said the governess, “I shall have to give you a chapter on gentility! Yon enter the room shockingly.”
The young lady attended to music in the same mood with which she entered the room, insisting every other minute, with a spoilt air, that really she could not learn the horrid lesson,—it was no earthly use to try; that she hated it with all her heart. Possibly, she thought all this befitting an heiress of sixteen. Evidently, it was hard for one of her expectations, just ready to take the sceptre of absolute power as the owner of slaves, to submit to the menial toil of study, and the bondage of regular hours and set rules, Whatever her uncle, Mr. Nelson’s wishes might be in respect to her improvement, although she would like to please him, she could not make the tasks and subordination of pupilage comport with what was due to her social position. And Miss Forsythe’s instructions she treated accordingly.
The fire was burning briskly, and the governess sat with her pocket side near the grate. Presently, the candles getting into “profuse perspiration,” began to ooze through that lady’s black silk. But she had relapsed into her abstracted manner, and knew nothing of the mishap, until Kitty, forgetting all fear, giggled outright, and Cary, no longer tongue-tied, exclaimed, 
“Oh, see, missee! your frock done melted!”
“Bless me! to be sure—where are my keys?” and, hastening to the parlor, she found them on the mantel. “How forgetful I am!” said she, and she went to her room to robe herself anew.
Meanwhile, there was an interval of merriment in the school-room. Amelia joined heartily in the hilarity of the little girls, saying “she was right glad of it, for her part, and she only wished Miss Forsythe would melt away, and vanish entirely, and then she’d have no more of her horrid lessons.”
Miss Forsythe was still absent when Mr. Nelson’s overseer, Rixby, alighted before the mansion, and, throwing the bridle of his horse to a little boy who was so busily playing in the sand that he did not notice him till the instant, marched up the steps, raw-hide in hand, and knocked.
Frink observed him from a side window; and as it was his settled policy never to hear the overseer’s knock, we shall have time to sketch him. Tall and sinewy, with uncropped tangled hair, thin face, long hooked nose, small grey eyes, mouth coarse and brutal, jaws in motion—tobacco chewing being not only a physical but mental habit, and expectoration keeping pace with the importance of the occasion; a huge neck, exsert from a shirt collar of red flannel, a pilot cloth sack hanging slouchingly to his lank form, pants crowded into the top of his boots, the tall figure crowned with a broad-brimmed hat that makes him seem taller still,—this is the genius that presides over “the people“ of Powhatan plantation. The tout ensemble indicates a nature not a whit above the lowest opportunities of his profession.
Knock, knock, knock, and the little negroes who had scampered away in fear as they saw him approach, begin to peep from behind the shrubbery.
Knock, knock, knock, and Frink is dancing in great glee in his slippers, on the dining-room carpet, cutting up all sorts of antics as he mimics the abused worthy at the door, and occasionally humming,-
“Des a little louder, sir,
I’s rather dull o’hearin’!”
Knock, knock, knock, and the overseer having exhausted one enormous quid, and made a river of spittle on the mosaic, takes out his box and replenishes his mouth and his temper, at which the little negroes are convulsed with laughter, while Joe and Harry give a mocking whoop, and turn somersets.
There must be servants within call of his voice, Rixby’s sure of that, but he has come up to the house in his gentleman character of caller, and it’s a point of honor with him to get in by knocking.
“Wonder what de overseer has come for now?” said the slave woman Chainy, as she saw him from one of the wing windows.
“He don’t get in!” replied her boy Trolo. “Frink hears him, that’s clar. I wonder he wait so. Master would be that vexed if he knew it. Shall I speak to Frink?”
“No, no,” replied Chainy, earnestly, “you may meet de overseer. It’s best for us to keep clar of him. He’s no friend to us. Oh, I hope de Fader’ll keep him from making any new strouble!”—and her voice grew tremulous. 
Poor woman! she had fearful reasons of her own for apprehension. She had for a time been a field hand, although most accustomed to house service. The words of the wise king, “black, but comely,” might well be applied to her ebon beauty; and the unprincipled overseer—but we “cannot speak of her wrongs, the pen refuses the task. Tokey, her husband, had sometimes protected her by the power of his arm, or by concealment, but had suffered terribly for his temerity
<c03>
And she! was she not a helpless woman, nay, a human chattel, and her tyrant persecutor the embodiment of brutal and irresponsible power?
Miss Forsythe had learned of Chainy’s sufferings—the oppressed intuitively turned to her as their friend—and it was through her interference, unknown to the overseer, that Chainy and her son were called to he mansion to serve.
Knock, knock, knock! “Blazes! ”exclaimed the overseer, “I shall have to come the day before, next time. I’d like to drill these ere huss servants awhile, that I would!’’
Miss Forsythe had been quite uneasy for the last few minutes, and hastened to finish dressing, that she might herself go to the door. But, in the spirit of a good disciplinarian, she first stepped into the dining-room. 
“Why, Frink,” said she, surprising him in the climax of a caper, “what does all this mean? Why don’t you go to the door!”
But the quick-witted servant had interpreted too accurately her real sentiments concerning Rixby, to be much abashed, and replied with a deprecating tone and mock gravity,-
“Why, hi! Miss Forsythe, I’s that deaf! ‘pears like overseer Rixby tote off my hearing des de moment be come in sight. How’s I to har him knock when de table tunder so rolling out, an’ de dishes keep up such a clatter-ter-clatter? Den it’s only de overseer—don’t ‘spect to har him no ways. Some mischief’s brewing for sartin—don’t prove of helping it on rapid. I must save de steps though; ‘pears like he’ll wash ‘em away with ‘bacca spits,”—and Frink went to the door. As he opened it, the rage of the overseer was seen in his livid face arid flashing eye. 
Frink was the picture of innocent self-possession. 
“Why didn’t you come before, you rascal? Didn’t you hear me knock?” said the overseer, with a cut of the rawhide, which Frink dexterously eluded, saying,-
“Har you! bless you, massa Rixby, how’s I to har when datar big ‘hogany table tunder so rolling it back, and de dishes clatter so like hoss hoofs, and de noisy servants jar so hustling ‘bout claring up de tings? And den I’s des a little deaf—got cold in my head-bery much‘ flicted dat way.” 
“Why, I’ve been knocking here more’n an hour!” said the overseer, half cooled by the consummate unconsciousness of the waiter; then adding, by way of assuring himself, “You heard me—I know you did, you rascal!” bringing down the rawhide with another blow, which Frink dodged as readily as before, exclaiming,-
“May I be hung, dried and choked to death if I did!” the very tears coming into his eyes to bear witness to his sincerity. “You see, massa, some de people will have it de ghosts knock, knock, knock for funerals like. It’s knock, knock, knock, half de time, ‘pears like, and as I aint no ways surreptitious, I don’t har’em at all, at all,—no more’n I would nigger’s news; des on dish sher principle—don’t prove of harin’ speerits, an’ bein’ surreptitious.”
The overseer had come on business, and, muffling his wrath, asked for Miss Forsythe. 
Frink showed Rawhide into the parlor where sat Miss Forsythe in waiting. She received him with a dignified coolness that scarcely concealed her aversion. 
“How d’ye do, ma’am?” said Mr. Rixby, “shall I do you the honor of telling ye that I’ve just come from Richmond?”
“Ah!” responded Miss Forsythe.
“And the news is,” continued the overseer, “that Squire Nelson says that them are sarvents Chainy and Trolo are to be put down with the field hands again.” 
“I would suppose that Mr. Nelson would have sent a line to me, before making such a change,” said the governess, slightly coloring. “When did you see him?”
“Yesterday, ma’am; and the last thing he said to me was, ‘Rixby, take them are sarvents down to the field to onct.’”
“Are you certain you saw Mr. Nelson, yesterday, Mr. Rixby?”
“Sartin as death! and I’ve come fust thing to obey orders, and take them are sarvints down.”
“But,” said Miss Forsythe, “I have the means of knowing that Mr. Nelson was not at Richmond, yesterday, and he has not been there for several days. He was in Boston at the time you name.”
This was a denouement that Rixby had not anticipated. And as his eye, avoiding the reproving gaze of the governess, met the old family portraits, so life-like in satin and brocade, their gaze fixed steadily upon him, he almost fancied that they, too, had heard his lie, and were joining in the reproof. He was dashed but for a moment, however; carrying his point was one of his peculiarities, and whatever doubts might be entertained by those theologically inclined as to the doctrine of the “perseverance of the saints,” Rixby faithfully illustrated the perseverance of sinners; and, returning to the charge, he said,-
“Well, well, I’m bound to see Mr. Nelson’s orders obeyed—lose my place if I don’t, ye see; and I must ‘march’em off to the quarters to-night!”
“They cannot be spared,” said the governess. 
“Awful sorry,” rejoined the overseer, furiously beating his boot, and squirting tobacco juice; “but I’ve come for them, and they’ll hafter go. But, being as ’tis a disappointment to ye, I’ll let Liz, Sina, and Jo, take their place. Come now, miss, aint that are fair—three for two? You can’t say anything again that!”
“It would be necessary to hear from Mr. Nelson, before making such a change,” said Miss Forsythe. 
“Can’t wait for that—crops sufferin’—can’t afford to lose two good field hands at this ere busy season. Mr. Nelson won’t thank you for intarfering, neither, miss!”
“You will please to remember who you are speaking to, sir!”
“In course, in course, Miss! But I has ter make bold to take them along,—an’ they’ll be better off, too. There’s Tokey, Chainy’s husband, he mourns for them day and night Jist good for nothing when they are away; and I never ‘proved of separatin’ families—just spiles ‘em for work.” 
But Miss Forsythe’s calm, clear eye made the overseer uneasy, and he rose to go, saying, “after all, he reckoned he would wait for the servants until she could spare them; and, as for himself, he didn’t want them —wouldn’t have them if he could—he didn’t care if Mr. Nelson didn’t”— and taking leave, he mounted his horse, and rode in the direction of the quarters. 
Eaves-dropping was one of Frink’s accomplishments, and not a word of the overseer escaped his ear. His indignation was unbounded, nor was it mollified when he entered the parlor. Cleanliness was a cardinal virtue in his eyes, and as he cleansed the carpet of the tobacco stains, his disgust found emphatic expression.
“These ere poor whites can’t make nothin’ noways. A nigger’s a nigger—dat’s so, but he’s bound not to spit in de house. Old Tuck! spittin’ round here,— wuss dan a ‘belia ‘metic-could see him hanged, dried and choked to death—could so!” 
As the sun went down, Frink’s work being over, he strolled silently down the park till he reached a stately tulip tree, that rose some eighty feet from the ground. Climbing this, the whole country for miles around lay outspread before him. The bondman had an eye for the beautiful, and the prospect from the gently swaying tree-top thrilled him with a strange delight. As he turned to the west, a veil of golden gauze fell from the sun as it disappeared, clothing the landscape in a softened splendor like a dream of heaven. Frink thought of the grim old king who once ruled this region,—for familiar as household words is his story in Virginia,—and of his princess daughter who saved the brave Smith. Their history somehow seemed woven into the scenery, and the serving-man quite forgot himself as he gazed, lost in reverie. A rustling of the shrubbery startled him,—and looking down he saw what appeared to be a man, on all fours, stealthily approaching the house. Noiselessly descending, Frink soon reached the house, and with a significant chuckle unchained the watch-dog.
<c04>
Hotspur was a fierce dog, and soon made for the intruder, furiously baying.
The nature of the game was soon apparent, for it was no other than overseer Rixby, who was crawling around to the wing entrance, in order to pay poor Chainy a clandestine visit—a method which he had before taken, to her great terror. The overseer was not slow in regaining the perpendicular, and made a defiant outcry, just as the dog sprang at his throat and felled him to the ground, while Frink came running up, exclaiming,-
“Seek him! seek him! the very thief dat stole masser Nelson’s melons—hold him, Hotspur!”—then throwing up his hands in astonishment, “Why, hi! if that don’t look like massa Rixby! Is that you, massa Rixby? Wouldn’t bleeve it’s possible!” 
“Call him off!” sputtered the struggling overseer. And Frink giving a whistle, Hotspur loosened his hold; but the moment Rixby attempted to rise, the dog seized him by the arm, tearing it badly. The overseer shouted with pain, and Frink took Hotspur off, and held him. The overseer was one of those men whom the dog instinctively hated, and he could not let him pass without a small token of his regard.
“Jupiter! I’m half killed!” cried Rixby, “and I’ll shoot that dog!”
“If you do, Uncle will shoot you! How could Hotspur know it was you, I’d like to know?” rejoined Amelia, who was just passing with her friend, Mr. Manson, for an evening drive.
“Such impudence!” she added earnestly, as they rode on; “I do think these villanous overseers are worse than the servants themselves!”
“Undoubtedly,” replied Mr. Manson, “when they are Yankees, or poor whites. I have no such incumbrance at Wyatt Hall. I oversee my own plantation, —but it’s a very slave’s life.”
“I’s dat sorry dis ere ‘currence happened,” called out Frink to Rixby, as he was slinking away. “Dat are dog powerful cross! Don’t see what massa keep such fierce hound for. Hotspur! Hotspur!” he added, loud enough for Rixby’s ear, “mustn’t never hurt massa Rixby agin!” Then to the dog as they approached the house, “Good fellow! good fellow! bite all de snakes in de grass, Hotspur! 
I’s dat sorry I was dare to call ye off. Frink’ll feed ye, dat he will!” and running in, he brought from the kitchen a dish of bits and ends, of which the dog, proud of his feat, made his second supper, as he resumed his chain at the door of his kennel.
CHAPTER II.
THE CHILD-MOTHER.
“Is we ’most there?” asked the sick girl Dilly, as the little sail-boat sped down the river at dead of night.
“Almost, honey!” replied the ferry-woman Hinna, holding the helm, and occasionally plying the oar as the fitful wind lulled away. “Are you warm enough?” and Hinna reached forward under the awning, and tucked the woollen blanket around the young girl and her babe, —for she was two weeks a mother.
“Yes, missis, I’s warm,” replied Dilly, “but I’s dat feared; —won’t dey get on our track?”
“No danger of that to-night, darlin’,” said the kind woman. “If they do, they’ll think you are drowned in the river. Nobody knows Bruno and Hinna are about; and if they did, it’s little they’d see into our doin’s.”
“We’ll take care of her, won’t we, Bruno?” added she, caressing a noble dog that sat with her in the stern of the boat, as if to help her steer. The faithful animal at this walked forward to Dilly, and licked her hand.
“There—there—be easy, child,” she continued, as Dilly moved restlessly; “nestle down, and go to sleep. Nobody can hurt you now. Hinna knows all about the river, and you are safer because it is dark. Nobody can see you but Hinna and Bruno, and they’ll take good care of you.” 
At this instant, a breeze caught the sail, and the bark skimmed along like a sea-bird.
The left bank of the stream was fringed and tasseled with the weeping willow pendant in the water; the other was steep and bluffy, and various forest trees were scattered along the park-like groups. There was no moon, and as poor Dilly anxiously peered out into the darkness, she shivered in dread of something— she knew not what—some new horror. In vain she closed her eyes, she could not sleep. The swash of the waters as they came against the boat, mingling with the plaint of the whippoor-wills from the groves, seemed so strange and so mournful, together with the exciting scenes through which she had lately passed, conspired to make her wakeful and flighty. So, nestling her fevered head close down beside her sleeping baby, and listening to its soft breathing, she wished, stricken child that she was, that she were an infant again in her mother’s arms. And ever and anon she would raise her head and ask-
“Are we almost there?” 
And Hinna would reply—
“Almost, honey! we’ll be there right smart soon. So now go to sleep, darlin’!”
Dilly was a Creole slave of great beauty. At eleven years of age she became a mother! And as if the cup of her misery was not full, before she had regain ed her health, tasks were imposed on her beyond her strength; failing in which, she was cruelly beaten. Driven to desperation by the brutality of her master, she attempted self-destruction, but was rescued by an old slave, who secreted her and her babe till Hinna bore them away in the night, as we have recited. No search was made for Dilly, as it was understood that she had succeeded in drowning herself and infant in the river.
At early dawn, Hinna had moored her boat at her landing, and rapping Dilly and babe in the blanket, she stepped ashore, and hastened up the bluff on which her little brown cottage was situated. 
“Oh, I’s so glad!” said the poor girl, bursting into tears, as Hinna laid her on the bed.
“Keep quiet, darlin’,” said Hinna, “you’re safe now. I’ll take care of ye. Go to sleep while I light a fire, and get you something warm and nourishing.” 
And the worn little thing, with her baby at her breast, dropped asleep. Meanwhile, the ferry woman’s smothered indignation broke out, and she exclaimed-
“It was too outrageous! Poor little wee bit of a thing, —made a mother of, and beaten, and almost killed, —the wretch! Why does vengeance sleep?” 
The fire was by this time lighted in the large stone fire-place, and while the tea-kettle was heating, Hinna sat down to dry her wet and bedrabbled clothes. She could not sit long, however, without just peeping at her protege, as, the curtains being drawn aside, the light revealed her features.
“Little beauty!” said she to herself as she gazed admiringly, “what pretty smooth hair—wee little nose and mouth—and then the dimples! You shall be my child, you silver dove, and Hinna’ll see what she can do to cure your broken heart, darlin’! And the baby—who ever saw the like? So quiet! Not a breath of a cry yet—fat as a cub, too! Well, well,” continued she, resuming her seat by the fire, “I’ve plenty of business on hand, that’s a fact. But the more the better, say I, for that matter. It does my heart good to help them as can’t help themselves, and I’ll do it if I die for it!”
Hinna was unique. Face, figure, dress, demeanor, language, sympathies, and aversions, were all in keeping with her strong individuality. Her self-reliant mind, nurtured by circumstances that would have crushed a weaker nature, had stamped character on her face while young. Her keen grey eye bespoke coolness and daring, around her compressed lips there hovered a smile of bitter sarcasm, and her well-knit frame gave evidence of marked physical power and endurance. In her drab woollen gown, of Switzer shortness, dose fitting at the neck, and her man’s hat, she guided her boat, disdaining all aid; nor was she unskilled in the use of fire-arms. 
She was such an one as the forces of a terribly abnormal social life brought out to suffer and to do. To her quick intuitions, sharpened by bitter experiences,
<c05>
Slavery stood revealed as the impersonation of all that is cruel and iniquitous, and she hated it with all he intensity of her nature. In the presence of those that upheld the monstrous Wrong, her manner was abrupt, forbidding, and severe; she seemed turned to stone; but the victims of the dread Power found her heart gushing forth to them in true womanly pity. Though hovel-born, the wealth and station around her did not awe her; she saw them as the Heaven-abhorred fruits of injustice, outrage and sin. Mingled with the music and the mirth of the planters, she heard the laughter of fiends, and the, wailings of the whipped, and hunted, and heart-broken Poor. Over all their splendor she saw resting a pall, bestained with blood. Her prayers, if she ever breathed any, were imprecatory; and, could she so order it, the master would change place with the slave, and drain the cup of agony to its last drop. Her tact was equal to the emergencies of her relation to the slave system. And if, on her accustomed expeditions with Bruno, in search of fugitives, she chanced upon the patrol, the wierd mystery that hung over her as a “fortune-teller,” attached itself also to her dog, and the superstitious watch would give her a “wide berth.” 
At length, Hinna composed herself sufficiently to eat her breakfast, her heart busied in planning for the safety and comfort of her charge.
As soon as the young girl stirred, Hinna was by her side. “Have you had” a good nap, honey?” asked she, as Dilly opened her eyes, still wet with tears. 
“Yes, mammy,” she replied, “but I’m that sorry to wake. I dreamed I was happy again, as I used to be before they sold my mother. I thought I was in a green meadow, picking flowers for my mother’s cabin. Flowers always made mother glad: she said they made, her think that God loved us, even if we were poor slave people. I dreamed,” continued Dilly, “that we had a little home of our own, mother and me —oh, it was that pretty! And we’d no hard master to trouble us, and to sell us.”
“How came your mother to be sold?” asked Hinna. 
“I don’t know justly,” replied Dilly, “but master said she was always interfarin’—she kept close watch of me when she could-and it ‘peared like master was afraid to trouble me while she was around; and so one day he sold her to the wicked trader.”
“The villyan!” ejaculated Hinna.
“He was that wicked!” continued Dilly, the tears gushing from her swollen eyes.
“I’m no Christin, and don’t pertend to be,” said Hinna solemnly, “but the Father, he’ll judge him, and avenge you. I make sure he will!” But seeing the agitation of her patient, “There, there, I wouldn’t cry over ye’r troubles! You mus’n’t grieve too much —it’ll make you worse. You must keep calm and quiet.”
“Come now, here’s your tea and toast; keep up a good heart and eat; ye’re much too young to worry.” Then in a lively tone, to turn Dilly’s attention-
“Hi-daisy-me! if that little youngster isn’t stretching to wake up! There—it’s getting its eyes open, sure! Never see nothing beat it. Here, you little cub! come here to me.” Then carefully taking the babe up, she continued, “Hinna don’t know nothing ‘bout tendin’ babies—she’s forgot all she ever knew about it, but she’s bound to learn again.” 
“Wa’nt very welcome, was you, baby-dove? But you shall be taken are of, for all that,” and she kissed its velvet cheek.
“What now? don’t Hinna’s looks suit you, staring right up into her eyes? What you mean, silver dove?” And rolling it up in a flannel blanket, she bore it nestled in her arm, while she got a basin of water, and with a soft linen cloth began its toilet, warming its feet meanwhile by the bed of coals in the fire-place. 
Bruno, who lay outside the door on guard, began to bark, and Hinna, throwing her apron over the infant’s head, stepped to the window.
“O, it’s only Jaff!” she said, “I can manage him!”—then hastily finishing the ablutions of the little one, she laid it in the bed, and close drawing the curtains said to Dilly-
“It’s only Jaff! a poor white who comes here for victuals. He’s harmless—I’ll give him his food at the door, and send him along;” and taking from the cupboard some bread and meat, she opened the door as he knocked, and handed it to him. Her eye rested on him, with a mingling of pity and reproach, as she saw his pale hollow cheek and sunken eye, indications of a late debauch. 
“Here, take your food! you needn’t come in!” and the thin, tattered, spiritless figure, with downcast eyes, moved on. 
(To be continued.)

A REMARKABLE DREAM.
On the night of the 4th of February, 1861, I dreamed as follows: —I thought I was walking on a lonely road in my native town, Rehoboth, (Mass.) My attention was suddenly arrested by the sight of a wild beast: it appeared to be a leopard or panther. He leaped from his hiding-place, over a broken-down fence beside the road, and rushed with great fury towards me. I was not frightened, but caught the beast in my arms. In a moment, it seemed to me that a bird was hovering directly over my head. The bird might have been an eagle—I did not see it distinctly, as my eye was on the beast. But instantly I understood the mission of the beast: it was to catch and devour the bird.
I then looked up and around me to see the bird-(I feared it had been caught)—but as I cast my eyes to the ground, I saw at my feet, not the bird, but the living head of the beast. The eyes were bright and fiery; the head appeared as lively as if it had not been severed from the body. I then looked into my arms for the body of the beast, and I beheld, instead of it, the beautiful form of an innocent babe. Then I awoke, and beheld it was a dream!
INTERPRETATION.
This dream is remarkable as having occurred on the very night of the Compromise Convention at Washington, and the Traitor Convention at Montgomery, Alabama.
As there is no Daniel at the present time to interpret the dream or explain the vision, you will allow the dreamer to make his own interpretation:- 
1st. The wild beast seen in the vision is emblematic of the Slave Power of this nation. 
2d. The dreamer symbolizes the Constitution of the United States.
3d. The furious rushing of the wild beast, or monster slavery, towards the dreamer, typifies the strenuous efforts of the friends of slavery to get Constitutional guarantees for its protection and propagation. 
4th. The broken-down fence over which the beast leaped signifies the Missouri Compromise line.
5th. The eagle flattering directly over the head of the dreamer is  our national emblem of Liberty and Union. 
6th. The beast is foiled in his designs, and firmly clutched in the iron arms of the Constitution, and, like the mighty Hebrew, shorn of his locks. 
7th. The living head of the beast, (which the dreamer beheld at his feet,) severed from the body, presages its destruction.
8th. The infant which the dreamer saw in his arms, (instead of the body of the ravenous beast,) is an emblem of innocence and purity, and shadows forth a peaceable kingdom not far in the future, “when the lion and the lamb shall lie down together, and a little child shall lead them.”
The dream foretells the final results of this terrible war, and the sure overthrow of slavery—“the abomination that maketh desolate the earth,” spoken of by Daniel the Prophet.
Friend Garrison, I have been often solicited by my friends for copies of my dream, but I find it rather troublesome to accommodate all; so I have decided to send it to the press. You are at liberty to publish it, if you think proper.
J. C. MARTIN.
Feltonville, Oct. 12th, 1863.
<C06>
DEFERRED SUMMARY.
READ THIS. “The real civilization of a country is in its aristocracy. The masses are moulded into soldiers and artisans by intellect, just as a matter and the elements of nature are made into telegraphs and steam engines. The poor, who labor all day, are too tired at night to study books. If you make them learned, they soon forget all that is necessary in the common transactions of life. To make an aristocrat in the future, we must sacrifice a thousand paupers. Yet we would by all means make them—make them permanent, too, by the laws of entail and primogeniture. The right to govern resides in a very small minority; the duty to obey is inherent in the great masses of mankind. All government begins with usurpation, and is continued by force. There is nothing to which the South entertains so great a dislike as universal suffrage. Wherever foreigners settle together in large members, there universal suffrage will exist.”—De Bow’s Southern Review.
THANKS TO HARVARD FROM LIBERIA. A series of resolutions adopted by the Trustees of Liberia College, thanking the corporation of Harvard University for the donation of several hundred useful books, has been transmitted to the officers of Harvard College by J. J. Roberts, President of Liberia College, who also, at the request of the Trustees, expresses their thanks to Jared Sparks, Henry Mathes, Mr. Rumkle, Prof. F. Brown, Charles A. Nelson, Charles A. Cutter, Em Abbott, Prof. T. J. Child, and Rev. A. P. Peabody, for donations of valuable books, and to John L. Sibley, Librarian of Harvard, for the interest which he took in procuring these books for Liberia College.
A REBEL CONFESSION. The Richmond Dispatch of the 3d, in an editorial says:-
“The rapid advance in all necessaries of clothing and subsistence threatens us with great distress. There is no disguising the fact. A defeat on the battle-field could hardly bring more suffering. We know that the currency is depreciated, but it is not depreciated as much as prices indicate. Produce must be distributed—prices must be reduced—gains must be disgorged—or there will be suffering intense, and intense suffering will beget—what? Think of it!”
RICHMOND CITY MARKETS. The market is well supplied with potatoes, now selling at 50c per quart; $2 per half peck sweet potatoes; $1.50 for Irish potatoes; tomatoes, &c., 50c per quart; peas 75c; cranberries $1.50 per quart; butter $4.50 to $4.50. per pound; eggs $2.00 to $2.50; bacon $2.50 to $2.75 per pound; mackerel $4 a piece, sausages $1.50 per pound, sugar $2,50 to $2,85, flour $40 to $45 for superfine; cornmeal $10 per bushel, and scarce. Market destitute of corn, hay, fodder, &c.
In effect, the State of Missouri is free from the institution of slavery, although not purged of its curse. Slaves are leaving by “fifties and hundreds,” to join the ranks of Uncle Sam. Instances like the following, says a St. Louis letter, are of daily or nightly occurrence:-
“A few nights since, all the negroes, fifteen in number, belonging to Dr. Jordan, of Rock House Prairie, Buchanan county, hitched up a wagon and team, after taking nearly all the wearing apparel belonging to the ladies of the family, and decamped for parts unknown,”
Mr. E. C. Sackett, of Beardstown, Illinois, has made a novel contribution to the Soldiers’ Aid Society of that village. He has handed over all the fruit of his apple orchard, five acres in extent, to the ladies of the Society, who have already commenced gathering, paring and drying the fruit. Nothing is more welcome to the men in the field than dried fruit, and persons who have orchards would do well to imitate the example of this Illinois patriot.
The monthly statement of the Philadelphia mint, for the month of September, shows a gold coinage of $250,552,55, mostly in double eagles, and a silver coinage of $26,674 88. Of cents there were coined 3,000,000. The total coinage for the month was $327,227 43, and the whole number of pieces 3,897,515.
Mrs. Heoflich, a German woman, residing with her husband at La Crescent, Minnesota, in August, 1861, gave birth to three boys, two of whom lived. In June, 1852, she gave birth to three boys and a girl, two of the boys and the girl living. On the 5th of last month she gave birth to two girls and a boy, all of whom are alive and well. 
A piece of linen in which the famous Mrs. Dustan, of Haverhill, Mass., carried home the scalps of the Indians she killed near Concord, New Hampshire, was exhibited at the late Caledonia county fair, by one of her descendants, Miss Lydia J. Varnum.
Rev. Dr. Smith, the new President of Dartmouth College, is an anti-slavery man, holds slavery to have been the cause of the war, and preaches in favor of the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation.
Cotton raising in Kansas, it is stated, has proved a very successful experiment. It is claimed that the climate and soil of that State are well adapted to the culture of this plant. The green-seed cotton has been successful in almost every instance, while the varieties sent from Washington and from down the Mississippi have invariably failed. The green-seed cotton is the kind raised in Maryland and Kentucky, and it has never failed during the six years that it has been tried in Kansas.
Mrs. Dr. Lydia Hasbrouck, being unrepresented, refuses to pay taxes at Wallkill. She was ordered to appear on the highroad with a shovel to work out the amount, and did so, bearing a fire shovel, greatly to the wrath of the authorities, between whom and herself there consequently exists a terrible disturbance.
The officers of the Russian fleet, now at New York, have accepted the invitation of the Bostonians to visit their city.
The iron-clad gunboat Cincinnati, sunk by the Vicksburg batteries, has been raised and taken to Cairo.
Negroes are pretty thickly sprinkled among the crews of the French war ships now at New York. Every boat arriving at the battery contains more or less of the ebony element. In one boat a well-made negro, black as jet and full six feet high, was in command as coaxswain. He appeared fully to realize his position, and to be equal to its vast responsibilities.
A letter from Baltimore states that the negroes are volunteering with a perfect rush. They come into Baltimore from the counties by fifties and hundreds. Edward Lloyd, of Talbot county, a secessionist, has furnished the Government, against his will, with some eighty of his slaves.

EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET,
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission. 
Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, County and Township Bonds negotiated.
Quartermaster’s Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated.
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Broker’s Board, I can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully.E. M. DAVIS,
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST.,
Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April lst, 1863. —6m

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
Would inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No.31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten , as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
THE UNAVAILING CRY: A Sermon for all Times By Rev. Alexander Clark, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor.” Just published—price 10 cents, post-paid.
Address W. S. & ALFRED MARTIEN, Publisher 
Sept. 4. 606, Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
