THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS -Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, ( POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents -one square for $1.00.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO.35. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1549.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Springfield (Mass.) Republican.
'THE EBONY RACE.'
The advocates of immediate emancipation would be puzzled to provide for the colored race, such as original barbarism and the peculiar kind of civilization they have known has left them. If these liberated children should seek to exchange their stern nursery system for the holiday case and plenty they hope for at the North, who among our dainty philanthropists would give them the patient training, the persistent culture requisite to develop their dormant self-reliance? The farce of 'What will be do with it? ' would be re-acted upon a painfully familiar stage. The following extracts are from a forthcoming work by a Massachusetts writer, entitled 'The Ebony Idol.' It is from the press of the <illegible>, and narrates the history of an escaped fugitive, a representative of at least as large a class of our colored brethren as that typified by Uncle Tom. The inexorable law of civilization, work or starve, is one that Sambo, from the very tropical sensuousness of his being, is exceedingly slow to learn. In this story, a worthy clergyman of moderate endowments gives a temporary asylum to Caesar, and labors to explain what he expects of him in return:—
'I wish to do for you all that I can do wisely, and as a Christian, but I cannot distress my family to serve you, or squander the small means at my command. I would like you to work in the garden, cat my wood, and do such errands and chores as will assist my wife. It seems to me you cannot but be willing to do this.'
Caesar sat dog-eyed and sullen, without even pretending to listen. Mr. Cary spoke more warmly: 'I shall make inquiry for you that you may obtain employment in some reliable family, where you can be paid for your labor; as soon as such an opening is found, I shall expect you will leave us willingly.' 
'Dis nigger didn't come norf to work, no how; get work enuf at de souf;' cried Caesar indignantly.
' But you must work or starve; liberty is nothing, unless you can be clothed and fed.'
'Dis chile got clothed and fed at the souf, and wan't twitted of it nudder,' growled caesar. 'Lor', wish you could eat one of Dinah's hoe-cakes, dem's fixins as is fixins!'
'Providence hadn't nurthin to do about it; it was jus' dem cussed abolitioners, and dat is fact, Massa Cary.'
Mr. Cary groaned. It was evident he had indeed fallen upon fallow ground. 'Caesar, all gifts are from God! He has doubtless some motive in releasing you from a cruel task-master.'
'Nebber heard any nigger, black or white, call my ole massa cruel task-mass afore. He was a gemman as is a gemman.'
'Why did you leave him, then?' asked Mr. Cary a litle testily.
'Oh, Lor' only knows, coz I was seduced I spect; Sambo he heard as how dat pusscens up norf didn't work only when dey had mind; now dis chile nebber had a mind, so I was seduced.'

WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE DARKIES?
The very recent successful landing and dispersion of cargo of negroes form Africa at Mobile calls up the relations of the government to the slave trade with fresh emphasis; and the question very naturally arises whether, if this cargo had been captured and dumped into Key West, with the combined cargoes of the Wildfire, William and Bogota, it would be any better off than it is now. One thousand four hundred and ninety-two wild Africans have been carried into Key West since the 26th of April—enough to populate a good sized town. These negroes are hardly more than beasts. They do not know our language, they have no knowledge of civilized life—they are a filthy, miserable set. It is said that there is a good deal of sickness among them, and that the deaths are very frequent, though it is remarked that a good many of the coffins are buried empty. Whether their bodies are used for purposes of dissection or guano, or whether they are 'spirited away' with just a little life in them, does not appear. It is supposed, however, that, as their number diminishes, the stocks upon the neighboring plantations increase by some mode of transmigration. If truth crushed to earth can raise again, it is barely possible that a good, strong, marketable negro could do it, if he should try.
It seems that the slave trade is fully re-established; and the question as to what shall be done with the captured negroes, whose numbers will continue to be more or less as our naval ships execute their duty, becomes socially, morally and economically a very important one. It will be remembered that Congress, before its adjournment, appropriated $250,000, at the suggestion of the President, for the return to Africa of the negroes at Key West. This is a large bill, and this, if catching slaves becomes profitable to our cruisers, is but a beginning. An arrangement has now been entered into with the Colonization Society, for five years, to receive on the coast of Africa such negroes as our government may return, and support them for a limited period. What better than this can be done, we do not see; but, at this moment, steps in one of the African racer as their spokesman, and argues for their being retained in the country. Rev. J. W. C. Pennington, one of the most talented and educated Africans in the country, says, 'Labor is needed in our land. Loud calls are heard every day for colored help in families and among the farmers East, West and North. Will not some of those families and farmers take some of the young strangers, and train them there?' think of it! Think of taking into our families barbarians who were bred unbreeched, and who not only do not know anything, but who cannot readily learn anything because ignorant of English! Was ever proposition more absurd than this? Such negroes as are at key West are good for nothing but to put into gangs, where they can learn their simple duties by imitation.
For some reason, the best and wisest of the colored race have always, like Mr. Pennington, manifested incapacity to lead in efforts for the elevation of their class. They cling to white society, and manifest the greatest disinclination to set up for themselves, There seems to be in them no pride of race—no desire to found and empire—where they can live together, and develop a society of their own. The free negroes of the North have never initiated any movement looking toward the future education of their race. Even Liberia has had to work against the smartest of the free negroes. They seem to prefer remaining where social equality can never be acceded to them. Suppose any of the white race were enslaved in a part of this country, and in another part there should be a hundred thousand of the same race free: how long would it be before, in some part of this continent, there would be a colony formed, that would absorb every freed man, and become a sort of heaven on earth to the imagination of all of kindred blood in the country? Then,
<c02>
when a cargo of brethren should arrive, in violation of law, who proudly would step forward and demand them? 
We have a great number of negroes in the free States, and there is a large collection of escaped slaves in Canada. If they had any pluck—if the; best of them had a particle of the spirit of the white man, among whom it seems to be their ambition to live—long before this time there would have been a colony of them established either here or in Central America, and a nucleus formed for an independent; state. Or they would go to Africa, their native country, and call their brethren to them, and build, up a civilization that should make itself respected by the nations of the earth. There is Mr. Fred Douglass—a genius—a man of power—but he apparently never dreams of anything better for his race than freedom and mixture with white society. We hear of no large plans for benefiting them—we see no striking out for a future that indicates capacity for self-government, or the institution of large schemes, having relation to the elevation of the common blood. Are we to have anything butter than this? 
We have no hope—we have no expectation—that our colored population will retire from a society in which social equality with whites can never be had; so those Key West negroes must be Bent back, not only, but all that may be captured in the future must be sent luck. They are not wanted for labor in free society. The white people of the free States are entirely capable of doing their own work, and are not anxious to increase their population from barbaric coasts. We would, of all things, like to, see established in Africa a colony of civilized and Christianized negroes, full of industry, and powerful enough in its vitality to receive into, and assimilate to itself, the rude materials which our cruisers may arrest and send back. Nay, we would be content if such a colony could be formed on this continent. When the negro himself shall demonstrate to the world the spirit, enterprise and power necessary for founding and governing and establishing a thrifty colony, the first step will have been taken toward the universal emancipation of the African race.—Springfield Republican. 

SELECTIONS. 
SPRINGFIRLD, Aug. 18, 1860. 
DEAR GARRISON—Some weeks since, an article appeared in the Springfield Republican, entitled, ' What shall be Done with the Darkies? ' which I thought unjust to our colored brothers, and to our common humanity. I wrote an article in reply; but, as it was denied an insertion in that paper, I send it to you, thinking that it may perhaps interest some of your readers. I enclose, also, the Republican's article. 
Truly yours, A. F. R. 
'WHAT SHALL BE DONE WITH THE DARKIES?' 
To the Editor of the Saturday's Republican 
In your last Saturday's paper is an article under; this heading. I wish, with your permission, to say a few words on the same question. 
Eighteen hundred years ago. the man of Nazareth taught, ' If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink'; and ' inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.' I marvel that, in this Christian land, there can be any doubt as to what shall be done with these helpless creatures, brought against their will, and landed upon our shores. Plainly, they are ' hungry, and naked, and sick, and in prison '; and the command cannot be evaded, ' that ye minister unto them.' 
The proposition of Mr. Pennington, that they be taken into families, to be taught and trained, is considered absurd; and yet the advocates of slavery continually urge that slavery is a blessing to the negroes, inasmuch as it brings them in contact with Christians, and thus becomes a means of converting them to Christianity. Does the fact that these negroes are free destroy all the effects of that intercourse with Christians, and render their conversion to Christianity more improbable than if they were slaves? Then, indeed, the converting power lies in whips and thumb-screws, in starvation and bloodhounds, in insult and outrage, rather than in the truths of Him who came to ' preach liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison-doors to them that are bound.' 
How does it happen that Christians are so willing to give their money to send missionaries to the heathen,—to the Marquesas Islands, for instance,-where cannibalism still exists, and yet are so horrified at the thought of attempting to Christianize these heathen who are brought to our country? There is certainly no danger that they will eat us; and though they do not speak the English language, neither do the heathen to whom the missionaries are sent. We are a great people, and it seems to me that a few negroes scattered among us would learn our manners and our religion much faster, that Would a nation of heathen under the teaching of missionaries who occupy the same relation, in point of numbers, to them, that these negroes do to us. And yet, in the face of all this, it is said that 'such negroes as these at Key West are good for nothing but to put into gangs '! 
It is asserted that 'the best and wisest of the colored race have always manifested incapacity to lead in efforts for the elevation of their class '-' they cling to white society, and manifest the greatest disinclination to set up for themselves.' The island of Hayti is entirely overlooked in this sweeping assertion. There, the negroes have 'set up for themselves,' and they do it honorably and respectably; and if any of the colored people desire to emigrate, they need not go into the wilderness, and attempt to found a new empire, for already have the people of Hayti invited their brethren, in this country and in Canada, to become common owners of a country bought with kindred blood. 
Again, 'If the negroes had any pluck, if the best of them had a particle of the spirit of the white man, they would long before this time have founded a colony by themselves, and when a cargo of brethren should arrive, proudly step forward and demand them.' They step forward, and demand cargoes of their brethren! Why, the great State of Massachusetts sent a commissioner. Judge Hoar, to South Carolina, to obtain legal redress for the seizure and imprisonment of her colored seamen, in violation of constitutional rights. And what was the answer South Carolina returned to Massachusetts? Judge Hoar was ordered to leave Charleston, under threats of violence, and Massachusetts to submits to the insult! Where is the pluck of Massachusetts? 
Great numbers of the colored people, at the North and in Canada, are fugitive slaves. Those who are recognized by the law as free, still, in our country, have ' no rights which the white man is bound y respect.' Many of them have brothers and sisters still in slavery, (Mr. Pennington, if I mistake not, has brothers who are slaves.) and yet it is said they have no pluck, because they do not and cannot step
<c03>
forward and proudly demand these negroes at Key West, taking upon themselves the burden which seems too weighty for the nation to bear, and attempting with their small means the education and culture of these barbarians, who would bring such dismay into the well-appointed families of white citizens! 
These people have no pluck! Why, how came they here at all? Have they not come from the and of whips and bloodhounds, suffering unheard of hardships for the love of liberty? One came Backed in a box, far too short and too narrow for him, without food or air, sometimes standing for hours on his head, liable at every station to be discovered and sent buck. Another was cramped and mothered in the hold of a vessel. One hid himself in the swamp till the hunt was over, and then, alone and on foot, with only the North Star for his guide, Sliding by day and travelling by night, he has journeyed into freedom. Still another, with wonderful tact and presence of mind, has passed for a white man, and travelled in first-class cars, and put up at the best hotels, and so eluded suspicion. These people have every disadvantage to contend against. When, at last, they reach the promised land, they have no money nor friends; most of them cannot even read; and they are obliged, from the very nature of the case, to work at some menial employment that gives them but a meagre support. 
It is urged against them, that they are ambitious of living among white men, and have no desire to live together, and develop a society of their own. This, so far from being an error, is, as it seems to me, their highest wisdom. The best and wisest among them—the men of genius and of power-have always seen it so. It is the prejudice against! color which crushes the free black, and which is to be fought against and overcome, before the manhood of the negro will be fully recognized before the law, and by the social customs of society. It is this prejudice which says the negro shall live apart from his fellows; his children, if they be educated at all, shall receive their instruction in separate schools; he shall not sit in the same pew in church, cat at the same table, nor ride in the same car with the white man. And because the negro resists this prejudice, and refuses to submit to its requirements, it is charged upon him that he has no pluck! 
Nobody supposes that the wisest course for the Irish and the Germans is to keep up an exclusive society of their own, and refuse to mingle with and become assimilated to the great mass of the people. It is plain that such a course, so far from having a tendency to their improvement, would effectually cramp and dwarf them. What is good policy for the Irish and the German, is good policy for the negro; and it is only pro-slavery prejudice which talks about a separate society for them, and a return to their native country, Africa. How comes it to pass that, though some of them have been here more than two hundred years, Africa is still their native country? The white child, born upon our soil, though its father and mother be foreigners, and cannot speak a word of English, is not held to be an alien; it is a native of our country, and entitled to all the privileges of citizenship. But the colored man is still an African, though he speak good English, and can trace his descent from the heroes of the revolution! 
There is Frederick Douglass, though he is proud to acknowledge that he inherits his energy, his talents, and his eloquence from his mother, who was only a field hand; yet his father was an educated white man, and he as really belongs to the Saxon race as he does to the negro. But he is censured because ' he apparently never dreams of anything better for his race than freedom, and mixture with white society '! Who are his race, the blacks or the whites? He belongs to both; and if he has natural affection, his instincts and his sympathies are with both. A man born of a black mother and a white father may be excused, I think, if he does believe in a mixture of races! Is there not scope enough for all his energies, ' genius and man of power ' though he be, to break down the partition-wall of prejudice which separate the two races from which he sprang? Nay, is it not a larger plan for profiting the race of his mother than any narrow, exclusive policy which would nourish and foster the very prejudice which oppresses them? 
It is asserted that social equality can never be conceded to the colored race. It is for such men as Frederick Douglass and J. W. C. Pennington to prove the falsehood of such assertion. Already I such men are treated with respect in the community in which they live. What is attained by individuals of the race, may ' in the good time coming' be attained by the race. It is not in the nature of things that genius and talents should not make themselves respected. The true way for the colored man to advance the interests of his fellows is not to set up an exclusive society, but to make himself a power in the society where he is already placed. 
R 

From the Montpelier Watchman. 
LETTER FROM WEST RANDOLPH.
WEST RANDOLPH, July 29, 1860. 
William Wells Brown from Boston, formerly a 'chattel personal' in one of our Southern States, has been spending a few days in this vicinity, endeavoring to create a deeper anti-slavery sentiment in the hearts of the people (in whom lies the power to raise the lever that shall move the world); and his addresses were characterized by urbanity of manners, logical argumentation, and effective eloquence. 
Amidst the bold avowals at the present time, that slavery is a humane and even a divine institution, and that negroes are incapable of self-culture and advancement, degrading to the society of the white race, too immature in their best estate to be entrusted with the responsibility of caring for themselves, fit only for slaves,—it seems to be the duty of all who would eradicate such false and unjust views to take due notice of the frequent instances, not only of equal, but superior attainments achieved a under discouragements and at great disadvantage by individual members of the colored race.
For if by Divine decree the black race was doomed to perpetual servitude, how, consistent with the holy attributes of impartiality and justice, can there be deviations from that law, or how be implanted in their breasts aspirations and unquenchable longings for the boon of freedom which they were doomed never to enjoy? Far be it from me to dwell upon a phase of the subject that calls upon the finite to vindicate the consistency and justice of the Infinite.
Alas, that man should have sought out so many is deviations from the path of rectitude and honor, and then attempt to wrest authority from Heaven for disregarding his highest and holiest convictions!
Mr. Brown has written two dramas illustrative of slavery, and these he read on different evenings at West Brookfield: ' A Leap for Freedom,' and 'How to get a Backbone.' The first, by entering into the details of life in the 'great house,' and in the slay quarters, and by relating the experience of 'Glen' and 
'Melinda,' two slaves who dared to love each other, and after cruel abuse became desperate enough to make a hazardous leap for freedom, convulses the house with laughter, and then anon subdues
<c04>
with tender and thrilling pathos. The latter involves a moral of great significance, yet is in some of its scenes exceedingly ludicrous. It describes a New York Democrat of the Tammany Hall school, intimate with Mayor Wood and Capt. Rynders, who got elected delegate to the Charleston Convention, and was so jubilant thereat that he made a great speech, declaring his devotion to the whole country, lauding the institution of slavery, and the chivalry and magnanimity of slaveholders, and deprecating in wholesale terms the sectionalism and fanaticism of anti-slavery men. He sent numerous copies of his speech to Charleston and vicinity to secure for himself a timely reputation, and finally decided to make a roundabout trip in the South before the convention convened.
While stopping in a town on the Mississippi river, he was kidnapped and sold into slavery. All his protestations that he was a gentleman from New 
York, and belonged to the legal profession, a Democrat and a pro-slavery man, and a delegate to the Charleston Convention, were received as 'gammon;
they had heard such looking niggers as he talk before,' and before he could get relief from his Northern friends, he had the felicity of testing the institution he believed so just, and feeling upon his own back the scourgings of the lash. This experience is given in a manner that creates hearty laughter.
Mr. Brown imitates to perfection the dialect of the negroes, and in presenting the other characters shows a decided talent for dramatic reading. The dramas contain passages of rare beauty. An apostrophe to the North Star, that faithful guide to the fugitive, is sublime; and the conscious manhood of the slave, with all his burning thoughts when he resolves to have freedom or death, appeals to the hearers with a power which sets at defiance all the arguments in favor of the vile system. It is scarcely possible for a white man in his utmost devotion so to identify himself with the bondman as to realize to an audience the awful condition of the slave, as can the slave himself when he has made his way from bondage, and developed those powers which in slavery must have lain dormant till the day of his death. When we moot with talent, education, cultivated accomplishments, and an ability to interest and elevate mankind, and the possessor claims kindred to the despised race, we are awed into shame and indignation at the arrogance and wickedness of that assumption of power which robs a fellow-being of the heritage of his birthright.
Mr. Brown expects to return to Vermont ere many weeks, and will probably read his dramas in different places. A. H.

From the Windsor True Royalist. 
FUGITIVES IN CANADA. 
It is a matter of much speculation with many, how the thousands of fugitives, that year after year find their way into Canada, manage to subsist. They come empty-handed, with no wealth but their bones and sinews; and even these they dare not fully call their own till they tread the free soil of Canada. But, unlike every other class of men, the fugitive is not poor, even in his poverty. He feels himself rich. It is wealth to him more precious than the gold of California to own himself. Talk not to him of deprivation and want; he has been reared in the school of adversity; he is not afraid of suffering; he has learned how to endure; he is willing to take liberty just as he finds it, and thank Heaven for the boon. The first thing he asks for after he gets on free soil is work, and he keeps on seeking for it till he finds it, and when he finds it, he perseveres in it. 
The fugitives who cross over by way of Detroit into Windsor all seek employment, and become industrious subjects. The fugitives in Canada are said by some to be an idle, vicious, lazy, and thievish set. That there are people in Canada, both white and colored, who answer to that description, we will not pretend to gainsay. That the fugitives in Canada, as a class, answer to the description, we emphatically deny. Look at the fugitives scattered over the Free States, and they will be found everywhere to sustain the character of an industrious class of people. Why should it be otherwise? They are a class of people who are enured to labor, and are accustomed to its fatigues; and though they hate to labor under the stimulation of the lash, yet they love it when urged upon them by the incentive of cash. However the colored race in Canada may be abused, slandered and vilified by some of the leading newspapers in Great Britain as well as the United States, yet it is a fact which no penetrating mind can overlook, that England can bestow her protection and patronage on no class of people that will prove more true to her interest and welfare than these very same fugitives and their descendants. A half century hence will unfold some of the beneficial results that will necessarily flow from the circumstance of the protection which England now offers to the fugitive. Canada is destined to become the stronghold of the colored race in North America; not because the climate is more congenial to the constitution of the colored race than it is the white, but from the force of circumstances. Canada should be settled by colored people as a matter of policy. We must have a foothold somewhere, contiguous to the Middle States, and there is no place which offers greater facilities, stronger protection, or a larger share of political rights, than the Canadas. 

From the Canada True Royalist. 
FIRST OF AUGUST CELEBRATION. 
The celebration of the anniversary of the West India Emancipation, at Chatham, was, if we judge from the number attending it, a joyful day. 
The conduct of the people on the occasion seemed to express the idea with a grandeur that could no be overlooked by the bitterest opposer—that the people engaged in it had a proper appreciation o the heaven-born boon they were celebrating. Thou sands of them congregated in a small circle which an observer could scan at one glance of the eye; and in all that concourse, not one intoxicated man or boy could be seen staggering, nor the yell of fight to disturb the peace and harmony of the day did we witness during the several hours we passed through the crowd. 
The dedication service of the church was attendee with a solemnity becoming the occasion. A number of ministers were present, and assisted the worthy pastor, Key. C. W. Prince, and Rev. W. H. Jones, the agent, in the ceremonies. The discourse was delivered from Genesis, 28th chap., 17th verse.
A more attentive congregation during the delivery of the discourse we seldom ever witnessed; and it afforded us great satisfaction to see so large an orderly an assemblage in Canada; and it would, indeed, be an example for many of the most age churches in some other regions of country claimed to be far in advance of us here. Not a person left his seat, and the eyes of the people seemed fixed on the speaker, as if truly desiring to hear every word he would say unto them. The singing, too, was attractive, and the songs of praise were chimed forth in lofty notes by a choir in the gallery, in honor to God. The amount collected we did not learn, but a more particular account may be expected. 
<c05>
We would calculate that from four to five thousand were present on the ground about the church, and speaking was going on at the grove at the same time with a great crowd there, we were informed. Five hundred and ninety-nine persons went up on a special train of cars from Windsor, Detroit and neighboring country, and a steamer took up a number. All returned home safe, with no bones broken, no lives lost, nor anything to spread a gloom over the minds of the people, as we were called to notice in the celebration of our neighbors, on the anniversary of their independence on the 4th of July. So much for the people that can't take care of themselves!

REPUBLICANISM IN MISSOURI—AN EDITOR MOBBED FOB GOING FOR LINCOLN AND HAMLIN. 
KING'S HOTEL, July 8th, 1860. 
To the Editors of the Missouri Democrat: 
GENTLEMEN,—I arrived here last night from Lexington, Mo., where I was publishing the Citizen's Public Advertiser, and whence I was driven, on Friday afternoon, by a mob of infuriated individuals, for the following cause. 
On Friday morning, I inserted the names of the Republican candidates for President and Vice President, and underneath remarked, as well as I can remember, these words: ' We hoist the names of our candidates for President and Vice President this morning, and will give our reasons for this step to-morrow.' 
In about one hour after the edition of the paper was printed, and immediately after the city circulation had been distribute, E. Winser, Insurance Agent, sent his little boy to my office with a copy of the paper, and directions not to send any more papers to his office and shortly after Mr. Winser himself appeared, and brought with him a notice that my policy of insurance on my office, in the AEtna Company, would be cancelled that day (Friday) at noon. I said to him, ' I am sorry to have given you cause of offence, Mr. W., but will explain to-morrow the reason of the course I took this morning.' He replied, there will never be another paper issued out of your office, and departed. Shortly after, about fifteen of the strongest and most violent pro-slavery men in Lafayette county made their appearance in my office, with this same Winser and an employee of William Limriok, of the name of Shields, heading them, and Winser and Shields, (for they both spoke at once.) acting a spokesmen. They denounced me as publishing a paper that injured and endangered their slave property, and declared their determination that the paper should never appear again in Lexington, either as neutral or Republican; that I should send away my office before night, or they would throw it in the river, and that I would have to leave the city, under the penalty of personal violence. They then seized the edition of my paper, just ready for mailing, declaring that such a paper should never be sent from Lexington. This man Winser is a member of the M. E. Church South, a Free Mason, and any man would have taken him to be an order-loving and law-abiding citizen, and yet he was foremost in inciting the mob, and thus endangering the property which, as agent for the AEtna, he had insured, and after having done so, cancelled the policy! Shields was half drunk, and so was another one of the crowd. 
I closed my office, and went down among the crowd that was assembled in front of it on the sidewalk, when some of them wanted I should tell them there what. I would have published on Saturday morning, and elevated me in their midst for that purpose; and I was about to proceed, when they fell to quarreling among themselves, and the most violent of them succeeded in preventing me from explaining my views and sentiments. I then asked them if they were going to permit the Republicans of Lafayette county to vote their ticket in November. Several voices in the crowd: 'We will die before those names go on the poll-books.' 
I do not know what was done with my office. I incline to the opinion that they destroyed it, because most of them are drinking men, and when they would raise their courage, resort to the bottle; and most of them professed some notoriety gained in one way or another, by their brave forays into Kansas during the troubles in the Territory. A great, double-fisted fellow, by the name of Brooks, was very anxious that I should give them credit for not injuring me personally. 
Such is the manner in which free speech is treated in Lafayette county. They dare not let truth be spoken in soberness. 
There were some noble exceptions to the ruffians I who acted such a disgraceful part on Friday, and my heart warms to them for sympathy expressed in such decided terms. 
I have been in Lexington over three years, and had been publishing a neutral paper up to Friday morning last. S. HARBAUGH. 

THE REIGN OF TERROR IS TEXAS.
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.
TEXAS, August 7th, 1860.
I came to Texas this Spring, with a view of engaging in mercantile business at some town or city near the sea coast, where greater freedom of thought and opinion prevails than in the petty local seats of Government, county towns. But I find with my views, moderate as they are, without any attempt at propagandism, that there is but little safety to any one from the Eastern States, consistent with the free interchange of even merely conversational sentiment; and since I have been residing here-only the short space of three months—a manifest exacerbation of that insane feeling of opposition to everything Eastern (except goods, wares, and merchandise,) has taken place. All ' Northern' men, even of permanent residence, are looked on distrust fully on the slave question. It is said their education, previous residence, hereditary influences, &c., render them unsafe for reliance on that ' tender, vital question to the South.' Even a sentiment which I heard expressed by a native Southerner was condemned as disloyal to the interests of the South—to wit, that he wished there had never been such a thing as Slavery to disturb the peace and concord of the Union, and limit its powers of usefulness and duration, &c. He previously occupied a popular position, but it is quite a different one now.
Some events of late occurrence in Texas, which, in my opinion, (formed upon duo and full inquiry,) have no connection with Anti-Slavery movements at the East, have wonderfully excited the whole people of the State eastward of the Rio Grande region. I allude to the burning of the village of Dallas, and other successful incendiaries and extended movements in the upper part of Texan charged to the debit of Abolitionists, bat the facts are these, in all probability. The frontier parts and dividing lines of new States are always subject to the accumulation of a class of persons who are fitted and ready for every variety of excitement and crime. Texas and Arkansas (although peace and order and security of property and person now generally prevail in all of the settled and developed parts of these States,) on their western frontier and dividing lines have a goodly proportion of these wild and violent popula
<c06>
tion, including horse and cattle thieves, negro thieves and roadside robbers. An association of them, well organized and appointed, exists, and their modes of operation have been attended with a great amount of success. It is to this bund of villains that the Indian troubles on the extreme northwest frontier of Texas is attributable. Some of the band go into the neighborhood, seek work, obtain employment, and remain long enough to secure sufficient knowledge of the lay of the land, the stock of horses, &c. Subsequently, one or two of them will come down with a body of Indians, and drive off the stocks of horses and mules, and committing other depredations. The injured people, without discrimination, regarding all Indians as enemies, have broken up the well-arranged reserves and towns of the peaceful and friendly Indians on the head of the Brazos River, who would, if permitted to remain, have proved a barrier to the incursions of the Prairie and Mountain tribes. The slave disturbances among the Choctaws and Cherokee Indians, in the territory of the United States in Arkansas, are owing also to this organization, planning and effecting variance between the slaveholding and non-slaveholding Indians; the former, in alarm, sell those negroes, and these disturbers purchase them very low, bring them to Southern Texas, and realize large profits. There are now a great many Indian-reared negroes in the cotton plantations on Old Carrey, Colorado, and Brazos Rivera, near the coast. 
Intending to avail themselves of the confusion and alarm that would result from a negro insurrection, in an extended sacking of the country near to Dallas, inhabited by wealthy people, they incited the negroes to an insurrection on the first Monday in August, when every one nearly would be absent from home at the State election; but two or three members of the clan, who bad suffered at Dallas, giving rein to their passions, commenced devastating the country before the day appointed for a general movement. All hope of a successful insurrection is futile. All white people—Abolitionists (of whom there are many in the Northern counties of Texas) as well as others—would be compelled to join and put it down, for there would be no controlling the negroes. 
The nefarious—and fortunately unsuccessful in the main—plans are charged in the minds of every one who expresses an opinion, and no one is reserved, to an organized movement of the Anti-Slavery party of the Eastern States. Nothing will or can change this impression; it is continually gaining strength. Vigilance Committees are being organized in every county, patrols ride nightly, every person a stranger is closely questioned and scrutinized, and to disclose on the part of a stranger a Northern accent or origin, he is at once suspected of being a possible Abolitionist emissary. The public prints, as you will perceive, are rife with charges and accusations. It will be unsafe directly for the agents of Eastern mercantile houses to pursue their legitimate business here, in opposition to whom there are, without doubt, persons resident who wish to take those agencies of sale and supply of Eastern houses out of the hands of all Eastern men, so an to monopolize it themselves. No matter how well disposed or quiet an Eastern man here may be, he is continually questioned and annoyed, and distrusted. So a residence here in Texas is at this time exceedingly unpleasant, and were it not for the delay incident to disposing of my goods, I should depart hence without delay at once. Should this state of things progress, there will soon be a cessation of social intercourse between persons of Eastern and Southern birth, and a total aberration of personal affection, leaving nothing to bind society in civilities but the dependencies and necessary mutualities of interest. 

From the Houston (Texas) Telegraph.
THE TEXAS FRIGHT. 
Every mail brings us accounts of some new outbreak—some further disturbance—some incendiarism, or some murder in the interior; and nearly all of these things are directly traced to negroes who have been tampered with by white men, or to vagabond white Abolitionists themselves. 
That there has been anything like a well-matured plot for an insurrection, beyond the limits of the counties of Dallas, Ellis, and Den ton, we do not believe; but that white men have passed through very many counties in the State, stirring up disaffection in the minds of the negroes, we have the most undoubted evidence. There may have been a plot concocted, to be extended through the whole State. Perhaps there was. If so, it has defeated itself-the first note of alarm having put the people in every section on the alert, and set them to watching. 
Still there is mischief yet lurking among us. The emissaries of the plot, if plot there was, though foiled in their original plan, yet appear to be travelling about the country. The fires at Austin, Henderson, and other places, and the attempted fires in Tyler, Gilmer, and a dozen other towns, unerringly point to the conclusion. Beside these fires, negroes are daily discovered in different parts of the State, at points widely different from each other, supplied with arms and ammunition. Runaways are taken up, who, under the lash, confess that they were enticed away by white men. Insubordination on plantations leads to inquiry, and in all eases investigations show that the seeds of disaffection have been sown in the minds of the staves. 
In every part of the State, the people are watchful. Vigilance committees, composed of the best citizens, nave been formed in nearly every county. I Scarcely a day passes but some agent of these committees posses through Houston, having in charge a suspicious character, taking him out of the State. Wherever anything is proven beyond possibility of a doubt, a halter at the nearest tree expiates the guilt. We have accounts of the hanging of at least ten or twelve men, of whom five have been whites, according to the verdict of these committees. 
We uphold the action of these committees, so far as it has come to our knowledge. It is one of those cases, wherein the slow process of the law cannot be trusted. It is one of those ceases wherein the great law of self-defence demands that committees should act in their primary capacity, and rid themselves and mankind of all the cut-throats they can lay their hands upon. 
Let the vigilance be kept up. Let no stranger pass through the State who cannot give a clear account of himself. Cases of hardship will no doubt occur, but the people must protect themselves. Let all men of suspicious character be doubly watched, and at the first impropriety let them be taken from the State. Where any evidence of tampering with the negroes occurs, let the proof be positive, and then let the punishment he swift and terrible. Tampering with negroes at times like this is murder, and should meet with the murderer's fate. 
The Anderson Texian, of the 11th, mentions the recovery at Houston of two negroes who belonged to two citizens of Wallace's Prairie. The negroes had been long absent, and were accidentally found by their owners, managing their own affairs in Houston. They had regular passes, which they said had been given to them by a white man living at Hempstead. 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United Stales Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and all agreement with hell.' 
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union an be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it an only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'—WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.
MORE KIDNAPPING.
WYANDOT, K. T., August 4th, 1860.
ED. REPUBLUICAN-DEAR SIR,-A deep sense of duty impels me to make a few suggestions, and give some information, touching the present condition of our Territoryï¿½especially the Missouri borderï¿½relative to a class of human beings, created in God's own image, who are so unfortunate as to be even suspected of being of African descent.
Within the last few weeks, our county has been made the theater for the transaction of some of the boldest, most revolting and tragic scenes that have ever occurred in our midstï¿½the principal actors in which are men living in our midst, some of them holding both United States and Territorial offices. Not long since, a man by the name of Hope, with scarcely a drop of African blood running in his veins, and never a slave, was most brutally kidnapped in open day, from Joe Armstrong'sï¿½a Delaware Indian, living just on the edge of the prairie, about twelve miles west of our city. Poor Hope was lashed to a horse and hurried to the Kaw bottoms, whipped until his back was one most of gore, and when night came was hurried off to Missouri, and finally wound up in the St. Joseph jail, and soon was sold for twelve hundred dollars to a 'Southern trader,' destined to perpetual bondage. This same Hope was kidnapped two years ago, and I placed in the jail at Independence, from whence he, was taken by a writ of habeas corpus, through the exertions of Judge Wrightï¿½since which time the St. Joseph jail has become the slave mart for the use of all the devils incarnate that desire to rob, murder, kidnap or steal.
A few weeks since, two negroes were decoyed from a German boarding-house in Wyandot, by false pretences, and taken to Kansas Cityï¿½the perpetrators ,stating on their return that they were slaves, and that their masters gave them two hundred and fifty dollars for their recovery. It turns out, however, that these two men were never slaves, but that just, before reaching Kansas City, they were inhumanly whipped, to make them state who were their owners, winch they failed to doï¿½the negroes choosing to die under the torturing strap, rather than own to a lie. (I may as well state here, lest I forget it, that the method pursued by all these fiends of hell in the shape of kidnappers, is to whip their unfortunate victims on their bare backs, while their hands and feet are heavily loaded down with irons, and their mouths dragged, until they acknowledge that they are slaves, and state who were their mastersï¿½no matter whoï¿½some name must be selected. There are very few who can refrain, while under this exquisite torture, and when a horrible death seems certain at the hands of their hardened tormentors, from speaking some name. After this the weak and bleeding victim is hurried off to Missouriï¿½first to the St. Jo. jail, thence by ' traders ' to the blackness and darkness of Southern bondage.) From the Kaw bottoms, where these men were whipped, they were taken to their pretended master in Kansas City, who turned out to be the notorious Jake Hurd. Thence they were taken to the St. Joseph jail, where ten days ago Jake Hurd was still trying to sell them into Southern slavery; and unless ere this some Doy rescuers have liberated them, they have gone to the dank, lone rice swamps of the South.
On the 18th of July, a man by the name of C. W. Jonesï¿½with straight hair, not having a drop of African blood in him, and never a slave, his ancestors having been all white, excepting one of his great grandfathers four generations back, and who came from and was a native of the island of Madagascar, but on arriving in this country married a white English woman-this man Jones was living with his mother, sister, brother, and two of his own ,little light-haired girls, at Charles Armstrong's (a Delaware Indian living near Joe Armstrong's, spoken of above). They had taken some land to cultivate, and were gaining an honest living in peace and contentment. Late in the evening of the 18th ult., four men stopped at Armstrong's for the night. Armstrong was gone. About midnight, these men desired to leave. Jones assisted them in preparing their horses and wagon, and just as he was turning to ask Mrs. Armstrong the amount of their bill, he was seized, choked, gagged and pounded until he was senseless, from which condition he awoke, finding himself in the laps of two of his captors, driving with all speed on the open prairie, in the two-horse wagon, while the other two rode on horseback. The first sounds he heard were the voices of these wretches bewailing their loss, fearing that their booty was dead. He also found himself secured with heavy iron handcuffs. To be brief, this Jones was taken that night to within two miles of this place, into the Kaw bottoms to an empty log cabin. The next morning a young Indian, passing with his gun in pursuit of squirrels, found Samuel Forsyth, Ex-Sheriff of Wyandot county, now Deputy U. S. Marshal, and one of the County Commissioners of this county, watching at the door of the cabin, and poor Jones, manacled and sore, prostrate within. Soon, Louis M. Cox, a resident of this place, appears. They state to the young Indian that ' the nigger ' was a horse thief, and that they caught him stealing Lowe's horse; and after exciting the Indian's sympathies against the pretended thief, they hire him for a dollar to watch him, while they go away. They now take Jones away further into the deep, lone woods, into a dark ravine, beneath a fallen tree, where no human eye could find him, and there chain him with a heavy chain and lock, to a treeï¿½leaving directions to blow his brains out, if he moves or speaks. Honest Indian, never suspecting wrong, obeys with all fidelity. About noon, his captors return with two fresh recruits, who take him away, saying they are going to Leavenworth to try him; and the Indian goes home, being told never to say a word about the matter. The nigger stealers hurry poor Jones into a still deeper and darker solitude, where they lay bare his back, and tell him that they will whip him ' to death, unless he owns up to having a master.' They lay Jones upon his face on the ground, and with a pistol belt whip and beat him until they are exhausted themselves; then rest, and whip him againï¿½but no master's name comes from the lips of the helpless mass of living gore before them. With curses they now stoop to feel his pulse, and ask who owned his father? Jones in feeble tones answers, ' My father was always free.' Again the dripping scourge falls upon the quivering flesh. ' Who, now, owned your father, you d-d lying nigger? Who was his father? With a broken voice, expecting soon to die, poor Jones whispers, ' Drury Jennins was my father's father.' (Drury Jennins, a white man of Tennessee, was Jones's grandfather, and never a slave. ) Tired with their exercise, they now cover the clotted back with the poor man's clothes, and wait for darkness to hide them from the eye of man, (but the Eye that slumbereth not, nor sleepeth, was watching them). As soon as it was safe, the party proceeded down through Wyandot, to just above the Kansas ferryï¿½avoiding all the public streetsï¿½where they were set across the Kansas river, and thence on to Kansas City, Mo.-Jones being bareheaded all this time, save going through this city, when Coxlent him his hat, for fear some one would meet them and notice poor Jones's head, which had been closely sheared and rubbed, to make it appear ' kinky.' From Kansas City Jones was taken by one of the party in a two horse buggy, to the jail in St. Joseph. Here Jones found Jake Hurd and kindred spirits. He remained in jail several days, being daily examined by traders, to whom he told his story, and constantly inquired for pen, ink and paper, showing that he was educated. The traders, after examining him, would exclaim that they ' wanted a little nigger blood in the slaves they bought!' In a few days, it becoming evident that no money could be made out of Jones, Messrs. Cox and Forysth, who had been banging around St. Joseph for a day or two, made their appearance before Jones, telling him they were mistaken in their matt, and that he could go, desiring to take him back. Jones however preferred being his own conductor, fearing that foul play was intended, inasmuch as he was strongly advised by them that it would be much better for him not to go back into the Territory. Jones however managed to arrive in a few days in Quindaro, and soon made an affidavit which brought Messrs. Cox and Foreyth before Justices Chadwick and Duncan, of Quindaro, where proof as positive as Holy Writ was shown against said Forsyth and Coxï¿½showing that from first to last they were the prime movers in this diabolical outrage. After hearing the evidence of Jones, Gen. A. C. Davis, counsel for defence, for his clients waived any further examination, and gave bonds for their appearance before the next District Court.
But the scene does not close here. Poor Jones must not be left to tell his story to the world. Immediately alter the court adjourned, Mr. Davis swore out a writ against Jones, stating that about the 18th of July, said Jones passed counterfeit money; and Jones is hurried Wyandot, to wait an examination before P. S. Post, acting as U. S. Commissioner. On the next day, at the hour for trial,
<c02>
half a dozen of our best lawyers appeared as counsel for the prisoner; but no witnesses could be found for the prosecution. Something must be done, else Jones would again be at large, and tell of his wrongs. Mr. Attorney-General Davis makes an affidavit for continuance, on the ground that one James Lester, to whom said Jones gave a counterfeit gold dollar, was in Missouri, and other evidence was absent. A continuance was granted until this date, and Mr. Jones was let out on one hundred dollars bail. At the appointed hour, three witnesses made their appearance, and were duly sworn, to wit: Louis M. Cox, James Lester and Cornelius Sager. The moment James Lester and Cornelius Sager were seen by Mr. Jones, they were recognized as being the men who assisted Cox and Forsyth when he was so cruelly whipped, and Lester as the man who took him in at a buggy from Kansas City to the St. Joseph jail. These were the men that General Davis had for witnesses, to swear poor Jones into criminal bondageï¿½the same men having failed to kidnap him into the bondage of slavery. Cox and Lester swore positively to taking a counterfeit two dollar and a half gold piece and two counterfeit half-dollar pieces, from Jones, on the 19th of July; but on cross examination, swore that this was done while Jones was their prisoner, handcuffed, and away alone near the log cabin in the Kaw bottoms. Sager took alarm, and left secretly before his torn for swearing came. Immediately after Lester had told his story, he ran to the Kansas river, sprang into a boat evidently prepared for him, and kept loose by a little boy, and shoved out into the stream. Officer Sawyer, who had write for both Lester and Sager, for kidnapping Jones, was in close pursuit, but supposed Lester was going to the ferry, and thus lost sight of him until he (Lester) was well under way. Taking another boat, with three men, he however commenced the chase. Sawyer rapidly gained upon the brigand thief, and when nearly half a mile down the Missouri riverï¿½into which Lester had rowed, hoping to rain the Missouri State lineï¿½the officer's boat came within a few feet of the kidnapper's. At this time, the brigand, being heavily armed, threatened to blow out the brains of the man that pulled the next oar. The man at the oarsï¿½there being but one pairï¿½instantly dropped them, and fled to the back of part of the boat, and no power could induce either of his two companions to raise a finger in further pursuit. The brave Sawyer, whose mettle has been tried before, and never fails, sprang to the oar and pulled with all his might and main; but the current was swift, and the boat large and heavily laden, in comparison with Lester's light skiff, and the time lost by the cowardly refusal of the rower to continue his efforts, before the officer could get the boat under way again, was so great that the brigand thief was within the jurisdiction of Kansas City, his Missouri home, before he could be overtaken, and thus was lost. It is to be hoped, however, for her credit as well as safety, that Kansas City will rid herself of the numerous Jake Hurds, Tobe Owens, Jim Lesters, and a large lot more of kindred pimps ( that now make that city their headquarters. It is ascertained beyond a doubt that there exists in that city, and in various parts of Kansas Territory, a large and dangerous band of menï¿½many of them holding high positions in communityï¿½who are banded together for the purpose of kidnapping free men, and selling them into slavery; of stealing slaves, and selling them still farther south; and of keeping them in confinement until a large reward is offered, and then taking them back and obtaining the reward. A portion of them make counterfeiting their business, while still another enrich their purses by stealing horses. No community in Kansas or Missouri is safe from these villains.
Too much credit cannot be given to those of our lawyers who dared to do right, and perform the duty of defending Jones against the last attempt, by fraud and perjury, to place him where he could have no contact with the world, and to throw around an innocent and harmless man the garb of the criminal-thus hoping to blast his character, and relieve others from the dark load of guilt and crime they now carry on their shoulders.
Mr. Post, after listening patiently to the evidence and pleas of counsel, decided very promptly that no evidence of crime had been shown on the part of Mr. Jones, and the prisoner was instantly discharged, to the entire satisfaction of every honest man who heard the evidence, and knew the facts in the case.
A word, now, to men of color, or those even a little dark. My advice is, to every one, to go armed at all times; and whenever molested, shootï¿½blow out the brains of every man who dares question your right. When a few examples are made of these worse than highway murderers, they will quit their hellish business. Let every community be ready at a moment's warning to give them their just deserts-a strong rope and a strong limbï¿½and we shall soon be rid of these gentlemen.
Yours, for Justice,

KIDNAPPING AND U. S. OFFICERS.
The infamous business of kidnapping free men and women for the purpose of selling them into slavery, seems to be prosecuted with a high hand about these times. We can scarcely take up a Territorial newspaper, without finding an account of one of these nefarious attempts. For cold-blooded atrocity and diabolical cruelty, the cases narrated upon our first page by a reliable correspondent from Wyandot stand pre-eminent. We had known before that there was an organized gang of these wretches, who live by robbery, kidnapping and murder, but we were hardly prepared to find United States officers aiding and abetting in this devilish business. But it seems that a creature by the name of Forsyth, an ex-sheriff of Wyandot county, and at present a deputy United States Marshal (one of Colby's appointees), was one of the principals in the fiendish outrage perpetrated upon poor Jones. He is evidently one of the leader of the gang. Attorney General Davis also figures most suspiciously in this affair. With a willing pliancy, he appears as the counsel for the villains, Cox and Forsyth. Not content with this, he turns prosecutor against poor Jones, charging him with passing counterfeit money, and then introduces Jim Lester, Cornelius Sager and Louis M. Cox,ï¿½the very wretches who had kidnapped Jones,ï¿½to prove the trumped up charge, Fortunately, villany overstepped itself, and the miserable hounds, on cross examination, brought out the fact that they had robbed Jones of this very money which they now sworeï¿½without doubt, falselyï¿½was counterfeit! Is not this a pretty business for a man of Davis's position and pretensions to be engaged in?ï¿½making himself the pimp of a gang of inhuman villains, who prowl about to kidnap the defenceless victims of tyranny and proscription! We know the terribly debasing effects of treachery to the principles of truth and freedom, among which a man has been reared, the demoralization consequent upon a defence of injustice and wrong, and the utter corruption induced by violating one's real convictions of right; but we must confess, we never expected to behold A. C. Davis fallen quite so low as this!
This kidnapping business must stop. The freemen of Kansas owe it to themselves to stop it. It would be a lasting and burning disgrace should they allow the soil of Kansas to be made a common hunting-ground for these human hounds, who go snuffing and prowling about, seeking for some poor victim upon whom to fasten their insatiable jaws. If there is any crime which stands out in unrelieved devilishness, which deserves universal outlawry and prompt punishment by death, it is this infernal business of kidnapping men and women to sell them into a terrible and life-long bondage.-Lawrence Republican.
The New York Journal of Commerce publishes the following extract of a letter to a gentleman in that city, 'from an eminent Methodist clergyman,' dated
VICKSBURG, Miss., Aug.16, 1860.
'Our papers are teeming with accounts of the havoc of another John Brown raid on the border counties of Texas. Abolitionists have been there in the character of Methodist preachers, teachers, &c., and instigated a general insurrection among several hundred negroes. They had planned matters for a most bloody and fatal catastrophe. Firearms of all sorts; arsenic, to be put in wells for poisoning the people, and means for setting fire to a whole town at once, were detected, but not until five towns had been burned, and great mischief done.
'One woman has been hung for distributing arsenic, to be put in cisterns and wells. And one or two preachers have been hung for aiding and inciting to revolt. If things go on at this rate, a man suspected of anti-slavery proclivities will be hung or shot like a dog; a fate they court, it would seem. Southern people will be driven to desperation at this rate, and invoking France or England, with Russia, will put the cotton interests under their protection. Dissolution of the Union is inevitable, with Abolitionism in the ascendant at Washington. Here we are trying to lead the negroes to Christ and Heaven, while these incendiaries lead them to the gallows.'(!!)
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, AUGUST 31, 1860.
ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
The Eighteenth Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at SALEM, Columbiana county, Ohio, commencing on Saturday, the 22nd of September, at 2 o'clock, P. M.
The need for a full attendance of the true and tried at our annual gathering was never greater than now. In this, the year of quadrennial stultification and compromise, there comes a trumpet-call to every one who knows the Right, and knowing dares maintain it, to stand firm upon the rock of principle. Let Abolitionists manifest at least as much devotion to the cause of Humanity, as politicians do to Party. Is it unreasonable to ask of them to spend as much time, and pour forth as abundantly of their means to further the cause they profess to love, as politicians are doing in their electioneering efforts for favorite nominees?
In addition to our home speakers and home workers, we expect to have with us at our gathering Parker Pillsbury, of New Hampshire, H. Ford Douglass, of Illinois, and Abby Kelley Foster, of Massachusetts.
All interested in the great and absorbing question of the dayï¿½a question which is sundering political parties, agitating churches, and drawing a line between the friends of man and man's oppressorsï¿½are invited to assemble with us.
By direction of the Ex. Committee,
BENJ. S. JONES, Recording Secretary.
WESTERN ANTI-SLAVERY CAMPAIGN.
As General Agent of the Hovey Trust Committee, PARKER PILLSBURY announces in the Anti-Slavery bugle that he will attend the anniversary of the Western Anti-Slavery Society at Salem, Ohio, and that he proposes the holding of a series of grand Conventions at the Westï¿½one in Northern Indiana, one in Northern Illinois, one in Wisconsin, and one in Iowa. The call to these meetings, he says, ' should be to those especially who are ready to lay on the altar of humanity and freedom every obstacle to the slave's redemption; religious sect, political party, right of suffrage, everything whereby UNION is upheld with slaveholders, and their unrighteous system is prolonged. Men determined to support the Chicago platform, and members of the popular American Churches, may as well be told at the outset that their first anti-slavery work should be a personal oneï¿½their own emancipation from sects and parties pledged to the longer enslavement of four million of victims in half the nation, through the unhallowed Union of he States.' We trust this trumpet-call will be vigorously responded to by the Western friends of freedom.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
A POLITICAL TEXT-BOOK FOR 1860. Compiled by HORACE GREELEY and JOHN CLEVELAND.
This POLITICAL TEXT-BOOK is the fullest and most complete collection of facts bearing on the pending Presidential contest. Besides a record of all the Congressional Caucusses, National Conventions, Platforms, &c., &c., down to and including a full history of the Conventions and Platforms of 1860, with the letters of acceptance of the several candidates, this book contains several of the most memorable speeches of Messrs. Lincoln, Douglas, Seward, Breckinridge, Hamlin, H. V. Johnson, Benjamin, &c., with the more important letters, propositions, and votes of the foregoing, and of Messrs. Webster, Bell, Case, Van Buren, Everett, Bates, Jeff. Davis, S. P. Chase, J. L. Pugh, Clayton, Wilmot, Yancey, &c., &c., At the close, is presented at a single view the vote by States and counties throughout the Union of every Presidential Election since (and including) 1840, with the latest votes for Governor and Congress in all the contested or doubtful States. So large an aggregate of current Political information was never before embodied in a single volume. As a book of reference, it will be of more than transient interest and importance. We are gratified to see the position of the American Anti-Slavery Society, on the subject of Disunion, accurately defined in it. Price one dollar.
A MEMORIALï¿½Addressed to the ' Ladies' Sewing Circle' of the South Congregational Society, Boston, (Rev. E. E. Hale's,) and to other Unitarian People interested in the education of Hiram A. Reid, at the Meadville Theological School. Boston: Published by A. Williams & Co., Washington-St. 1860. 12mo. pp. 28.
This pamphlet contains (in an essay on Hume's Argument against miracles, and in letters to and from various parties) the account of a ' case in Theology ' of no ordinary interest. The author was a protege of the Ladies' Circle to which it is addressed. The occasion of the publication is briefly stated in a preparatory letter as follows:ï¿½
'My belief on the subject of Miracles has (through a strange and complicated chain of circumstances) cost me my standing an a student in the Meadville Theological School, whither you sent me, two years ago. And I am left to rest under the ban of your remembrance as in some way or other an offensive errorist, a man to be avoided, and one who has enjoyed benefits of which he was unworthy,ï¿½and without hope to reach your minds, so as to be fairly understood; or else I must incur the censure, vexation, and expense, of putting the case into print, (and thus unavoidably before the public,) that you may all read it, and judge for yourselves. I choose the latter.
If it were a matter in which only my small self were concerned, I should at once recognize the integrity and good standing of our Meadville School as infinitely more important than the particular views or feelings of a single individual. But my cause is the cause of ages. If I have erred herein, God forgive me;ï¿½I account it vastly worthier to err in a good purpose, than never to purpose any good, for fear of erring.'
The essay was prepared at the instance of one of the Professors, as part of a regular course of class exercises. It is a resume of Hume's argument, and of much of the controversy which it excited. It concludes as follows:ï¿½
'I think Mr. Hume was correct in asserting, that the phenomena known as "miracles" cannot be any proper proof of the divine authority of any teacher of religion.
I hold that Christianity, as the highest manifestation of all that is divine and Godlike in man, has its sure foundation deeper than any manner of external evidence could ever reach,ï¿½even in the spiritual element of man's nature; and that in JESUS, the Christ, this inner spiritual nature became the natural outward manifestation,-and that this circumstance, namely, THE DIVINE CHARACTER or HIS LIVING EXAMPLE, is what invests HIM with divine authority.'
These extracts are an index to the character of the book, and of the spirit in which it is written. The details of the case may be learned by an examination of the book itself. The whole affair is an exhibition and sufficient condemnation of that foolish and suicidal sensitiveness on the question of miracles which the leaders of the Unitarian body have manifested for the last fifteen or twenty years. The declaration which the author reports the President of Meadville School to have madeï¿½' We must crush out this Parkerism'ï¿½is not a little suggestive. What shall we say of that 'liberal Christianity' which declares a man, holding the views expressed in the last quotation, unworthy of its support on account of heresy? If the authorities of the Meadville School have really expelled Mr. Reid, and if such opinions as these are the only, or the principal, ground of such expulsion, then we congratulate him, and trust that in some freer, wiser and more Christian institution, he will be helped to that education which will fit him for that able ministry of the new covenant which Paul declared to be 'not of the letter, but of the spirit '; for now, as of old, ' the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.'
<c04>
MORE OF THE BABBARISM OF SLAVERY.
'The Tennessee Democratic Herald gives an account a most barbarous act of cruelty, perpetrated on a slave of Mr. D. Helm, about fifteen miles from Columbia, by two overseers on the Central Southern Railroad. The Herald says that the slave had been run off some time, and Mr. Helm sent him back on the passenger train. On the arrival of the train at Dodson's Gap, fifteen miles distant from Columbia, they took and tied him to a beech tree, some one hundred yards distant from the road, and stripping him they whipped him with leather straps and beech limbs for three hours, giving him some 1000 or 1200 lashes. After whipping very near all the skin off his back, they put turpentine on him, and put him out in the hot sun to work among rocks. Being of a very stout and healthy constitution, he survived it about twenty-four hours, when he fell and died almost immediately.
The overseers' names are Frederick Wright and Thomas S. McCrary. Mr. Helm offers $1.50 reward for the apprehension of Wright, and $50 for McCrary, so that he can get them.' 
We cut the above from the Cleveland Weekly Leader. The New York Observer copies the same statement, with the heading 'Inhuman Cruelty.' The Observer upholds the system under which such atrocities are practised, (and which will no doubt allow these murderers to escape with impunity,) and objects only to abuses of it. This is one of the abuses. While you only hold the man as your property, keep him working for you without wages, take his daughter as your concubine, and sell his wife and his sons into life-long separation from him and from each other, it is all right. But where you deliberately whip the man to death, intensifying his sufferings by the application of oil of turpentine, the pious Observer is shocked; and its Editor proceeds to take water, and wash his hands before the multitude, saying, 'I am innocent of the blood of this man.' Is he innocent?
This is called one of the abuses of slavery. But, in fact, it is one of the legitimate and necessary consequences of giving absolute and irresponsible power to man over man. Such power will always be abused. No man is good enough to be trusted with it. But when it is given to the very worst of menï¿½when it is bestowed, by law, upon a whole community largely consisting of just such persons as Frederick Wright and Thomas S. McCraryï¿½then the frequent occurrence of just such things, the very condition of society, now existing in our slave States, is to be expected as a matter of course.
Yet the system which bears such fruits as this is the very system of which Dr. Prime's Observer is a constant and efficient advocate! the very system which Rev. Dr. Spring of New York would not destroy at once, ' if a single prayer would do it'! Are they to be held guiltless because they uphold only 'the system,' and not the particular murders that are perpetrated under it? And is their advocacy of ' the system ' palliated, or made of small account, by any protest they may make against the use of ' leather straps and beech limbs,' and 'turpentine,' to the particular extent above described?ï¿½C. K. W.

'HAVE FERVENT CHARITY AMONG YOURSELVES.'
The Independent, of late, (as often before,) has spoken in high commendation of 'the venerable Dr. Spring,' probably excusing his zeal in behalf of slavery by his zeal, no less active, in behalf of evangelical piety. The New Orleans Picayune exercises the like charitable spirit in a direction precisely opposite, excusing Dr. Spring's piety and Sabbatism by his consistently pro-slavery character. Here are some instructive extracts from the Picayune of Sunday, August 12th:ï¿½
'REV. DR. SPRINO'S SERMON. We give, to-day, the interesting sermon preached to his people of the Old Brick Church, New York, on the 5th inst., the fiftieth anniversary of his pastorship, by Rev. Gardner Spring, D. D. It will amply repay perusal.'
The sermon itself, on another page, is introduced by these remarks:ï¿½
'That excellent and venerable divine, the Rev. Gardner Spring, D. D., (so renowned for his patriotic and conservative views and inculcations,) on the morning of the 5th instant, preached the following touching discourse to his people.'
In the same paper is offered one hundred dollars reward for the apprehension of the slave Joe, with his 'front teeth broken,' and fifty dollars reward for the slave Frank, 'crippled in the left hand, the forefinger being off, and one or two fingers stiff.'
The same paper announces (in the Police Court record,) under the head, 'INSULTING A WHITE PERSON,' that the slave Jane was sentenced to receive twenty-five lashes, on the charge of insulting Rosa Gomez; and further informs us that Adelaide Benjamin was committed for trial on the charge of harboring a runaway slave.
The Picayune, of Tuesday following, contains another case of ' INSULTING A WHITE PERSON.' Mary Smith was sent to the Parish Prison on 'the affidavit of Mary Carroll, who complained that she grossly abused her, contrary to the Black Code, and against the peace and dignity of the State.'
It contained, also, the case of two free persons charged with violating the city ordinances by allowing slaves, free persons of color, and white persons, to assemble on their common premises.'
The Picayune is an openly pro-slavery paper. The Independent has the reputation of opposing slavery. Yet these two can meet as brethren by each affectionately grasping a hand of Rev. Dr. Spring. Thus it is that the popular religion is made to buttress and support the sum of all villanies.ï¿½C. K. W.

A STRAW ON THE TIDE.
The New York Evangelist says, that at a meeting in London to celebrate West India Emancipation, Dr. Cheever spoke violently against the support given to slavery by the churches of America.
So, no doubt, the conductors of the Jerusalem Evangelist informed the people of that city, many years ago, that one Jesus had made a violent attack upon certain respectable citizens who were carrying on their regular trade in doves and specie in the Temple.
In both the above cases, half the truth is accurately expressed. In both of them, also, a disposition is manifested to censure the ' violence ' in question, entirely irrespective of its cause, namely, the existence of a vicious system, the popularity of which made this energy of opposition absolutely necessary.
It is not to be wondered at, however, that the Evangelist and the Independent should labor very diligently to discredit Dr. Cheever. It is immensely important to them that his exposure of their dishonesty should not get a fair hearing in England. To the full and incontrovertible exposures of this sort which have been made by Abolitionists heretofore, they have replied by shouting ' Infidel! Infidel!'ï¿½a charge which, however false, had the intended effect of diverting the attention of many persons from the evidence in question. But when this same evidence shall be presented by their clerical brother, Dr. Cheever, a man against whom charges of unsoundness in the faith would be as destitute of plausibility as of truth, the case will be immensely altered. He will be able to convince British Christians of the fact which pro-slavery 'religious' papers and pro-slavery clergymen have so largely succeeded in concealing from them, that the whole religion of this country has been corrupted by its slavery. So far as he shall be fairly heard, the essential dishonesty of the great American sects, 'religious' newspapers, and propagandist Societies, (Tract, Bible and Missionary,) in their action and inaction concerning slavery, will be made apparent.ï¿½C. K. W.
Let it not be forgotten that with all his professed desire to have the people of every community govern themselves, Douglas was the most bitter in his denunciations of the people of Kansas, and never raised his voice in favor of their admission into the Union.
<c05>
LETTER FROM MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
CARBONDALE, III., Aug. 15th, 1860.
MR. GARRISONï¿½I have just had a long sitting with the Liberator and friends, at their First of August Celebration at Abington; and next to being there in person was the pleasure of reading the earnest thoughts given forth on that occasion. It is refreshing, in this almost torrid zone, to read of your rural meetings in behalf of humanity; and I fancy, sometimes, I feel the sea-breeze upon my brow, and drink New England's gushing waters, as I follow, sentence by sentence, the bold words of those who have given their best life to the oppressed slave.
But my object in taking up my pen to-day, is to add my testimony to that of others in behalf of the beneficial results of Emancipation in the West Indies, I did not visit the British Isles last year, but I did visit the Danish West Indies, and spent some time on the Island of Santa Cruzï¿½which was the subject of an extract from the Tribune, copied into the Liberator, two weeks since; which article represented the island in a sad condition, and hinted at a plan to introduce a new class of laborers there from the United States, &c., (I regret that the paper is mislaid)ï¿½thus opening to that island a species of slave trade in order to increase its product of sugar.
Our boarding-house at Christianstedï¿½on the east end of the island (much the most busy town, on account of its contiguity to St. Thomas and its good harbor)ï¿½was kept by a Mrs. Anderson, whose son-in-law, Mr. Dean, was a manager upon four ' estates,' or plantations. We visited two of these, and also several others, and made diligent inquiry into the state of affairs, and endeavored to gain all possible information with regard to the condition of the laborers and their labor.
Mr. Dean assured as that the island was under a most ruinous policy, at the time of Emancipation, twelve year since, and had not yet fully escaped from it. Then the planters, notwithstanding their immense exportations of sugar and rum, were deeply in debt; their manner of living so luxurious and extravagant, that half the estates were mortgaged for more than their worth.
In addition to this, the whole island had been denuded of its forest and trees, for fuel, till it stood bald and bare to the burning sun. Its mountains denuded, and its valleys without sufficient verdure to woo the clouds or win their rain. All the islands that have been thus used are subject to long-continued drought, which destroys the cane. They had had no rain for many months after we were there, and all predicted the ruin of the crop without it; and all seemed united in attributing the calamity to the above cause.
Then, again, Mr. Dean asserted that the plantations had been overworked, till the soil was exhausted. It needed rest, and must have it; and some judicious planters were allowing their estates to lay idle from this cause.
Some estates were changing hands; but we were told that they had not been reduced in value, by the recent change in the government, but rather enhanced.
On the estate ' Constitution,' where we saw them making beautiful sugar at the rate of ten hogsheads per day, the manager assured us that Emancipation had done a great good to the island. That it was true, the two hundred and twenty-six estate-owners were not so rich now, as before 1848, but the condition of twenty-six thousand laborers was infinitely improved. 'Why,' said he, ' those old nabobs would not allow an overseer, even, to ride on a horse through; the plantationï¿½considering him too near the condition of a slave. He was treated as a slave, and compelled to stand hat in hand before his lordly employer. Now the overseer rides in his carriage, and the laborer in his emancipation cart. We have all taken a step upward.'
We visited the estate 'Little Fountain,' owned by ', Dr. C.ï¿½an American by birthï¿½who was a deadly foe to the Emancipation Act. But even he acknowledged that the people, as a mass, were better off, and that the morality of the island was certainly improved. And when we could induce him to forget what he conceived his own wrongs, he would speak in glowing terms of the good behavior of the ' rural population,' as the colored people are called, and of their ease and freedom;ï¿½freed from those fearful nightmares, that used to haunt their slumbers at night, in the olden times, of insurrection, murder and rapine. He also asserted that the estates were over-worn, and that rest or recuperation by fertilizing must be had, ere they would yield as they had done in times past.
'Of course,' said one estate-owner, ' nine hours' labor a day, and only five days in a week, will not produce the result of eighteen hours a day seven days a week. Besides,' he added, with a sly shrug of the shoulders, ' the rascals have a right to eat all they can, and supply the family. To deny them all the pan sugar they want would be too cruel.'
The Captain of the Fort, a Dane, thought the experiment worked well. Of course, those who had lived so luxuriously on the labor of others felt sore; but, on the whole, the majority would, on no consideration, return to the old usages. He said the Danish Provisional Law, restricting each first-class laborer to seventeen cents per day, and denying to the estate-owner the privilege of paying more, was working badly for the planterï¿½having a tendency to in-duce every active man and woman to seek employment on their own responsibility, instead of engaging on the estates. He thought this rule would soon be changed.
We climbed the mountain-side, and talked with the graziers; and I do not recollect but one person on the whole island that expressed a wish to have it returned to slavery and oppression. That one was an old sea captain. Many told as of the times when parties, balls and fetes, military parades, jousts and tournaments made the island lively, and sighing would say, ' We shall never see the like again.' But then, at the end of that, would come the conclusion, wrung from selfishness, perchance, ' After all, it's better as it is; slavery is a great wickedness, and worse things might have come upon us, if it had been continued.'
There is scarcely an acre of land on the island that has not been under some kind of cultivation. Indeed, upon mountain sides, we saw patches of yam, and pasturage for goats and cattle, that seemed beyond the power of man to till.
There are upon the island two hundred and twenty-six estates, the largest two hundred and fifty acres, the smallest but seven. The inland is but twenty-four miles long, and from three to seven broad. Its whole outer rim is a succession of mountains, from twelve to fifteen hundred feet highï¿½many of them rocky and barren.
There are sixty steam engines (or were at the time of our visit) in operation. Agricultural implements were coming more into use, and the farm labor will be thereby much relieved.
That many of those who were slaves twelve years since are idle; that nearly all are improvident, and think it a high honor to spend more than they earn-only shows them apt scholars, that have fully understood and appreciated the practical lessons taught to their fathers and grand-fathers for the last ten generations.
'The evils of Emancipation,' as they are called, are the legitimate results of slavery; and it will take more than one decade of years to root them out. As well might we expect to return the estates in a day to their virgin fertility, or the palms to their original grandeur and beauty in an hour, as to look for the fruits of a true civilization, refinement and culture in one generation, from a nation of emancipated slaves, who have not yet forgotten the smart of the lash or the galling of the chain.
The 'Professor of the Breakfast-Table ' says it will take two generations from the soil, even of a
<c06>
New England farm, to make a gentleman. So will it take two generations, at least, from the yoke and driver's whip, to make them forget their hatred of compulsory labor. But even twelve years shows us progress. Let us take courage; what can we ask more?
FRANCES D. GAGR.

MORAL AND POLITICAL ACTION.
MR. GARRISONï¿½Mr. Foster, in his zeal to hasten the abolition of slavery, seems to have overlooked the relative sphere of the two great moral forces that govern the world, the radical and the conservative. In his resolution, presenting his views, he says that it is morally inconsistent and philosophically absurd for a people, who depend on the government for the protection of their own rights and liberties, to attempt the abolition of slavery by any other instrumentality; and, hence, any scheme of emancipation which ignores political action is radically defective in principle, and must end in failure and disappointment.
If this had come from a Republican, we should be at no loss to explain it; but it strikes us as philosophically inconsistent, that one whose keen intellect and unrivalled zeal and devotion have placed him in the front rank of reformers, should so confound the politician with the moral reformer, the radical with the conservative element. Does he not know that, behind every reform, there is always a moral agency acting independently of politics, because too far above them; refusing participation in the government, because the very evils it seeks to abolish are there upheld in all their strength? Governments never represent the average conscience of the people; how, then, can a man, who acknowledges no law but loyalty to God, stoop to the compromising policy, which is the unvarying law of politics! It is true that there are stanch reformers among politicians, but they do not belong to that class who, like himself, arraign the various departments of Church and State at the bar of unqualified Justice and immutable Truth. Even he has been obliged to coin a theory, which, if adopted, would be equivalent to a revolution, since it would subvert all our institutions, cemented as they are by the blood of the slave; a theory which, however clear and rational it may seem to himself, knowing the process of reasoning through which he has arrived at it, he ought to know the people will never take the pains, to comprehend, or have the consistency to carry out. Be that as it may, to indulge in a little counter enticism, any scheme of emancipation is radically defective in principle, as well as unsound in logic, that ignores the supremacy or existence of that potent influence which, acting through the divine impulse common to all men, that, without the aid of booker logic, prompts to the side of justice and humanity, carries the people onward in spite of laws and constitutions, until, no longer to be repressed, it burses forth in a higher civilization and a purer Christianity. It is this instinctive resistance to oppression with which the Abolitionist has to deal, because it is the radical element that act as a counter influence to the despotic tendency of organizationsï¿½governments. Politics are only the machinery through which this force is communicated, not the force itself; and whenever they fail to perform this office, revolution inevitably follows. Then this impulse is driven to the necessity of organizing itself into a distinct and separate instrumentality, acting outside of politics; and it is to this result we are rapidly hastening. It was the instinct of the people, capable of appreciating such sublime devotion, that bore John Brown on the grateful hearts of a nation's sympathy as the faithful representative of the true sprit of freedom and disinterested patriotism, irrespective of creeds or compacts. It was the heartless conservatism of the politician that crept into the Chicago platform, and virtually decreed him the gravest of criminals. It was the noble promptings of an earnest soul that inspired Charles Summer in his vivid portrayal of the barbarism of slavery; a test of his fidelity that, in the presence of those who were thirsting for his blood, he should stand for four hours to unmask its horrors, and charge them with being the perpetrators of it unparalleled atrocities. It was a saddening evidence of the population with which the debasing corruption of American politics has tainted one of the purest mind of the nation, that he should then and there <illegible> to his bosom in the name of the Constitution, he should recognize any authority, human or divine, to perpetuated in the States. Then spoke the politician.
It is unworthy of Mr. Foster's clear-sightedness is to mistake the signs of the times that he should imagine we are losing ground in this conflict. As the crisis approaches, it is the natural tendency of human nature to try to avoid it. Many who avowed themselves Disunionists, when there was no immediate prospect of being brought to the test, find that they had more zeal than principle, and have gone over the Republican party. Let them go. The anti-slavery which goes over there is not worth much anywhere else. The constant tendency of that party is lower its standard is no proof of the loss of anti-slavery feeling. It is only an evidence of the <illegible> sighted sagacity of the politician, which, as it struggle draws near, tries to avert it by concessions. But it can never smother that divine impulse which makes the voice of the people the voice of God. <illegible> matter if our number is small, and, philosophically considered, it must be so; it may be limited to the Apostolic twelve: our success is still tom be measured by the response of the people, not to our peculiar sentiments, but to that sentiment of the genuine democracy which proclaims the inalienable birth-right of every human being to liberty. They do respond in the hearts, but their intellect is deceived by their leaders.
Doubtless they would gladly endorse the radicalism. Phillips, if they could get him for their representative. But, Heaven forbid that they should ever have the opportunity to commit such a crime! Let them incarcerate him, if they will, in a Washington <illegible> or hang him on a Virginia scaffold; but never of never consign him to the ignominious fate of joining the combination of political rogues and knaves thus disgrace the civilized world in the name of the national Congress of the United States of America.
S. E. W.

REPUBLICAN BIGOTRY.
DEAR GARRISONï¿½We have just had a rich revelation from some new and zealous converts to Republicanism. At a recent meeting of this professionally liberty-loving party, to choose delegates for he State Convention, heresy-hunting was commenced with zeal worthy of Simon Pure bigots. 
One of the faithful brethren catechised the Chairman of our August celebration, to know if he endorsed the radical resolution then passed. He was promptly told that it was none of his business. Some other gentlemenï¿½whose anti-slavery, if they have any, dates back to the time when the old Whig were leaving a sinking ship for safer quarters, and of the number is a recent convert from the Douglous ranks, whose anti-slavery pin-feathers are hardly-called in question the soundness of the President and Secretary of our August meeting. The here of such action is rank, and afflicts the poor soul this faithful Republicanï¿½aye, it smells of <illegible> BROWN!
Now, is not this rich indeed? I know my friend Parker Pillsbury, will enjoy this encouraging epics in a Republican caucus. It will assure him that he work, with that of others, at our telling meeting at first of August, was not in vain; and the <illegible> and wincing among the wounded demagogues he would-be hunkers tells the story. Go on, <illegible> hunt out the heretics. Mark your recreant men all are tainted with Garrisonianism! And then, the debauch of the Presidential election is over,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
your roll, and see who are your standard-bearers! Yes, gentlemen, make your bid—eat Southern dirt— sell yourselves for ‘a mess of pottage,’ and then not get of-and for all your pains, take a trip up ‘salt river,’ and respect your manhood, if you can.
‘They for their truth might better rear their heads. Than some, that have accus’d them, rear their hats.’
G. W. S.

LETTER FROM MRS. J. S. GRIFFING. 
FRANKLIM MILLS, (Ohio.) Aug. 22. 1860.
DEAR FRIEND-I was glad to see in the last Bugle the announcement of a programme of Anti-Slavery Conventions for the West.
Though there is little ground to expect the abolition of slavery but by revolution, if the South could but see that it would be easy to transform the slave into a paid laborer, and the North could see that the possession of manhood is better than the emoluments of office, we might retain civilization and freedom as our national birthright, and our divine inheritance.
There is, therefore, a necessity for the moral agitation of the question of slavery, that shall leave no mind in the country unenlightened, and no sympathy without an appeal.
As leaders and labors in the conquest for universal emancipation, the earnest men and women of the West will give both you and Mrs. Foster a sincere welcome to your old battle-ground, to their homes, and to their hearts.
A few years ago, when the standard of Abolition was first erected in Ohio, a score of Conventions covered the ground that was ‘while and ready for the harvest.’ Now we have taken in several great States like our own, and our borders stretch away in the sunset, where there is work for both cultivator and reaper, and so you cannot exhaust our welcome with all the aid you shall bring with you.
I wish we could promise you more help, and less work, than when you were last with us. But in reality, the difficulties in the way of the abolition of slavery, both from Church and State, are every day increasing, and barriers that seemed impossible then are now valuating to the very heavens. No obstacle within the invention of man or devil is wanting to give courage to Slavery and combat to Freedom; the magazines of power being vigilantly guarded, and the avenues to public sentiment thoroughly blockaded.
With your handful of men, you will go forth alone. Yet not alone; in your appeal for justice, in behalf of the enslaved, you will have the sympathy of the good and the great, throughout the civilized world. In your declaration of equal rights, you have the approval of mankind; and, in obedience to the Higher Law within you, you are empowered to say what every true child of God ought to say, ‘I and my Father are One.’ With these for you, who can be against you?
I have a sad remembrance of once standing by the grave of one who was young and noble, full of love of God end love of man. I looked down upon the coffin lid, and said to myself, in heart-agony, ‘How can this narrow place contain so much?’—and the response came choking through my tears, ‘She will burst the bars of death, and triumph o’er the grave.’
I am tilled with wonder and sadness at the striking analogy of living men, writhing in narrow graves of pro-slavery religion end pro-slavery political parties, into whose whited tombs no voice of mercy comes, or victory over death.’
In all the meetings called to give freedom to the slaves in this country, during the summer of 1860, in the West.—and I have attended many,—I have not seen a professed Christian minister at a single meeting! In my earnest appeal for aid, in the work of abolishing slavery in the South, no response has come from them. In school-house neighborhoods, as well as in towns, professed Christians seem afraid to attend an Abolition meeting, unless the speaker can present a certificate of Orthodox faith in religion. So prevalent and so rigid is this tyranny of opinion, in Northern Ohio, that, quite lately, a colored congregation, of abolition tendencies, refused to admit to their pulpit an Anti-Slavery lecturer, until a commitee of its members presented the test of a religious creed! A short time since, a Free Presbyterian Church was refused for an Abolition meeting, unless the speaker would answer three questions in the affirmative:—’Do you believe in God and the Bible, and oppose all secret societies:’ At a Spiritual Convention recently held, a few miles from this, a short time ago, where the Spirits organized the meeting, and called out the speakers, when the living question of Slavery was presented to the audience, a medium of great power commanded the speaker to stop—vociferously declaring that ‘Spirits and men did not come here to listen to Anti-Slavery.’ Even in a meeting of the ‘Friends of Human Progress,’ last Sabbath, some leading members desired that more religion, and lest Anti-Slavery, should be the order of future meetings. In both these meetings, however, the discussion of the question was well-supported.
You will see what aid you may expect from baptized Christianity, in the West; and you are already aware that the vigorous effort of Republicanism, to disclaim an Anti-Slavery character, and to prove their adherence of Abolitionism, politically, has won to them, not only prospective triumph in power, but, what is of far greater importance to the slaves, a personal discharge from moral action, which they had a right to expect, before this servile pledge, of non-invasion, abhorrence of disunion, to suppress insurrection, and to support the Fugitive Slave Law. Republicans object to Anti-Slavery meetings on the ground of the importance of Mr. Lincoln’s election, claiming that nothing should be encouraged that will tend to distract it. Their great effort is, to convince the public mind that they are not Abolitionists, and the Abolitionists, that they hate slavery as much as they do. ‘For by their sorceries were all nations deceived.’ ‘And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.’
The Democratic party in the West will afford you little aid in the moral struggle for freedom, unless it can furnish you a demonstration of the shameless in-gratitude of the Union, in defence of which, this party has labored, ‘in season and out of season,’ following their leaders ‘through evil, as well as through good upon,’ into grassy nooks or the jaws of devouring dogs; and now, when the day of Issues has come, in quiet submission to the conjugal relations of Republicanism and the Union, this cast-off flag is permitted to retire from the searching gaze of public sentiment, where it will remain until the fury of an injured people, and its own remorse, shall gnaw away its heart-strings, and send it to its last account. Come, then, trusting in God, and the friends of humanity! 
‘Ever the truth comes uppermost, 
And ever is justice done.’
JOSEPHINE S. GRIFFING.
PARKER PILLSBURY.

MEETING OF THE WORCESTER COUNTY 
(NORTH DIVISION) A. S. SOCIETY.
A Quarterly Meeting of the Society was held at Leominster on Sunday, 19th inst. Mr. Joel Smith (in the absence of the President! in the chair. The meeting was well attended, and very ably addressed by Mr. H. Ford Douglass of Chicago. Parker Pillsbury, in behalf of the Business Committee, introduced the fallowing Resolutions, which, after lengthy and thorough discussion, were nearly unanimously adopted:—
Resolved. That the grand cause of the continuance of slavery in our country is, the subjecting of the individual conscience to the authority of institutions and laws foreign to, and outside of itself; making that RIGHT and respectable which States enact and Churches accept; which Constitutional legislation supports and sanctions, and recognized Religion sanc-
<c02>
tifies; be it the Gallows or the Guillotine, he it War with its murders, or Slavery with its nameless crimes and numberless cruelties.
Resolved, That the great want of the present hour, not only for the overthrow of slavery, but for resisting every other evil, is, a class of men and women, who, comprehending in themselves the great laws of Life, Liberty and Love, and daring to assert the individual sovereignty of the soul over all human authority, will plant themselves, serenely but strongly, on the great principles and laws of that sovereignty, and nevermore ask leave to be, to do, or to suffer, of any State or Church, party or priest, book or creed, wife or husband; or any human Constitution or arrangement whatsoever.
Resolved, That such is the atrocity of the American slave system, with its prescriptive and cruel prejudice against color, that reaches even to the Cunard Line of British Steamers, and to our foreign diplomats, who, with taunt and insult, refuse to grant passports to American ladies of the highest moral and intellectual worth, whose health, with other reasons, induces them to travel from London to the south of France, that it becomes the duty of every true friend of freedom and justice, in every land, to rebuke and denounce that system, and its equally odious and hateful shadow, prejudice against color, in any place or circumstances in which a supporter or ally of that system is found; and, therefore,
Resolved, That the truly noble Lord Brougham, in calling the attention of Mr. Ambassador Dallas to the fact that an American colored gentleman could sit as an equal member of a most important British assemblage, (the Statistical Congress,) discharged a duty which merits the admiration and gratitude of every friend of the African race—while the manner in which the rebuke is received by the minions of slavery, shows that it was as richly deserved as it was pointed and effective in it administration.
Resolved, That the hair-splitting distinctions among members of the Republican party about the mere extension of slavery, while all are voluntarily sworn to maintain it inviolate where it is, and the Chicago platform of the party, which, while it no where pronounces slaveholding, slave-hunting or slave-breeding a sin, can and does declare the act of John Brown and his brave followers to deliver the enslaved, one of ‘the garret of crimes,’ all prove how unable or unwilling the leaders of the party are to appreciate the genius of genuine liberty, and how utterly unworthy to be entrusted with its interests.

ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
At the quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society, held at Newburyport, Sunday, August 26, 1860,—Charles Lenox Remond, President, Lydia F. Tenney, Secretary,—the following resolutions were submitted by the Business Committee, viz: A. T. Foss, H. Ford Douglass, and Charles Lenox Remond. After being ably and eloquently discussed by Messrs. Douglass, Foss and Remond, they were adopted.
Resolved, That we congratulate the friends of freedom in Massachusetts, and throughout New England, upon a most cheering fact, that Nathaniel P. Banks is soon to retire from the position which he has dishonored for the last three years, by his mean servility to the demands of Slavery, and his executive usurpation in the exercise of the veto against the rights of colored men; and we know of no one, except it be Caleb Gushing, whose services are less needed, or with whom we would more willingly part.
Resolved, That, inasmuch as Abraham Lincoln denies the equality of all men, as taught in the Declaration of American Independence, and has declared himself in favor of ‘efficient’ slave-hunts in all the land—he is, therefore, unworthy of the votes of all those who love freedom and regard justice; and that all who do vote for him will deny their faith in the equality of the race, and will endorse an ‘efficient’ Fugitive Slave Law.
Resolved, That slavery is a self-evident crime; and that any sanction of Constitution or Bible, or any supposed good which may ensue from its continuance, or any supposed evil that may come of its immediate abolition, cannot for one moment justify in continuance. We are not, therefore, to be deterred from our work by quoted texts, or by the hope of good or fear of evil; but our motto is, ‘RIGHT ON’—over and through whatever opposes our progress, till we have accomplished our work of giving freedom to every slave in the land.
[The Newburyport Herald speaks in commendatory terms of the eloquence of Mr. H. F. Douglass.]

MERITED TRIBUTE TO FATHER PEIRCE.
At a meeting of the American Institute of Instruction, held last week in Tremont Temple, in this city, Rev. Mr. Brooks, of Medford, addressed the Institute, in eulogy of the late Rev. Cyrus Peirce and his labors. He closed by reading the following resolutions:—
Resolved, That, as members of the American Institute of Instruction, we remember with gratitude the solid and lasting services rendered to education by our late associate, Rev. Cyrus Peirce; the first teacher of the first Normal School established by law, on this western continent. We bear our cheerful testimony, not only to his early and full appreciation of the phrase,—as it the Teacher, so is the School,— but also to that sober good sense, that transparent sincerity, and that indomitable perseverance, by which the Normal School has become a fixed institution of our country.
Resolved, That while we are grateful for his public labors and his eminent success, we mourn that we shall see his face no more; yet, we would be comforted in recalling his paternal gentleness and manly courage, his worldly wisdom and his apostolic faith; and would conclude with hoping that the maxim of his heart,—LIVE TO THE TRUTH,—may become the sacred motto of every school.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent, by our Secretary, to his respected widow.
Gov. Banks arose to second the motion. On stepping forward, he was received with warm applause. He spoke, in substance, as follows:—
I had anticipated, in coming here to-day, that I should be a listener merely, and not be called upon to speak. I should, however, do injustice to myself, did I not rise to do honor to one who lived for a portion of his life near my own town, and where he left the impress of his mind, as he did, everywhere he went. ‘Live to the truth,’ as set forth in the resolutions just read, was the spirit as well as the life of Father Peirce.
He deserves to be remembered by the people of the whole country, just as he was devoted to a cause which embraced its entire range. He was one of those men who bridged the whole gap of education from beginning to end. He was the father of the district system, and also for most others among us, for the perfection of all of which, he devoted his life. At his death, he stood at the head of all our systems of education. I can testify to his appreciation of, and labors in, the Normal School system, of which also he was the head.
He has left behind him no prouder monument than this institution. The highest tribute that I can pay to his genius is, that, as one of the leading spirits of the age, he triumphed over all opposition. The Normal School, at its commencement, needed teachers to be instructed in works superior to any system to be found in the elementary works, and it was, therefore, eminently fit that Father Peirce should be placed at its head. The Normal School system, throughout the country, is a daily testimonial of his transcendent success as a teacher.
But he was superior as a Man no few than as a Teacher. He united in the wise man the great teacher and the useful citizen, and entered into the duties of the three with equal earnestness and success. The brightest of all his characteristics was his cheerful, serene, wise old age. In this he left a great and noble example. Everywhere and at all times true to his duty towards his fellow-men and to life, his de-
<c03>
clining days were radiant with beauty, grandeur and serenity.
I have thought it my duty and privilege to say this much, knowing him in his earlier labors, and living in the neighborhood of them. I, therefore, second the adoption of the resolutions.
On taking his seat, Gov. Banks was honored with hearty applause.
The resolutions were then adopted.
NEGRO CONSPIRACY IN HALIFAX COUNTY, VIRGINIA. 
—FOUR KILLED AND ONE WOUNDED.—The Richmond Dispatch says:—
One of the most daring conspiracies by negroes to murder a white man that we have ever heard of came to light in Halifax county, about fifteen miles from Danville, on Wednesday or Thursday, for the particulars of which we are indebted to Conductor Cheatham, of the Richmond and Danville Railroad.
Mr. Samuel Hairston, a wealthy farmer in Halifax, has an overseer on one of his plantations who is a strict disciplinarian, and a man of great firmness. On the day in question, while the overseer was sitting in his office, six stout negro fellows employed upon the farm called upon him, and after informing him that a party of negroes in the woods near by was preparing for an insurrection, invited him to go with them and witness the plan of operations. Not suspecting that they had any design upon him, but being anxious to capture the ringleaders of the rebels, if he should see them, he stepped into another room, armed himself with a five shooter, and then started off with the assassins, they not knowing that he was fully prepared for any emergency.
The negroes led the way until getting into the forest some distance, when they suddenly stopped near a newly dug pit, when the spokesman confronted him, and, pointing to the hole, said to him—’There, you -son of a-, is your grave. You have but fifteen minutes to make your peace with God or to land in hell.’ Quick as thought, the overseer drew his Colt’s revolver, killed four of the ruffians dead at his feet, and shot the fifth one in the abdomen, seeing which the sixth one took to his heels through the woods, and the overseer having no other weapon, he escaped.
The impression prevails that the six negroes had determined to murder the overseer, because of some deserved punishment one or more of them had received, and laid the above plan to get him off in the woods to effect their ends. His presence of mind in taking his pistol, and his coolness in the hour of danger, when no white person was nigh to aid him, doubtless saved him from a horrid death.
ATTEMPT TO RUN OFF SLAVES—THE ABOLITIONISTS AT WORK—THE SLAVES RECAPTURED.—On Tuesday night a bold attempt was made to run off four negroes belonging to Judge Olly Williams, who resides about one mile below Carondelet. The negroes—a mother and three children—were all raised by Judge Williams, were always kindly treated, and manifested the utmost affection for their owner in return. The mother is a middle aged woman, named Emily, and her children are, Emeline, a valuable girl of about sixteen years; Martha, a likely girl of fourteen years; and Henry, a tine boy of twelve years. They were taken to this city on Tuesday night by some of the emissaries of the underground railroad; but, yesterday morning, while preparations were being made to push them still further on their journey, they were observed and taken back to their owner. Their story is that they were tampered with by an Abolitionist who gave his name as Smith, and who finally induced them, with promises of freedom and various captivating stories, to accompany him northward. The scoundrel or scoundrels who undertook to carry out this bold scheme have not been captured. Mr. Blair’s election, it will thus be seen, is not without its results. —St. Louis Republican.
OVER ELEVEN HUNDRED FREE NEGROES FOR SALE. —On Thursday, in front of the Court House, eleven hundred and ninety-three free negroes will be offered for sale, for a sufficient time to enable them by their allowance per diem to pay their taxes. Some of these negroes are indebted as much as $25 to the city, and an they generally sell for ten cents a day, their value will no doubt be made out of them. All of them are lazy rascals, showing conclusively that their freedom is a drawback upon them, and proving how worthless is the race, if unguided by the hand of the white man. The sale is to commence at ten o’clock.— Petersburg (Va.) Express.
THE PETERSBURG (VA.) FREE NEGRO SALE.—The Petersburg Experts says: The decisive measures of the officers of the tax regime brought all free negrodom up standing. Out of the entire number who were to be sold for their taxes, only one hundred and forty-nine were disposed of; three hundred and fifty came forward and paid their taxes, and the rest found no purchasers. The sales varied from ten to twenty-five cents per diem, the purchaser to own the negro until his wages, at such rates, should pay his delinquent taxes, and thus free him from bondage. There were many who came to pay up at the eleventh hour who were sold to themselves at as high as one dollar a day.
JAMES WAGGONER PROVED FREE.—Readers will recollect the brutal kidnapping of James Waggoner from Ohio some months ago, the running of him by his captors to Kentucky, his incarceration in a jail of that State, and his subsequent sale into slavery by the sheriff of Newport on the 6th of June last for the cost of his keeping in prison! The case was one forcibly illustrating the barbarism of slavery, and its demoralizing influences on beings bearing the form and color of white men.
His suit for freedom came up before the Circuit Court in Newport on the 15th, and it was clearly established that the alleged fugitive was born in 1840, in Brown county, Ohio, of free parents. The Court took time to consider its decision whether the free citizen of this State shall be again permitted to enjoy the liberty slavery has for nearly a year defrauded him of.
LATER.—The Kentucky Court declared James Waggoner a free man—free to go where he pleased. Yet only two months since, he was sold in Kentucky on the auction-block as a slave! How is he to obtain justice for the wrongs done to him by the accursed institution of human slavery?—Cleveland Leader,
THE COLORED PEOPLE OF HALIFAX participated with the whites on equal terms in the ceremonies by which the people of that city welcomed the arrival of the Prince of Wales. The heir to the British throne, as he stood uncovered before the throng of children who greeted him in the familiar strains of the National Anthem, did not appear to be offended, nor even surprised, at seeing ‘a considerable sprinking’ of colored faces. The words of welcome, probably, were not the less grateful to his ear because the voices of negro children blended in the strain through which they found expression. In the procession was the ‘African Society,’ carrying banners on which were inscriptions like this:
‘God have the Queen,’ 
who gives 
‘Liberty to the Slave, 
and 
‘Freedom to the Captive.’
What a contrast between the genuine spirit of ‘Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,’ which characterizes the national festivities of the loyal subjects of the British Queen, and the vulgar, prescriptive sentiment of American Democracy, which denies to the negro the possession of any right that a white man is bound to respect!—Anti-Slavery Standard.
WILLIAM WALKER COME AGAIN, — Walker, after knocking about for a month or six weeks in the Caribbean Sea, picking up small squads of men that left the Southern ports by casual opportunities to join him, has gathered his forces and landed at Truxillo, in the republic of Honduras. The capture of this little unprepared town was an easy thing, and now, in the month of August, he stands, with the tropical forests before him and the tropical fevers behind, in the face of a march of some two hundred miles through a mountainous and desert country to the northern frontier of Nicaragua. We have no doubt that the two hundred men which he may have with him will make their fight good against any thousand men that might attack them as long as their powder lasts; but, under the circumstances, without supplies or succor, they must dwindle away with disease and desertion, without accomplishing anything. The British cruisers will probably recapture Truxillo at an early day, and the fate of Walker will be the same as that of Lopez in Cuba, under circumstances of a very similar character.—New York Herald.
CELEBRATION OF WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION AT ST. JOHN, N. B.—On the 1st of August, the anniversary of the emancipation in the West Indies was celebrated in St. John, N. B., in a very interesting and imposing manner. The oration was delivered by Rev. J. Stella Martin, pastor of the Joy street church, Boston. About one thousand participated in the ceremonies, among whom were the leading clergymen of St. John, and among the audience were the leading business men of the city. The oration of Mr. Martin is pronounced a very finished performance, and was received with good attention and applause.
<c04>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH
National Anti-Slavery Anniversary.
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted, the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their sway to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress.
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready.
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country—new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise.
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without.
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LORING,
L. MARIA CHILD,
and others.
REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION. The Republican State Convention was held at Worcester on Wednesday last, to nominate State Officers, &c., for the ensuing year. Gov. Banks having declined a re-nomination, in consequence of getting a lucrative and responsible situation at the West, in connection with the Illinois Central Railroad, JOHN A. ANDREW, Esq., of Boston, was nominated as his successor, on the first ballot, by the following vote:—Whole number of votes, 1,084. Necessary to a choice, 543. For John A. Andrew, 733; for Henry L. Dawes, 326. The rest were scattering. The Republicans could not have made a more popular nomination. The Convention was earnestly and eloquently addressed by Hon. Charles Sumner, at considerable length.
H. FORD DOUGLASS. Our gifted and eloquent colored coadjutor, having occupied the lecturing field in Massachusetts since the New England Convention, to universal acceptance and admiration, has just left for Chicago, where his family resides. It will be seen, by a reference to his appointments in another column, that he intends giving addresses all along his route home, and we warmly commend him to the hospitality and hearing of all who are interested in the abolition of slavery. He will return to this State in the fall, to renew his labors. We are happy to announce that he is to give one of the Fraternity Course of Lectures in this city next winter, (which is to be opened by Hon. Charles Sumner,) and we hope he will receive numerous invitations of a similar character, as he will be sure to give high satisfaction as a most pleasing, accomplished and eloquent speaker.— Letters may be addressed to him at Chicago, Illinois, or to the care of E. H. Hey wood, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
MR. DOUGLAS AT NORFOLK. Mr. Douglas has had an enthusiastic reception in Norfolk. He spoke in the presence of 6000 people. In the middle of his address, a slip from the Norfolk Argus, containing two questions, was handed to him. The first was—Would the Southern States be justified in seceding from the Union in case of Lincoln’s election? To which Mr. Douglas emphatically answered ‘No.’
The second question was—If the Southern States should secede upon Lincoln’s inauguration, before he commits any overt act against the constitutional rights of the South, would he (Douglas) advise or vindicate resistance by force to their secession?
Mr. Douglas answered emphatically that it was the duty of the President and all others in authority under him, to enforce the laws passed by Congress and as the Courts expound them; and he would do all in his power to aid the Government of the United States in maintaining the laws against all resistance to them, come from what quarter it might.
In other words, the President should treat all attempts to break up the Union as Old Hickory treated the nullifiers in 1832.
TAXATION WITHOUT REPRESENTATION. At a recent Republican Mass Meeting at Springfield, the home of Lincoln, among the banners borne by his friends in the procession was one on which was inscribed—
‘No NEGRO EQUALITY IN THE NORTH.’
No one seemed to feel that it was out of place there, nor do we suppose that it was. We hope those colored men who are bawling themselves hoarse for Lincoln and Hamlin, will have a good time.—Anti-Slavery Bugle.
DEATH OF MRS. ABBOTT LAWRENCE.—Mrs. Catharine Bigelow, widow of the late Hon. Abbott Lawrence, died last evening, at the family mansion in Park street, in this city, after an illness of three weeks. Her age was 67 years.
Mrs. Lawrence was a daughter of Judge Timothy Bigelow, and a sister of Hon. John P. Bigelow, Ex-Mayor of Boston, and Rev. Andrew Bigelow. The poor, whom she so constantly befriended, will lament her death as a sad affliction.—Atlas of 23d inst.
In one day of last week there were no less than fifteen deaths from sunstroke in Mobile, Ala. A lady suffering from the extreme heat bathed her face in ice water, and died in about ten minutes afterwards.
HORRIBLE FUNERAL PYRE.— Accounts from Africa state that the King of Dahomey is about to make an immense sacrifice of human life to the memory of his late father. A great pit has been dug, and in this pit two thousand persons will be sacrificed. He has sent out an expedition to capture prisoners, the younger portion of whom will be sold on the coast to slavers, while the old will be thrown into the pit to appease the manes of the deceased king.
Thaddeus Hyatt is on his way to Kansas, to inquire into the condition of the people, who are said to be on the verge of starvation from failing crops. He has instituted no suit against the Sergeant-at-Arms, but intends to prosecute in the several State Courts individual Senators who voted for his imprisonment.
Col. Gowan’s efforts to raise the sunken fleet in the harbor of Sebastopol have been attended with the most triumphant success. Some of the largest and costliest vessels have been recovered uninjured; others have been blown up, and it is thought that before the cold weather ensues, the bay will be entirely free from obstructions.
<c05>
N. E. FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE, SPRINGFIELS STREET, BOSTON. The Thirteenth Annual term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Nov. 7, 1860, and continue seventeen weeks. PROFESSORS: Enoch C. Rolfe, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. Palmer, M. D., Materia Medica, Therspeutics and Chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M. D., Anatomy and Surgery; Marie E. Zakrzewaka, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Physiology and Hygiene; Mary R, Jenks, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy, Fees, $5 for each of the six tickets; Matriculation, $3; Graduation, $10. The Clinical Department is open daily for the practical education of the students. For State Scholarships and beneficiary aid, apply to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, Dr. GREGOORY, at the College; for admission, to the subscriber.
ENOCH C. ROLFE, Dean of the Faculty.
563 Washington street.
Aug. 24. 3t

POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN THE CITY OF WORCESTER, MASS.
An adjourned meeting of the Political Anti-Slavery Convention, which met in the city of Boston, on the 29th day of May last, will be held in the city of Worcester, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 19th and 20th days of September next, at 10 o’clock. A. M.
The object of this Convention is to consider the propriety of organizing a Political Party upon an Anti-Slavery interpretation of the U. S. Constitution, with the avowed purpose of abolishing slavery in the States, as well as Territories of the Union. At its former meeting, resolutions setting forth the great principles of liberty and equality which most underlie and permeate a political movement, to entitle it to the confidence and support of the friends of freedom, were introduced and discussed, but without taking action upon them, the Convention adjourned to meet in the city of Worcester, at the call of the President and Chairman of the Business Committee.
In behalf of the Convention,
JOHN PIERPONT, President.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER, C. B. Com.
Worcester, August 10, 1860.
MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.—The sixth Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will be held at Hemlock Hall, in Tucker’s Grove, one mile west of Kerr’s Corners, Erie Co., N. Y., on the 7th, 8th and 9th of September. 1860, to commence on Friday, at 10 o’clock, A.M.
A cordial invitation is given to all persons to attend.
WALTER WOOD, JAMES A. F. VARNEY,
LEVI BROWN, ALONZO M. HAWLEY,
LUCY W. HAWLEY, JOSEPH SINTON, 
PRUDENCE K. SINTON, PHEBE M. VARNEY.
CUMMINGTON CONVENTION.—The annual Convention of the friends of impartial liberty in Cummington and vicinity will be held in the Free Church, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 1st and 2d, opening at 10 o’clock, A. M., Saturday, and continuing day and evening, six sessions. C. C. BURLRIGH, PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will be present as speakers. All friends of the cause and the public generally are cordially invited. Per order.
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.—The annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Barnstable County will be held at Harwich, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 22d and 23d, commencing on Saturday, at 2, P. M. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES L. REXMOND, E. H. HEYWOOD and other speakers will be present. The friends of impartial liberty and the public generally are cordially invited to attend.
Z. H. SMALL. Committee of Arrangements.
J. H. ROBBINS, Committee of Arrangements.
ELKANAH NICKERSON, Committee of Arrangements.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at the following places in the State of New York:—
Ghent, Monday eve’g, Sept. 3.
Albany, Tuesday, eve’g, Sept. 4.
Utica, Wednesday, eve’g, Sept. 5.
Syracuse, Thursday, eve’g, Sept. 6.
Port Byron, Friday, eve’g, Sept. 7.
Rochester, Sunday, eve’g, Sept. 9.
Medina, Monday, eve’g, Sept. 10.
Lockport, Tuesday, eve’g, Sept. 11.
Buffalo, Wednesday, eve’g, Sept. 12.
Also, in
Erie, Pa., Thursday, eve’g, Sept. 13.
Barcelona, Friday, eve’g, Sept. 14.
Cleveland, O., Sunday, eve’g, Sept. 16.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on the subject of Slavery at SHELDONVILLE, on Sunday, Sept. 15th, at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M.; and at WEST WRENTHAM, on Peace, at half-past 1 o’ clock, P. M., on the same day.
GEORGETOWN.—WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on Slavery in the Town Hall, GEORGETOWN, (Mass.) on Saturday evening, Sept. 1st, and twice on Sunday, Sept. 2d, on Reformatory subjects.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Ellsworth, and other places in Maine, during September, and the first three Sundays in October.
Address—Care BELA MARSH, Boston, Mass.
EMPLOYMENT WANTED ON A SEWING MACHINE.—A young lady, skilled in the use of Grover & Baker’s sewing machines, wishes employment either at her residence, No. 9 Columbia street, or in families in the city or vicinity where the machine is used, or taking her own with her, if desired.
DIED—In this city, on the 23d inst., Miss MARY RAY, aged 82 yean and 6 months.

HENRY C. WRIGHT’S BOOKS.
MARRIAGE AND PARENTAGE: Fifth Edition. Price $1.00 per copy.
THE UNWELCOME CHILD; or, the crime of an undesired and unwelcome Maternity: Third Edition. Price 25 cents.
A KISS FOR A BLOW: A valuable work for children. Price 38 cents. The same work, handsomely Illustrated by Billings. Price 62 cents.
Published and for sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.

THE ERRORS OF THE BIBLE
DEMONSTRATED by the Truths of Nature; or, Man’s only Infallible Rule of Faith and Practice. By Henry C. Wright. [Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.—PAUL.] Price 25 cts.
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 5, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals.
WM. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
ABBIE B. HAYWOOD, Principals.
WANTED,
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to have the superintendence of the Domestic Department. An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or
J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., 
July 23, 1860.

WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE Fall Term will begin Wednesday, September 5th.
It is intended that, in this School, youth of both sexes shall be, not only well instructed in the branches usually taught in our best schools and academies, but they shall be trained both in the school-room and in the family, on principles strictly Physiological and Moral, where the formation of character, of habits and manners, will have equal consideration with the acquisition of literature and science. Teachers of the highest reputation an employed.
The Principal and associate teachers receive pupils into their families at $250 per annum, including board and tuition in the common branches; for those over fifteen years of age, $300.
The location is healthful and pleasant, and easy of access, on the Worcester railroad, nine miles from Boston.
Reference—Wm. L. Garrison: John Ayres, Esq., West Newton; Rev. George Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Win. Brigham, Esq., Boston; Rev. S. J. May. Syracuse,N. Y.; Rev. James Walker. D. D., Cambridge; Mr. Richard Edwards. St. Louis, Mo.; Mr. John Prentiss, Baltimore, Md.; Prof. Louis Agassiz, Cambridge.
For further particulars, address
N. T. ALLEN. West Newton, Mass.
Aug. 17. 4w,
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S
WORLD’S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED’S OF EVANGRLIST:—’My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very grey, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s ‘Restorer,’ No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.’ Rev. M. THACHER.
Bridgewater. Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22. 1855.
President J. I., EATON. LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro’, Tennessee.
‘MADAM—I would state, that tome time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Restorer,’ &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding thin irregularity,’ I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz, PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.’
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor ‘Ladies’ Repository,’ Cincinnati. Ohio.
‘I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children’s hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.’
Rev. JOHN E. ROB IE, Editor ‘Christian Advocate,’ Buffalo, N. Y.
‘Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,’ &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD. D. D., Cor. See. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.’
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ‘Christian Era,’ Boston, Mass.
‘Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.’
Rev. H. Y. DEGEN, Ed. ‘Guide to Holiness,’ Boston.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.’
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro’, Mass.
‘I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Word’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ‘crown of glory’ which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.’
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
‘My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED KP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.’
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
‘Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.’
[The about clergyman is cell known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTL
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen’s, she writes to the ‘American Baptist,’—’I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.’
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
‘I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen’s, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.’
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. ‘Presbyterian Witness,’ Cincinnati, Ohio.
‘It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A, Allen’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,’ &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
‘Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World’s Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being fray to its original glossy and beautiful black.’
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
‘I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.’
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
‘I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.’
Rev M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.’
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
‘We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.’
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information. &c., to ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen’s World’s Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.’ The Genuine has ‘Mrs. S A. Allen,’ signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles—none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER
Oct. 1859. lyeop
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the Atlantic Monthly for September.
THE PILOTS STORY. 
I.
It was a story the pilot told, with his back to his hearers,-
Keeping his hand on the wheel, and his eye on the globe of the jack-staff, 
Holding the boat to the shore, and out of the sweep of the current,
Lightly turning aside the heavy logs of the driftwood,
Widely shunning the snags that made us sardonic obeisance.
II.
All the soft damp air was full of delicate perfume 
From the young willows in bloom on either bank of the river,-
Faint, delicious fragrance, trancing the indolent senses
In a luxurious dream of the river and land of the lotus.
Not yet out of the west the roses of sunset were withered;
In the deep blue above, light clouds of gold and of crimson
Floated in slumber serene, and the restless river beneath them
Rushed away to the sea with a vision of rest in its bosom.
Far on the eastern shore lay dimly the swamps of the cypress;
Dimly before us the islands grew from the river's expanses,-
Beautiful, wood-grown isles,—with the gleam of the swart inundation
Seen through the swaying boughs and slender trunks of their willows;
And on the shore beside us the cotton-trees rose in the evening,
Phantom-like, yearningly, wearily, with the inscrutable sadness
Of the mute races of trees. While hoarsely the steam from her ‘scape-pipes
Shouted, then whispered a moment, then shouted again to the silence,
Trembling through all her frame with the mighty pulse of her engines,
Slowly the boat ascended the swollen and broad Mississippi,
Bank-full, sweeping on, with nearing masses of driftwood,
Daintily breathed about with hazes of silvery vapor, 
Where in his airy flight the twittering swallow alighted,
And the belated blackbird paused on the way to its nestlings.
III.
It was the pilot's story:-'They both came aboard there, at Cairo,
From a New Orleans boat, and took passage with us for Saint Louis.
She was a beautiful woman, with just enough blood from her mother,
Darkening her eyes and her hair, to make her race known to a trader;
You would have thought she was white. The man that was with her,-you see such,—
Weakly good-natured and kind, and weakly good-natured and vicious,
Slender of body and soul, fit neither for loving nor hating.
I was a youngster then, and only learning the river,—
Not overfond of the wheel. I used to watch them at monte,
Down in the cabin at night, and learned to know all of the gamblers.
So when I saw this weak one staking his money against them,
Betting upon the turn of the cards, I knew what was coming:
They never left their pigeons a single feather to fly with.
The next day I saw them together,—the stranger and one of the gamblers:
Picturesque rascal he was, with long black hair and
 moustaches,
Black slouch hat drawn down to his eyes from his villanous forehead:
On together they moved, still earnestly talking in whispers.
On toward the forecastle, where sat the woman alone by the gangway.
Roused by the fall of feet, she turned, and, beholding her master,
Greeted him with a smile that was more like a wife’s than another’s,
Rose to meet him fondly, and then, with the dread apprehension
Always haunting the slave, fell her eye on the face of the gambler,
Dark and lustful and fierce, and full of merciless cunning.
Something was spoken so low that I could not hear what the words were;
Only the woman started, and looked from one to the mother,
With imploring eyes, bewildered hands, and a tremor 
All through her frame: I saw her from where I was standing, she shook so.
'Say! is it so?’ she cried. On the weak, white lips of her master
Died a sickly smile, and he said—’Louise, I have sold you.'
God is my judge! May I never see such a look of despairing.
Desolate anguish, as that which the woman cast on her master,
Griping her breast with her little hands, as if he had stabbed her,
Standing in silence a-space, as fixed as the Indian woman,
Carved out of wood, on the pilot-house of the old Pocahontas!
Then, with a gurgling moan, like a sound in the throat of the dying,
Came back her voice, that, rising, fluttered, through wild incoherence,
Into a terrible shriek that stopped my heart when she answered:-
‘Sold me? Sold me? sold-And you promised to give me my freedom!—
Promised me, for the sake of our little boy in Saint Louis!
What will you say to our boy, when he cries for me there in Saint Louis?
What will you say to our God?—Ah, you have been joking! I see it!—
No? God! God! He shall hear it,—and all of the angels in heaven,—
Even the devils in hell!—and none will believe when they hear it!
Sold me!’—Fell her voice with a thrilling wail, and in silence
Down she sank on the deck, and covered her face with her fingers.'
IV.
In his story, a moment the pilot paused, while we listened
To the salute of a boat, that, rounding the point of an island.
Flamed toward us with fires that seemed to burn from the waters,—
Stately and vast and swift, and borne on the heart of the current.
Then, with the mighty voice of a giant challenged to battle.
Rose the responsive whistle, and all the echoes of island,
Swamp-land, glade, and brake replied with a myriad clamor,
Like wild birds that are suddenly startled from slumber at midnight;
Then were at peace once more, and we heard the harsh cries of the peacocks,
Perched on a tree by a cabin door, where the white-headed settler’s “
White-headed children stood to look at the boat as it passed them,
Passed them so near that we heard their happy talk and their laughter.
Softly the sunset had faded, and now on the eastern horizon
Hung, like a tear in the sky, the beautiful star of the evening.
V.
Still with his back to us standing, the pilot went on with his story:-
‘Instantly, all the people, with looks of reproach and compassion,
Flocked round the prostrate woman. The children cried, and their mothers
Hugged them tight to their breasts; but the gambler said to the captain,- 
“Put me off there at the town that lies round the bend of the river.
Here, you! rise at once, and be ready now to go with me.”
Roughly he seized the woman’s arm, and strove to uplift her.
She—she seemed not to heed him, but rose like one that is dreaming,
Slid from his grasp, and fleetly mounted the steps of the gangway,
Up to the hurricane-deck, in silence, without lamentation.
Straight to the stern of the boat, where the wheel was, she ran, and the people
<c02>
Followed her fast till she turned and stood at bay for a moment,
Looking them in the face, and in the face of the gambler.
Not one to save her, of all the pitying angels in heaven! 
Not one bolt of God to strike him dead there before her! 
Then she turned and leaped,—in mid air fluttered a moment,—
Down, there, whirling, fell, like a broken-winged bird from a tree-top,
Down on the cruel wheel, that caught her, and hurled her, and crushed her, 
And in the foaming water plunged her, and hid her forever.’
VI. 
Still with his back to us all the pilot stood, but we heard him 
Swallowing hard, as he pulled the rope bell to stop her. Then, turning,— 
‘This is the place where it happened,’ brokenly whispered the pilot. 
‘Somehow, I never like to go by here alone in the night time.’
Darkly the Mississippi flowed by the town that lay in the starlight, 
Cheerful with lamps. Below we could hear them reversing the engines, 
And the great boat glided up to the shore like a giant exhausted. 
Heavily sighed her pipes. Broad over the swamps to the eastward 
Shone the full moon, and turned our far-trembling wake into silver. 
All was serene and calm, but the odorous breath of the willows 
Smote like the subtile breath of an infinite sorrow upon us.

THE LIBERATOR.
OUR EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS—WHEREIN DEFECTIVE.
To the Editor of the Liberator: 
Too much strength cannot be expended by our educators to erect before our young men, now stepping on the stage of active life, correct standards of action. Our educational systems have done and are doing all they can to train the wits and the intellects, but there can be no true system of education that does not as well embrace the training of the affections. A genuine desire to make right application of good principles, as well as clearness of vision to perceive them, is alike essential in all systems of education. A saddening fact that stands prominent before us to-day is, that this generation of young people in these United States is the out birth or half-growth or product of an educational training, so far as our school system is concerned, which contemplates mainly mere mental growth—the physical and moral man have not been brought into the account. We say this in no spirit of censure. We are not unmindful of the good and gifted to whose labors this country is so much indebted. We do not know that more or better in the space of thirty or forty years could have been done. We simply call attention to the fact, that our educational system has dealt mainly with one-third part of the man. His physical and moral training will constitute the effort of succeeding times, certainly not the least necessary stages in the process. But it will be claimed by some, that what a secular education has failed to do, has been performed by the church. Others will claim that the church, so-called, has done and is doing little else than to defend and to build up a speculative belief—at one time addressing itself to the logical faculty, and at another to the fancy or imagination, but seldom to the heart in any rational sense. As a teacher of morals, the church as well as the school is, in most respects, a failure. Both systems deal with the intellect, the fancy and the imagination, and good men and women are not such for the reason that they are members either of the church or of the world. The truth is, talk as much as we may about religion—if we understand by this term what is called the ‘worship of God’ only—we have but a partial religion; and no religion can be complete that does not embrace the all-subduing, great and tender affections, out of which grow genuine good manners, and all kind and gentle offices to society and to the neighbor. 
The great mistake committed by the church and the world alike is, that they have been ceaseless in their adoration of intellectual power, both in God and man, tangible and mighty power both to create and to destroy. The power of love and its outgrowth, innocence, a purely celestial quality, they do not heed. Hero-worship of the Carlyle stamp, intellectual power in successful action and accomplishment, whether it be manifested in the restless deviltry of Milton's Arch-Hero or Napoleon Bonaparte and their compeers, have been alike the objects of admiration both by Church and State, with all their accessories. What wonder, then, that the principle of individualism or antagonism, instead of that of individuality and consociation, should stand forth so prominent a phenomenon in business and social relations—the head stimulated to an unnatural growth; the heart beating only for the breast that contains it; the intellect adored for its skill to compass the ends of the self-seeker; the affections cold and dead to all save self! 
In our large cities and towns, there are hundreds of thousands of surplus laborers, doomed to penury for lack of employment—swelling, to be sure, the statistics of population, but furnishing the necessity for burdensome police and penal establishments, as well as other necessary means and appliances to check disease and crime, in so wholly a gratuitous and unnatural state of things. How happens it that more is not done to prevent this unnecessary accumulation of population at all these commercial points? Why is benevolence directed so exclusively simply to ameliorate and prolong the wretched condition of these poor people to the spots where they are collected, rather than to their removal to more wholesome conditions and localities? It is, we think, because the benevolent and forehanded are themselves but the sufferers and victims of wrong social relations, interested directly and indirectly, though often unconsciously, to maintain the state of things at which their best impulses revolt. 
Land speculators and real estate owners argue, that it is population which gives value to their estates—the greater the population, the more frequent their sales and the higher the prices. The capitalist can invest with better chance at dividend in low-priced houses; and, strange as it may seem, the poorer his tenants, the greater his dividends. And so we have the more modern invention, of furnishing dwellings for the poor in ‘tenement-houses,’ (a last expedient,) constructed on principles at open war with health, decency or common sense, to save the inmates from the gutter or alms-house, but productive of first-class dividends. It is evidently, to all appearance, for the interest of the property-owners to continue this unnatural state of things. Hence the public sentiment, created by these property-owners through the commercial press, as well as by other means at their command, is in favor of concentrating power, wealth and population in great cities and towns, irrespective of their quality or bearing. And one would suppose, from the zeal with which this doctrine is sometimes enforced, that it has at length become the great object and end of life—the highest effort of commercial skill and industry—to see how great an aggregate of house-lots, brick and mortar, merchandize, money and population can be piled upon a surface of given dimensions; and citizens are constantly reminded of their duty to use their influence to build up and to increase the business of the city. Now, all this anxiety and misdirected energy, this ill-diversion of capital, this wretched population with its untold suffering and want, as well as scores of useless callings, are neither the instruments nor the legitimate use of commerce. They are the result of gross selfishness manifesting itself in every species of antagonism, unfair competition, and in every form of meanness. The grand
<c03>
object of commercial enterprise is left entirely out of the account in the scramble, and the great city which calls so loudly for our admiration degenerates into an abode not of merchants, but of speculators and hucksters. 
Now, if it be true that all industry, which has for its object the production and multiplication of all wholesome and useful comforts and luxuries for man, naturally resolves itself into three branches—agricultural, manufacturing and commercial industry—it is clear that, so far as the latter branch is concerned, it requires just so many workers as are necessary to the process of conveying and exchanging the products of the farm and factory; and when the system is complete, we have a legitimate commerce with all its necessary means and appliances for putting these products within convenient reach of the consumer. We have the merchant, with such assistance as he needs, to move these products in the gross; and the not less useful class, whose special business lies in the distribution of these products in such quantities as are required immediately to hose who use them. All this is fair and legitimate, affording useful occupation to various classes of men. 
To do this work economically and successfully requires the establishment of convenient central points for the reception and storage of all these products till they are required for use, and thus we have a nucleus, in the earliest stage of the process, for a place of residence for all such as are engaged in this kind of work; or, in other words, we have the beginning of a city or a town in such a location as shall be most convenient, and easy of communication with the surrounding country and the sea. And when this city or town enlarges in extent and population to reach the reasonable demands of commerce, it becomes at once a most useful instrument in the commercial system, and becomes not only a pleasant point of attraction, a cheerful and comfortable abode, but is also connected by a hearty bond of union with all the surrounding country; and both the farmer and the manufacturer at a distance are equally interested in its prosperity. And, so long as this relation continues healthy, that jealousy and antagonism between town and country which now form so important a feature in our legislative proceedings, no longer exist. Town and country become mutually interested. What benefits the one, directly or indirectly helps the other, and a wholesome equilibrium is established through the system, resembling the motions and circulations in a healthy human body. If, then, it becomes the office of a city to do the work of distributing the products of agricultural and manufacturing industry, it follows that if there be one more laborer than is necessary in the performance of this work, we have one idler; and on this simple principle we have the explanation of the great multitudes of surplus laborers and idlers and useless callings, which are the bane and disgrace of all great cities, and the direct source of most of the profligacy and crime with which society is infested. Without going into details, we ask the reflecting to consider whether it be a necessary part of a wholesome state of things, that Boston to-day should be burdened with about two thousand rum-shops, with their natural appendages and supports, the hangers-on and idlers, which, at the moderate estimate of ten drinkers for each, makes an aggregate of 20,000 well or ill dressed vagabonds? And as to New York, with its four to five hundred well-packed tenement houses, with an aggregate, to say the least, of not less than 150,000 or 200,000 wretched beings doomed to all the ills that flesh is heir to; and as to rum-shops and drunkards, the statistics are not and need not be at hand. Another fact: we have a population of thirty millions in this country. Why, in the name of high Heaven, should not our soil, when properly tilled, support three hundred millions comfortably and independently? For the next generation, at least, we say, let the young men be encouraged to turn their backs upon the cities, if they cannot find honorable employment, and let the cultivation of the soil be made respectable, the noblest and healthiest of all employments, when intelligently pursued, and thus make a subsistence for all of easy acquisition, life greatly relieved of anxiety, and a more healthful relation between the great departments of labor.

LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
The removal of the remains of John Brown to Mount Auburn at a testimony against Slavery—The Adirondack Group—The Ausable Falls and Gorge.
NORTH ELBA, (N. Y.) Aug. 14, 1860. 
DEAR GARRISON: I am in the family of John Brown, who died a martyr to redeem four millions of American slaves. I am close by the grave in which lies his body. Mrs. Brown, a woman of a warm and humane heart, of sterling sense, quiet self-possession, and true self-reliance, is at home, with one of her sons and two of her daughters. This is a region of wild romance and grandeur. There, close by me, beside a large rock, lie the remains of what was the material form of one destined to live on the historic page as the William Wallace of the American bondman. Virginia, that corporate band of American corsairs, hung the body that rests beneath this mound, but they could not hang John Brown, the stern enemy of slavery, and the friend of freedom. 
When the weapon of steel was taken from him, and he was consigned to a dungeon, how sublime in his simplicity! How puissant before the nation, with his shield of faith, his breast-plate of righteousness, his sword of the Spirit, and his helmet of salvation! How terrible his words to divide asunder the bodies and souls of his slaveholding, slave-breeding murderers! How slave-trading priests and politicians stood aghast at his piercing words of rebuke! Even in his prison, before his martyrdom, he saw of the travail of his soul, and was satisfied. When led forth to execution, how august his martyrdom! As he cheerfully, fearlessly, with alacrity, stepped upon the scaffold, his tread shook the world, and millions heard, and did homage to the hero. As he stood on the drop, during that twenty minutes, while Virginia, to extort from him some sign of faltering, or relenting, or of cowardliness, affected to perform her military evolutions, using every frivolous pretence to prolong the fatal moment, hoping to subdue, by such refined torture, that mighty soul, how calm his mien, how firm his nerves, how dauntless and heroic his spirit! When that drop fell, the nation’s heart had but one feeling, the nation’s tongue but one word, i.e., CONQUEST BY SUFFERING! VICTORY BY DEATH! He died a martyr, to redeem four millions of slaves. John Brown is not dead, but liveth; and he lives but to free the slave.
As I sit here by the martyr’s grave, and look off upon the glorious panorama of mountains around, I do not wonder that he wished to have his body rest in this spot, by this rock—the wild grandeur of his nature being true to itself in the hour of his martyrdom.
But must the body of John Brown rest here as a finality? Ought it to be left here? It would not be difficult to raise the means to remove it, and give it a place and a monument in Mount Auburn. The widow and the children are willing it should be removed. They will probably leave this place at no distant day. Though a wild, grand, and altogether the most interesting portion of the State, to visit, as a means of recreation, it is a cold, hard place to live in, and to earn a living. As a mountain and lake scenery, including lakes George and Champlain, not far off, for wildness and romance it is not surpassed in the United States; but as an agricultural country, it is, like Jordan, 'a hard road to travel, I believe.'
But, cui bono? What use in removing the body to Mount Auburn? I think not of it as a testimony of respect to the memory of John Brown. No monument that money could purchase, or human ingenuity contrive, or art execute, could so fitly and so grandly perpetuate the memory of such a man, as the bold, stern, defiant mountains that now encircle his
<c04>
body; for he lived but to incarnate their sternness, their boldness and defiance, and bring these qualities practically to bear against American slavery. Such a soul as his, whether in the body or out of it, cannot but glory in such a scene as this. John Brown needs no such testimony from corporeal men and women. But corporeal men, women and children, centuries hence, will need to remember his spirit and his instructions—not his military spirit and teachings, for these will pass away, and will and ought to be forgotten—but his gentleness, his tenderness, his sympathy, and readiness to die, for the enslaved, the despised, and the outcast; his sublime scorn and contempt for human constitutions and laws, for the enactments of Congress and the decisions of courts; for conventional usages and religious dogmas, and priestly and ecclesiastical anathemas, when these were on the side of slave-breeders and slaveholders; his sublime consistency and moral heroism before the court, in the dungeon and on the scaffold, and his simplicity and grandeur of devotion to what he deemed to be the will of God; to what he considered the demands of justice, mercy and humanity; these, all who struggle for liberty to the enslaved, and death to the power of enslavers, will need to remember. Human beings, in all coming ages and nations, in their irrepressible conflict with oppression, cannot afford to forget his simple faith in, and heroic devotion to, what he deemed just and right. They can no more afford to forget the moral heroism and martyrdom of John Brown, than the moral heroism and martyrdom of Jesus of Nazareth.
That his love and devotion to the cause of freedom, and his abhorrence of slavery, may be kept alive, let his remains be deposited in Mount Auburn, and a suitable monument be erected over them; and on it let his inspired words before the court be engraven, and such other sayings of his in the dungeon to his family and friends, as are best adapted to teach the coming ages how most successfully to wage war against oppression. Let the facts relating to his trial and execution, that go to show the essential inhumanity and barbarism of slavery, be engraven on that marble. Let texts of Anti-Slavery, that Gospel of Humanity, be engraven on it, from which the poets, orators, authors and philanthropists, the church and ministers of the future, may preach hope to the despairing, consolation to the afflicted, joy to the joyless, deliverance to the captive, liberty to the enslaved, and light and life to those who sit in darkness and the shadow of death.
How many will visit Mount Auburn between 1860 and 1960? Not less, probably, that 50,000 per year. How many would visit it, and go away without reading that Anti-Slavery lecture from the lips of John Brown, delivered to this nation and to the world, in the dungeon and on the scaffold? Few, very few.
American slaves now count four millions. In the future of this republic, their posterity will be counted by tens if not by hundreds of millions. These will repair to the place where shall rest the remains of John Brown, and of the Man who first inaugurated the movement that shall then have issued in the abolition of slavery, and the emancipation of the last American slave, and there they will worship the God of Liberty, and in their hearts and with their tongues recognize the power of Truth to conquer Error, of Love to subdue Hatred, of Good to overcome Evil, and of Suffering to triumph over all unrighteousness.
Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God; and that, too, by such means as each one shall deem right, and best adapted to accomplish the end sought. That John Brown was honest, sincere, earnest, and perfectly true to himself, in the course he took to resist slaveholders, all will admit. That he acted in accordance with the Declaration of Independence, and with the fundamental principles of the Republican and Democratic parties, and of the Government, and with the spirit, the prayers, the teachings and practices of the American clergy, church and people, in invading Virginia to free slaves, must also be admitted by all. Why, then, should not Massachusetts, as a State, remove the remains of John Brown to Mount Auburn, and there erect a monument over them, and have engraven on it an Anti-Slavery lecture, to be read by her posterity in all coming time? When the names of Warren and Hancock, Washington and those who fought against mere political thraldom, are forgotten, and their monuments, with their bones, become dust, the memory of John Brown, and of those who have shown their fidelity to and reverence for Humanity by resisting, unto death, American chattel slavery, will be affectionately and reverently cherished, and their spirit and teachings gladly and practically obeyed.
Who will move in this matter? Will Republicans? Their leaders, though many, perhaps most of them, would in their hearts rejoice to see the deed done, yet will they not dare to move in it—at least, till after election. The masses of that party, who embody all that is of value in it, would openly interest themselves in it, as they did in properly observing the day of his execution, and that of his funeral obsequies. Five thousand, or ten thousand dollars, if need be, would readily be contributed. Who would not give his dollar to forward an object so important to the cause of freedom in the world's future? In what could money be better spent than to write, in granite, a lecture against slavery, and for freedom, to be read by unborn millions? Slavery has its Everett to collect funds to erect a monument to a slaveholder, because he resisted political oppression. Who will raise the means to build a monument to perpetuate the memory of Resistance, unto death, of chattel slavery, as it was embodied in John Brown before the court, in the dungeon, and on the scaffold of Virginia?
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. BURLINGTON, August 16, 1860.-The highest peak of the Adirondack mountains that encircle the body of John Brown is Mount Marcy, near North Elba, and is 5467 feet high. The county of Essex, in which lie most of the Adirondack group, contains 1162 square miles, extending 43 miles along the western shore of Lake Champlain, and thence back 41 miles. In this county and in these mountains originates the Hudson river, running South into the ocean, and the Ausable, running Northeast into Lake Champlain. Amid these wild mountains are embosomed twelve long lakes, averaging from 1500 to 1800 feet above tide water. The Saranac river rises in these mountains. There are not less than one hundred lakes in Essex county, great and small. The Adirondack Pass, in sight from, or near the residence of John Brown, is perhaps the most striking mountain pass in the United States. On one side is a perpendicular mountain of 1000 feet high. In this pass, or notch, or near it, rises the Ausable river, that rushes, in its mad speed, past the spot where the martyr’s remains rest. 
My friend and host in Burlington, L. G. Bigelow, accompanied me, in his own private conveyance, to North Elba. Returning, we came down the Ausable river to where it enters Lake Champlain, near Port Kent, some twelve miles South of Plattsburg, and nearly opposite to Burlington. Near Keesville, and about three miles from its entrance into the lake, are the Ausable Falls and Gorge. There is a chasm, or rent in the earth, about 150 feet deep, and averaging from twenty to forty feet wide, and extending nearly a mile, through which the Ausable river rushes in its fury. The perpendicular sides of the rent or gorge show a geological formation of sand-stone rock, dipping towards the lake. This rent must have been made by some sudden convulsion of the earth, and the river found its way through it, making it deeper and deeper as millions of ages, in the earth's history, have rolled by. I wonder the students and worshippers of God in material nature have not been attracted to the Adirondack Mountains, and to the Falls and Gorge of the Ausable. They will go there one day,
<c05>
to stand in a kind of glorified awe, as did John Brown, in the presence of that Spirit which presides over the scene. Should you, or anybody, ever visit Burlington, or Lake George, do not fail to visit the Ausable Falls and Gorge, and the Adirondack Mountains. 
One man in a tavern where we stopped to feed, we found haranguing a set around him, and assuring them that, ‘as he heard a man say, when John Brown stepped upon the scaffold, his step shook the world.' He was right; it did. Another who ferried us over the lake, declared that the attack of John Brown upon slaveholders was a disgrace to Essex county. ‘Why,’ asked my companion, ‘do you know anything against his moral character?’ ‘No,’ said he; ‘he was considered a just man, but he had no right to meddle with property in slaves.’ H. C. W.

HONORS PAID TO JOHN BROWN IN FRANCE. 
We are glad to lay before our readers the following generous and hearty tribute to John Brown from the Free-Masons of France—all the more magnanimous as he was not a member of the Order. This and Victor Hugo’s eloquent and touching appeals show how keenly alive France is to the cause of Justice and Liberty the world over. 
The following extract is translated from the January number of the Monde Maconnique, (Masonic World,) Paris:—
‘John Brown’s death has made almost as profound a sensation in Europe as on the other side of the Atlantic. England and France, who are no longer directly interested in the question of slavery, are still as deeply moved as at the time, not far back, when the slaves were not yet emancipated in the colonies of either of these two principal European nations, and when the interests of both, opposed to emancipation, made one fear the indefinite postponement of the triumph of reason and justice. 
The death of John Brown is a last warning given to the United States; danger is at hand, and they should make haste to follow England who gave them birth, and France who gave them liberty, in the path where these have had the honor and courage to lead. 
One will see by the letters quoted below, and taken from La Presse, the effect produced in America by the sentence and execution of John Brown and his companions. This effect is immense, far beyond what any one could have reasonably expected. In this conflict between transient and individual interests, and the eternal principles of human rights, it is needless to tell on which side are our sympathies. With those of all Free-Masons, they have followed, to their last moments, John Brown and his four companions. Cook, Coppic, Green and Copeland; they are with the generous and freedom-loving North against the feudal and pro-slavery South. 
Of all the words of our motto, FRATERNITY is the one most deeply engraven on the heart of every true Mason. In our view, John Brown is a martyr to FRATERNITY, and for this we should honor his memory. So thought the Lodge St. Vincent-de Paul, and it was at their Solstitial Winter-feast, celebrated the 6th of January, that Monsieur Ulbach expressed the feelings of all the Masons there assembled, offering the following sentiment, in a speech which was interrupted, from time to time, by the unanimous applause of the audience:—
"BROTHERS!—If our object in these assemblies were only pleasure, if this were merely a convivial meeting, I should refrain from offering the sentiment which I am about to propose. I would not insult a holy cause by naming it in the midst of decorous festivities or selfish enjoyment; nor would I sadden, by too grave words, hours devoted to joys so short and so fleeting. But we are seated at a banquet sacred as a sacrifice, and you are men of free thought whom serious subjects do not startle, and who, in celebrating with full goblets, with smiles and garlands of flowers, the feast of Life, do not forget the triumph of Death.
Let me, then, speak to you of death, and evoke here, in the midst of our clasped hands, of our hearts united in the bonds of brotherhood, mid the vows we utter and the hymns we chant, let us evoke that gibbet on which they have just hung an honest man, a martyr to Equality and Fraternity— JOHN BROWN!
Brothers, it is to the memory of John Brown that I drink this toast. I know all the reserve that is due here in regard to events which are not yet history; I know all the prudence of which Free-Masonry has need, in order to avoid giving offence; but I know, also, what I owe my soul when a grand sight is shown it; I know what counsel, what encouragement, what fraternal aid we owe each other. I know that when a man dies anywhere in maintaining the principles of our Order, we ought to weep for him, but to weep as they weep who believe in the Future and in Justice! His is an example we ought to treasure, an encouragement we ought to take to ourselves. Yes, an encouragement. There is still, then, upon this old earth, already steeped in blood and tears, room for the inquisitor and for the gibbet? So much the better! The 'idea which they thus resist is very near its triumph. Alas! America hides chains in the folds of her banner, blue as the sky! Alas! when a man rises and says to the slaves. Children, awake! the slaves are silent and the masters rebel! What! this infamy—making martyrs of the apostles of brotherly-love—can exist among a republican people in this our enlightened age! If God permits such a sight, it is not to discourage reason, but to give it the last warning. 
That scaffold erected beyond the sea, whose shadow stretches even to us, America, with all her glory, cannot hide. It must stand as a protest till the last link that binds the last slave is sunk in the ocean. It stands a constant appeal to all noble and earnest men. And, on our part, let us respond with an anathema and with plaudits, a curse on the impious murderers who tried to extinguish a divine flame in smothering a human soul; who thought to strangle God in hanging a man. Let us applaud the majesty of that sublime death, of that voluntary sacrifice; let us receive into the purest sanctuary of our thoughts, of our regrets, of our love, this just man who smiled in dying, and who gave his life to hasten, even by one day, the reign of Justice. 
I had wished to describe to you the work and the death of John Brown; but it would need pages, and I have only time for a word. Besides, you have all read, brothers, the details of that austere, devoted life which fought bravely, and which sacrificed itself without shrinking, manifesting the brotherly love of Abel, even under the heel of Cain!
I will not interrupt with a long discourse this family festival; I wished only that a noble spirit, a hero’s spirit, might come to join our circle of union, to speak to us of self-sacrifice and of virtue, and to give a deeper earnestness to the pledges we renew at each meeting. I wished to speak to freedom-loving men of a liberator fallen, not conquered. I wished, at this moment when hearts open most freely, when counsel is received with the least distrust, to ask you to meditate on thoughts like these I now offer. 
The death of John Brown is a defiance, the last one, offered by barbarous prejudice to Reason and to Fraternity. The death of John Brown proves, once again, that, more than all other evils, slavery brings the irremediable misfortune of withering souls, and rendering them incapable of regretting liberty and wishing for deliverance. It does not only chase one man, it corrupts a generation. Behold! a crime against the present, it is also a crime against the future, and the most manifest outrage' that could be done to Providence and to progress. The death of John Brown proves to us, finally, that it does not suffice to inscribe beautiful sentiments upon our walls, great principles upon our banners—to have sublime symbols—if the sentiments are not realized in action, if our banners are not borne in the front of justice, if we do not draw from our symbols a living, fruitful truth. 
This is the lesson useful to all, particularly applicable to Free-Masonry. You will pardon me for having introduced it on a festive occasion. The Egyptians caused a skeleton to be brought into their feasts to remind them of death. But, when we evoke this martyr, it is to think of life, of immortal life, which man changes, but which he cannot destroy; which continues for Brown as for all mankind; for the heart of this saint, this soldier of ideas, will throb in every bosom until the day when, his work accomplished, we can say, Behold! John Brown still lives! Death is only the prison of the just. He passes through it in order to reclothe himself with glory and immortality. Weep not for the man hung on that scaffold; he left only a body of clay to men who hated and persecuted him from low and earthly considerations. His spirit,
<c06>
which they have set free, breathes among us now; it will smile upon this our offering. 
Brothers, I drink this toast:—
To the memory of John Brown-the martyr to brotherly love; to the abolition of all slavery; to FRATERNITE, without which, liberty is only the conservation of force, and the despotism of material interests.”‘

A WOMAN IN THE CLERICAL OFFICE.
BUFFALO, August 7th, 1860.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
We passed a very quiet but exceedingly pleasant Sabbath at Trenton Falls. In the afternoon, we attended service in the ancient Unitarian Church at Trenton village, and were much interested to find so many primitive customs observed by the venerable society. The choir ‘take the pitch’ as in olden time; the church edifice is after the primitive style, and there is that devout, reverent regard to early usages which is to us sweet and beautiful. An ancient Bible, the gift of the late Rev. Dr. Channing, of Boston, and containing a letter of presentation from him, was shown us. The same volume, was once used in his church, and no one could look with out emotion upon that holy volume, and think that the sainted channing had so often scanned its pages.
We witnessed a beautiful sight, later in the day, in a sanctuary even more venerable than this ancient church, nay, in the earliest of all temples; for
‘The perfect world by Adam trod
Was the first temple made of God,’ 
and this service was held in the open air. A lady Mrs. Lydia A. Jenkins, was to preach, and curiosity and a desire to worship blended together as motives to call together a large audience. The meeting was held in Bacon's Grove, near the Trenton Falls Hotel, A rude platform had been erected, but it looked finely, decorated with oak wreaths and adorned with flowers. The meeting was at five o’clock, when the glare of the sunlight is over, and only the shimmer of light among the leaves is noted. Mrs. Jenkins was tastefully dressed in white, and is a modest, unpretending woman. We felt some fear lest her words should mar rather than aid the effect of the occasion, but were happily disappointed. Her quiet manner, clear articulation, and purity, even holiness of look and word, were in unison with the scene and hour. Mrs. Jenkins is about thirty years of age, with features regular as if chiseled from marble, soft blue eyes, and great sweetness of voice. Her text was from Psalms xxii-26. ‘Your heart shall live forever.’ Her discourse aimed to exhibit the undying nature of human affection, and to prove there from both the immortality of the soul. and also the immortality of those pure friendships, domestic ties and holy relations which, here on earth, make of our homes and hearts almost heavens. The sermon did not exhibit much originality or power of thought, and we were told was not a favorable specimen of Mrs. Jenkins’ discourses, but yet its purity of tone earnestness of appeal and fervent sincerity commended it both to the heart and judgment of those who heard it, while her modest bearing disarmed any feeling of prejudice against her as a woman seeking to be a public teacher. Her intonation and articulation were almost faultless.
We learned from Mrs. Jenkins that she has charge, in connection with her husband, who is also a clergyman, of some three different parishes; that she usually preaches three times a day, as she had on that day; and that in addition she was teacher of a young ladies’ school at Clinton, N. Y., where she resides. All spoke of her as a singularly amiable and exemplary woman and devout Christian. Mrs. Jenkins was educated in the Baptist faith, but now preaches in connection with the Universalist denomination. She was recently invited to preach in Music Hall, in Boston, for a Sabbath. Certainly her energy and zeal, as well as varied gifts, are deserving of praise. We think those most opposed to enlarging the sphere of woman's employments would have found their criticism disarmed, at least for the time, had they been present on the occasion.

CARPETING.
‘All the Year Round.’
JOHN II. PRAY, SONS & CO,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A. TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, ‘At Home. ‘&c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18. eop6m.
A Military Catechism.
QUESTION 1st.—Who among all the great Generals
of the World has caused the great-
est destruction of human life?
ANSWER.-GENERAL DEBILITY.
QUESTION 2D.—Please name the principal officers 
in the General’s Staff. 
ANSWER. -Gens. DYSPEPSIA, DROPSY, PILES, LIVER
&c., and
Cols. BRONCHITIS, NEURALGIA, NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, BOILS, &C.
QUESTION 3D—Who is destined to become his most formidable antagonist?
ANSWER.-IRON, as developed in the famous
PERUVIAN SYRUP.
The Hosts are Marshalling for the Conflict.
Aug. 3. 3t 

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing,
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTRAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases, of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town. Boston May 1, 1860.

THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
