THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARES, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINGTON & SON. Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 5. BOSTON FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1864.WHOLE NO.1721.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION
<c01>
THE POPE AND PRESIDENT DAVIS.
According to the Paris journal, La France, the following correspondence has taken place between President Davis and the Pope:-
"RICHMOND, September 23, 1863.
“Very Venerable Sovereign Pontiff-The letters which you have written to the clergy of New Orleans and New York have been communicated to me, and I have read with emotion the deep grief therein expressed for the ruin and devastation caused by the war which is now being waged by the United States against the States and people which have selected me as their President, and your orders to your clergy to exhort the people to peace and charity. I am deeply sensible of the Christian charity, which has impelled you to this reiterated appeal to the clergy. It is for this reason that I feel it my duty to express personally, in the name of the Confederate States, our gratitude for such sentiments of Christian good feeling and love, and to assure your Holiness that the people, threatened even on their own hearths with the most cruel oppression and terrible carnage, are desirous now, as they have always been, to see the end of this impious war; that we have addressed prayers to Heaven (?) for that issue which your Holiness now desires; that we desire none of our enemy's possessions; and that we fight merely to resist the devastation of our country and the shedding of our best blood, and to force them to let us live in peace under the protection of our own institutions and under the protection of our own laws, which not only insure to every one the enjoyment of his temporal rights, but also the free exercise of his religion,. I pray your Holiness to accept, on the part of myself and the people of the Confederate States, our sincere thanks for your efforts in favor of peace. May the Lord preserve the days your Holiness, and keep you under his divine protection!
JEFFERSON DAVIS.”
REPLY OF THE POPE.
"Illustrious and Honorable President-Salutation. We have just received, with all suitable welcome, the persons sent by you to place in our hands your letter, dated 23d of September last. Not slight was the pleasure experienced when we learned, from these persons and the letter, with what feelings of joy and gratitude you were animated, illustrious and honorable President, as soon as you were informed of our letters to our venerable brothers, John, Archbishop of New York, and John, Archbishop of New Orleans, dated the 18th of October of last year, and in which we have, with all our strength, excited and exhorted these venerable brothers that in their Episcopal piety and solicitude they should endeavor, with the most ardent zeal and in your name, to bring about the end of the fatal civil war which has broken out in these countries, in order that the American people may obtain peace and concord, and dwell charitably together. It is particularly agreeable to us to see that you, illustrious and honorable President, and your people are animated with the same desires of peace and tranquility which we have in our letters inculcated upon our venerable brothers. May it please God, at the same time, to make the other people of America and their rulers, reflecting seriously how terrible is civil war, and what calamities it engenders, listen to the inspirations of a calmer spirit, and adopt resolutely the part of peace. As for us, we shall not cease to offer up the most fervent prayers to God Almighty that he may pour out upon all the peoples of America the spirit of peace and charity, and that he will stop the great evils which afflict them. We, at the same time beseech the God of mercy and pity to shed abroad upon you the light of His grace, and attack you to us by a perfect friendship.
Given at Rome, at St. Peter's, the 3d of December, in the year of our Lord 1863, of our Pontificate 18
PLUS IX."
NEW ENGLAND.
NEW YORK, JAN. 8, 1864.
To the Editor of the Journal of Commerce:-
SIR-As a New Englander, I heartily thank you for your exposure of the misrepresentations of my Puritan ancestors, by the Boston abolitionists. I have realized, for a long time, that a feeling of prejudice and hostility against New England men, and New England herself, has been growing up through the Central and Western States, on account of the ignorance and arrogance of the weak and presumptuous men who at present misrepresent her at home and abroad. While New England was represented by such men as Webster and Choate, Winthrop and Lawrence and Cushing, and a host of others like them, all true New Englanders took pride in their origin, and the deeds of their ancestors (!) But since she has been represented by such ignorant, vulgar demagogues as now <Illegible> seats once filled by her statesmen and scholars, all true sons of New England are ashamed of her, or rather of the abolitionists and fanatics who at present control our destinies.
Our Puritan ancestors believed in the Bible and the Savior of mankind, and never ceased to admire the Constitution of their country; but to-day, a large portion of the people of Massachusetts read "Uncle Tom's Cabin" instead of the Word of God, and worship John Brown instead of their savior, and denounce the Constitution as a covenant with hell, and an agreement with death. When Webster, in 1850, returned to Massachusetts from his seat in Congress, where he had succeeded in saving his country from civil war, such as has devastated the land for the last three years, the fanatics and bigots that now control the destinies of Massachusetts closed the doors of Faneuil Hall against him, and afterwards hounded him on to his grave; and his statue is mocked to-day by these very men, while they adore a statue of John Brown which they have put up in the Boston Athenaeum.
In addition to the conduct of these abolitionists of Massachusetts, and the scurrilous abolition sheets published in Boston, New England men are constantly taunted with the assertion that all, or nearly all, blood-thirsty abolition preachers and politicians in New York and the Western States were originally New Englanders, and I fear it is a fact. I feel the blush of shame upon my cheeks when I recollect that it was less than ten years ago, that a Deputy United States Marshal was shot down in the court-house in Boston, while executing a Federal law, and that the men who prompted the act are to-day in high official stations in Massachusetts. I should trespass upon your time, should I undertake to tell you all the things in the conduct of New England for the last few years, which I, as a New England man, am ashamed of, and therefore I forbear.
A NEW ENGLANDER.
-N.Y. Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THIRD DECADE OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
SPEECH OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I confess at the outset to have felt a very profound desire to utter a word at some period during the present meeting. As it has been repeatedly said here, it has been a meeting of reminiscences. I shall not attempt to treat you to any of my own in whit I have now to say, though I have some in connection with the labors of this Society, and in connection with my experience as an American slave, that I might not inappropriately bring before you on this occasion. I desire to be remembered among: those having a word to say at this meeting because I began my existence as a free man in this country with this association, and because I have some hopes or apprehensions, whichever you please to call them, that we shall never, as a Society, hold another decade meeting.
I well remember the first time I ever listened to the voice of the honored President of this association, and I have some recollection of the feelings of hope inspired by his utterances at that time. Under the inspiration of those hopes, I looked forward to the abolition of slavery as a certain event in the course of a very few years. So clear were his utterances, so simple and truthful, and So adapted, I conceived, to the human heart were the principles and doctrines propounded by him, that I thought five years at any rate would be all that would be required for the abolition of slavery. I thought it was only necessary “for the slaves, or their friends, to lift up the hatchway of slavery's infernal hold, to uncover the bloody scenes of American thraldom, and give the nation a peep into its horrors, its deeds of deep damnation, to arouse them to almost phrensied, opposition to this foul curse. But I was mistaken. I had not been five years pelted by the mob, insulted by the crowds, shunned by the church, denounced by the ministry, ridiculed by the press, spit upon by the loafers, before I became convinced that I might perhaps live, struggle, and die, and go down to my grave, and the slaves of the South yet remain in their chains.
We live to see a better hope to-night. I participate in the profound thanksgiving expressed by all, that we do live to see this better day. I am one of those who believe that it is the mission of this war to free every slave in the United States. I am one of those who believe that we should consent to no peace which shall not be an abolition peace. I am, moreover, one of those who believe that the work of the American Anti-Slavery Society will not have been completed until the black men of the South, and the black men of the North, shall have been admitted fully and completely into the body politic of America. I look upon slavery as going the way of all the earth. It is the mission of the war to put it down. But a mightier work than the abolition of slavery now looms up before the Abolitionist. This Society was organized, if I remember rightly, for two distinct objects; one was the emancipation of the slave, and the other the elevation of the colored people. When you have taken the chains off the slave, as I believe we shall do, we shall find a harder resistance to the second purpose of this great association than we have found even upon slavery itself.
I am hopeful, but while I am hopeful I am thoughtful withal. If I lean to either side of the controversy to which we have listened to-day, I lean to that side which implies caution, which implies apprehension, which implies a consciousness that our work is not done. Protest, affirm, hope, glorify as we may, it cannot be denied that abolitionism is still unpopular in the United States. It cannot be denied that this war is at present denounced by its opponents as an abolition war; and it is equally clear that it would not be denounced as an abolition war, if abolitionism were not odious. It is equally clear that our friends. Republicans, Unionists, Loyalists, would not spin out elaborate explanations, and denials that this is the character of the war, if abolition were popular. Men accept the term Abolitionist with qualifications. They do not come out square and open-handed, and affirm themselves to be Abolitionists. As a general rule, we are attempting to explain away the charge that this is an abolition war. I hold that it is an abolition war, because slavery has proved itself stronger than the Constitution. It has proved itself stronger than the Union, and has forced upon us the necessity of putting down slavery in order to save the Union, and in order to save the Constitution. (Applause.)
I look at this as an abolition war instead of being a Union war, because I see that the lesser is included in the greater, and that you cannot have the lesser until you have the greater. You cannot have the Union, the Constitution, and republican institutions, until you have stricken down that damning curse, and put it beyond the pale of the Republic. For, while it is in this country, it will make your Union impossible; it will make your Constitution impossible. I therefore call this just what the Democrats have charged it with being, an abolition war. Let us emblazon it on our banners, and declare before the world that this is an abolition war, (applause.) that it will prosper precisely in proportion as it takes upon itself this character. (Renewed applause.)
My respected friend. Mr. Purvis, called attention to the existence of prejudice against color in this country. This gives me great cause for apprehension, if not for alarm. I am afraid of this powerful element of prejudice against color. While it exists I want the voice of the American Anti-Slavery Society to be continually protesting, continually exposing it. While it can be said that in this most anti slavery city in the Northern States of our Union, in the city of Philadelphia, the city of Brotherly Love, the city of churches, the city of piety, that the most genteel and respectable colored lady or gentleman may be kicked out of your commonest street car, we are in danger of a compromise. While it can be said that black men, fighting bravely for this country, are asked to take $7 per month, while the government lays down as rule or criterion of pay a complexional one, we are in danger of a compromise. While to be radical is to be unpopular, we are in danger of a compromise. While we have a large minority, called Democratic, in every State of the North, we have a powerful nucleus for a most infernal reaction in favor of slavery. I know it is said that we have recently achieved vast political victories. I am glad of it. value those victories, however more for what they have prevented than for what they have actually accomplished. I should have been doubly sad at seeing any one of these States wheel into line with the Peace Democracy. But, however it more be in the State of Pennsylvania I know that you may look for abolition in the creed of any party in New York with a microscope, and you will not find a single line of anti-slavery there. The victories were Union victories, victories to save the Union in such ways as the country may devise to save it But whatever may have been the meaning of these majorities in regard to the Union, we know one thing, that the mi
<c03>
norities, at least, mean slavery. They mean submission. They mean the degradation of the colored man. They mean everything but open rebellion against the Federal government in the South. But the mob. the rioters in the city of New York, convert that city into a hell, and its lower orders into demons, and dash out the brains of little children against the curbstones; and they mean anything and everything that the Devil exacts at their hands. While we had in this State a majority of but 15,000 over this pro-slavery Democratic party, they have a mighty minority, a dangerous minority. Keep in mind when these minorities were gotten. Powerful as they are, they were gotten when slavery, with bloody hands, was stabbing at the very heart of the nation itself. With all that disadvantage, they have piled up these powerful minorities.
We have work to do, friends and fellow-citizens, to look after these minorities. The day that shall see Jeff Davis fling down his Montgomery Constitution, and call home his Generals, will be the most try in day to the virtue of this people that this country has ever seen. When the slaveholders shall give up the contest, and ask for re-admission into the Union, then, as Mr. Wilson has told us, we shall see the trying time in this country. Your Democracy will clamor for peace and for restoring the old order of things, because that old order of things was the life of the Democratic party. " You do take away mine house, when you take away the prop that sustains my house," and the support of the Democratic party we all know to be slavery. The Democratic party is for war for slavery; it is for peace for slavery; it is for the habeas corpus for slavery; it is against the habeas corpus for slavery; it was for the Florida war for slavery; it was for the Mexican war for slavery; it is for jury trial for traitors for slavery; it is against jury trial for men claimed as fugitive slaves for slavery. It has but one principle, one master; and it is guided, governed and directed by it. I say that with this party among us, flaunting its banners in our faces, with the New York World scattered broadcast over the North, with the New York Express, with the mother and father and devil of them all, the New York Herald, (applause ) with those papers flooding our land, and coupling the term Abolitionist with all manner of coarse epithets, in all our hotels, at all our crossings, our highways, and byways, and railways, all over the country, there is work to be done-a good deal of work to be done. I have said that our work will not be done until the colored man is admitted a full member in good and regular standing into the American body politic. Men have very nice ideas about the body politic where I have travelled; and they don't like the idea of having the negro in the body politic. He may remain in this country, for he will be useful as a laborer, valuable perhaps in time of trouble as a helper; but to make him a full and complete citizen, a legal voter, that would be contaminating the body politic. I was a little curious, some years ago, to find out what sort of a thing this body politic was; and I was very anxious to know especially about what amount of baseness, brutality, coarseness, ignorance, and bestiality, could find its way into the body politic; and I was not long in finding it out. I took my stand near the little hole through which the body politic put its votes. (Laughter.) And first among the mob, I saw Ignorance, unable to read its vote, asking me to read it, by the way, (great laughter.) depositing its-vote in the body politic. Next I saw a man stepping up to the body politic, casting in his vote, having a black eye, and another one ready to be blacked, having been engaged in a street fight. I saw, again, Pat, fresh from the Emerald Isle, with the delightful brogue peculiar to him, stepping up-not walking, but leaning upon the arms of two of his friends, unable to stand, passing into the body politic I came to the conclusion that this body politic was, after all not quite so pure a body as the representation of its friends would lead us to believe. 
I know it will be said that I ask you to make the black man a voter in the South. Yet you are for having brutality and ignorance introduced into the ballot-box. It is said that the colored man is ignorant, and therefore he shall not vote. In saying this, you lay down a rule for the black man that you apply to no other class of your citizens. I will hear nothing of degradation nor of ignorance against the black man. If he knows enough to be hanged, he knows enough to vote. If he knows an honest man from a thief, he knows much more than some of our white voters. If he knows as much when sober as an Irishman knows when drunk, he knows enough to vote. If he knows enough to take up arms in defence of this government, and bare his breast to the storm of rebel artillery, he knows enough to vote. (Great applause.) 
Away with this talk of the want of knowledge on the part of the negro! I am about as big a negro as you will find anywhere about town; and any man that does not believe I know enough to vote, let him try it. I think I can convince, him that I do. Let him run for office in my district, and solicit my vote, and I will show him.
All I ask, however, in regard to the blacks, is that whatever rule you adopt, whether of intelligence or wealth, as the condition of voting, you should apply it equally to the black man. Do that, and I am satisfied, and eternal justice is satisfied. Liberty, fraternity, equality, are satisfied; and the country will move on harmoniously.
Mr. President, I have a patriotic argument in favor of insisting upon the immediate enfranchisement of the slaves of the South; and it is this When this rebellion shall have been put down, when the arms shall have fallen from the guilty hand of traitors, you will need the friendship of the slaves of the South, of those millions there. Four or five million men are not of inconsiderable importance at any time; but they will be doubly important when you come to reorganize and reestablish republican institutions in the South. Will you mock those bond men by breaking their chains with one hand, and with the other giving their rebel masters the elective franchise and robbing them of theirs? I tell you the negro is your friend. But you will make him not only your friend in sentiment and heart by enfranchising him, your will thus make him your best defender, your best protector against the traitors and the descendants of those traitors who will inherit the hate, the bitter revenge which shall crystalize all over the South, and seek to circumvent the government that they could not throw off. You will need the black man there as a watchman and patrol; and you may need him as a soldier. You may need him to uphold in peace, as he is now upholding in war, the star-spangled banner. (Applause.) I wish our excellent friend, Senator Wilson, would bend his energies to this point as well as the other to let the negro have a vote. It will be helping him from the jaws of the wolf. We are surrounded by those who, like the wolf, will use their jaws, if you give the elective franchise to the descendants of the traitors, and keep it from the black man. We ought to be voters there! We ought to be members of Congress! (Applause.) You may as well make up your minds that you have got to see something dark down that way! There is no way to get rid of it I am a candidate already I (Applause.) 
For twenty-five years, Mr. President, you know
<c04>
that when I got as far South as Philadelphia, I felt that I was rubbing against my prison wall, and could not go any further. I dared not go over yonder into Delaware. Twenty years ago, when I attended the first Decade meeting of this Society, as I came along the vales and hills of Gettysburg, my good friends, the anti-slavery people along there, warned me to remain in the house during the daytime and travel in the night, lest I should be kidnapped, and carried over into Maryland. My good friend Dr. Fussell was one of the number who did not think it safe for me to attend an anti-slavery meeting along the borders of this State. I can go down there now. I have been to Washington to see the President; and as you were not there, perhaps you may like to know how the President of the United States received a black man at the White House. I will tell you how he received me-just as you have seen one gentleman receive another! (great applause;) with a hand and a voice well-balanced between a kind cordiality and a respectful reserve. I tell you I felt big there. (Laughter.) Let me tell you how I got to him; because every body can't get to him. He has to be a little guarded in admitting spectators. The manner in getting to him gave me an idea that the cause was rolling on. The stairway was crowded with applicants. Some of them looked eager; and I have no doubt some of them had a purpose in being there, and wanted to see the President for the good of the country! They were white, and I was the only dark spot among them, I expect to have to wait at least half a day; I have heard of men waiting a week; but in two minutes after I sent in my card, the messenger came out, and respectfully invited “Mr. Douglass" in. I could hear, in the eager multitude outside, as they saw me pressing and elbowing my way through, the remark, "Yes damn it, I knew they would let the nigger through," in a kind of despairing voice I-a Peace Democrat, I suppose. (Laughter.) When; I went in,. the President was sitting in his usual position, I was told, with his feet in different parts of the room, taking itif, easy. (Laughter.) Don't put this down, Mr. Reporter, I pray you; for I am going I down there again to-morrow. (Laughter.) As I came in and approached him, the. President began to rise, and he, continued to rise until he stood over me (laughter); and he reached out his hand and said, "Mr. Douglass, I know you: I have read about you,. and Mr. Seward has told me about yon: you;" putting me quite at ease at once.
Now you will want to know how. I was impressed by him. I will tell you that, too. He impressed; me as being just what every one of you have been in the habit of calling him-an honest man. (Applause.) I never met with a man, who, on the first blush, impressed me more entirely with his sincerity, with his devotion to his country, and with his determination to save it at all hazards. (Applause.) He told me (I think he did me more honor than I deserve.),) that I had made a little speech somewhere in New York, and it had got into the papers, and among the things I had said was this: That if I were called upon to state what I regarded as the most sad and must disheartening feature in our present political and military situation, sit would not be the various disasters experienced by our armies and our navies, on flood and field, but it would be: the tardy, hesitating and vacillating policy of the. President of the United States; and the President said to me, " Mr. Douglass, I have been charged with being tardy, and the like;" and he went on, and partly admitted that he might seem slow; but he said, " I am charged with vacillating; but, Mr. Douglass, I do not think that charge can be sustained; I think it cannot be shown that when I have once taken a position, I have ever retreated from it." (Applause.) That I regarded as the most significant point in what he said during our interview.' I told him that he had been somewhat slow in proclaiming equal protection to our colored soldiers and prisoners; and he said that the country needed talking up to that point. He hesitated in regard to it when he felt that the country was not ready for it. He knew that the colored man throughout this country was a despised man, a hated man, and he knew that if he at first came out with such a proclamation, all the hatred which is poured on the head of the negro race would be visited on his Administration. He said that there was preparatory work needed, and that that preparatory work had been done. And he added. " Remember this,. Mr. Douglass; remember that Milliken's Bend, Port Hudson, and Fort Wagner are recent events; and that these were necessary to prepare the way for this very proclamation of mine." I thought it was reasonable; but I came to the conclusion that while Abraham Lincoln will not go down to posterity as Abraham the Great, or as Abraham the Wise, or as Abraham the Eloquent, although he is all three, wise, great, and eloquent, he will go down to posterity, if it the country is saved, as Honest Abraham, (applause;) and going down thus, his name may be written anywhere in this wide world of ours side by side with that of Washington, without disparaging the latter. (Cheers.) 
But we are not to be saved by the captain this time, but by the crew. We are not to be saved by Abraham Lincoln, but by that power behind the throne, greater than the throne, itself. You and I and all of us have this matter m in hand. Men talk about saving the Union, and. restoring the Union as it was. They delude themselves with the miserable idea that that old Union can be brought to life again. That old Union, whose canonized bones we so quietly inurned under the shattered walls of Sumter, can never come to lite life again. It is dead, and you cannot put life into it. The first shot fired at the walls of Sumter caused it to fall as dead as the body of Julius Caesar when stabbed by Brutus. We do not want it. We have outlived the old Union. We had outlived it long before the rebellion came to tell us-I mean the Union under the old pro-slavery interpretation of it-and had become ashamed of it. The South hated it with our anti-slavery interpretation, and the North hated it with the Southern interpretation of its requirements. We had already come to think with horror of the idea of being called upon here in our churches and literary societies, to take up arms and go down South, and pour the leaden death into the breasts of the slaves, in case they should rise for liberty; and the better part of the people did not mean to do it, they. They shuddered at the idea of so sacrilegious a crime. They had already become utterly disgusted with the idea of playing the part of bloodhounds for the slave-masters, and watch-dogs for the plantations. They hat had come to detest the principle upon which the slave-holding States had a larger representation in Congress than the free States. They had bad come to think that the little finger of dear old John Brown was worth more to the world than all the slaveholders in Virginia put together. (Applause.) What business, then, have we to fight for the old Union? We are not fighting for it. We are fighting: for something incomparably better than the old Union. We are fighting for unity; unity of object, unity of institutions, in which there shall be no North, no South, m no East, no West, no black, no white, but a solidarity of the nation, making every slave free, and every free man a voter. (Great applause.)
<c05>
TRIBUTE TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
THE PRESIDENT-In 1830, when the great struggle was going on in England for the abolition of slavery in the West Indies, a young man made his appearance in London, and presented himself at the office of the Anti-Slavery Society, proposing to become a lecturer in the field. He was accepted, and went forth and most eloquently vindicated the right of the slave to his freedom, and held up to the abhorrence of the English people the sin and the shame of West India slavery. Having seen that struggle successfully through, and carried through signally by his own efforts, on invitation from me, I being on that side of the Atlantic at the time, he; generously turned his hack on his well-won popularity and brightening prospects, and came over to our country to plead the same cause, and for the same class of victims, essentially, to be redeemed from the horrors of slavery, and to help make our land free, great and glorious. He came over in 1834, and was mobbed and hunted like a partridge on the mountains, wherever he travelled. His words were irresistible; his eloquence was potent; and the enemies of emancipation knew full well that if he were permitted to have the ear of the people, he would sweep the whole country with the power of Niagara. And therefore they sought his life, so that it was with the greatest difficulty he got out of the country, and that his life was thereby saved.
In 1850, the same noble advocate of freedom ventured once more to come over to America, and make us a visit. He was then a member of Parliament, representing the Tower Hamlets, and his reception was in many respects indicative of a very great and cheering change in public sentiment. Still, he was dogged and hooted at, clamored down in public meetings, and every insult was heaped upon him by the enemies of emancipation.
The same individual contemplates coming to our, country in the course of the month, to begin the joyous new year with us, and to give us his congratulations in view of the progress of our glorious cause, and once more to look into the faces of his old friends. (Applause.) I therefore offer the following resolution to the meeting:-
Resolved, That this meeting, learning that it is the purpose of our honored and well tried trans atlantic friend and coadjutor, GEORGE THOMPSON, soon to re-visit this country, extends to him, in advance, fraternal welcome and warm congratulation; and, voluntarily consecrating himself as he has done, for nearly three years past, in the most generous, disinterested and self-sacrificing manner, to the service of our country and the support of the American government,, and to the work of thwarting the insidious machinations of rebel emissaries abroad, and stimulating the popular sentiment of England to proclaim its abhorrence of this accursed Slaveholders' Rebellion, and to compel the British government to withhold all recognition of the Southern Confederacy, we feel that we may assure him, in behalf of all loyal men in the country, a grateful recognition of his patriotic services and a flattering ovation wherever he may have an opportunity to address them.
The resolution was unanimously adopted.
TRIBUTE TO BENJAMIN LUNDY.
THE PRESIDENT During our meetings, our friends have been giving reminiscences; and if you will allow me, for a moment, to revert to the past, I will tell you how became an Abolitionist, that honor may be given to whom honor is due, to one whose memory ought to be preserved to the latest generation as the distinguished pioneer in this great struggle.
In 1827, I went to Boston, and edited a paper called The National Philanthropist. It was devoted to the cause of Temperance. Up to that hour, I had known little or nothing of slavery, as to the number of slaves held, or as to where they were held. So completely had the whole question been put out of sight, that I was almost wholly ignorant in respect to it. Among my exchange papers, I received a little dingy monthly periodical, called The Genius of Universal Emancipation published in the city of Baltimore, by Benjamin Lundy, a member of the Society of Friends. On reading it, my attention was instantly arrested, and my interest awakened. I was beginning to be initiated in the broad and good work of reform. As I read it, my heart was touched, and my understanding enlightened. I wrote for my paper a friendly notice of the publication, and again and again referred to it. After a little while, who should knock at the door of our house but Benjamin Lundy, from Baltimore, very desirous to see- me on an anti-slavery mission to Boston? Then I had an opportunity to become personally acquainted with him, and from his own lips to gain that information of which I was so destitute. He warmed my heart and fired my spirit; and I did at that time all I could to facilitate the object of his visit, by getting up anti-slavery meetings for him, obtaining subscribers for his paper, etc., etc. 
In 1828, I went to Bennington, Vermont, and edited a paper called The Journal of the Times, which was in part a political and in part a reformatory paper. When the gentlemen came to me from Vermont to see if I would edit the paper, they told me it was to be in favor of the election of John Quincy Adams as against Andrew Jackson; and as I was decidedly in favor of Mr. Adams, and had some distrust of military men, I could readily accede to their views. But I said Gentlemen, if I go, I must have the liberty of advocating in the columns of the paper the Anti-Slavery cause, the Temperance came, the Peace cause, and the cause of Moral Reform. It was a very singular kind of political paper; but they gave me carte blanche, and I agreed to undertake the enterprise. The anti-slavery feeling which I had imbibed in Boston was growing more and more in my soul, and I wrote more and more on that subject for my paper. The consequence was, that one day, who should present himself again at my door but Benjamin Lundy, of Baltimore? He bad taken his staff in hand, and travelled all the way to the Green Mountains. He came to lay it on my conscience and my soul, that I should join him in the work of seeking the abolition of slavery; and he so presented the case, with the growing disposition that I had to take hold of the cause, that I said to him, I will join you as soon an my engagement ends here; and then we will see what can be done,
The proposition upon his part was, that we should convert the little monthly into a large and handsome weekly paper. I was to be the principal editor, while he was to be a travelling editor and lecturer, for the purpose of diffusing information and getting subscribers. But I did not assist him a great deal in that way, because, as soon as I got to Baltimore, I had my eyes opened in regard to the absurdity and delusion of gradual emancipation; and I said to my friend Lundy, "If I join you now, I must hoist the banner of immediate, unconditional, everlasting emancipation."(Applause.) He said "Very well; write as you choose; and as you feel that yon must go for Immediate Emancipation, put your initials to your articles, and I will put my initials to mine; and then the readers will know how
<c06>
to divide the responsibility between us." To this I agreed. But I drove off subscribers four or five times as fast as he could get them! From the moment that the doctrine of Immediate Emancipation was enunciated in the columns of The Genius, as it had not been up to that hour, it was like a regular bombshell in the camp of the subscribers themselves; and from every direction letters poured in that they had not bargained for such a paper as that, or for such doctrines; and they desired to have no more copies sent to them. So that the experiment failed, and we had to separate. Benjamin Lundy took his paper, and had it transformed again into a little monthly, which afterwards passed from his hands, and became The Pennsylvania Freeman.
Now, if I have in any way, however humble done anything toward calling attention to the question of slavery or bringing about the glorious prospect of a complete jubilee in our country at no distant day, I feel that I owe everything in this matter, instrumentally, and under God, to Benjamin Lundy. For had it not been for him, I know not where I should have been at the present time. My eyes might have been sealed for my whole life-time, and possibly, though I trust in God I could not have been, I might have been led off in some direction or other so far as even to care nothing for slavery in our country. I feel it due to the memory of one who devoted so many years of his life so faithfully, so boldly, and with so few friends, to the anti-slavery cause, that I should state this reminiscence.
Mr. Garrison, after paying this tribute to Mr. Lundy, closed his address as follows:-
It has been very pleasant to me to see how united we have been all the way through this meeting; not one, apparently, disposed to censure anything said here in favor of universal liberty. It is very pleasant, indeed, to my spirit. Sometimes, I know, eggs and brickbats are to be preferred to popular good-will and approval. Sometimes, popular good-will and approval are to be preferred to rotten eggs and brickbats. Other things being equal, popular good-will and approval are preferable to brickbats and rotten eggs. As no principle has been compromised, as we have been faithful to our duty, as we have endeavored to remember those in bonds as bound with them, it is cheering to see this large assembly, and the tens and hundreds of thousands elsewhere, all mingling together, and forgetting the things that are behind, and pressing onward to the high mark of our calling, immediate and total emancipation. (Applause.)
Two or three questions, and I conclude: Do you wish to see this rebellion put down? (Voices, "Yes, yes.") What is it in this country that has rebelled? Is it freedom? (" No.") Then it is slavery that is in rebellion, is it not?("Yes") Are you for the abolition of slavery? ("Yes!") So am I; and it is a unanimous vote. Amen and amen! glory, hallelujah! (Applause.) In carrying this thing through, though at first it must be through the desolation of war, by the depravity and fiendish obstinacy of the South, carrying it through will not be to curse the South, but to bless her with freedom and free institutions, free speech, a free press, free men, and free laborers; to open the windows of heaven, and to cause God to pour down his blessings, so that there shall not be room to contain them. Oh, the glorious prospect beyond this war!-the glorious nope of thus repaying the South for her oppression, not with vengeance, but with love and good-will! We are struggling to save the slaveholders as men. We are struggling to redeem the slaves as men. In their redemption the land shall be redeemed, and God shall be our God, and peace shall be through all our domains from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and there shall be none to molest or to make afraid. Our work is before us, not completed, as has well and often been said to-day. It is going on We will not yield one jot or little; we will not grow weary until the work is completed.
ANNA E.DICKINSON followed with a glowing and eloquent appeal, of which, as we have no adequate report, we will not attempt to give a sketch. Suffice it to say, that she was received with great enthusiasm, and that her remarks gave great pleasure to the crowded assembly.
The Society then adjourned sine die.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Of the distinguished gentleman, who so lately charmed our citizens by his oratory, we have a word to say. That Mr. Phillips is one of the most eloquent men of our country-the most eloquent, we think- few, even of those who denounce him, will deny. Those who have simply read his speeches, but have never seen his face or listened to the tones of his voice, are illy prepared to do him justice. His recorded language often seems severe-perhaps vituperative and unkind, but his spoken language never. None but those the most besotted with bigotry, while candidly listening to his discourse, can fail to be impressed with his singular honesty, his simplicity of purpose his clearness of statement, his purity of style, his quietness of manner, his desire to he just, his anxiety to be understood, and the kindness of spirit which in spires and animates him. In these respects it seen to us he can scarcely fail to disarm criticism. Nor do we believe Mr. Phillips is insensible, to praise or the good opinion of his fellow -men. His object is to awaken thought, to convince those who hear him, and to win them over, by fair means, to his own standpoint and his own views. He desires to be thought well of, but only as the result of deserving to be thus thought of. Such, we think, is Wendell Phillips before a candid audience; one of God's noblest offspring, one of the purest-minded of men, one who tries to be true to his own convictions, and one who would scorn to misrepresent or do an art of willful injustice to an opponent.
In relation to the justice of Mr. Phillips's criticism upon President Lincoln and his plan of reconstruction, we confess, at present, an inability to pronounce an intelligible judgment. While we understand Mr. P. to differ from the President, we do not understand him to censure or condemn him. He ranks Mr. Lincoln so high on the roll of fame that be can afford to be told of his errors. It seems to us those who complain of Mr. Phillips, because he does not accord to Abraham Lincoln those different, but not conflicting qualities of statesmanship, seldom or never found in the same man, are singularly unreasonable. He does not consider Mr. Lincoln a man to strike off far ahead, and wait for public sentiment to come up to him, like Jackson, but in putting him in that more cautions, calm, careful class who study the winds, and currents, the shoals and reefs, the charts and the compass, and shape their course according to these, he certainly puts him into the same class with Washington; and who needs convincing that while Washington would not have answered as well for the nullification of '32 as Jackson, the latter, with his spirit of defiance, would never have moulded the elements evolved by the Revolution into a homogeneous and prosperous Union?
We do not believe that Jackson would have, been the man for March 4th, 1861,-without antecedent
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for front its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF the united states, but the commander of the army IIAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war power of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed. to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and Martial power takes the place of them. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMN.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
fame, and with a powerful party ready to suspect his every motive, to thwart his every puropose, and to oppose his every movement,—to guide the Ship of State through the storm that then caused its mutterings to be heard, and its lurid lightning to be seen from the horizon to the zenith. The place for Jackson in this rebellion was Nov. 1860, when South Carolina commenced to ”scrape lint," and secession developed its dark purposes. He would have trampled out with his iron foot the sprouts of that seed which a weak if not wicked Executive chief had suffered to be scattered broadcast over the land. 
On the question of reconstruction, we think Mr. Phillips entertains exaggerated fears. If the rebellion should suddenly collapse, and the leaden be se-cured or flee the country, there would be more danger than we think is now to be justly apprehended. Then the slavery question would be a vexed one indeed, with two millions of slaves not free in fact, and with copperhead judges on the bench, and with weak, timid and doubting men in the loyal ranks, no foresight can determine what kind of a solution of the slavery problem we should have, how long the sore would fester, how much the ulcer would be skinned and salved over, or how soon the unrestricted roots of the cancer upon the- vitals of the body politic would gain each progress as to make another civil war inevitable But the probabilities are very small of such a sudden termination of the rebellion; and more reasonable than this hypothesis is the supposition that the rebels themselves, before they give over, in their madness and rage will themselves declare for emancipation.—with a hope of enlisting their slaves on the side of rebellion, and thus cut the Gordian knot and solve the question of slavery forever, leaving no room far theory, for experiment, or for discussion in the matter.
Mr. Phillips sees, as all must see, the danger to free institutions of having the Southern soil all owned by a small number of slaveholding planters: and he looks upon the confiscation act as the fitting instrument by which the large plantations of the rebels would be divided up for the benefit of those loyal men, white and black, who have fought and are fighting for the nation's salvation. He fears that, under the Amnesty policy of the President, the owners of these plantations may all come back to exert the unhallowed influence upon the future that is to be expected from such ownership. While we admit the possibility of danger which Mr. Phillips thinks he plainly discovers, we think be does not give sufficient prominence to an important fact, to wit: that the persons excepted from the provisions of the amnesty proclamation—the military officers, above the grade of Colonel, the members of the rebel Congress and Cabinet, and those who hold high civil offices, State and Confederate, in rebeldom—are very largely from the ranks of the planters and large landholders; so that from this cause, as well as from the fact that others are within the rebel lines with no intention of returning, or have been slain in battle or died of casualties and sicknesses incident to the war, there is likely to be a very large proportion of the plantations of the South to be divided and subdivided precisely as Mr. Phillips would have them. 
We have not space to pursue this train of thought. We will say, however, in conclusion, that we. go the whole length with Mr. Phillips for using the thunderbolts forged in the furnace of rebellion, and forced into our hands for the destruction of that accursed social system which has been the prolific mother of all our national sufferings and sorrows. We know that a wise man should provide against not only probable but possible evils, and the fact that such evils as Mr. Phillips contemplates may arise under the plan of the President, is a sufficient reason for looking well into the matter, and wisely providviding against such a contingency. For this and other reasons, while we do not know exactly to what extent we agree with Mr. Phillip's notion, we thank him, in behalf of the men who think, for his masterly effort on Thursday evening last.—Portland State Press. 

COLORED TALENT AHD ELOQUENCE. 
NEW YORK, Jan. 6, 1864. 
To the Editor of the Dover Morning Star:-
Since returning from Pennsylvania, I have attended two very important and interesting meetings of the negroes at Cooper Institute. I cannot follow the style of some in denominating these men Africans, for they are Americans by birth, and not a few—such are the freaks of the peculiar institution—by blood. 
On the evening of the 1st inst., a Ratification meeting was held. Let me quote from the programme:—" The greatest array of talented colored gentlemen ever brought together in this country will grace the platform in Cooper Institute Hall, on New Year's night—it being the Nation's great birth-day—the day when Abraham Lincoln made good his promise to the abettors of the Slaveholders' rebellion, that if they did not cease to disturb the peace of the country, be would write the Death-Warrant of slavery, and proclaim liberty to 3,723,000 bond children, and thereby lay the foundation of perpetual liberty in this country-the day when King Cotton was dethroned. We will ratify that deed of Emancipation and keep sacred that day, that our children may tell it to their children's children, and the generations following, what the people's President did to redeem this nation—what the people's Congress did for the District of Columbia-and what Americans are doing for Humanity." Let the reader peruse this quotation again, and then thank God for our good father Abraham. But the heading of the programme was also significant:—"COLORED MEN, YOUR COUNTRY CALLS YOU! To ARMS!! Save the Country! Sustain the Government!” Such a meeting as this makes every loyal man proud of black Americans. It likewise makes  Copperheads tremble. The proceeds of this New Year Assembly were devoted to the great educational movement of this country among the blacks-Wilberforce University in Ohio—and to sending teachers and books to the freedmen, and reading matter to the negro soldiers.
The meeting of the 4th inst. was a Jubilee of the American Freedmen's Friend Society. In its character and aims, it was very similar to the Ratification meeting of the 1st inst 
These meetings were addressed chiefly by negro orators. Rev. Drs. Bellows, Cheever and Boole participated in them, however, and were each received with immense applause by the audience, which, of course, consisted almost entirely of blacks. But every body knows enough of these pale-faced orators, and so I will let them alone to speak of the ”dark and shady” speakers, just saying as I drop the ”whites," that letters of hearty good-will and generous sympathy were read from Hon. Charles Sumner and Gov. Andrew, of Mass. 
The principal black speakers were Rev. Henry H. Garnet, Rev. Henry M. Wilson, Rev. R. H. Cain, Prof. W. H. Day, and Dr. Randolph. Mr. Garnet will be recollected as the framer of that series of grateful and truly eloquent resolutions, addressed to those who befriended the negroes in the July riot. He presided at the Ratification meeting. I shall not soon forget how felicitously be introduced the exercises, by lining for us John Brown's favorite human:- 
"Blow ye the trumpet, blow," &c. 
The entire assembly sang it with a will. After prayer by Chaplain French, the chairman proceeded to show how completely all fancied objections to Mr. Lincoln's proclamation had been swept away by its practical workings among both the blacks and whites. And Mr. G. referred most touchingly to the conduct of the colored troops at Fort Wagner and Port Hudson, and then in a patriotic strain to the alacrity with which the negro regiments were being recruited. Mr. Wilson read a series of appropriate resolutions, and seconded them by some earnest and practical remarks. He urged that black men must respect them selves, before they can be respected by others. He had as much occasion to be thankful to God for a black face as any Anglo-Sax-on for a white one, and be felt proud of his color and race. Let the black man lift up his head, and believing that God had created him for his glory, proceed to work out his destiny, and give proof of his manhood, and all nations will rejoice to recognize and respect him. 
Prof. Day had just returned from Europe, after an absence of several years. He proceeded to speak of the striking changes in American society since he left this, his native land. Mr. D. is one of the most easy and eloquent speakers I have ever heard. He holds and sways his audience so beautifully, because so naturally and almost unconsciously. He speaks English as purely, and understands “putting things" as <illegible> as our first American orators. He is an educated and thoroughly refined man, and calculated to do much toward lifting his unfortunate race into distinction and <illegible>
<c02>
But I must refer to another. The strongest and most eloquent address made at these meetings was by Rev. R. H. Cain, of Brooklyn. When he took his seat, amid the deafening uproar of applause, I involuntarily said to a gentleman at my right, There is our black Beecher! This man made some excellent points, and was keenly appreciated. He wanted negroes to stop grumbling, and go to fighting for the Union. But his peculiar power and eloquence were brought out in the stress which he laid upon educating his race. He said,” Man is not free until the mind is free;” and ”I depend more upon the moral and intellectual education of my race for its exaltation, than upon anything else." He showed most conclusively how letters and morals were to lift the black man up. And for this great educationary effort, black teachers were demanded. He spoke of the faculty of Wilberforce University as leaders in the work of elevation. He referred most eloquently to the scene at the White House when the committee of negroes called upon the President recently. I never listened to a more eloquent address from any man's lips. 
Patriotic national airs were sung, and a negro band discoursed sweet music. A negro lady presided at the piano, and did herself credit. Policemen were thickly stationed about and around the hall; but our Governor's “friends” made no demonstrations. I wish all the Copperheads in the North had been at these two meetings. The ”elect" must have been converted.  J. L. P.
 
The Liberator. 
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1864.

"HIS SOUL IS MARCHING ON."
We understand that FREDERICK BROWN,' Esq., the youngest brother of the heroic and historic John Brown, has been recommended by the most prominent Anti-Slavery members of Congress, (in connection with whom, we are pleased to see the name of Brutus J. Clay, member of Congress from Kentucky,) for the position of Superintendent of the Government Colony of Freedmen at Arlington Heights, and he will undoubtedly receive the appointment. 
Mr. Brown is a man of great practical experience as an agriculturist and business manager; and as he has always shared in, and deeply sympathized with, the convictions for which his brother sacrificed his life, the appointment is one eminently fit to be made. In a short time, a Freedman's Bureau will be organized either in the War or Treasury Departments, under which Superintendents of the Freedmen in the several States will be appointed. It is supposed that the Government will be induced to appoint Mr. Brown as Superintendent for the State of Virginia. 
It will be a signal act of poetic justice, that he should be entrusted with the welfare of the freedmen of a State, for making an effort for whose liberation, as slaves, his brother suffered a felon's doom not five years ago, at the hands of those who, to-day, are outlaws and felons, not only from our Government, but from the sentiment of the civilized world. 
Thus the world does move; and in view of this and other glorious facts, the eloquent words of Wendell Phillips seem more prophetic than we dared to hope when he said,—"It is not impossible that Virginia herself, clothed and in her right mind, may yet beg of New York the dust of John Brown, for some marble mausoleum at Richmond, as repentant Florence, robed in sackcloth, begged of Ravenna the dust of that outlawed Dante, whom a century before she ordered to be burned alive." 

FRATERNITY LECTURES. 
On Tuesday evening last, the supplementary course of four lectures, given this year by the Parker Fraternity, commenced in the Music Hall. The announcement promised music for three-quarters of an hour upon the Great Organ, but this part of the performance continued an hour, in consequence of an accidental detention of the lecturer. The music, by Mr. Lang, was of a pleasing and varied character, displaying various modifications of power and sweetness in the instrument, and helping the vast audience to wait patiently for the chief attraction of the evening. 
The lecture was given by George William Curtis, of New York, and his subject was ”Thackeray." 
Commencing with a statement in regard to the practical usefulness of writings which proceed from and address the imagination, and referring to the Pilgrim's Progress, ”that Sunday Robinson Crusoe," as a shining example among them, Mr. Curtis proceeded to speak of that eminent writer of fiction, just gone from the ranks of English authorship. 
Mr. Curtis confessed that be approached his subject with some trepidation, knowing that the kinder sex is accustomed to mistrust Thackeray, and to reproach him as a calumniator of women. The lecturer thought this opinion not well founded, and proceeded to give incidents, new and old, in that writer's history, which seemed to show a genial character and a tender heart. He also claimed that the very writings which had brought upon Thackeray the reproach of cynicism might receive, with justice, a more favorable interpretation; and he appealed to various of the characters there delineated, in evidence that their author neither avoided the good side of human nature, nor exaggerated in his descriptions of the evil. 
Moreover, the corruptions of high life in English society imperatively demanded the interposition of some writer with eye keen enough to pierce through their shams, and a heart bold enough to face the reproach that would follow exposure of them. Thackeray had that eye and that heart, and bravely undertook the work. Society shuddered at his life-like pictures of its corruption, and the soul of the flunky had no rest while he lived. Mr. Curtis believed, however, that there was no malice in these delineations; that life and manners were shown in those pages but as they actually existed; and that the evil traits therein were drawn not with pleasure, but with pain. He thought, moreover, that the congregation which for years had worshipped in that very Hall had heard the same truths taught in the same way; and that the Sunday preacher here, as the week-day preacher there, had alike taken the inevitable stand which Martin Luther took at Worms, when he said—" Here I stand! I can do no other! God help me!” The vices attacked by all these men had existed in actual life before they were lashed in description. 
In Thackeray's new grave, the lecturer thought, the accusation of misanthropy should be buried. To us Americans, to us in the midst of a war provoking foreign complications, his death comes like a message of conciliation and peace, as we remember that his language was ours, and that his countrymen are our brothers.
The lecture was heard by a very large audience, and with that deep attention which Mr. Curtis always commands. The next lecture will be given in the same place, next Tuesday evening, by Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, preceded by a concert on the Organ.—-C. K. W.

CONSCIENCE VS. THE COMMUNICATION TAX.
On our last page may be found a letter from our highly esteemed friend, ALFRED H. LOVE, of Philadelphia, characterized by a sweet and excellent spirit and rare ingenuousness; in which be cordially states his reasons why, when drafted, he could neither serve as a soldier nor hire a substitute, nor even pay the &800 commutation tax. He also states in what manner he was treated by the examining officers, which, certainly, was anything but creditable to them. Though finally exempted by reason of near-sighted ness, he refused to present this defect as a reason why he should be excused from serving, for the reasons set forth in his letter. The question is an important one, especially to all peace men (not copperheads) liable to be drafted, and deserves to be carefully considered in all its bearings Read the letter. 
<c03>
THIRD DECADE PAMPHLET. 
At the recent Third Decade Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY in Philadelphia, a Committee was appointed to superintend the publication of the Proceedings of that Meeting, with any other interesting matter appertaining thereto, in a pamphlet form. That Committee would now state that the funds raised at said meeting, after defraying the local expenses and the cost of reporting, afford but a trifling balance towards the pamphlet. It is accordingly necessary to request the members and friends of the Society, and all persons interested in the publication of the pamphlet, to inform the Committee the number of copies they will individually subscribe for. This will enable the Committee to decide whether or not to proceed with the pamphlet-edition. Subscriptions may be sent to SAMUNJ, MAY, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston; and it is earnestly requested that early responses may be made. The exact price per copy cannot now be fixed, but subscribers will have their copies at actual cost, to the extent of the sum contributed by each, if desired—probably three copies for one dollar. It will be a pamphlet of historical interest and value. Friends, secure its publication! 
TO THE WOMEN OF THE REPUBLIC. 
Think not, in circulating the Petition, that your work will soon be forgotten. The hundreds of names gathered by you in wandering weary miles, are not to be thrown away with waste paper-laid on the table or under the table—but all are to be preserved in the national archives as a part of our history. 
The names of the members of the ”Women's Loyal National League," the sums of money expended, the extensive correspondence with the women of the nation will all be bound up in book form. Every one of the thousands of letters from loyal women, demanding freedom to all, will be preserved for the admiration of our children's children. 
This is not a movement for a day or an hour, to end with the circulation of the petition; but the inauguration of the moral power of woman to be recognized in the politics of the nation. Our influence must be felt in the next Presidential campaign, in the re-construction of the new government. Remember, the right of petition is the only political right we have under the Constitution. By our zeal and earnestness in the use of that in this crisis of our destiny, let us prove ourselves worthy of more enlarged privileges and immunities in the new republic. 
One hundred thousand names are already registered in our office, Room 20 Cooper Institute, New York. It takes nine hundred thousand more to complete the million. So work on, and thus secure for yourselves a glorious immortality. 
E. CADY STANTON, 
President Women's Loyal National League.
IMPORTANT PETITION TO CONGRESS.
The following is the form of a Petition adopted in compliance with a vote of the late Thirtieth Anniversary Meeting at Philadelphia, and which has been approved by leading anti-slavery persons of various parties and denominations. The subject is one of vital moment; and the exigencies of the time point to this action as absolutely necessary to a speedy, honorable, and safe conclusion of the war. We ask our friends and readers, one and all, to interest themselves and those around them in the immediate and extensive circulation of this Petition. It is so brief that it may readily be copied at the head of a letter sheet, or printed copies may be obtained by applying to either of the anti-slavery offices in Philadelphia, (106 North Tenth street,) New York, (48 Beekman street,) or Boston, (221 Washington street.) Let the action be prompt and vigorous. Those who have already signed the Loyal Women's Petition need not hesitate to sign this also, is the two, though in harmony, are not identical. Friends! let the word be Immediate! Not an hour is to be lost. 
When the signing is completed, let the Petition be forwarded at once to some reliable member of Congress, or, if preferred, to one of the above-named offices, where it will receive prompt attention. 
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled: 
The undersigned, citizens of————, believing 
Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country. 
MEN | WOMEN.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for February, presents the following list of articles:—Genius, by J. Brownlee Brown; My Brother and I, by J. T. Trow-bridge; A Half-Life and Half a Life, by Miss E. H. Appleton; On the Relation of Art to Nature, by J. Eliot Cabot; Snow, by Mrs. Elizabeth Akers; House and Home Papers, by Harriet Beecher Stowe; the Convulsionists of St. Medard, by Robert Dale Owen; Presence, by Alice Cary; Glacial Period, by Louis Agassiz; Bryant, by George S. Hillard; Annesley Hall and Newstead Abbey, by Mrs. Waterston; Northern Invasions, by Edward. Everett Hale. Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields, publishers. 
CONTINENTAL MONTHLY FOR FEBRUARY. Contents:—Thomas Jefferson, as Seen by the Light of 1863, by J. Sheldon; The English Press, by Nicholas Rowe, of London; The Treasury Report and Mr. Secretary Chase, by Hon. F. P. Stanton; Aspiro, a Fable; The Red Man's Plea; Buckle, Draper and a Science of History, by E. B. Freeland; Diary of Frances Krasinska; Petroleum, by Rev. S. M. Eaton; The Angels of War; A Tragedy of Error; Nos Amis les Cosaques, by M. Heilprin; Was He Successful, by Richard B. Kimball; The Andes, by Wm. G. Dix; National Friendships; North and South, by Charles W. Butler; Literary Notices; Editor's Table. 
The terms to Clubs for 1864 are two copies for one year, $5; three copies for one year, $6; six copies for one year, $11; eleven copies for one year, $20; twenty copies for one year, $36. 
THE ANTI-TOBACCO JOURNAL, for January and February, has been received. The contents are as follows:—Progress of the Cause; Memoranda of my War on Tobacco; Our Generals and Subaltern Officers; Jesse Shute and his First Cigar; Smoking vs. Intellect; Tobacco injures the Articulation; A Specimen of Testimony from Physicians; The Wreck of Gifted Mind; Quaint old Temperance Poem; Street Smoking; Our Old Family Horse Dead; Look out for Masked Batteries; Letters from Patrons; The Honest Rumseller; Moderate Drinking; The Drunkard's Tree; Respectable Dram Shops; One way of Manufacturing Snuff; Temperance and Anti-Tobacco Books,&c.;• Poisons in Ale, Beer and Porter. 
TRIBUNE ALMANAC. The Tribune Almanac for 1864 is received. Its value as a political vade mecum is fully equal to its predecessors. Among the contents of this number, besides the usual Astronomical Calculations, are, a list of the members of the Government, of Ministers, Envoys, &c.; a political classification of members of Congress; condensation of Acts of the last Session of Congress; wholesale prices in New York for seventeen years; cost of the Government for two years past; Army, Navy, and Public Debt; "Shrinkage of the Rebellion”; the rebel government and finances; table of events of 1868; State election returns for 1863, compared with former elections votes of U. S. soldiers in 1861,1862 and 1863; European complications; Presidential vote by States in 1862,1866,and 1860; and other important and interesting matter. Price, single copies 15 cents; ten for $1,00; one hundred for $8,00. Address the Tribune Association, New York. 
<c04>
JUSTICE TO THE COLORED TROOPS. 
In an editorial article in the New York Tribune, a few days since, on the pay of colored troops, and the duty of Congress to pay off all arrearages, by an act which shall, at the same time, put all troops, white and black, on an equal footing for the future, the following statistics are given:- 
“The 54th Massachusetts left home May 28,1868. The regiment has lost 39 killed in battle. 20 by disease, 155 wounded, 115 missing (prisoners) When these men enlisted, they were promised $13 a month, and the usual allowances for clothing. Now mark: Every man who died in battle, or by disease, died actually in debt to the Government. For clothing which they wore, the Government charged them more than it paid them for their services, and the men who gave their lives to the country in the memorable assault on Fort Wagner, are brought in debt on the quartermaster’s accounts for the uniforms which the rebels stripped from their bodies after death. This regiment now asks to be paid from the date of its enrollment, or to be mustered out of the service. The 1st North Carolina enlisted also on the understanding that they were to have the same pay as white soldiers. They have been seven months in the service, and the average amount charged to each man for clothing is $51, leaving $19 due to each for the whole term of enlistment—less than $3 a month. And there are due and unpaid to the regiment about $30,000 for work done in the Quartermaster's Department in North Carolina before they enlisted. 
The 3d U. S. Colored Volunteers has lost nine men killed in battle, each one of whom is charged with $30 worth of clothing, and credited with half that amount as pay. Each dies in debt to the government, leaving no bounty, or pension, or provision of any kind for his family. Of the eighteen men who died from disease, the same is true; and the clothing issued to those living has absorbed more than four-fifths of their pay. 
The 55th Massachusetts has been in service since June, 1863. The average amount of clothing charged to each man is $53, and there remained due to each for seven months' service $17. And in every regiment of colored troops now in the United States service, whether raised North or South, substantially the same state of facts exists." 
How is this injustice to be stopped? One thing has been done in the South against it, and it remains to be seen whether the people of the North will make protest, either in behalf of their own regiments, or of the colored soldiers at large. 
In December last, the War Department authorized Gen. Gillmore to enlist and organize all the colored troops that can be raised within his Department, offering them the same inferior compensation now granted to colored troops, namely: ten dollars per month, less three dollars for clothing. According to direction, Gen. Gillmore has promulgated this order, and appointed Col. Littlefield Superintendent of the recruiting service. But before proceeding to raise men upon these unworthy terms, he has sent Col. Littlefield to Washington, urging that Congress pass an act (retrospective as well as prospective) giving to colored troops, from the date of their enlistment, the same pay and allowances as to white soldiers. 
The Tribune well remarks that it is not enough to pass such a bill as has already been introduced into the House, providing only for future pay. The colored regiments had a right to be addressed and treated, from the beginning, like other soldiers. Instead of this, un just and opprobrious terms were offered to them. The patience, self-control and self-respect which they have shown under these trying circumstances have been in. the highest degree creditable to them. No man can say that they are not amply justified, after waiting thus long in vain for a recognition of their rights as men and as soldiers, in demanding either full pay, with the rank and consideration allowed to other soldiers, or an honorable discharge from the service. 
The book of Revelation tells us that the church of Laodicea was rejected, and its pretended discipleship deemed worthless, because it was neither cold nor hot; because it stood midway between God and the Devil, taking no active part on either side. Our Government takes a position not unlike this toward the colored soldiers, coldly asking them to stand on its side, but giving them no inducement, either of sympathy or interest, sufficient to make friends of them, and engagement their hearty co-operation in the national cause. Constant half-measures, constant insufficiency and luke-warmness are still postponing our triumph over the rebellion.—C. K.W. 
On this humiliating subject, we give below a sensible, manly letter from a colored soldier connected with the 54th regiment:-
CAMP NEAR WHITE HOUSE, FOLLY ISLAND, 
(S. C.) Jan. 18, 1864.)  
To the Editor of the Liberator:- 
SIR,—After an absence of several months in the field, I feel it my duty to inform you of some facts in regard to our regiment. We are here on Folly Island, as you will see by my heading. Since we have been here, our duty has been fatigue, almost continually. 
The first thing that suggests itself to me is the kindness of the State of Massachusetts in offering to make up to us the amount which we enlisted for, and which is withheld from us by the United States. We earnestly hope that it will not be thought, by the State of Massachusetts, that we refused the money for any motive other than that we desire, at this crisis, the recognition of our rights as men and as soldiers. Sorry am I to say, that we have been considered in capable of acting for ourselves long enough; and as it stands, we are even now not equalized with other troops in the field—as is seen in the taking of officers, or rather sergeants from white regiments, and making them captains, lieutenants, &c. over us, when there are large numbers of our men who are more capable even, in every respect, to be commissioned officers, than those, or a great portion of those who are coming in continually. I do not state this as mere hearsay, for I know it to be a fact; and, sir, we think and hope that these matters, however small they may appear to some, will be looked into. We, as a race, have been trodden down long enough. Are we, who have come into the field of bloody conflict, and left our quiet homes the same as white men, for the sake of our country, and to beat down the rebellion—are we to be put down lower than these, many of whom have not en listed with as good motives as we have? If we have men in our regiments who are capable of being officers, why not let them be promoted the same as other soldiers?
I hope, sir, that you will urge this matter, as I am well aware that you are on our side, and always have done for us all in your power to help our race.
I remain, yours,  S. J. R.
55th Regiment Mass. Volunteer Infantry.
Our colored soldiers of the 54th and 55th will not accept the additional pay offered them by Massachusetts. They say, and they say correctly, that they are soldiers of the United States, and claim to be treated like other members of an honorable service.— Boston Traveller. 
Officers are wanted for colored regiments. Why not give commissions in those regiments to colored men? There are intelligent, educated, capable colored men enough in the United States to officer every regiment of the kind in the federal service. Conquer your prejudices, and the conquest of the enemy will be effected all the sooner, and with much less of cost to us poor whites who have to pay the taxes. Why object to the colored race being killed a little for the benefit of our pockets?—Ibid. 
LETTER FROM MR. SUMNER. At the celebration of the anniversary of the issuing of the Emancipation Proclamation in New York city, the following letter from Senator Sumner was read:- 
WASHINGTON, Dec. 18, 1863. 
GENTLEMEN: It will not be in my power to be present at your festival in honor of the Emancipation proclamation. But wherever I may be, I shall celebrate it in my heart. 
That Proclamation was the key to open the way to victory and peace. Without it, victory would have been doubtful, and peace would have been impossible. And now both are certain. 
Accept my best wishes, and believe me, gentlemen, faithfully yours,  CHARLES SUMNER. 
THE FREEDMEN'S ADVOCATE. This is the title of a new paper just started In New York. It is devoted to the interests of the Freedmen., and promises to render efficient aid in that field of labor. 
<c05>
LETTER TO A REPRESENTATIVE.
SPRINGFIELD, (Vt.) Jan. 19,1864. 
How. JUSTIN S. MORRILL, Washington, D. C.
DEAR SIR,—As the Constitution and laws of our country guarantee the right of the humblest individual to address the highest functionary of the government, I take the liberty, as one of the humblest of your constituents, to submit a few thoughts and suggestions in regard to passing events, and especially as to the action of Congress at its present session, and the policy to be adopted in regard to the Rebel States, and the landless, homeless, penniless, and almost friendless and unprotected four millions of the only universally loyal citzens of our country. And, it may be, on that policy hang the destiny and well-being of the nation for ages to come, more than on all the battles that have been won or lost. 
I am an ”ultra Abolitionist," and for twenty-nine years have voted but twice with either of the two great political parties that have divided and distracted the country—in 1840 and 1860; and then, not because I believed a change in the administration would be much gain to the cause of human liberty, but because, no change would make matters much worse; and but for the force of circumstances in the latter period, I was not mistaken. But, whether the suggestions I may make be wise or foolish, time will disclose. If the latter, I shall escape much notice or censure by my humble position in life. If the former, I shall at least fare no worse than the” poor man," as related in Holy Writ,” who by his wisdom saved the city invested by a great army." 
Repeal all laws requiring or authorizing the return of the flying fugitive to bondage, especially that satanic and most infamous and execrable of laws ever enacted by human authority, civilized or savage, ycleped the Fugitive Slave Law. 
We have heaped curses and execrations by the million upon the crowned heads of Europe, because they had the power, more than because they used it, to oppress their subjects. We have been guilty, and are still guilty of oppression and injustice to a portion of our fellow-men, as no other nation ever was; and now, in the day of our calamity visited upon us by the stern decree of Providence, that whatever measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again, we are daily expressing our surprise and astonishment that these same crowned heads do not sympathize with us. How could they ?—they who say this administration stood pledged, as no previous one ever did, to sustain slavery in its present limits, and to” crush with an iron hand” any attempt of the bondman to strike for liberty! How can the President, how can members of Congress, how can you, kind and honored sir, sleep upon your pillow with the certain knowledge that almost daily, in sight of the Capitol surmounted by the emblem of Liberty, men are sent into interminable bondage under that damnable Fugitive Slave Law? Excuse the term—I use it for want of a stronger. 
But our danger, and our greatest danger, in the future, lies in being drifted upon a lee shore on the sand of expediency or compromise. The President's proclamation of amnesty is very ominous of such a result, and bodes little good to the country, and less to the bondman. What confidence can the President or the nation have in a slaveholder's oath, extorted by self- interest, after he has spent all his strength, lost all his money, and is cast upon the world, like a felon as he is, to be hated by all living, and without a mourner when dead? 
In restoring these rebels to their old status, the President makes but one condition,—an oath of allegiance!—and but one exception,—their slaves. The former is worth no more than the devil's promise to the Savior; and the latter, if abandoned by the government, will depend upon the strong arm of the slave; and in that case, may God send them a Tous-saint, or a Dessalines, to carve a gateway for their deliverance through the time-hardened walls of the Southern Bastile! 
It does seem to me that any man who has a heart must bewail the President's silence as to any provision for these millions of landless, houseless and penniless outcasts, in their transition state. He does not even give them the floorless cabins they occupied while in slavery; and will these pardoned rebels have any pity on the black man when free, or respect for the government that gave him liberty? The man is a fit tenant for the mad-house who believes it. Confiscate every foot of rebel land, or, at least, enough to give every slave a homestead; and let the government provide tools, but, above all, teachers and books, and-a million bayonets for their protection. Who can call in question the justice or the policy of this? The unpaid toil of the slaves, for the last seventy years, at compound interest, would pay for the whole Slave States, and all the property of every description in them twenty-five times over! 
Honored sir, I assure you I have written this with no unkind feelings to you. Far from it You are our honored Representative’ from a State, which, for patriotism and moral worth, has no superior. But I think the national rulers greatly at fault, that they do not now, while they have the power, remove the CAUSE of all our national calamities.
Give every slave a piece of land, a book and a rifle, —aye, and a right to vote too,—and rebels and copperheads will stand no better chance of again controling the destinies of the nation than the devil and his angels did in maintaining their war in heaven. 
With these remarks, I leave the subject, wishing you a long and happy life, the government a speedy triumph, and every slave a free man, which, though on the downhill side of 82, I still hope to see.
JESSE STEDMAN.
 
THE PRESIDENT AND THE RECONSTRUCTION POLICY-—LINCOLN THE NEXT PRESIDENT. 
WEST RANDOLPH, (Vt.) Jan. 1,1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
Mr.FRIEND—One year ago to-day, by the Presidential proclamation, over three millions of American slaves were made forever free, and the military and naval power of the United States was pledged to maintain their freedom. Over one hundred thousand of the free negroes are now employed in the military, naval and civil service of the government that freedom them. 
In his recent message, the President has presented to the rebel States a plan by which they can return to the Union, and be received as integral portions of the American Republic. The only question which, as Abolitionists, we are to ask in regard to the reconstruction policy is—Does it insure freedom to those made free by the proclamation, and by acts of Con-gress, and to their posterity; and does it prevent the rebel States from entering the Republic as slave States? To this question an affirmative answer, alone, can be truly given. The President makes this pledge: ”I shall not retract nor modify the emancipation proclamation; nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of the proclamation, or by any act of Congress." No State government that may be formes forme I in any of the rebel States is to be received into the Union, unless such government” shall recognize and declare the permanent freedom" of those made free by the proclamation and by acts of Congress. The oath to be taken, subscribed to and registered, by the returning rebels, binds them” to abide by and faithfully support all proclamations of the President, made during the rebellion, having reference to slaves," and” all acts of Congress passed daring the existing rebellion, with reference to slaves." In the clause of the proclamation in regard to the restoration of confiscated property, ”slaves are eecepted." Not one, raised from the condition of a chattel to that of a man by any act of Congress, or by the proclamation, is to be restored to any claimant as property. The re-established State government," in any of the rebel States, ”must be republican, and in no wise contravene the said cath," before it can be received into the Union; i.e., the Constitution of the returning State must secure permanent freedom to all
<c06>
made free by the proclamation, and by any set of Congress"—and to their posterity. 
As to who shall vote in the construction of the new State governments, neither the President nor congress has a right to decide. The States, alone, are to decide on the qualifications of voters. Meantine, the proclamation declares that when one-tenth of the voters of 1860, in any State, shall reconstruct a State government on the basis of freedom, and excluding slavery, and apply for admission into the Union, they will be received. 
But the whole reconstruction policy, so far as it relates to slavery, is to be subjected to the decision of Congress and of the Supreme Court. It is said that the policy admits that these departments of the government have power to declare null, and void the proclamation and the acts of Congress freeing the slaves, and to reenslave; them. Have Congress and the Court the constitutional power to modify or annual the proclamation of the President and acts of Congress giving freedom to the slaves, in the rebel States, and to enslave them? While Congress and the Court may have power to sit in judgments on the civil and militury acts of the President, yet it will never be assumed that the Congress, or Court of the United States ever did or ever can have power to reenslave any person made free by the constitutional action of the president or of Congress. To attempt to reenslave those made free by the proclamation, or by any act of Congress, would indeed be, as the President says, ”a cruel and astounding breach of faith."
Such seems, to me to be the clear and defined meaning of the reconstructive policy. No rebel State can ever return to the Union with slavery. <illegible> , Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina and North Carolina, can never come into the Union again, except as free States. For this consummation Abolitionists have labored, and given up their all, for thirty Years. We have the assurance that, while Lincoln remains in his present position,” not one will be returned to slavery who is made free by the terms of the  proclamation or by any of the acts of Congress
Are the people of the loyal States prepared to keep Lincoln in his present position, and aid him in keeping the above pledge, and in carrying out the reconstruction policy? I believe they are. The six hundred thousand enrolled in the Loyal Leagues of Ohio Indiana,Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Iowa, and all the New England States and New York, will vote, in November next, to retain him in his present position, that he may execute their fixed purpose of reconstruction on the basis of freedom to all, and the entire abolition of slavery, if they shall have an opportunity to do so.
This is a war of Abolition and Subjugation on both sides. The South inaugurated the war to abolish freedom, free labor, and free institutions, in the nation and on the continent. The North is fighting to abolish slavery, slave labor, and slave institutions. The South began the war, and has prosecuted it solely to subjugate the North to Slavery. The North fights to subjugate the South to Freedom. Which shall be abolished, Liberty or Slavery—Free Labor or Slave Labor? One must be. Which shall it be? The coming Presidential election will decide this issue.
“The Confederacy or the Republic must go down-—down to perdition! So surely as we win," say the rebels,” so surely shall we make the North pay our war debt, though we wring it from their hearts." 
With the Government in the hands of McClellan and the Copperhead Democracy, who can doubt that the North will be once more and for coming ages subjugated to slavery and to slave-labor ? With the Government in the hands of Lincoln and the Loyal Unionists and Union Leaguers, all pledged to restore the Union on the basis of freedom, and without a slave, who can doubt that the South will be subjugated to freedom and free labor, and the Republic and the continent, in all coming time, be saved from ”the sum of all villany," and be made an asylum of the oppressed of all lands? The year 1864 is replete with destiny to unborn and unnumbered millions. Be this the watchword: FIDELITY TO LIBERTY, NOW AND FOREVER!
Yours, for uncompromising hostility to slavery, 
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

LETTER FROM JOSHUA T.EVERETT. 
EVERETTVILLE, Jan. 10, 1864.
DEAR BROTHER GARRISON—It is now a long time since I have met you in public meetings eves; and much longer since I have, in private social intercourse, communed with you concerning the termination of our glorious cause, which, thank God, I trust is to be within a few years at most. 
I wanted to be at the Decade meeting at Philadeiphia, with intense anxiety, but was prevented by engagements of business prior to my knowledge of its appointment. But the faithful report, of its proceedings, the glorious speeches, by the old veterans, and the letters sent to the meeting, almost divinely inspired, by” the first-born among many brothers," have proved a tolerably good substitute. 
Well, are we really to see the glorious jubilee of emancipation in the flesh, which, we had feared might be postponed till it would be witnessed from the battlements of Heaven? 
The retrospect of the whole history of this cause, so dear to God, and to the welfare of not only the slaves of this continent, but to oppressed humanity all over the globe, shows most clearly how distinct was your moral vision, and those who soon gathered at your side; how strong your sense of justice; how benignant and truthful the glorious sentiments you enunciated to the country and world, and how as a unwavering and inflexible your endurance to the end of the conflict.
Thank God, that we have been permitted to share in the toils and labors, of a cause so humane and Christ-like; so self-evidently just and holy; the end of which is to be so glorious, and of such immeasurable benefit, not simply to America only, but to all the oppressed peoples of the globe!
But the end is not yet. I have hoped that Congress would, at its present session, enact the total abolition of slavery in all the States of the Union. But it probably. will not. So the blood of our strong young it probably will not. So the blood of our young men will flow on; so our families must mourn for their fathers, husbands, sons and brothers, till we are ready and willing to let the oppressed go free, and break every yoke. For I do not see any prospect of peace till this ”abomination of desolation" is utterly routed, and goes howling down to its native hell. 
Our country may yet have a glorious future.. God's prophet has predicted the results of emancipation, thus:—" Then shall thy health spring forth speedily, and thy light shall be as the noon-day." Peace man though I am, my soul shall, rejoice in emancipation, though it comes by the sword and bayonet, power and ball, instead of national penitence and peaceful obedience to the divine behests. All the suffering and sorrow through the nation, occasioned by this rebellion, is not title as much as has been endured by the slaves of this country, for the last two hundred years. Probably some ten millions of human such have passed through the hell of American slavery to their graves, in this country, since the Mayflower landed the Pilgrims on Plymouth Rock; and a large portion of those ten millions endured ten fold more misery than any three years' volunteer has suffered in passing to his bloody grave. 
Then, dear Garrison, how cheering the purpose of the speedy overthrow of this execrable system to all whose hands have labored, and whose souls have prayed and longed for its annihilation! But we are to throw off our armor only when the last slave is free.
I hope to enjoy the pleasure of meeting the old tried friends of the cause at the annual meeting on the 28th.
Yours, to the glorious end, 
J. T. EVERETT. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
JANUARY 29. 
COLORED PEOPLE OF MEMPHIS CELEBRATING THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
According to previous notice, the colored people met at the middle Baptist church on Second street, on the 1st of January, 1864, at ten o'clock, A.M., to read and analyze the President's proclamation on freedom. The Rev. David Randolph was called to the chair, and the following gentlemen were appointed Vice Presidents, viz: James Hicks, George W. Preston, Serg'ts Louis Murray and Warren Brown. H.N. Rankin was appointed Secretary, assisted by Serg't. John C. Scurlock, Henry Sailler and Charles C. Dickinson. The following resolutions were then read by Serg't. Scurlock, and unanimously adopted:-
Resloved, That we hail with feelings of joy and gratitude to Almighty God, that we have the exalted privilege of meeting together, for the purpose of offering tribute and honor to one of the most magnanimous and brilliant chapters written in the nineteenth century.
Resolved, That we greet the dawn of this beautiful and ever memorable day; and we trust that our children will cherish it until truth and honor shall cease to be revered among the civilized nations of the earth. 
Resolved, That the respect to his excellency, the President of the United States, and the admiration we cherish for the gallant army and navy that have borne their glittering arms, backed by their courageous hearts, in triumph over hundreds of battle-fields, calls upon us to-day to pledge ourselves as colored men to fill the ranks made vacant by our colored brothers, who have fallen so bravely upon the various fields of strife.
Resolved, That we recommend every colored man, capable of performing military duty, both North and South, to enlist forthwith in the army and navy of the United States, where he can successfully perform his duty to his God, his country, and his fellow-men. 
Resolved, As this is our country, and we are citizens of the United States, in the eloquent language of Attorney General Bates, therefore we are willing to defend them with life and limb; and after protecting them with our guns, we humbly pray God that there may be generosity enough left to protect us in our native land.
Resolved, That we recommend the colored people everywhere in the United States to stand by the Government, to be true to the stars and stripes.
Resolved, That we recommend the benevolent associations of the North to send us teachers, who are know to be our true and devoted friends.
Resloved, That we recommend the teachers to bring their tents with them, ready for erection in the field, by the roadside, or in the fort, and not to wait for magnificent houses to be erected in time of war.
Resolved, That we are highly gratified with the appellation by which the colored soldiers are addressed by their officers, viz: men; and we urge the colored men in all places, at all times, and under all circumstances, to cease using that vulgar phrase,"nigger," a phrase not used by the higher-toned classes, but by the more vulgar and uncultivated.
Resolved, That we are in favor of renting a building forthwith in the city of Memphis, to be used as a school-house for the colored childern, as we do not deem it expedient to build one at present.
Resolved, That a committee of ten be appointed to memorialize Congress relative to certain matters pertaining to the amelioration of our condition.
Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting be published in the Memphis Bulletin, Cincinnati Gazette, New York Tribune, Chicago Tribune, AngloAfrican, and the Boston Liberator. 
After listening to a few short and eloquent remarks made by H.N. Rankin, Sergeant Scurlock, Joseph Colwell, and Henry Sailler, on motion of Sergeant Scurlock, adjourned.
DAVID RANDOLPH, Chairman.
H.N.RANKIN, Secretary.

STATE OF THINGS IN NORFOLK.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-John Brown would ransom the slaves; so the slave-masters gave him an earthly crown, and sent him upward for his Father's blessing. That was the dawn; now it is bright day!
Generals of brigades in this department send out their forces to proclaim liberty throughout this land, thus executing the glorious Fugitive Slave Law of the new dispensation.
John Brown's daughter, led by the on-marching soul of her father, has come to Norfolk to join us in doing her father's work.
Butler rules over us, you know. His gripe makes Norfolk shake in its shoes; but, at the double-quick measure of his drum-beat, the serfs march into the ranks of men.
We are enthusiastically satisfied with Gen. Butler's General Order, No. 46. Two or three months ago, Gen. Naglee put into execution an old municipal law of Norfolk, requiring colored people to be within doors at nine o'colck, P.M., a law which Gen. Hugee, when Military Governor of Norfolk, repealed. That law was enforced without being promulgated; and distress, confusion and bewilderment were the consequences.
Now, Gen. Barnes is Military Governor of Norfolk, and he neither oppresses the negro nor allows others to do so. And now, to-day, Gen. Butler issues sixteen General Orders concerning the negro! Noble orders, noble enough to be entitled a Higher Law,"a second Declaration of Independence."
 On the heels of our army come fugitives to Norfolk in bodies of four hundred.
Just now, while we were taxing our ingenuity to dispose comfortably of one body of four hundred, there came another four hundred, asking us to open the future to them. 
Babes anew they are. We are their mothers, and we mourn because we cannot hush them with the lullaby,"All thy wants are well supplied."
Capt. O. Brown, their Quartermaster and Superintendent, makes them comfortable in quarters specially devoted to fugitives.
An opportunity to enter the army is, at once, offered to the able-bodied men; while to those who prefer the ploughshare to the sword, ten-acre lots are free. To such, the Captain points out the timber, hands an axe, and orders a cabin.
The time for the sowing of seed is not yet, and the wherewithal to purchase necessaries comes only with the harvest.
To the North we must still look for clothing, since few bring the little they own.
LUCY CHASE.
Norfolk, (Va.) December, 1864.
The publication of the above has been unintentionally delayed since it came to hand.-[Ed. Lib.
Extract from a private letter received from a friend at Norfolk, Va.:-
"I have not before been South since April, 1861, when I was in Annapolis, and passed through Baltimore just after-about three days after-its streets were reddened with Massachusetts blood. I reached Norfolk on New Year's day, where I found regiments of colored soldiers drawn up for review, passing through the principal streets, under the command of a Massachusetts Major-General, and saw also a procession of colored women and children, dressed in holiday 
attire, in their first celebration of the anniversary of the Proclamation of Emancipation.
The Tribune is sold in the streets and the principal hotels by the newsboys. And although I have been here more than a week, I have not heard a lisp, even from men whom I knew to be secessionists two years ago, against the administration, or in favor of slavery. Not even a scornful look have I seen, indicating any
disatisfaction at the new spectacle, constantly visible, of negroes in the national uniform. Nor have I heard one complaint that the colored man, or servants generally, are not as well off, or as faithful and industrious in the discharge of their duties, as formerly. I
<c02>
know this, that in my sojourns. North or South, I never before had my room tended by a waiter who could be compared with the man who makes my fires here. His master ran away, and left him, very much to his gratification, and be is as busy and cheerful as can well be imagined. He is very quick in his movements, and says they keep him running all the time. I think he accomplishes more work than three would have done, or been expected to do, at slaves. 
I wrote the above two paragraphs because I could not help giving some reason for the conviction that has forced itself upon my mind. I have for some time regarded slavery as practically dead-as certain to die. I am convinced that we have advanced much farther than I had supposed, in introducing in its stead a system of free labor, satisfactory both to the employer and the employed."
 
AID FOR THE SUFFERING SOLICITED.
LAWRENCE, (Kansas,) Jan. 6,1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I want to say a word to you about our colored population here. They suffered more than the white people in the destruction of property, not so much in the loss of life during Quantrell's raid. The moment they learned be was in the place, they fled in the greatest fear, and with quick steps, to the brush and ravines for protection, thus leaving their property to be burned. Their houses being dry and fragile, were easily set on fire, and quickly burned-while many of the latter class of houses were saved after being set on fire, by the intrepidity of their inmates, the women.
Two months ago, I was appointed by the Relief Committee to take charge of their remaining funds, one thousand dollars, and to aid the destitute of the city, receiving instructions to look after the colored people particularly, as they had not received their share of the funds sent on for our relief from the good people of the East. The distribution of this fund has aided me to become acquainted with the wants of the colored people; and I have become much interested in their welfare. For the most part, they are willing to work and take care of themselves. But almost all their means of living-their bedding their clothes and furniture-were burned up in the raid. And every thing in the line of bedding and clothing has been enormously high, and there has been a good deal of suffering-suffering from actual cold; some have been frost-bitten; their shanties are generally open and cold; they do not have good straw nor good wood, very little bedding, and clothing generally poor and scanty. So many of the white people were burned out and their property destroyed,they feel poor, and are to a great extent unable to extend help to the suffering blacks. I do not know how these colored people are to get through the winter. There are very many families whose supporters-the fathers and husbands-are away; some were sent down South, some have enlisted, some were killed, some have gone to drive teams over the plains, and some are shiftless, and do little to support their families. I have some two hundred dollars more to expend, and then I do not know what will become of these destitute families, or how they are to be supported. They need clothes, especially the women, and bedding. During this cold weather they have suffered very much, and will continue to suffer till the spring opens. 
If you and your people could assist us in any way, I would be glad. February will be a cold month, and these poor people will have to be taken care of; they will suffer much, and I cannot bear to have them overlooked, or their claims disregarded. If they can get through this winter, they will need no further aid.
I do not suppose you can do much individually, as I never heard that you were rich, only in good works; but I did not know but that you could stir up some of your Boston men to do something-men who have means, and would like to aid in so good a cause. If you think anything can be done for this class, I would be glad to have it done.
Yours, very truly, JOHN S. BROWN. 
FREDERICK DOUGLASS AT PORTLAND. 
PORTLAND, Jan. 22, 1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:- 
DEAR FRIEND,-Frederick Douglass delivered the lecture in our"Independent Course" last evening. I wish you could have seen the enthusiasm of people to hear him. We were obliged to stop the sale of evening tickets long before the hour of the lecture arrived. The house was never before packed so full,- more than twenty-three hundred persons being stowed away under its roof, a large proportion of whom had been in their seats two hours before the speaker came, when there was not standing-room for another person, and hundreds had gone away unable to get in, many of whom were from out of town, some traveling from ten to forty miles to hear the eloquent colored man who had once been a slave! At every point of ingress and egress, the house was running over; and the idea that no one but Beecher or Gough, or some other public pet, can fill our City Hall is"played out"; and possibly tome people may learn that it is best to employ those persons to address the public whom that public desire to hear. 
Rev. Mr.Stebbins gave him a splendid introduction, in which he said"Let no man approach Mr. Douglass in a patronizing spirit, but as an equal in every respect. He comes to us not as a black man, not as a white man, but, thank God, as a MAN!"
Mr. Douglass was sensibly affected by his reception, but soon warmed with his subject, and gave us one of the best lectures of the course. 
So many were disappointed in not hearing Mr. Douglass, that our committee determined to engage him for another lecture in the course, and have accordingly arranged with him to speak again on the 11th of February-which is the evening that was set apart for George Thompson. We desire you to arrange with Mr. Thompson to deliver his lecture on the evening of February 25th, two weeks later. 
LETTER FROM CAPT. DANIEL FOSTER. 
NORFOLK, (Va.) Jan. 22,1864. 
DEAR GARRISON,-I am just in from an expedition on which I was sent for the liberation of slaves. I find an account in the Liberator of the tragical death of JOHN CUTLER, of Danversport. I cannot refrain from asking the privilege of saying a few words, through your paper, about this old and very dear friend, so suddenly snatched from us. 
As pastor of the Free Church in North Danvers, I tried to fight a good fight against slavery from 1848 to 1850; and although John Cutler was not a member of my church, he was always in my work in Danvers-one of my best friends and most generous supporters. He was truly a good man; a good Samaritan to every one in need or affliction; as firm and loyal an abolitionist as ever lived; a hard working man all his life; and always illustrating, at home and abroad, the beauty and power of a consistent Christian life. When worn with toil in my public work, there was no home in Danvers to which I resorted for sympathy and rest so often as to that of John Cutler. He was indeed a brother beloved, and I feel his death as a sore affliction. I wish to tender to his wife and sister, who were in full sympathy with him in all his devotion to and labors for suffering humanity, my tenderest sympathy with them in their sore bereavement.
The sister, BETSEY CUTLER, has been a confirmed invalid and a great sufferer for many years, but always cheerful and resigned. Her little bedroom, out of which I think she never comes, was always bright through her trust in God, and her happy spirit. She was entirely dependent on her brother; and her loss, as well as that of the loving wife, is indeed irreparable. May God put it into the hearts of those who know and love them to help make this loss as light as possible! 
Truly yours, 
DANIEL FOSTER. 
<c03>
THE AWFUL TRAGEDY IN CHILI.
The following account of the destruction of the Church of the Jesuits, in Santiago, on the 8th of December but, is from the Valparaiso Mercury:- 
"A catastrophe, gigantic, horrible, unexampled in the annals of our country, and perhaps of the world, has absorbed every one's mind for many days past. We will use the utmost brevity in relating the calamity to our foreign readers. Ever since the newly invented mystery of the Immaculate Conception of Mary was declared at Rome, in 1853, the church of the Company, formerly belonging to the Jesuits, had become the focus of devotion of a vast Sisterhood called the Daughters of Mary, in which, on payment of so much a year, almost all the women in our capital were enroled. Every year, from the 8th of November to the 8th of December, the day of the Immaculate Conception, lasted a splendid festival, in which orchestral music, singing, and an astonishing prodigality of incense, of lights, of oil, liquid gas, wax, and every luminous combustible in the world, glittered and flared in every part, in the cornice, in the ceiling, and particularly on the high altar. Every night the church blazed with a sea of flame, and fluttered with clouds of muslin and gauze draperies. It could only be lighted up in time by beginning in the middle of the afternoon, and the work of extinguishing was only ended when the night was far advanced. In 1858 they thought of adopting hydrogen gas, but the engineer's plan, though convenient and safe, was rejected. A priest named Ugarte, whose mind mariolatry had marked for its own, headed the sisterhood from the beginning, and worked his way down to such a depth of superstition, that one of his extravagancies was the invention of a Celestial post-office trick, by which the Daughters of Mary might correspond with the Virgin in writing! At the entrance of the temple, the Virgin's letter-box was constantly open, and there persons of a robust faith deposited in sealed letters their wishes and their prayers. Every Wednesday that letter-box for eternity was placed before the high altar, and Ugarte, who acted as postman between the Mother of God and her daughters, exhibited to the Divinity those offerings, of course keeping that singular correspondence to himself. This same mountebank got up a religious raffle for the favor of the Virgin-in a recent instance, two prizes being drawn by a skeptical Minister of State, and a woman whose character was not dubious. The old times of pagan idolatry had resuscitated in the centre of exaggerated Catholicism. The church of the Company, built the latter half of the seventeenth-century, possessed a spacious nave, but a roof that dated only from fifteen years ago, of painted timber. The only door of easy access to the congregation was the principal one in the centre, the small doors leading into the aisles being opened one half way, and ob structed by screens. Near the high altar there was a little door communicating with the sacristy. A few minutes before 7 o'clock in the evening of Tuesday, the 8th of December, more than 3000 women and a few hundred men knelt in that church, crammed to over flowing. However, that did not prevent a compact mass of fanatics from attempting to fight their way in from the steps, because it was the last night of the month of Mary, and no one could bear to lose the closing sermon of the priest Ugarte, who always succeeded by his exciting declamations in drowning in tears that place so soon to be a sea of fire. Then Eizaguirre, the apostolic Nuncio and favorite of Pius IX., the founder of the American College at Rome, was to preach also. It is said that Ugarte, wounded in his feelings as chaplain of the"Daughters of Mary," 
because Eizaguirre had told him that the illumination of his church could not be compared with what he had seen in Rome,exclaimed with enthusiasm,"I will give him when he comes to preach such an illumination as the world has never seen!" Nobody can deny that Ugarte has kept his word. Indeed, the lighting of all the lamps and candles had hardly finished, when the liquid gas in a transparency on the high altar set on fire its woodwork, and wrapped in flame a kind of tabernacle, wholly composed of canvas, pasteboard and wood. In less than two minutes the altar, about 23 yards high, and 10 broad, was an unextinguishable bonfire. The advance of the fire was even more rapid than the panic of the audience. When the fire had flown from the altar to the roof, the whole flock of devotees rushed to the principal door. Those near the lateral doors were able to escape at the first alarm; others, particularly the men, gained the little door of the sacristy; and lastly, those near the chief outlet forced their way through the throng, even still struggling to get in, and indeed, part of which did get in, even in the face of the fire, stimulated by the desire of getting a good place, which, on this occasion, meant a good place to die in. Then, the flames having crept along the roof, and, consequently, released the lamps of oil and liquid gas from the cornices to which they were strung, a rain of liquid, blue fire poured down upon the entangled throngs below. A new and more horrible conflagration broke out then in that living mass, appalling the affrighted gaze with pictures tenfold more awful than those wherein the Catholic imagination has labored to give an idea of the tortures of the damned! In less than a quarter of an hour, about two thousand human beings had perished, including many children, but very few men." 
BRUTAL SCENES ON THE REMOVAL OF THE DEAD. 
The Providence Journal publishes a letter received by Mr. W. A. Pearce of Providence from his father, resident in Santiago, Chili, who witnessed the recent appalling catastrophe by which more than two thousand human beings were burnt to death. It appears that the failure to rescue the unfortunate victims was owing to the idiotic police system of the Chilians. 
The writer says: 
"I hear you asking, why were those sufferers not rescued? Yes, why were they not rescued? My heart sickens within me at the question. Those determined, stupid ignoramuses of policemen! Fifty foreigners, had they been allowed to work, and to work in their own way, could and would have rescued nearly or quite the whole mass. But no, as is always the case here on an alarm of fire, the police place a sentry on every avenue leading to the fire. They have, as you know, no fire engines except some two or three old Gordon pumps. I fought my way past the police one entire square, by wresting guns and sabres from their hands, knocking them out of my way and being knocked in return, until I was overpowered by numbers and compelled to retreat, and all within hearing of the most heart-rending lamentations that ever sounded on human ears. And nearly every foreigner fared similar to myself-was kept back. Mr. Demilow of the gas works received a bayonet wound at the fire while in the act of rescuing a young lady that he recognized, a Miss Larren. He had fought his way in company with one of the workmen at the gas works to the church, and battered down a side or private door, and saw Miss Larren; she at the same time recognized him, and called on him to save her. He could not enter in consequence of a sheet of flame between them. He reached his cane to her which she grasped with both hands, when he and his friend attempted to drag her through the flames, but she was so surrounded and hemmed in with the dead and dying, that her strength was not sufficient. They abandoned this method, and went in pursuit of some other means to rescue her, and returned again, and on presenting themselves with the means of saving her at the door, the police ordered them back; and not heeding the order, he (Demilow) was bayoneted. His friend wrested the gun from the police, knocked him senseless to the ground, and made a second attempt to save the poor girl. But the time lost in dispute with the police was a life lost with her. This is only one of many similar scenes.
Your brother Charles battered a door down on Callebandera, or Flagg street, entered and found in a small ante-room some thirty females, and all living, but like so many statues, perfectly unconscious. He was compelled to take many of them in his arms, and carry them into the street, and saved them all. Mr. Meiggs and H. Keith fought their way through the police, and reached the church at a late hour, and when the tower was falling all about them succeeded in saving several. Mr. M. saw a woman still alive under a crowd of others then dead. She recognized him, and called to him, saying, 'For God's sake, save me!' He rushed through the fire to her and pushed several of the dead from her, then attempted to lift her out from among the dead, but they were so firmly wedged in about her and on her, he had to abandon that. He then procured a lasso, fastened that about her waist, and the united strength of eight men could not extricate her from her companions, and they had to leave her amid such cries for help as no Christian heart could endure, neither can language describe.
The police had full charge of the front of the church, and in such force that the foreigners could do nothing there. The police rescued but a few. Axes and crowbars were not to be had until a late hour. A single instance will suffice to show the stupidity of the police. An officer of the police set some half dozen of his men to hew and batter down one of those large front doors with their old broad swords. The doors are made of two-inch hard wood, double thickness, and riveted through and through with iron rivets. You can judge the effect their old cutlasses made on the doors better than I can describe it. 
The scene at the church the following day was the most revolting, heart-distressing, thatever was witnessed since the world was created. There were the poor unfortunate dead in all stages of consumption, the greater portion of them naked. But a few could be recognized by their surviving friends. The police ordered on the peons, or laborers, to remove the dead. Those demons-worse than devils damned-commenced their work with as much hilarity as you ever saw school children enter on some pleasure excursion. The dead were pulled about and pulled apart as one would pull apart tangled brushwood. You could see two or more peons pulling on a limb of some one buried under the others, until the limb was pulled from the body. Then they would have a peon rejoice and howl of exultation, and commence at another. The dead were actually separated with
<c04>
crowbars and pick. Limbs, heads and fragments were shoveled into carts with no more feeling than Irish laborers would have in shoveling gravel into a railway car. Hundreds of bodies, but partially burned, were tumbled into open carts, and packed up in the cemetery in one promiscuous heap, without even the covering of a bundle of straw, or a bullrush, and hundreds of those heartless wretches commenting and joking on the scene, and all under the supervision of the police I have seen, within the past ten years, here among these people, many things that were to me very unpleasant. But this is so horrifying to the soul, that I cannot find language to express my disgust of them.
Twenty-two hundred bodies have been counted out from the ruins, and it is supposed many were burned entirely up. The prevailing opinion is, the number of lives lost will reach twenty-five hundred. The count and names collected to date, amount to some fifteen hundred. Many families have lost the entire female members-six, seven, eight and nine from one family. All those that could not be recognized by their surviving friends are now buried in one grave or hole. A place twenty-five yards square was excavated, and into this they were laid, or tumbled and shoveled. 
This accident has given the Catholic religion here the most severe blow that the church has ever experienced. The clergy are at a discount. The men express themselves openly, and publicly, against the clergy having such complete dominion over the females. 
The city authorities have had their hands full the past week, in keeping down mob violence, as the masses are determined that the church shall not again be rebuilt.
Dec.15. The government have stepped in, and ordered the ruins taken down and carted off, and will purchase the ground, and erect a monument to the memory of the dead. The place is to be enclosed with a substantial iron fence, and the remainder of the ground laid out in a flower garden."
SENATOR WILSON AND GARRETT DAVIS. 
WEDNESDAY, Jan.13. 
Mr. Wilson brought up his resolution for the expulsion of Senator Davis, of Kentucky. Mr. Wilson supported his resolution by a speech, pointing out how the resolutions offered by Mr. Davis insulted the President and his supporters, the Generals who had won the victories at Gettysburg, Vicksburg, Port Hudson, Chattanooga, and elsewhere, stigmatizing the colored soldiers as negro janizaries, and calling on the people of the Northern States to revolt against the war leaders, take the power into their own hands, and go into a national convention to terminate the war. 
Mr. Davis replied, saying that the jaundiced, narrow mind of the Senator from Massachusetts was unqualified to interpret his resolutions. He said they only proposed a frank and plain investigation into the measures of the administration, and he intended to continue such investigation till the Senate expelled him. He went on to make a severe attack on Mr. Wilson, and to speak of the career of Massachusetts in Shay's rebellion, in 1812, in the Mexican war, and her resistance to the fugitive slave law. 
Mr. Wilson replied, and the Senate adjourned without action on the resolution. 
The Washington correspondent of the New Bedford Mercury pays a merited compliment to Senator Wilson for his admirable defence of Massachusetts and himself, in his reply to the miserable vituperations of Garrett Davis, of Kentucky. The correspondent says that" the expulsion of Garrett Davis is the chief topic in political circles. Three hours of the Senate's time were occupied by him on Wednesday in maligning the'pestilent State of Massachusetts,' and in personal abuse of Senator Wilson. The poor old man being in his dotage, full sway was given him to talk and bluster as long as his wind would hold out. He was not called to order nor interrupted, except once by Senator Howard, who asked a question, and once by Mr. Sumner, who informed him of a fact. He was comparing Millard Fillmore to Washington, for suppressing the Burns riot in Boston, when Mr. Sumner, after allowing him to complete his eulogy, quietly remarked that that affair happened under the administration of Franklin Pierce.'
"Davis was so intent upon' using up' Mr. Wilson and Massachusetts, that he had little to say in defence of his own conduct; consequently, his speech did not help him in the least, but was a material injury to him. It was one of those miserable harangues-full of abuse, slang, ridicule and misrepresentation-that naturally 'bring out' the powers of the man upon whom it is showered. Hence, the reply of Senator Wilson was anxiously awaited. Davis was scarcely in his seat before the Senator from Massachusetts had the floor; and the thorough manner in which he vindicated the history of the old Bay State, and disposed of the falsehoods uttered against himself, was keenly relished by those New Englanders who were so fortunate as to hear him. In a speech of twenty minutes, Mr. Wilson did his State and himself such ample justice, and did it so earnestly and so well, that the feelings of those who so densely packed the galleries could not be restrained, but burst forth in a thunder of applause. His rejoinder to the accusations of the Kentucky traitor is considered here the best impromptu speech he ever made in the Senate. 
The subject will receive further discussion, and it may be a month before a vote will be reached. It will be difficult to get the required two thirds to expel him."-Salem Register. 
The Washington Republican fully endorses the motion of Senator Wilson to expel Garrett Davis, of Kentucky, from the Senate:- 
"We are rejoiced at this bold movement of Senator Wilson. We have had enough of questionable loyalty in high places. Root it out. Senator Wilson's movement is in the right direction, and we hope he will be sustained by the Senate in his efforts to put down treason." 
The Union State League met in Boston last week, and a resolution was unanimously passed, thanking Senator Wilson for heading off treason in the United States Senate, and expressing the warmest approval of his resolution to expel Garrett Davis from that body.
THE PEACE PARTY IN CONGRESS. As if the former war and peace propositions in the national House of Representatives had not brought out the true issue quite distinctly enough, Mr. Smith of Kentucky offered the following on Monday:- 
"Whereas, a most desperate, wicked and bloody rebellion exists in this, the jurisdiction of the United States, and the safety and security of personal and national liberty depend upon its absolute and utter extinction; therefore, 
Resolved, That it is the political, civil, moral and sacred duty of the people to meet it, fight it, and forever destroy it, thereby establishing perfect and unalienable liberty." 
This fair and square proposition was met by a motion for an adjournment, and by a subsequent motion to lay on the table, but the House was not in temper for skulking, and the resolution was agreed to, one hundred and twelve to sixteen. This squad of sixteen, who probably comprise the real peace party of the House who are bold enough to face publicity, stands recorded as follows:- 
NAYS-Morrison, Robinson and James C. Allen of Illinois; Voorhees and McDowell of Indiana; Long, Pendleton, O'Neill and Chilton A. White of Ohio; Ancona,Dennison, Miller and Styles of Pennsylvania; Harris of Maryland; Marcy of New Hampshire; and Fernando Wood of New York. 
Of these, Mr. Harris of Maryland is the only Border State man, all the rest being Northern Democrats, including Marcy of New Hampshire, who is inevitably among the deepest in the mire of secession sympathy.-Boston Journal. 
THE EMANCIPATION QUESTION IN MARYLAND. BALTIMORE, Jan. 25. The American of this morning, referring to the speeches of Montgomery Blair, Senator Hicks and Thomas Swan, before the Maryland Legislature at Annapolis, on Friday, says:- 
"Senator Hicks spoke very briefly, but found an opportunity to declare himself in favor of prompt action by the State in favor of emancipation. There is, he declares, no practical benefit in temporizing over a subject which had already been disposed of virtually by current events.
Mr. Swan was more distinct and emphatic in his declarations. He declared that immediate emancipation was the only remedy, and avowed the intention of himself and friends to push the steed of emancipation with whip and spur."
HUNTING CONSCRIPTS WITH BLOODHOUNDS. The Army and Navy Journal prints the following extract from a letter written by a cavalry officer, in southwestern Tennessee, authentically illustrating one of the barbarous practices of the rebels:- 
"I have been out with my regiment, scouting for three weeks in the region lying between the Tennessee and Mississippi rivers, northeast of Memphis. For the first few days we were after a guerilla company, who were engaged in hunting up or hunting down conscripts with dogs. Brutal and horrible as it may seem, it is nevertheless strictly true, and you may rely upon it that, at this very hour, hundreds of the people of West Tennessee, Mississipi, and Alabama are being hunted down with bloodhounds. I could not realize it until by the most positive evidence I find it true. We were once almost within bearing of the baying of the hounds, and sent out a accounting party who came very near catching some of the devils. If they had been caught, they would have received a short shrift." 
<c05>
PETITIONS FOR EMANCIPATION. 
The following is a list of the number of signatures to petitions for Immediate Emancipation, obtained by the Women's Loyal League in the different States:-
Illinois, 14,933 New Jersey, 2,019 
New York, 13,929 Vermont, 1,492
Massachusetts, 9,539 Connectient, 1,353
Ohio, 7,934 Rhode Island, 1,406 
Pennsylvania, 6,971 Minnesota, 1,490 
Iowa, 5,813 West Virginia, 182 
Maine, 5,470 Maryland, 165 
Michigan, 5,320 Kansas, 158
Wisconsin, 3,953 Delaware, 137
Indiana, 3,171 Nebraska, 33 
New Hampshire, 2,019 Kentucky, 21 
Total. 88,063 
To this should be added the names of 2,536 signers of the pledge of the League, and the total is 90,599 names as the result of the efforts of the loyal women who took this matter in hand. Other statistics will give some notion of the labor performed. The League received 1,500 letters, and wrote 2,000. Its various associations number but 5000 members, but they have circulated 12,000 petitions, with the above result. In some States the organization has been much more extensive than in others, and corresponding results were obtained. The signers in Massachusetts, for instance, and especially in Illinois, are a greatly larger proportion of the whole population than in New York. Altogether, the members of the League may congratulate themselves on the good they have accomplished. The circulation of the petitions is itself a beneficial work, and their influence upon Congress is considerable. 
The Boston Courier complains of the superseding of Mr. Verplanck, as President of the Century club in New York, on account of his political opinions, and says that carrying out such principles would exclude persons not holding healthy political opinions from clubs altogether, from social intercourse, from Christian communion. Well, what if it would? The Courier should remember that this is just what has been done for the past thirty years towards persons holding anti-slavery opinions, by the pro-slavery politicians, clubs, and churches. It is just what the New York Herald, not long ago, distinctly proposed to do as a means of putting down the rebellion. It is just what the hunkers of Boston have done in reference to Mr.Garrison, Mr. Parker, Mr. Sumner, Mr. Phillips, and all others who espoused the anti-slavery cause. It ought not to complain if the cup which it has forced others to drink of, is put to its own lips.-New Bedford Standard.
The canting and hypocritical protest of the Courier against the welcome given last Sunday by a loyal people to the war-worn soldiers of the Massachusetts 32d has aroused a feeling of indignation in all quarters. We have heard this sanctimonious effusion of Copperheadism condemned even by men whose sympathies are usually with the Courier. It is evident from the labored attempts of that sheet to justify its position, that public indignation has at last penetrated its pachydermatous covering.-Journal. 
If any loyal man had any scruples as to the propriety of the public reception given on Sunday last to the gallant Thirty-Second, the comments of the Boston Courier must have effectually dissipated them. The course of that paper is so persistently and uniformly wrong, that it is safe for those who wish to be on the right side to take the opposite to any position which it assumes.-Dedham Gazette.
" When the rights of the press are infringed, whether in the smallest penny sheet or the mammoth leviathan, the wrong should be felt and resented by the whole fraternity. For only thus can the independence and freedom of the newspaper press be preserved in their integrity."-Boston Post. 
How about the rights of man? One would suppose by reading the Post, that the poor and weak might be enslaved by the rich and powerful, and that the operation would be mutually beneficial. The principle for which you contend in regard to the press is correct; just let its application be universal, and follow where it logically leads, and you will be found in the republican rank by the side of your old political associate, Ben. Butler.-Haverhill Guzette. 
The Maryland House of Delegates have passed, by a vote of 51 to 15, the preamble and resolution declaring that the true interests of Maryland demand that the policy of emancipation should be immediately inaugurated within her borders. What say our Copperheads to that? 
This resolution, it is believed, will pass the Senate. The Convention is to be chosen on the 6th of April next, and to meet on the 24th of the same month. And it is believed that the new Constitution will be ready for approval by the people on the 4th of July, 1864, on which day slavery will probably die in Maryland. 
PRE-EMPTION FOR FREEDMEN. The following, from the Washington Chronicle, may not be generally understood:- 
" Under the auspices of the Secretary of the Treasury, and by the authority of the President of the United States, the lands purchased by the Government at the tax sale of February last, in the Department of the South, have been surveyed, and divided into tracts of 320 acres. Every alternate tract has been subdivided into lots of twenty acres, and reserved, for the occupancy of colored men. Here they are entitled to settle and acquire a pre-emption claim, which they can easily make a fee simple title to part of the soil on which they once worked as a class." 
NEW YORK, Jan. 20. The New Orleans Era gives statements of a Union refugee, just from the Mississippi. He says fully one-half of the State left at home, are strong Union men, and the women especially, are against Jeff. Davis. Hundreds of Mississippians are in the woods to escape the conscription. 
The Era has intelligence from Texas, through Rev. Mr. McRae of Port Lavacu, who says there is an overwhelming Union sentiment in Western Texas. A number of Union men have been imprisoned by order of Magruder, for publishing a book called"Common Sense." Fears for their safety were entertained, as the Sons of the South had voted to hang them. 
RECEPTION OF GEN. BURNSIDE. Gen. Burnside had a reception in both branches of the Legislature of Massachusetts, on Tuesday, last week. In the Senate, Mr. Carter of Essex, after a few remarks in which he applied to Gen. Burnside the title of" The Deliverer of East Tennessee," moved an adjournment. In the House, Mr. Hopkins of Northampton, after a few words, proposed nine cheers for Gen. Burnside, which were given with a will. The General responded briefly and modestly, saying in the course of his speech,"I feel, if I have anything in the way of reputation for efficiency, that I owe a very great share of it to Massachusetts soldiers." 
BROWNSON'S QUARTERLY. The January number of this journal begins a new series. It ceases to be strictly sectarian, and becomes national. This vigorous thinker, with his power of logic and fiery tongue, drops the pen of the theological polemic, and takes up that of the politician. He walks straight out of the cloister door, and comes into the living world. He leaves the sixteenth, and, by a single bound, plants himself in the middle of the nineteenth century; and, seizing the weapons with which God has so richly endowed him, he battles for the best ideas of the hour.-Boston Christian Register.
FREE STATE ELECTION IN LOUISIANA. On the 5th instant, a proclamation was issued by General Banks, calling for an election of officers for a State government in Louisiana, to be held on the 22d of February, under the provisions of the Amnesty Proclamation. On the evening of the 9th, a very enthusiastic and numerously attended meeting was held at the St. Charles Theatre, New Orleans, for the purpose of taking steps to organize a State government. 
GRADUAL DESTRUCTION OF CHARLESTON. The shelling of Charleston is continued night and day at intervals of ten minutes. The city is gradually crumbling under the incessant bombardment. 
Resolutions renominating Abraham Lincoln for the Presidency have passed the Kansas Legislature unanimously. 
The Republican Senators and Representatives of the Pennsylvania Legislature have signified to President Lincoln, in an address, their unanimous desire for his re-election. 
In the Maryland House of Delegates on the 22d inst., Mr. Jerome Jones offered a series of resolutions, endorsing the administration of Abraham Lincoln, and renominating him for the Presidency. The resolutions were adopted. 
Mr. Blair's last speech before the Maryland Legislature is very different from his previous address in that State. It is wholly devoted to the Presiden's plan, on the ground that slavery is the cause and accompaniment of the rebellion. 
A great Fair for the benefit of the Union army is to be held in Washington. The wives of 
Secretary Usher, General Halleck, Senator Sprague, and other prominent ladies have the matter in charge. 
Seward again offers the country a promissory settlement of the rebellion-at ninety days. 
The total number of deaths in Philadelphia last year was15,386. Deaths from consumption numbered 1877. 
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY COURSE.
SIXTH SERIES-SUPPLEMENTARY COURSE,
AT MUSIC HALL.
Lecture on TUESDAY EVENING, Feb. 2, by
ROBERT COLLYER, of Chicago, 
To be followed by 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, of Boston, 
GEORGE THOMPSON, of England. 
Tickets, admitting the bearer and Lady to the course, at $1.50. Tickets, admitting one person to the course, at $1.00. For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington Street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court Street; John S. Rogers, 1077 Washington Street, and at the Liberator Of free.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.-WH.
WELLS BROWN will address the people as follows on the above subject:-
Brookfield, Mass., Friday, Jan. 29.
North Broofield, Sunday," 31.
South Wilbraham, Monday, Feb. 1.
Belehertown, Tuesday," 2.
Amhorat, Wednes.," 3.
Brimfield, Thursday," 4.
Westfield, Friday," 5.
Westfield,"  Sunday," 7.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS-This distinguished champion of freedom and the rights of man will deliver his great lecture on"THE MISSION OF THE WAR," in Trement Temple, Wednesday Evening, February 10. Tickets 25 cents, to be had of agents, or at the door, on the evening of the lecture. Doors open at 7 o'clock.
MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN.-The subscriber invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of JOHN BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at rooms No. 39, Studio Building Trement Street. M. EDMAINIA LEWIS. 
Boston, Jan. 29, 1864.
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled"The Right Way the Safe Way," can be had at the Liberator office, wholesale or retail. Price-$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.
DIED-In Wendell, Mass., on the 1st inst, of congestion of the lungs, J. APPLETON WHITAKER, aged 35 years, 4 months and 13 days. Deceased was a true friend to suffering humanity, without regard to country, clime or color. His religion was that contained in the Golden Rule, and his loss will be severely felt by those who know him. Thus the good, one after another, go from us. W. W. B.
THEODORE PARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY 
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December 8, 1863. 
GENERAL ORDER, No. 42.
In reply to many inquiries, the following Order is promulgated, being condensed from previous Proclamations and Orders:-
I. Veteran soldiers, (that is, discharged soldiers who have served at least nine months,) will receive from the United States Government the veteran bounty of $402, whether they enlist in any regiment or company now in the field, or in either of the following organization, viz:-2nd Regt. of Heavy Artillery, Colonel Franklin; the 56th Regt. of Infantry, (1st Veterans,) Colonel Griswold; the 57th, (2d Veterans,) Colonel Bartlett; the 58th, (3d Veterans,) Colonel Richmond; the 59th, (4th Veterans,) Colonel Gould; or in the new Battalion of Cavalry now forming at Readville, to be attached to the 1st Regiment of Class. Cavalry Volunteers, Colonel Sargent; or in the other new Battalion new recruiting at Readville, to form part of the 4th Mass. Cavalry Volunteers, Lieutenant-Colonel Arnold A. Rand. Such veterans will receive the bounty of $402 from the United States, and the full State bounty of Massachusetts,in the manner set forth in the Proclamation of the Governor, of November 18th ult.
II. All raw recruits (i.e.) those not veterans) will receive the full State bounty, who enlist in either of the organizations, new or old, now in the field, or now being raised. Such new recruits will not receive $302 from the United States, but instead thereof $100 only from the United States. If they join one of the old regiments or companies now in the field; or one of the Cavalry Battalions named above, they will receive $302 from the United States. By Special Order of the Secretary of War, those two Cavalry Battalions are parts of old regiments now in the field.
New recruits have, however, the right to join any regiment or company not already full, whether new or old, if they choose to do so, and to accept the smaller United States bounty instead of the larger one.
III. To recapitulate. The United States does not pay recruits who are not Veterans of nine months' service any bounty exceeding $100, unless they join one of the old organizations already in the field, including in the term"old organization," &c., the two Cavalry Battalions above mentioned.
It pays nine months' Veterans joining any organization, new or old, $402 bounty.
It pays new recruits $302, who go into old organizations, including the two Cavalry Battalions aforesaid.
The Commonwealth pays her full bounty to all classes of recruits, allowing them to join any regiment or company they please, if there is room to receive them.
IV. The United States officers do not offer any bounty to men of color, nor do they pay them the full wages of a soldier.They pay $10 per month, of which $3 may be in clothing.
This Commonwealth pays the full bounty of $325 in hand on being mustered into the United States service as a Massachusetts volunteer, to ALL soldiers, irrespective of color or extraction; or the soldier may, if he prefers it, receive $50 in advance, and monthly State pay, by way of bounty, 
$20 per month. 
V By Act of November 16, 1868, this Commonwealth, out of its own Treasury, makes up to the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Volunteers the deficiency in their pay, and a paymaster has already gone to those regiments for the purpose of their payment.
VI. Volunteers now in the field, authorized under orders from the War Department to re-enlist as Veteran Volunteers, and who do re-enlist in Massachusetts Volunteers, (see General Orders, Nos. 33 and 34, from these Head-quarters,) receive the full bounty offered by the United States, and also the full bounty of Massachusetts, of $325 in advance, or of $50 in advance, and $20 per month, at their own election (see Governor's Proclamation of November 18, 1863, and General Orders, Nos. 32, 33 and 34.) 
VII. Such Volunteers re-enlisting will be credited to their towns against present quotas under the last call.
By order of His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A HEART-THRUST AT SLAVERY.
"The Most Thrilling Book the War has Produced." 
WONDERFUL REVELATIONS!
DARING AND SUFFERING:
A History of the Great Railroad Adventure.
BY LIEUT. WILLIAM PITTENGER,
One of the Adventurers.
With an Introduction by Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, 
Editor of the School Visitor.
THE whole nation was excited, last Spring, by the revelations made before the President and the Cabinet at Washington, by the survivors of General Mitchell's secret Railroad Expedition, sent into the heart of the Confederacy almost a year before. Of the twenty-two daring adventures who penetrated the enemy's country, eight perished on the seaffold, and the others, after suffering untold hardships, finally succeeded in recrossing the lines and reaching the Union army. The survivors each received a medal of honor and other munificent rewards from the hands of the President.
The marvellous adventures of this band are recorded by one of their number, who is fully competent to the task. Their history, as narrated by him, possesses the connected interest of an epic poem. The scene is gradually developed, and the interest deepens from first to last. The reader will follow the adventurers, from their first midnight consultation, onward through their perilous journey, and will scarcely breathe during the progress of the terrible chase-the most exciting ever recorded in the annals of any country. The death-scene will draw tears from the eye of the sympathizing reader, while his cheek will burn with indignation at the cruelties practiced by heartless rebels. The style is a simple, unaffected one, rising with the occasion to the loftiest eloquence, and abounding in the tenderest pathos.
The whole narrative of the long captivity, attempted escapes, sufferings and sorrows, of these heroic soldiers, is told with a graphic power that at once rivets the reader's attention. Nothing in history is more startling than this adventures, or more heart-touching than its portraiture by the pen of the gifted author.
The book is illustrated by a fine steel protrait of the author, and several exquisits wood engravings, and printed in the highest style of typographical bounty. 
Price $1. post-paid.
AGENTS wanted in all parts of the country, to whom extraordinary inducements are offered.
Address all orders to 
J. W. DAUGHADAY, PUBLISHER
1398 Chestant Street, Philadelphia.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THE LIFE THAT IS.
Thou who so long hast pressed the couch of pain,
Oh welcome, welcome back to life's free breath-
To life's free breath and day's sweet light again,
From the chill shadows of the gate of death!
For thou hadst reached the twilight bound between
The world of spirits and this grosser sphere;
Dimly by thee the things of earth were seen,
And faintly fell earth's voices on thine ear.
And now, how gladly we behold, at last,
The wonted smile returning to thy brow!
The very wind's low whisper, breathing past,
In the light leaves, is music to thee now.
Thou wert not weary of thy lot; the earth
Was ever good and pleasant in the sight;
Still clung thy loves about the household hearth,
And sweet was every day's returning light.
Then welcome back to all thou would'st not leave,
To this grand march of seasons, days and hours;
The glory of the morn, the glow of eve,
The beauty of the streams, and stars and flowers;
To eyes on which thine own delight to rest;
To voices which it is thy joy to hear;
To the kind toils that ever pleased thee best,
The willing tasks of love, that made life dear.
Welcome to grasp of friendly hands; to prayers
Offered where crowds in reverent worship come,
Or softly breathed amid the tender cares
And loving inmates of thy quiet home.
Thou bringest tidings of the better land,
Even from its verge; the mysteries opened there
Are what the faithful heart may understand
In its still depths, yet words may not declare.
And well I deem that, from the brighter side
Of life's dim border, some o'erflowing rays,
Streamed from the inner glory, shall abide
Upon thy spirit through the coming days.
Twice wert thou given me; once in thy fair prime,
Fresh from the fields of youth, when first we met,
And all the blossoms of that hopeful time
Clustered and glowed where'er thy steps were set.
And now, in thy ripe autumn, once again
Given back to fervent prayers and yearnings strong,
From the drear realm of sickness and of pain,
When we had watched, and feared, and trembled long.
How may we keep thee from the balmy air,
And radiant walks of heaven, a little space,
Where He, who went before thee to prepare
For his meek followers, shall assign thy place?
WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

THE ARK OF FREEDOM.
Extract from the Carrier's Address of the Salem Register, January 1, 1864.
Where is the use of echoing here
The ups and downs of the vanished year,-
Piping dull songs to a listless ear?
What though we take another tack,
Leaving awhile the beaten track?
Let us look forward, friends, not back!-
Measuring what must yet be done,
Not by the race already run,
Or the list of battles fought and won.
UNION victories South and West,
VICKSBURG, GETTYSBURG, with the rest,
And CHATTANOOGA, last and best,-
THE MISSISSIPPI, strong and grand,
Won from a traitorous, rebel band,
By the mighty grip of a loyal hand,-
Glorious victories all, and true!
But not what's done, but what to do,
That's the question for me and you!
How assuage the terrible flow
Of human carnage and human woe,
Desolating the nation so!-
How win back to the land we love,
PEACE, the beautiful, white-winged dove,
Brooding the dreadful waste above?
Glimmers there not one shining star,
Shedding its cheering rays afar
Over these surging waves of war?
Look where the ARK OF FREEDOM rides,
Tranquil, over the restless tides!
He who fashioned it rules and guides.
God's its Architect; His the Plan
Formed or ever the race began;
FREEDOM, the only hope for man!
Ah! full many a well-trimmed bark
Has foundered under the waters dark,
Since first was floated that stanch old Ark!
Oh, my masters! and, oh, my peers!
Was it not launched mid jibes and sneers,
And bitter protests and earnest fears?
Where are those whilom doubters now?
Setting its sails with hopeful brow!
Crowding its decks from stern to prow!
Ah! we need this second flood,
This dreadful deluge of human blood,
Out of Evil commanding Good!
Only let us be firm and true,
FAITH at the helm, an HONEST CREW,
And GOD ALMIGHTY to help us through-
And soon shall our well-beloved land
High and dry in its beauty stand,
Fresh as just from its Maker's hand!
While over it white PEACE folds her wings,
And Heaven with its myriad voices sings
THE ADVENT-HOUR OF THE KING OF KINGS!

BLACK TOM.
Hunted by his rebel master
Over many a hill and glade,
Black Tom, with his wife and children,
Found his way to our brigade.
Tom had sense, and truth, and courage,
Often tried where danger rose-
Once our flag his strong arm rescued
From the grasp of rebel foes.
One day, Tom was marching with us
Through the forest as our guide,
When a ball from traitor's rifle
Broke his arm and pierced his side.
On a litter white men bore him,
Through the forest drear and damp,
Laid him, dying, where our banners
Brightly fluttered o'er our camp.
Pointing to his wife and children,
While he suffered racking pain,
Said he to our soldiers round him,
"Don't let them be slaves again!"
“No! by Heaven!” outspoke a soldier,
And that oath was not profane-
"Our brigade will still protect them-
They shall ne'er be slaves again."
Over old Tom's dusky features
Came and stayed a joyous ray;
And, with saddened friends around him,
His free spirit passed away.

"PEACE ON EARTH."
Peace! when over every land and sea
Is heard no more the cry of Slavery;
When bondmen are no longer bond, but free,
And freedmen shout aloud-"Sweet Liberty!"
When brother's heart no longer burns with strife,
His hand no longer takes his brother's life;
When the sweet, wild rose shall bloom and bud
Where battle-fields were drenched with human blood.
Slavery and death the cup contains;
Dash to the earth the poisoned bowl!
Softer than silk are iron chains
Compared with those that chafe the soul.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank's Household.”
CHAPTER XVII.
HAPPINESS.
“Powhatan seems more beautiful than ever to me," said Lelia, as, one morning, in honeymoon, she tripped by her husband's side on the terraced walk.
“I am glad it does, darling!" replied Mr. Nelson, with a loving look, "but it is not half beautiful enough for my Lelia."
The young wife looked up in her husband's face, with the thought that he had wondrous beauty, not herself, and he went on,-
"Just tell me, darling, what I can do to improve Powhatan."
“I scarcely know," replied Mrs. Nelson, "I almost fear to suggest, lest by change I mar that which is so nearly perfect. I shall so much miss dear Mrs. Brownlee, with her good taste."
“Yes, darling, she has good taste, but not the native, artistic eye that you possess. If you will tell me what I can do to make your home more worthy of you, you will add to my happiness, as it has become a necessity of my being to contribute to yours. Shall I raise another terraced walk? Shall I enlarge the green-house, build more arbors, and open new vistas? Come, darling, what can I do for you?"
“If I were to suggest any possible improvements," returned Lelia, "it would be with the hope of adding to the happiness of my noble husband."
"Spoken like thyself, dearest," rejoined Mr. Nelson; “I am content that it be so-I for thee, and thou for me. We'll be like our bird-teacher, and live ever for each other, will we not? Life looms up before me like one vast holiday, in which we have only to amuse ourselves and be merry. But what will you have done? I am impatient to know. The work done shall be named for thee. Shall it be Lelia's walk, Lelia's arbor? Say the word, my fair one!" and the enthusiastic husband pressed her lips with a kiss. Mrs. Nelson was fairly embarrassed with her great joy, and so with a rosy blush, and the dearest little chirrup of a kiss, she found voice to say,-
“How would it do, dear, to have a walk around the bowling green, bordered with flowers?"
"Charming!" returned the lover-husband; "it shall be done at once. Why did I never think of it before?”
“What would you think of having a trellis built to train the yellow jasmine under our window?"
“Charming, again, darling! you know how to help fit up the bird's nest, do you not, dearest?"
“I noticed in the Mount Pleasant garden," said Lelia, “that the arbor walks were bordered with the English primrose and pansies.”
“The prettiest things in the wide world! I am delighted that you noticed them. We must not be outdone by Mount Pleasant."
"I saw, too," added Lelia, "that king Brownlee's arbor-vitae and hawthorne hedges were pruned more evenly than ours."
“Nothing escapes my Lelia's eyes, I perceive," said Mr. Nelson, fondly; “but go on, please, there is still a wide margin for improvements."
"How would it do for most of our green-house plants to be arranged on each side of the serpentine walk?"
"I should admire to have them," said Mr. Nelson, "gardener Bill shall take them out immediately."
“Shall I tell him to put the oleanders, the cactus and geraniums which are in bloom, in the front colonnade?"
“Ah, yes indeed!" replied Mr. Nelson, “why did we never think of this before! Thank you, darling, for your suggestions. Our tastes are in harmony, and you need never fear to hint your wishes. My own treasure-wife, I am the most favored of mortals! And we can make Powhatan a very paradise. I will at once order the improvements, and you shall superintend them with me."
Thus passage after passage of the early bridal period was traced in the glowing colors of a rapt devotion, and months passed on as, absorbed in the mysterious enchantment of Love, they lived for each other, and, for the time, were a little world by themselves. The gay circle of kind and appreciative friends, who called, or sent in thoughtful presents, were, to the Nelsons, as if they belonged to another sphere.
Lelia was gentle and domestic, and exerted herself to the utmost in the supervision of household affairs, that home might be as attractive as possible. Frink was her ready aid, and anticipated her every wish; and Mr. Nelson styled her the queen of housekeepers.
A smiling, joyous and radiant life was Lelia's; it seemed for once, in this poor trouble-ridged world, that the course of true love did "run smooth." So everybody said, as they praised Mr. Nelson, eulogized the bride, and wondered at Powhatan as a very Eden.
The happy pair found life busy with enjoyment. There seemed nothing wanting to complete their felicity. They had congenial tastes, were devoted to each other; they had wealth, honor, a charming home, and the brightest prospects before them. There was, however, a small shadow rising in the distance, as Lelia thought of her husband's absence during the session of the Legislature at Richmond; but that would be only for a few short months, and she resolved to bear it like a true heroine. Meanwhile, there was every day some new charm found in Powhatan and its grounds, as, in walks and rides, Mr. and Mrs. Nelson whiled away the morning hours in out door enjoyment. Then there was Lelia's music- a never-failing source of amusement. It was a new joy to her, now that she realized its power over her husband. Certain it is, that Powhatan's ancient halls never echoed to sweeter strains than those elicited by the fair young wife.
"Ah!” said Mr. Nelson, one day, "if this bright dream could only last forever! I only fear that death may separate us. If only we were immortal, what more could we wish?"
There were joyous inmates, too, at Mount Pleasant. King Brownlee was as happy as he had over-imagined he could be. Mrs. Brownlee was now no longer a phantom presence, but she had lost nothing of those exalted qualities which had changed so many desolate hours into hours of rapt communings. They not only sympathized in tastes, but above all were one in heart and purpose. The question, “How can we best obviate the evils of the Slave System?" soon came to be an absorbing theme.
“It is now some time," said king Brownlee to his wife, “that I have held my servants on the ground that they are not fitted for freedom, and that it is better for them to remain in their present condition until prepared for such a change. Now I wish to civilize and Christianize them as fast as possible. What would you think of having a plantation Sabbath school, that our children may learn to read, and receive religious instruction?"
Mrs. Brownlee replied with evident pleasure, that she thought it would be an excellent arrangement.
“They ought to have the Bible," said king Brownlee; “but pray what use will it be to them if they cannot read?"
“They should be taught to read at once," replied Mrs. Brownlee.
"And another thing," added the king, "there must be no sundering of families. If some members of a family are prepared to be free sooner than others, I can liberate, and send them to some free country, where, as soon as possible, they can provide a home for those they leave behind. How would you like that idea?"
"Very much indeed," was the reply; "and, of course, the overseers are not permitted to punish your servants?”
"Certainly not," replied king Brownlee; "there is no occasion for it; and if they transgress their orders in this respect, I turn them away."
<c03>
“I have often thought," added Mrs. Brownlee, "that nothing could be more demoralizing than whipping."
“t is precisely so," said the husband; “whip a man, and make him succumb to it, as a just punishment, and you unman him. If he passively submits, you take away the noble qualities that distinguish him from the brutes."
“Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Brownlee, as her thoughts reverted to Chainy, "I am so rejoiced that there will be no whipping on this plantation!"
“No," said the king, “I do not allow a bird killed, a child frightened, or a servant whipped, on my estate!"

DRAFTING-CONSCIENTIOUS SCRUPLES.
PHILADELPHIA, 1st mo. 7th, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:-
DEAR AND ESTEEMED FRIEND,-In the 33d volume, number 34, the Liberator placed my humble views on the draft face to face with the valuable testimony of “W. P. G." on the same subject. His every word may well be carefully weighed and measured. I would not detract from its sublimity. I would cheer and cherish the good I find, rather than censure or condemn any minor positions wherein we may differ. “Let every one be fully persuaded in his own mind." Emergencies are the crucibles of our faith. I have no word of complaint because of the Draft; my heart is full to overflowing at the glorious spectacle of a nation's integrity; and in anything I may say, explanatory of my position, I desire to ignore self, and seal my lips against a murmur.
I would not shrink from completing my task now, as I did not, during my recent trial as a conscript, from the responsibilities of my position. One spirit governs me now as then. If any be encouraged, I shall rejoice.
We agree, that to take up arms at all, even in the present engrossing conflict, is wrong, and must be declined by all who would be faithful followers of the precepts and examples of Jesus Christ.
We agree, that to accept a substitute to fight for us is equivalent to committing the sin ourselves. But in the payment of the commutation fee, we differ. Section 13 of the Conscription Act says, “The drafted person may pay such sum, not exceeding $300, as the Secretary may determine, for the procuration of such substitute." Now those, who, from conscientious scruples, decline furnishing a substitute, and yet willingly give government the means to procure such for them, are merely going a step further, and availing of the offer of a third party-a government agent-to procure the substitute. And as I feel it cannot be done, except by compromising principle, were I to yield, I should commit a great wrong.
The demand made by the government is for a human being to serve in the army, and not merely for money. Human beings must be supplied, and money is only a means for their procuration. Any one tendering the money, tenders a human being; for the knowledge of the use to which it will be applied accompanies the act. Where the money is given, even with explanation, the principle is but feebly upheld; no living protest against war is offered, and no seed planted for the government of "peace on earth and good-will to men."
The government has no more right to this money, when God interposes, than it has to our muscle. The very basis of our institutions is the right to life, property and conscience. The debtor and creditor relations with us are controlled by the one decided and long affirmed principle, that our first and highest obligation is to the Ruler of the universe.
Government does not confer property upon any one as a bonus for merely living under it, neither can it in equity deprive any one of property, in these special and individual cases, excepting for criminal offences. Our refusal to take any part in war is not a criminal offence, but one of religious faith and conscience, well-defined and upheld throughout our lives; so that the enforcement of any penalty, for the maintenance of such, would be regarded always as an act of injustice and barbarism. And although, by the power of force and authority, the penalty may be exacted and obtained, it becomes only the government right through government might, and not by virtue of any high moral equity.
Therefore, if we have worked for and honestly earned property-in a measure created it-we own it, and have a right to its use for all proper and moral purposes, but no right to it for any other use. It becomes part of our motive power and responsibility. Thus, government has no moral claim to it for purposes which we deem immoral; and it becomes the right, indeed the duty, of property-holders, under such circumstances, to refuse, but not forcibly oppose, the demand. But if, after a fair statement of our high conscientious convictions, we are required to yield, to do so with charity and prayer. That which is due, it is our duty to pay. But is this money due? Most unhesitatingly-no! If personal or agency service is not due, (and this is an undisputed fact,) the money, as the representative of either or both, is not.
Public testimony has been rendered by a course of life that proves the non-resistant principle; the non-combative position has been religiously maintained; trading and trafficking in war goods, for personal aggrandizement, has been declined; positions of honor or emolument, under the war power, have been refused; irreconcilable complicity with government has been relinquished; and all from conscientious convictions. Therefore, neither personal service nor the money representative of it is due for direct war purposes.
In yielding willing obedience to this demand of the government, we do not merely recognize its power, for that is not the object; otherwise, we might go a little further, and fight. But we too often do it to save ourselves, because we fear the consequences, and have not courage to bear our testimonies to the end, even if to sacrifice and martyrdom. We do it, if we have the money, without a struggle; in a measure voluntarily. We do it-mark the plea!-to enjoy the right of conscience. But such a right or such a conscience as can be purchased with money, and for an advertised price, is not worth having; for having such, and having it thus, is not enjoying it. It is a commodity at will; put up for a price, to be sold to the highest bidder. We are thus a contracting party with war; we exercise a positive influence for its support; and we are accountable in the fullest meaning of the term.
Experience is a good teacher; and I may be permitted to say that, as it appears to me, the payment of the commutation fee is one of the most weakening acts to one's conscience, and one of the saddest strokes to a principle or a testimony. How is it weakening? How is it destructive? Let me quote:-
The conscript was arraigned before the Board of Enrolment. His testimony was briefly, kindly and feelingly presented, and drew forth the scoffing reply, that "there was a law to make every man fight; and conscientious scruples would avail nothing.” The examining physician proved an Israelite, with little sympathy for one who took exception to the old Mosaic law of "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth." He appealed to a poor wounded Lieutenant, who, with his shattered shoulder, enlisted the fullest love and sympathy, and the answer came, "Yes-every man must fight, or be shot." An anxious father who stood by stated there was near-sightedness. To which the Board said, " The young man makes no plea of any physical disability "; which demanded the explanation, that the party presented himself in obedience to the law, and if liable to military duty, had but the one reason to offer why he could not comply with any of the three active provisions of the Act; but would humbly, charitably and prayerfully submit to the fourth or passive provision, of delivering himself up to " the powers that be," and bear such penalties as were deserved or imposed for conscience' sake; that, although he had carried upon his face the badge of defective sight for over fifteen years, there were four reasons why he could not conscientiously
<c04>
make that the plea for exemption, notwithstanding all his sincere love for his country, and his deep aversion to throwing any obstacles in the way of our government, already so sorely encompassed with trials, which he would gladly lessen rather than increase.
These reasons were: First-That while he had a spiritual and conscientious plea as high as Heaven, he could not present one merely material, and as low as earth; and was sick of the many paltry excuses of disability and unconstitutionality made by those who would fly to arms at the slightest personal provocation. Second-To plead defective sight would be dishonest and untruthful, for it was simply not the reason. Third-Being opposed to all war, and regretting all law for its support, it would be both little and contemptible to select and present just such a plea as came within the scope of one of the provisions of such law. Fourth- Had he not been restrained from fighting by the Supreme Power, he would have entered the army of the United States long since, notwithstanding all near-sightedness; hence, it would be unjust to his impulses of patriotism, and ungrateful to God, to make a false issue.
This simple statement met with the rejoinder, "that if there were no plea made, within the limits of the law, there could be none made for him." The law was then read, when the physician said, "I have no objection to examining his eyes, and if he will strip will see if we can find some physical disability." The latter was promptly declined, on the ground that the body was sound and healthy, and he wished to afford no opportunity for perjury. His eyes were then hastily examined in a very unsympathetic manner, the physician the while puffing his cigar into the very face of the conscript, little caring for his strong testimony against tobacco. The glasses were tried, and the decision made that, "although myopy existed, it was very slight, and not sufficient to exempt." His father, disappointed, asked if some physical disability could not be found. What! a true and devoted parent hoping to find some bodily imperfection in his son! Ah! it but proved the strength of parental affection. The doctor said, "Only by his consenting to an examination." This was again refused, as he felt he had gone far enough.
Then came proffers of money even from the detective, the Solicitor of the Board, and others. A promise had been previously exacted from his father not to pay for him. Some offers were made to find a substitute. All were firmly declined, and notice given not to receive the amount from any one; for, inasmuch as they had been so tenacious to stand by the strict letter of the law, and feeling that some one might quietly pay, (a course to be deprecated, and indeed illegal,) attention was called to the words of the law, viz.:-“The drafted person may pay such sum not exceeding $300, and thereupon such person paying the money shall be discharged."
The name was then registered, height, size of chest, features, &c. noted, and an appeal made to change such "foolish notions," for "he would be published as a deserter, and perhaps dragged from his home to camp, and thus kill his mother." It was suggested that if three days would change his mind, they would be granted. But the answer came-he was in their power. This was the work of thirty-three years, and it was not likely that three days would undo it; and as for killing his mother or his wife, he hoped they were too wise and faithful to be killed because of harsh treatment to him, at a time when they, perhaps, were most required to live.
However, of their own accord the paper was marked "time extended," and he went home on his three days of grace.
During this period, the superior officer or surgeon desired an interview, and a personal examination of his eyes. On this occasion he was fairly tested, and so much of near-sightedness discovered as to admit of a doubt; and finding his principles still inflexible,-for they again made test and game of them,-the Board announced " there was a doubt existing, and the party should have the benefit of such doubt." He was then handed a certificate of non-liability, and released. Kind and encouraging words came from some, which showed the testimony of non-resistance was not entirely unappreciated, while a father's voice was choked with thankfulness.
I would call attention to the effect of paying the commutation fee. If, at any stage of this trial, the amount had been paid by either the party or his friends, how weakening it would have been! The principle would not have been tested; the effect would not have been produced; the seed would not have been planted. Thus there is always a duty we have in looking into the effect the payment of money will have upon the payer. In fact, we have three positions to examine: First, we must see if the demand is just-which we here decide negatively. Hence the payment becomes voluntary. Second, to what use will it be applied? And third, what is the effect upon the party paying it? Both of which we cannot regard as injurious.
I am well aware of the almost sacred character of governmental obligations, and honor that man who will comply with them all, so far as they do not contravene his first and highest duties to our Lord and Master. The blessings we enjoy under our Republican institutions are far beyond our power to requite with money; and the simple tribute that we render in the shape of taxes is but a meagre representative of true patriotism, and as far from meeting all the demands of our country, as the tacit compliance with merely human laws is inadequate to the fulfilment of all our Christian duties.
There is a marked distinction between tribute and commutation money.
Tribute is an annual or stated sum, or other valuable thing paid to a nation, in acknowledgment of some favors, or for its maintenance by virtue of established law or treaty, or simply a stated tax levied by a government upon all its subjects. Whereas, commutation is an exchanging or bartering, or the substitution of a less for a greater penalty; a bargaining for an exemption from something; and is employed in special, but not in general cases.
We may very properly pay the former, as subdivided into taxes, duties, and excise stamps and notes, (for they are levied on all alike, in proportion to the amount of property or business,) and is general in its character, and not confined to individuals for unexpected and special reasons, as in the case of conscription. Tribute money may involve nothing of conscience. It relieves from no particular suffering, different from all others in the community. It is a regular, expected and legitimate payment. While to pay commutation is to presuppose the purchase of some favor or advantage; to exchange one condition for another more agreeable; to commute some suffering;-a very, easy mode, indeed, for those who have the means, and when admitted as proper, a very comfortable one to avoid the imbruing of our hands with blood.
The respect paid to non-resistance is increasing and encouraging. Even our Government has declared privately, it was never intended to make those suffer who were truly and religiously conscientious against war, notwithstanding laws have been framed without exempting any for such reason, that there might be afforded no loophole for pretenders; though I am deeply pained, that any consideration should prevent a proper provision being made in behalf of those thus divinely impressed; especially when the law pays such marked deference to the physical relationships of our people. Indeed, this neglect of the spiritual cannot but be regarded as a sad commentary upon the light of the 19th century, and the high moral professions of the nation.
The late decision, that the money must be paid by such drafted person, or the amount made a lien against the Society of which he may be a member, will tighten the cord and intensify the test. In view of our President's recent proclamation and the impending draft, individuals and Societies will be sorely tried. It might seem, under some circumstances, to imperil the existence of all religions bodies holding the non-combatant testimony; and surely none other deserves the name of Christian; and if any hereafter
<c05>
would live, it must be because of the vitality of tested strength and real worth. For should the drafted member be unable, even if willing, to pay, the Church or Society will have to do so, or have it taken under protest. May we not hope it will be able to withstand the trial? or, rather, may we not have the higher hope that every individual, whether a member of such Society in spirit or in form, will stand by the non-resistance principle, without leaning upon any church discipline, or shielding himself behind any Society testimony, even though it should cost him the loss of property, or of life itself?
Be encouraged by remembering God will not put more upon us than we are able to bear.
We want, however, no pretended conscientious scruples; no cowardly conversions; no non-resistance pleas only when overpowered and forced to submission. But we want the fullest conviction, united with moral courage to sustain it. Intending no conflict with Section 25 of the Conscription Act, which would inflict punishments upon those who "wilfully dissuade from the performance of military duty," we shall hope never to lose our charity for those who differ, but earnestly cultivate the growth of the pure Christ-like principle of non-resistance, because we love so fervently our whole country, and are so deeply concerned for the present and future happiness of it, and our countrymen; and because we feel that such a position is full of Christian loyalty and patriotism, meaning nothing idle or indifferent, but demanding at once every effort of moral power to remove the causes of war, and extend a helping hand to suffering humanity wherever found, without hesitating to ask the question-How came they so?
And our friend who signs himself " A Friend of Peace and Loyalty," and offers such praiseworthy suggestions to " Conscientious Friends," need have no fear that true " Friends of Philadelphia" will withhold the hand of philanthropy or the word of encouragement from the Government or the governed, bond or free, on all proper occasions, to the extent of their ability, and in their own quiet way; maintaining that benefactions, and not merely benedictions, are the real motive-forces of progression and excellence. The former requiring vital energy, and the positive investment of time and labor, being greatly unequal to the demand; while the latter, costing little, exists throughout the land, often merely in word, and without the sincere and unostentatious deed.
Still, we may well be full of gratitude for every contribution of either, for freedom, purity and peace, always regretting our own inability to effect more.
As an evidence of practical work for those once slaves-now free-I present the preamble of the Constitution of an Association, which meets at the Race Street Meeting-house. This preamble was adopted last evening:-
“Whereas, the President of the United States has, by an act of signal justice and humanity, set at liberty millions of our countrymen, descendants of the African race, many of whom, degraded by the blighting influences of slavery, are now thrown into circumstances of suffering and destitution, which call loudly for discriminating and well-directed aid; and whereas, proscription and cruel prejudice, fostered by years of oppression, still impose upon the people of color legal and social disabilities, depriving them of their just rights, and retarding their progress and elevation;-therefore, the undersigned have formed an association, to be called Friend's Association for the Aid and Elevation of the Freedmen-the object of which shall be to relieve their more pressing physical wants, to promote their intellectual and moral elevation, and to labor for the recognition of their just rights."
Here is a work as immense as it is urgent, and well may we all embark in it-all the more earnestly since the glorious Decade celebration of the American Anti-Slavery Society, which will leave its impress upon our age, and transmit to our children a legacy of inestimable value.
Earnestly thy friend, and the friend of all,
ALFRED H. LOVE.

STRANGE DOINGS IN SOUTH CAROLINA!
MR. GARRISON,-Enclosed you will find my husband's letter. In it he says, "times are changing." Memory carries me back to eleven years ago, this day, this hour, when I stood by the casket of my darling boy, my first born, and then my only child. I placed my hand upon his heart, and found it pulseless-upon my little sleeper's pale brow, 'twas of marble coldness-kissed for the last time those little bloodless lips-and I thought it was hard to remove him from my warm embrace to the cold, silent grave.
At that moment, in that hour of my first sorrow, I remembered those mothers in the South who were deprived of the little ones they had worn beneath their hearts, by that cruel system of oppression, American Slavery; and my heart looked upward, and was comforted-yea, rather rejoiced, that my little Parker's spirit had gone to the God who gave it, and that my darling's form wore not the fetters of a little slave.
And, to-day, I feel that nothing have I too dear to relinquish-nothing too sacred to place upon the altar of my country-when upon her banner is inscribed EMANCIPATION!
ANGELINA J. KNOX.
Boston, Jan. 15, 1864.
BEAUFORT, (S. C.) Dec. 5, 1863.
DEAR BROTHER GARRISON,-I am happy to inform you that I held a JOHN BROWN meeting on the anniversary of the martyrdom of that dear old man, and a good meeting it was, too. About one hundred assembled in the mansion of John Barnwell, who was one of the lords of the lash, and owned all of Coosaw Island.
I called the people together by ringing the old plantation bell which has for so many years been rung to call the bondman to his unpaid toil.
But times are changing. Justice is fast treading upon the heel of the oppressor. Three years ago, and they hung John Brown because he was an abolitionist, and sought to set the captive free. Three years pass, and a live abolitionist stands in a slaveholder's mansion in South Carolina, ringing the old plantation bell, and calling the roll of Barnwell's slaves to listen to the story of "old John Brown," who, three years ago, died a martyr for his principles, and his pure spirit went up to his God amid a halo of glory from a Virginia scaffold!
Had Barnwell heard the old mansion resound, as a hundred strong voices joined in the chorus of the John Brown song, he would indeed have thought "the day of doom "had come for the slave oligarchy and their "peculiar institution "!
I will state a fact that may surprise you, as I have made diligent inquiry. It is, that there is not one on Coosaw or any of the surrounding islands, that has ever received an article of clothing as a gift from the National Freedmen's Association.
In conclusion, I would say that I am in the most exposed position to the rebels in all this department. The rebel fires are visible every night, while I hear the signal gun in Charleston harbor every half hour.
Your true friend,
THOMAS P. KNOX,
Port Contract Surgeon.
GEN. GRANT ON SLAVERY. Senator Wilson's quotation of Gen. Grant's views of slavery having been questioned, the following is given as the precise words used by Gen. Grant in a letter to Hon. E. B. Washburne, dated Aug. 13, 1863:-
"The people of the North need not quarrel over the institution of slavery. What Vice President Stevens acknowledges as the corner-stone of the confederacy is already knocked out. Slavery is already dead, and cannot be resurrected. It would take a standing army to maintain slavery in the South, if we were to make peace to-day guaranteeing to the South all their former constitutional privileges. I never was an abolitionist, not even what would be called anti-slavery, but I try to judge fairly and honestly, and it became patent to my mind early in the rebellion that the North and South could never live at peace with each other except as one nation, and that without slavery. As anxious as I am to see peace established, I would not, therefore, be willing to see any settlement until this question is forever settled."
<c06>
MISS ANNA DICKINSON'S LECTURE IN WASHINGTON.
[From the Regular Correspondent of the Evening Post.]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 17, 1864.
Miss Dickinson's lecture in the hall of the House of Representatives, last night, was a gratifying success, and a splendid personal triumph. She can hardly fail to regard it as the most flattering ovation, for such it was, of her life. Long before the hour designated in the newspapers for the commencement of the lecture, the hall was filled, the capacious galleries as well as the floor. Seats for five hundred persons had been arranged upon the floor, and the tickets-one dollar each-were sold by noon of Saturday.
A large number of Congressmen were present with their wives and daughters, and many of the leading men of the departments. Here and there an opposition member was visible, but so few in number as to make those who were present unpleasantly conspicuous. At precisely half-past seven, Miss Dickinson came in, escorted by Vice President Hamlin and Speaker Colfax. A platform has been built directly over the desk of the official reporters, and in front of Speaker Colfax. A platform has been built directly over the desk of the official reporters, and in front of the Clerk's desk, from which the lecturer spoke. Mr. Hamlin sat upon her right, and Mr. Colfax upon her left. She was greeted with loud cheers as she came in, and Mr. Hamlin introduced her to the select audience in a neat speech, in which he very happily compared her to the Maid of Orleans.
The scene was one which would evidently test severely the powers of a most accomplished orator, for the audience was not composed of the enthusiastic masses of the people, but rather of loungers, office-holders, orators, critics, and men of the world. But the fair speaker did not seem to be embarrassed in the least-not even by the movements of a crazy man in the galleries, who carried a flag which he waved over her head when she uttered any sentiment particularly stirring or eloquent.
At 8 o' clock, Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln came in, and not even the utterance of a fervid passage in the lecture could repress the enthusiasm of the audience. It was a somewhat amusing fact that just as the President entered the hall, she was criticising with some sharpness his Amnesty Proclamation and the Supreme Court, and the audience, as if feeling it to be their duty to applaud a just sentiment, even at the expense of courtesy, sustained the criticism with a round of deafening cheers. The crazy man in the gallery, as if electrified by the courage of the young woman, waved his flag to and fro with frantic delight. Mr. Lincoln sat meekly through it, not in the least displeased. Perhaps he knew that sweets were to come, to come, for Miss Dickinson soon alluded to him and his course as President, and nominated him as his own successor in 1865. The popularity of the President in Washington was duly attested by volleys of cheers.
The lecture itself was an eloquent one, and it was delivered very finely. Miss Dickinson has evidently made a most favorable impression upon Congress and the people of Washington. After the lecture was finished, the audience called lustily for Mr. Lincoln speak, but he edged his way out of the crowd to a side door, telling the Vice President on his way out side door, telling the Vice President on his way out that he was too much embarrassed to speak, which statement, made known to the people present by Mr. Hamlin, caused much laughter. The “freedom” will obtain over one thousand dollars as the  solid result of the lecture, those present as hearers were delighted, and Miss Dickinson has the consolation of feeling not only that she has aided a good cause, but that she has achieved a fine personal triumph.
The Washington correspondent of the Independent Democrat says:-
“Miss Anna E. Dickinson lectured last Saturday evening in the Representatives’ Hall. She was invited by the Vice President and many members of Congress. What a triumph of Woman’s rights! A lady admitted to the Halls of Congress, and earnestly listened to during a set speech of an hour and a half! Truly, this is an age of innovations. Miss Dickinson said many pointed things, but none that were received with such rapturous applause, as when in a compliment to the President, speaking of reconstruction, she said-‘The work is reserved for his second term of office.’ She said ‘that the opposition complained of blunders in the first of the war. Admit that there were blunders, and who wonders, since of the two hundred and thirty generals first commissioned, two hundred and seven were Democrats?’ Much more worthy of notice was said, but space forbids an enumeration.”
The correspondent of the New York Tribune, in speaking of her Address, says:-
“The President and Mrs. Lincoln, Vice President Hamlin, Speaker Colfax, and Senators and Representatives were among those present. The lecture and the lecturer were enthusiastically received, and the general opinion was of wonderment at the versatility, admiration of the eloquence, and enthusiasm at the patriotism of the lady. The proceeds of the lecture will be between $1000 and $1200, which are to be paid over to the Freedmen’s Relief Association.” Miss Dickinson was at Speaker Colfax’s reception and was the star of the occasion.
MILES O’REILLY ON THE “NAYGURS.”
At a banquet given in honor of the Irish Brigade in New York, on Saturday afternoon, Capt. Daly, of the 47th New York, being called upon for a song, said he would give one which was very popular in the department from which he came. Private O'Reilly, of his regiment, disliking any white monopoly in the trade of “being kilt,” had entered, to the air of “The Low-Backed Car,” the following lyrical protest. He called it-
MILES O’REILLY ON THE “NAYGURS.
Some tell us ’tis a burning shame
To make the naygurs fight;
An’ that the thrade of bein’ kilt
Belongs but to the white:
But as for me, upon my sowl!
So liberal are we here,
I’ll let Sambo be murdered in place of myself
On every day in the year!
On every day in the year, boys,
And every hour in the day,
The right to be kilt I’ll divide wid him,
An’ divel a word I’ll say.
In battle’s wild commotion
I shouldn’t at all object
If Sambo's body should stop a ball
That was comin’ for me direct;
And the prod of a Southern bagnet,
So liberal are we here.
I’ll resign, and let Sambo take it,
On every day in the year!
On every day in the year, boys
An’ wid none of your nasty pride,
All my right in a Southern bagnet prod
Wid Sambo I’ll divide.
The men who object to Sambo
Should take his place and fight;
An’ it's better to have a naygur’s hue
Than a liver that’s wake an white;
Though Sambo's black as the ace of spades,
His finger a trigger can pull,
And his eye runs traight on the barrel sights
From under his thatch of wool!
So hear me all, boys, darlings,
Don't think I’m tipplin’ your chaff,
The right to be kilt I'll divide wid him,
An’ give him the largest half!
A private letter from Ala., says:
“Our minister nearly got himself into a scrape, the other day; and whether he is ‘a bit of a wag,’ or a very careless fellow, or an ‘abolition traitor,’ is near the topic of discussion with us. At the meeting <illegible> fast-day he gave out Dr. Watt’s hymn, commencing.
‘And are we wretches still alive,
And do we yet rebel?
’Tis wondrous, ‘tis amazing grace,
That we are out of hell.”
-N.Y. Tribune
EFFICIENCY OF A NEGRO GUARD. NEW HAVEN, Conn., Jan.2 Samuel Bowers of New York, a volunteer at the camp on Grapevine Point, attempted to desert on Friday night by running the guard. A colored man, named Cesar Hall, of the Twenty ninth Connecticut Regiment, was on guard at the time, and ordered the deserter to halt, when Bowers threw <illegible> in his eyes. Hall pursued and bayoneted him (Bowers) badly through the arm. broke his gun over his head, and brought him back. Bowers will probably recover. Hall was this morning promoted to be a corporal.
MARYLAND LEGISLATURE. Baltimore, 11th. The State Senate to-day passed a resolution appointing a committee to wait on the President, to protest against the operations of Gen. Birney in enrolling slaves in Maryland. The House refused to concur by a vote of 27 t o 26-twenty members not voting.
CINCINNATI AHEAD. The receipts of the Cincinnati Sanitary Fair will reach $200,000. That is a capital item to be read in Richmond and in our camps.
