THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions.  Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 35. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1699.
Refuge of Oppression.
“HARPER’S WEEKLY” ON NEGROES.
The negroes are now receiving their apotheosis.  It is time for them, for since their beginning as a race to the present moment, the contempt and abomination of the rest of mankind has been their lot.  This has been the effect of several causes, some of which are too unpleasant to be narrated, and, therefore, shall not be expressly introduced here.  But it is a question open to much doubt whether, even now, at the end of many ages, these wretched people have done anything to merit any unusual consideration; while the fact that the honor they are getting comes from fanatic Abolitionists-the pestiferous incendiaries of this country-is in itself sufficient to throw lasting suspicion on the justice of everything complimentary that is said in their regard.  Negro merit, advocated by fanatic Abolitionists, it is as rational to disbelieve as statements of high intellectuality given of idiots by a convention of madmen.
Military bravery, nothing less, is now the means by which the Black is rising to glory.  One colored regiment, it is said, fought splendidly at Port Hudson under the Abolition General Banks; therefore, the negroes are the bravest people in the world; therefore, “the coming man to free America from its existing misfortunes will be a Black;” therefore, amalgamation between Black and White is a holy thing; therefore, the “colored pusson” is, in every particular, superior to the white. This is the extravagant system of logic now pursued in consequence of the black valor displayed at Port Hudson. It is plain that it exhibits much of the unfortunate disease called “nigger on the brain.” We should be sorry to do any injustice to the African; but it is a truth that, at Port Hudson, he could not help himself.  He was cruelly advanced forward to an ambuscade, and he was slain. He was driven forward, and he was slaughtered. This is the entire case.
Among the negrophilist journals of the country, foremost stands Harper’s Weekly. That paper has more of the “nigger on the brain” than the Tribune itself.  In a recent number it asked: “Where, either in our colonial or our national history, have the Irish, as a race, won so clear a title to the gratitude of the people of the United States, as the negroes have done within the past three months?”
Certainly, there is no necessity for refuting what is implied in this question.  Indeed, a veritable negro would have more decency than to write such a sentence.  The Colonial and National history of the Irish in America is more brilliant, according to their numbers, than that of white Americans themselves. But we should disdain to refute a notorious abolition lie.  More than half this country is ours in blood-in every great fact that can be attached to a people. We come here poor, but we come here in great numbers; we prosper here in the most various and splendid manner; we multiply here exceedingly; we have founded here a grand Church, that will last forever; and, after a few brief generations, we will be predominant in every circumstance.  Our past tells this in the fullest terms. In Boston we had, last year, more births than the native Puritans.  New York, Philadelphia, and all our other cities, will soon exhibit the same fact. What do we-the Irish of America-care for Harper’s Weekly? Nothing. We were here before it was established; we shall be here after its death; we shall see itself and the negroes where they ought to be.  Nothing is more certain-nothing is more inevitable than this. The Weekly itself can prove it. The ineradicable, multiplying Irishman has a universal grip of the American continent, and he will keep it forever.
In the meantime, let no Irishman read the Weekly, or any other Harper publication.  The Harpers were never anything but Know-nothings, narrow-minded bigots in religion, and negrophilists. To disfranchise all foreigners, they did their best; to proselytize a poor Catholic child they were ever ready; and from “nigger on the brain,” the wretched unfortunate Brothers are always suffering.  It was they made Nicholas Murray an apostate to the religion of his fathers. When a fresh, and handsome, and big-hearted Irish boy, Murray became their apprentice. They soon seduced him to their own heretic way of thinking. Before Heaven, the act was more wicked than any other seduction possible to be made. The gift of faith is the highest possession. God has nothing else that is equal to it. To steal away from it a youth of promise, is guilt upon guilt. Poor Murray must have shrieked in wild despair when, in his last moments, he remembered how his fond. Irish Catholic mother had trained him, and how the Harpers bribed him away from everlasting truth to a compound of Methodisty and Calvinism. Nor was the wretched Murray and Calvinism. Nor was the wretched Murray the only apostate these publishers and editors have made. Let our people keep their eyes open. They have many enemies in America-because they are fast growing to be supreme in the land.  But their worst enemies are the Harpers.  Let them have nothing to do with the books, or magazines, or Weeklys of these Know-nothing Abolition bigots. Nor let them care what such persons. The plague of “nigger on the brain” will soon have exhausted all its strength, the black will lose his apotheosis, Abolitionism will be put under foot, the nativism now rampantly springing up here and there will regret its audacity; religious intolerance, like that of the Harpers, will effect nothing but contempt for its upholders, and the Irish race in America will be forever in predominance-Boston Pilot.

RADICAL RAGE.
It is difficult to understand the motives which influence the radical papers in their malignant course towards Governor Seymour. The New York Tribune presents from day to day a spectacle of impotent rage which is pitiable, while it is disgraceful to the character of the newspaper press.  Yesterday, that paper devoted two columns to a foolish attack on the Governor, Adjutant-General Sprague, and other officers, declaring in the most amusing manner that its figures must of course be true, and the official figures must of course be wrong; and, therefore, in substance, that Adjutant-General Sprague has sold himself to the enemy! Malicious partisanship could hardly go further.  “The Adjutant-General doesn’t tell us how he arrived at the numbers which he gives as the amount of recruits furnished, therefore we can’t believe him,” is the very lucid argument by which this radical sheet proposes to its readers to reject the official reports of the State, and accept radical fabrications instead. “Governor Seymour is a copperhead, therefore we must pour out billingsgate on him,” is the other part of the argument, which seems, to the radical mind, to justify a violation of the laws of the land and of the laws of common decency.-Journal of Commerce.
Selections.
<c02>
DANIEL O’CONNELL AND SLAVERY.
That excellent and patriotic journal, the Catholic Telegraph, of Cincinnati, prints a long letter of remonstrance, addressed by Daniel O’Connell and a committee of Irishmen to a committee of Irish citizens of Cincinnati, who ventured to rebuke O’Connell for his anti-slavery sentiments. The reply of the great Irishman is pungent; he does not spare his sarcasms; he overwhelms the luckless Cincinnati Committee with reproaches on their meanness in abusing the down-trodden, and taking part with the oppressor.
We can find room only for a few extracts from this manly letter; it is to be printed in pamphlet form, and will, we hope, be widely circulated among the countrymen of its author, as well as through the country generally.
The address begins thus:
“To D. T. Disney, Esq., Corresponding Secretary; W. H. Hunter, Esq., Vice President, and the Executive Committee of the, Cincinnati Irish Repeal Association:
“CORN EXCHANGE ROOMS, DUBLIN, October 11, 1843.
“Gentlemen: We have read with the deepest affliction, not unmixed with some surprise and much indignation, your detailed and anxious vindication of the most hideous crime that has ever stained humanity-the slavery of men of color in the United States of America. We are lost in utter amazement at the perversion of mind and depravity of heart which your address evinces. How can the generous, the charitable, the humane, the noble emotions of the Irish heart, have become extinct among you? How can your nature be so totally changed as that you should become the apologists and advocates of that execrable system which makes man the property of his fellow man-destroying the foundation of <illegible> and social virtues-condemns to ignorance, immorality and irreligion, millions of our fellow-creatures-renders the slave hopeless of relief, and perpetuates oppression by law, and in the name of what you call a constitution.
“It was not in Ireland you learned this cruelty. Your mothers were gentle, kind and humane. Their bosoms overflowed with the honey of human charity. Your sisters are, probably, many of them still among us, and participate in all that is good and benevolent in sentiment and action. How, then, can you become so depraved? How can your souls have become stained with a darkness blacker than the negro’s skin? You say you have no pecuniary interest in negro slavery. Would that you had! for it might be some palliation of your crime! but, alas! you have inflicted upon us the horror of beholding you the volunteer advocates of despotism in its most frightful state; of slavery in its most loathsome and unrelenting form.”
He tells them that 
“Your advocacy of slavery is founded upon a gross error. You take for granted that man can be the property of his fellow man. You speak in terms of indignation of those who would deprive white men of their ‘property,’ and thereby render them incapable of supporting their families in affluence. You forget the other side of the picture. You have neither sorrow nor sympathy for the sufferings of those who are iniquitously compelled to labor for the affluence of others; those who work without wages-who toil without recompense-who spend their lives in procuring for others the splendor and wealth in which they do not participate.
“But you come forward with a justification, forsooth! You say that the constitution of America prohibits the abolition of slavery. Paltery and miserable subterfuge! The constitution of America is founded upon the Declaration of Independence.  That declaration published to the world its glorious principles; that charter of your freedom contained these emphatic words:
‘We hold these truths to be self evident-that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights; that amongst these are life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.’  “Recollect that the Declaration does not limit the equality of man, or the rights to life and liberty to the white, to the brown, or to the copper colored races. It includes all races.  It excludes none.”  He says scornfully: “We really think that men who came from generous and warm-hearted Ireland should shrink into nonentity rather than become the advocates and defenders of the system of slavery.  But we trust that the voice of indignant Ireland will scatter them, and prevent them from repeating such a crime. “You tell us, with an air of triumph, that public opinion in your country is the great law giver. If it be so, how much does it enhance the guilt of your conduct that you seek to turn public opinion against the slave and in favor of the slaveholder! That you laud the master as generous and humane, and disparage, as much as you can, the unhappy slave.  Instead of influencing, as Irishmen ought to do, the public mind in favor of the oppressed, you carry your exaggerations to a ludicrous pitch, denoting your utter ignorance of the history of the human race.”
He takes up one by one the points they made in their address, and demolishes them unsparingly. He ridicules the complaint they made of the odor of the negro, saying that multitudes of the children of white men have negroes for their nurses: 
“We implore of your fastidiousness to recollect that multitudes of the children of white men have negro women for their mothers. But it is, indeed, deplorable, that you should use a ludicrous assertion of that description as one of the inducements to prevent the abolition of slavery. The negroes would certainly smell at least as sweet when free as they now do being slaves.”
They said the negro was of an inferior race; but the Irish Liberator replies:
“To judge properly of the negro, you should see him educated and treated with the respect due to a fellow creature-uninsulted by the filthy aristocracy of the skin, and untarnished to the eye of the white by any association connected with the state of slavery.”
They wrote that “black and white men cannot exist on equal terms” in this country. O’Connell points them to Jamaica, and taunts them thus:
“You have borrowed the far greater part of your address from the cant phraseology which the West Indian slaveowners, and especially those of Jamaica, made use of before emancipation. They used to assert, as you do now, that abolition meant destruction; that to give freedom to the negro would be to pronounce the assassination of the whites; that the negroes, as soon as free, would massacre their former owners, and destroy their wives and families.  In short, your prophecies of the destructive effects of 
<c03>
emancipation are but faint and foolish echoes of the prophetic apprehensions of the British slaveowners. They might, perhaps, have believed their own assertions, because the emancipation of the negroes was then an untried experiment. But you-you are deprived of any excuse for the reassertion of a disproved calumny.”
Their reproaches of the “Abolitionists” call out, from O’Connell, this savage burst:
“Another piece of silliness. You allege that it is the abolitionists who make the slave restless with his condition, and that they scatter the seed of discontent. How can you treat us with such contempt as to use assertions of that kind in your address? How can you think we could be so devoid of intelligence as to believe the negro would not know the miseries of slavery, which he feels every hour of four-and-twenty, unless he were told by some abolitionist that slavery was a miserable condition?
“There is nothing that makes us think so badly of you as your strain of ribaldry in attacking the abolitionists.”
“The desire to procure abolition is in itself a virtue, and deserves our love for its charitable disposition, as it does respect and veneration for its courage under unfavorable circumstances. Instead of the ribaldry of your attack upon the abolitionists, you ought to respect and countenance them. If they err by excessive zeal they err in a righteous and holy cause. You would do well to check their errors and mitigate their zeal, within the bounds of strict propriety. But if you had the genuine feelings of Irishmen, you never would confound their errors with their virtues. In truth, we must fear, or rather, we should candidly say, we readily believe that you attribute to them imaginary errors for no other reason than that they really possess one brilliant virtue-namely, the love of human freedom in intense perfection.” *  *  *  *
“We cannot avoid repeating our astonishment that you, Irishmen, should be so devoid of every trace of humanity as to become the voluntary and pecuniarily disinterested advocates of human slavery; and especially, that you should be so in America. But what excites our unconquerable loathing is to find that in your address you speak of man being the property of man-of one man being the property of another, with as little doubt, hesitation or repugnance, as if you were speaking of the beasts of the field.  It is this that fills us with utter astonishment.  It is this that makes us disclaim you as country men. We cannot bring ourselves to believe that you breathed your natal air in Ireland-Ireland, the first of all the nations on the earth that abolished the dealings in slaves. The slave trade of that day was, curious enough, a slave trade in British youths.  Ireland, that never was stained with negro slave trading-Ireland, that never committed an offence against the men of color-Ireland, that never fitted out a single vessel for the traffic in blood on the African coast.”
Finally he requires of them, “if they are genuine Irishmen,” to do certain things, as follows:
“First. We call upon you, in the sacred game of humanity, never again to volunteer on behalf of the oppressor, nor ever, for any self interest, to vindicate the hideous crime of personal slavery.
“Second. We ask you to assist in every way you can in promoting the education of the free men of color, and in discountenancing the foolish feelings of selfishness-of that criminal selfishness which makes the white man treat the man of color as a degraded or inferior being.
“Third. We ask you to assist in obtaining for the free men of color the full benefit of all the rights and franchises of a freeman in whatever state he may inhabit.
“Fourth. We ask you to exert yourselves in endeavoring to procure for the man of color, in every case, the benefit of a trial by jury; and especially where a man insisting that he is a free man is claimed to be a slave.
“Fifth. We ask you to exert yourselves in every possible way to induce slaveowners to emancipate as many slaves as possible. The Quakers of America have several societies for this purpose. Why should not the Irish imitate them in that virtue?
“Sixth. We ask you to exert yourselves in all the ways you possibly can to put an end to the internal slave trade of the States.  The breeding of slaves for sale is, probably, the most immoral and debasing practice ever known in the world.  It is a crime of the most hideous kind, and if there were no other crime committed by the Americans, this alone would place the advocates, supporters and practicers of American slavery in the lowest grade of criminals.
“Seventh. We ask you to use every exertion in your power to procure the abolition of slavery by the Congress in the district of Columbia.
“Eighth. We ask you to use your best exertions to compel the Congress to receive and read the petitions of the wretched negroes, and above all, the petitions of their white advocates.
“Ninth. We ask you never to cease your efforts until the crime of which Lord Morpeth has accused the Irish in America, of ‘being the worst enemies of the men of color,’ shall be atoned for, and blotted out, and effaced forever.
“You will ask how you can do all these things? You have already answered that question yourselves; for you have said that public opinion is the law of America.  Contribute, then, each of you in his sphere, to make up that public opinion.  Where you have the electoral franchise, give your vote to none but those who will assist you in so holy a struggle.”
He appeals to them:
“Irishmen! sons of Irishmen! descendants of the kind of heart and affectionate in disposition, think, oh think only with pity and compassion on your colored fellow creatures in America. Offer them the hand of kindly help. Soothe their sorrows. Seathe their oppressor. Join with your countrymen at home in one cry of sympathy with the enslaved and oppressed:
‘Till prone in dust shall Slavery be hurled-
Its name and nature blotted from the world.’
“Once again-sand for the last time-we call upon you to come out of the councils of the slaveowners, and at all events to free yourselves from participating in their guilt.
“Irishmen, I call upon you to join in crushing slavery, and in giving liberty to every man of every caste, creed or color.
Signed by order. DANIEL O’CONNELL, Chairman of the Committee.” 
DRAWING IT VERY MILD. The York World speaks of the refusal of the Federal Government to recognize and negotiate with the traitors at Richmond, as partisan obstinacy stickling for “a mere point of etiquette!” Such incidental phrases as this are the straws which tell the direction of the current of that journal’s sympathies and purposes.
<c04>
HATRED TO THE BLACKS.
There is something fiendish in the malice where with the Copperhead press pursues the unhappy negro. So long as he was a slave it was all right with him; he was doing his appointed work for his task-master, and this was his destiny, and all that he was good for.  But no sooner does the law pronounce him to be free, and possessed of the rights of a man, than he is assailed with the coarsest and most brutal language which a bad heart can dictate from the vocabulary of the lowest thieves and loafers that infest society. He is treated and denounced as a criminal, compared with whom a murderer is a saint, and to hear them talk, one would imagine that poor Sambo must really be as black in disposition as he is in the color of his skin. But so far as we can learn, he has done nothing to justify the abuse which has been heaped upon him. He is quite as good, and well behaved, as we could expect any man to be whose whole previous life had been warped and poisoned by wrong and degradation; and it is certain that he is immeasurably the superior of his Copperhead enemies. He has shown himself to be capable in many directions, and he possesses one great virtue which these traitors never had, and of whose very meaning they are ignorant. He is loyal by nature, and full of reverence. He naturally understands, too, the difference between a whip and a dollar a day for wages, and it is not surprising that he should love the hand that set him free, and be ready and willing to fight for it. And it is precisely on this ground that Copperheads hate him. He has proved himself to be a good soldier on many a hard-fought battle-field, and as long as history lasts, his achievements at Milliken’s Bend and Port Hudson will be the romance of the war, and the admiration of every brave and generous heart.
If poor Sambo had been fighting with and for the rebels, against the Federal Government, we should have had endless dissertations upon his valor: but because he is ranked on the side of the Republic, which these rascals hate, there are no words expressive of sufficient contempt and dishonor for them to use against him.
The New York World bears away the palm in this villany. Everything that Sambo does is wrong; every act of bravery performed by him is set down as having been done under fear of Federal bayonets in his rear; and every life which he sacrifices for the Union and the laws, is mocked, and insulted, and ticketed as so much black carrion. If the traitors who conduct this infamous sheet loved the country, as they hypocritically profess to love it, they would be grateful for every arm that was raised in its defence. We should hear no contemptuous words spoken against any soldier of the Republic, no matter where he was born, or what was the color of his skin; and it is pitiful to see these poor wretches, how they wriggle and twist themselves into contortions of rage and hate over the poor negroes, because in this hour of extreme peril to the nation they have been enlisted to its service, and have proved themselves worthy of the high honor of being numbered amongst its defenders.
When will this wickedness cease? When will it come to pass that those who love America, Americans will love? That those who hate America, Americans will hate? When shall we cease to talk about party, and dispute about persons, and having done so, loyally devote ourselves, body and soul, to save the country? What does it matter who helps us to do this great work? The work has to be done! And we, for one, hail as a friend every man, whoever he may be, that comes, with his life in his hand, to the rescue of our country?- Chicago Tribune.

SUGGESTION FOR THE REBELS.
As the war on the part of the South is for the extension and perpetuation of slavery, and as Mr. J. Davis, who dubs himself the President of the Pirates’ Confederacy, has called on all the man-selling Christians in his modern Dahomey to come to prayers, to the end that the favor of the Almighty may be propitiated for their arms; and as Davis and his crew find in the Old Dispensation all the justifications of slavery that God’s word to men affords, we have a line of advice to give them about the method of proceeding on the appointed day of what they impiously call Thanksgiving and Praise.  They may not adopt our suggestions, but we will make them, nevertheless:
The erection of a great National Altar at Richmond, to which the offering to the Invisible and the Eternal may be brought. We see the faithful coming in-one with the faggot with which the fires were lighted that have burned innocent men to death, because they did not care to live and be slaves; another with whips dripping with gore, with which women have been gashed and lacerated until they died-gashed and lacerated because they would not receive their masters’ embraces; another with the bones of Christian servants, who were chained until they starved to death, because their masters were devilish in their cups; another with a plank of a slave ship, from which 407 out of 501 captives were thrown to the sharks during the horrors of the Middle Passage; another with a computation of the tears that slave mothers have shed when their children have been torn from their arms, to be sent to the far South market; another with an estimate of the families that have been divided at auction and at private sale, upon the demand of interest or by the spur of misfortune, since American Slavery began; another with an account of the way in which the fathers in their agony groaned, and in which the mothers wept and called on Christ to pity and sustain another with chains, attached to which coffle gangs of husbands without wives, mothers without husbands, children fatherless and motherless, all so by the agency of the “institution,” have been driven out of the Border States, South; another with a book to prove that slave-holding economy consists in working laborers to death in seven years, and renewing the gang; another with a pack of blood hounds in leash, by which men and women seeking liberty have been mangled and torn; another with the results of Wade Hampton’s experience in feeding laborers on cotton-seed meal until half the number died: another with the instruments of torture that Slavery uses, each wet with the blood of its victims-the stake, the whip, the branding, iron, the collar, the live coal, the hand-saw, with which flesh is haggled, the loathsome prison-house, the paddle, the rifle, the revolver and the bowie-knife-enginery more infernal than that which the barbarous Inquisition used; another with the statutes of the slave holding States by which wrong and inhumanity have been organized into law; another with the statistics of Southern concubinage, and consequent immorality and death; another with the model of a plantation on which men and women with immortal souls are bred for sale; another with the assertion that it is a part of Slavery for fathers to debauch, use and sell their own daughters, and to enslave and make merchandise of their sons; another, a preacher, with his creed and his
<c05>
sermons to prove that all these are only normal manifestations of Christianity, as the Father ordained and Christ taught it; another with his political speech to establish that all these are incidents to the workings of the pure Democracy that Washington and Jefferson founded.
If all these offerings, connected with each of which there is a long history of wrong, outrage, tears and blood, failed to secure the favor of Heaven, on that altar a hecatomb of “niggers” might be devoted to the sacrifice, by Jeff. Davis, the Great High Priest of latter-day Atheism.
For this sum of all villanies, a few of the atrocities of which we have hinted at, the South is fighting-for its perpetuation in the face of the light which the civilization of the century has shed upon the world, and for its extension into territories now happily free-for that and nothing else. So, let the suppliants of Heaven show their handiwork; and how better, Mr. J. Davis, than in the way that we point out? By all means, let the altar be built. If Heaven should deride, man would be instructed by what was laid thereon.-Ibid.

FALSE PROPHETS OF EVIL.
It is often a wonder to us that prophets who find their predictions perpetually falsified do not lose confidence in their own powers of foresight. There is the London Times, for instance, which week by week, for more than two years now, has told us that the war in the United States would end disastrously for the North, and which has met with incessant disappointments, but which goes on prophesying as glibly as though its every word had come to pass. There are the southern journals, too, which declared that the North was too selfish to engage in war, that its industrial people could not and would not fight, that its merchants would not contribute their money to the treasury, that its factories would stop, that its ships would rot at the wharves, that building would be suspended in the towns, and that grass would grow in the thoroughfares of the cities, not one of which vaticinations has been supported by the event, and yet they are as prolific now in their predictions of evil to us as they were in the beginning.
The favorite mode of forecasting our future, at this time, both in London and Richmond, is to consign us over to political and social anarchy. The late disgraceful mob in New York, we are assured, is but inkling of what is yet to come. Our streets are destined to run blood; our houses to be consumed by the devouring flames; our religious sects, and particularly Protestants and Catholics, to fall upon each other like tigers; and our beautiful fabric of government to become the prey of some remorseless despot, or else be rent into a hundred pieces. France, in those days of general insurrection when fury and passion desolated every province, and Mexico, in the worst periods of her social distraction, have been only the types and forerunners of the destruction which is soon to befall the turbulent democracy of the North.
A part of this foolish kind of utterance is the offspring of a malignity which refuses to see any good in free society, and expresses rather the wishes than the opinions of its authors. They desire to witness our overthrow, and the head readily confirms what the heart dictates.  But a great deal of it proceeds, at the same time, from a serious persuasion that the form of government which we have here instituted is in itself impracticable, and certain of collapse. Neither in London nor in Richmond have they any confidence in popular methods. They regard them as wrong in principle, as without foundation in reason or the nature of things, and they feel assured there is no other issue for them than despotism or anarchy. Our experiment from the beginning has seemed more or less of a failure to them, and it is not unnatural that they should anticipate its complete and final explosion. In spite of the eighty years of peace and prosperity which we have enjoyed, in spite of that wonderful progress in all the elements of civilization that we have made, in the face of our prodigous internal improvements, our growing cities, our almost universal education, our libraries, our newspapers, our schools and our churches, they discover only rottenness under the smiling surface, only gigantic disaster at the end. Men who have been educated in the notion that one class or race of mankind is born to be the servants of another, bound to do all the hard work and drudgery, while they appropriate all the wealth, the luxury, the honor and the refinement, cannot fail to find the system of human fellowship, of equal rights, of generous social freedom, which we have adopted, exquisitely revolting alike to their pride, their covetousness and their taste. All that they have and are is interested in our signal defeat and overthrow.
Theirs would be a melancholy view, if one could believe it; but fortunately we who adhere to the republic have been taught in another school. Slavery has not blinded our eyes to the manifest providential destiny of human society; nor has aristocracy seduced our hearts from their fidelity to the whole of the people. Our confidence in the stability, the righteousness and the goodness of democracy was never stronger than it is now in the midst of civil war. We believe that the form of society which prevails in the North-because it guarantees the freedom and equality of every member-is not only the most beneficent that was ever devised, but the strongest and the most enduring. We believe that nowhere on the face of the earth is a more genuine regard for order, a sincerer love of law, a deeper devotion to peace, to be found than in these States, whose only dangers arise from their not having carried out with greater faithfulness and in larger applications the grand principles on which they are founded.
This faith rests upon very simple reasons. In States which are not free, in which the government represents not the mass of the people, but a privileged class or a special family, the law is never anything more than an outward rule, imposed by authority and upheld by force. It has no sanction in the hearts or consciences of the community. Large standing armies and a complicated apparatus of police are necessary to give it effect.  Enacted, for the most part, with special and exclusive reference to the interests of the few, it is regarded always with jealousy if not irritation by the many. They live under it in a state of chronic though suppressed uneasiness, and whenever opportunity occurs, when some epidemic of revolution sweeps over a neighboring country, they rise in bloody if fruitless revolt.  But in free States, whose governments are not mere machines for the maintenance of order, but living organizations of the popular will, the law becomes the expressed consciousness of society, which every one regards as paramount to his individual impulses and desires, because it is the recognized volition of the whole.  Such governments afford stronger securities for personal rights, for formal justice, for public tranquillity, than others, because they are backed and supported by the moral authority of opinion. While they are less likely to trespass upon the rights of individuals, their mistakes are more easily corrected and their fundamental defects
<c06>
readily cured without resort to violence. Every subject of them perceives that the will of the people is an enlightened and rational will, which may be reached by persuasions or votes much better than by the sword. In the best democratic societies there are, of course, remains of old traditionary wrongs, like slavery in this country, which will prove the source of discontent and conflict; in the best democratic societies, too, there are multitudes, some of native and others of foreign origin, who are not yet educated up to the level of their own institutions, and who furnish the apt materials for mobs; and in the best democratic societies there will be politicians who are determined rogues, bending all their selfish powers to the corruption of sentiment and legislation; but the entire tendency of such societies, like that of a healthful body, is to bring all these disturbing elements to the surface and then slough them off. Freedom implies investigation, it implies agitation, it implies struggle, and whatever is incompatible with its own buoyant and progressive spirit is discovered and cast out. Its incessant activity, its external turbulence seem to the stranger like discord, or the utter absence of well regulated control, when they are in reality but the wholesome process of purification, but the efforts, more or less animated-convulsive it may be at times-by which we put away the evils that obstruct a better life. Thus the public order, which in more despotic nations is reached only by a stupid, irreflective spirit of loyalty, by a slavish terror of power, by state craft and hypocritical diplomacy, and by the systematic degradation of the masses, is here the result of conscious thought, of reasonable convictions, of a genuine inward respect for the rights of others, and of a deep-seated sentiment that the individual man, in obeying the general will, succumbs to no foreign or unfriendly power, but merely accepts a will which is likely to be wiser than his own, or which if not wiser in the long run, is the best for the time.
We do not, then, feel at all humiliated because civil war exists in this country, knowing as we do that it originated in the anomaly of slavery, of which we are in a fair way of getting rid; we do not feel humiliated, except on local grounds, because a terrible riot has disgraced the metropolis, seeing how necessary it was that certain political festers should come to a head, and how effectually they were dispersed; and we are not at all frightened, therefore, by those portentous prophecies of calamity and ruin which come to us from London and the South, because we know the stuff of which our societies are composed. We know that since the slaveholders have forcibly extruded themselves from the political pale, there is no class among us which is not honestly and earnestly devoted to the public good. Our farmers, our mechanics, our mechanics, our workingmen, feel to the innermost fibres of their being, that the public weal is the private weal. Those who are not animated by that great truth are the exceptions, not the rule; those who here sympathise with secession do it clandestinely rather than openly; those who encourage the mob are ashamed to appear outside of their garrets and holes; and the greater part of them are temporarily deceived, and will come right; while the mighty heart of the people is unmistakably loyal-loyal to the Constitution, loyal to the laws, loyal to liberty and to order, loyal to our democratic organizations, and only in the name of those great principles can any be seduced for a moment into an attitude of antagonism to this prevailing devotion.
Here, then, is a capital fact which our foreign maligners and southern prophets of evil fail to see. They do not see that we in this country are more than a simple government or polity, that we are a great, living and unitary society, which, having seriously set itself to work to do justice to all its members, to organize itself in strict accordance with the fundamental truth of human brotherhood, is cordially approved and upheld by all who belong to it. Of course, we have done our work as yet imperfectly; we are still struggling with the old diseases of the social system; we abound in vice and crimes; we give way to an accursed lust of gold; we indulge in hideous prejudices of race and color; we listen too willingly to the blandishments of political scamps; but, because we are making so grand an attempt, because we acknowledge the rights of all men, endeavor to secure them by just laws, and open to mankind the amplest uses of the beneficences of Providence, we must win the love of the whole people as we propitiate the blessing of God. For the first time in human history a nation is formed on the broadest principles of justice to all men, livingly adopts in its policy the noblest sentimentt of Christian truth, and it is impossible to think that the gates of hell shall ever prevail against a form so full of the divinest inspiration-New York Evening Post.

WILLIAM L. YANCEY.
Death is thinning the ranks of the prominent actors in the rebellion. In addition to numerous prominent generals, the week brings us intelligence that William L. Yancey, the eloquent orator, of Southern birth, but Northern education, who was among the very foremost of the leaders, is no more. He was followed to the grave on the 29th ult., by the largest procession ever witnessed in Montgomery, Alabama. John B. Floyd was also lying ill, and not expected to recover. The death of Yancey brings vividly to mind the 10th of October, 1860, when he delivered his great speech at the New York Cooper Institute, and was cheered to the echo by listening thousands. The now rebel General Gustavus W. Smith called the meeting to order, Judge Green presided, and a letter was read from James T. Brady in praise of the Breckenridge platform, and denouncing the incoherent notions of Douglas on slavery in the territories. The speech of Yancey was one of his most elaborate efforts. The adroitness with which he appealed to the selfish interests of his audience, and the wonderful prescience with which he foretold the events of the future, almost exactly as they have occurred, will form a remarkable chapter in history. He affirmed that the only thing the South insisted on was that the North should “let nobody steal their negroes.” The institution was valuable to the North as well as the South. “We do not let our negroes run about and injure anybody; we keep them to us; they never steal from any of you; they do not trouble you with that peculiar negro stench, which, however agreeable it may be to the nose of a Southern man, is terrible to the nose of a Northern.” (Laughter and applause.) The South could not afford to allow such strikes as we had at the North; they could have no safety for their cotton crop. “We are a well-regulated people in the South; our institution is well regulated; the slaves are not treated with tyranny and despotism.”
His idea of government was “that governments are instituted to protect material interests alone; that government was not a school for ethical vagaries and theories of morals;” that it was instituted “for the protection of our own citizens against anybody else, and for the protection of our property against in vasion from abroad and crime within,” and not to “set up a school of ethics and morals, or of the right 
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power… It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON WAR, CORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEN. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies hare power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
138
THE LIBERATOR.
AUGUST 28.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of one man to hold another man in bondage." Mr. Seward and Abraham Lincoln were Abolitionists. "I expect them to swallow the District of Columbia at the very first breath they draw in power. Not only will they abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, but in the arsenals and dockyards." Mr. Lincoln "will build up an abolition party in the South." The offices "will be in the hands of men who would sympathize with Lincoln." "They will penetrate between the masters and slaves as water penetrates the crevices of rocks." It will be the terrible war of races, which "destroys our civilization and all our social relations, and which will either drive us as exiles from our homes, or compel us to drench our land in the blood of that unfortunate race." "It is said the South ought to submit; some people may think so; I do not." (Loud cheers.) "My State has reserved powers and reserved rights. I believe in the right of secession." ("Good, good," and loud cheers.) "If my State decides to go out, I shall go with her; if she decides to remain, I shall remain with her; I could not do otherwise." (Applause.) "When the time comes for me to make up my mind, it will be in consultation with my fellow citizens of Alabama. You in New York have nothing to do with it."
In reply to the question whether he would support the general government in maintaining the integrity of the Union, he said, "Is it meant by the integrity of the Union, the preservation of an administration which shall trample upon any portion of the South? If so, then I will tell him I will lead my State in resisting it to blood." (Applause.) His affirmation of the right of revolution in such a case was greeted with enthusiastic cheers, the audience rising in their seats and waving their hats. Georgia has deliberately resolved, "it is already a law of Georgia, to resist to the last." The very moment the first soldier marches to Georgia, the whole character of the government will be changed. Suppose you conquer; then will Georgia be no more a free Southern State, but a conquered province.
Mr. Yancey declared that if the rights of the minority were to be subjected to the decisions of the majority, it would be "the government of a despotism, of the million," and be "would rather have one enlightened king than a million ignorant despots." He told his hearers of the mine under their feet. You have a society here that needs loyalty to law; let the elements that lie below you get loose, and "I tell you it will not be Dorrism or anti-rentism, but an upheaving like that of the volcanoes of Italy, and a lava that will burn up your prosperity and leave a track as desolate as the track of the lava that descends from the crater of Etna." This was followed by "great cheers," and from the very men, no doubt, that have been carrying out the prophecy to its fulfillment. He ended by bidding them a "respectful farewell."
The tongue that gave utterance to its treason in such lofty and defiant tones is now silent in death; an untimely end, hastened, in all probability, by the corroding of anxious care and the disappointment of ambitious hopes. On the page of history, Yancey stands before coming generations in the light of an "archangel ruined." He is gone to answer before his Judge for the prostitution of his high talents to the support of violence and crime. He is dead, but the men who cheered him at the Cooper Institute still live, still walk our streets, are still plotting to turn this city into a hell of blood and fire, and it is not yet certain whether they may not succeed.- American Baptist.
COLORED TROOPS AT CAMP WILLIAM PENN.
The third regiment of colored troops is now full, and there is every prospect of filling another, some three or four companies having the desired number of men. At the latter part of last week, several of our daily papers published the gratifying intelligence that the Third Regiment of Philadelphia Colored troops would come into the city from Camp William Penn, to go through the evolutions of a street parade. The day came, but with it also came the postponement of the promised treat indefinitely. This has been a source of grievous disappointment to a great many, both colored and white. Now the question arises. Whose fault is it that the colored soldiers did not parade on last Saturday? There has been no reason given as yet for this outrage upon the feelings of our people, many of whom would thus have seen their relatives and friends probably for the last time in this world. Truly there is a fearful responsibility resting somewhere. But not only were the friends of the regiment disappointed, but when the intelligence reached the encampment, it caused a great commotion amongst the men, amounting, as we have been told, almost to a state of mutiny, which had been the consequence of so frequently disappointing the men on this account. The officers, we hear, were not much better.
There are several flying rumors of the occasion of this postponement of the parade. The first of these reports is, that Mayor Henry received quite a number of anonymous letters on the subject of the regiment coming into the city. The Mayor, it is said, fearing a riot if they should come in, telegraphed to the Secretary of War to prevent their coming, which was done. Another report is, that on that day there were two white regiments to parade through the city, and they would occupy the entire police force of the city to attend to them. Now, whether any of these reports are true we do not know, but there is one thing which we would like to have some information upon, and that is, if the government enlisted colored soldiers, are they not bona fide government troops, as well as any others? They took upon them the same obligations as white men, when they were sworn in. This is all that is required; and their officers think it necessary to parole them, as well as any other soldiers. What right any man has to interfere with colored, more than with white troops, we cannot conceive. Does the government want to get them up in some dark corner, and prepare them to do just what white men are prepared to do in the dark? It should be remembered, that these men are human beings, and have their five senses, and feel just as well as the whites do. They are not ignorant of the manner in which they are treated; and of course they know what they are, and the kind of treatment they deserve. And the men who would interfere with, or molest them in any way, deserve the severest punishment. We, therefore, hope that both the Government and Philadelphia will redeem themselves from last week’s doings. What will other nations have to say about such a movement?
We will say, in conclusion, that some of those colored men are as well drilled as any we commonly see in white regiments, and some of them are more so.-Christian Recorder.

THE MASS 54th AT FORT WAGNER.
The correspondent of the Tribune has the following statements relative to the general and individual bravery of the Mass. 54th (colored) regiment at the assault on Fort Wagner on the 18th ultimo:
"It will be remembered that the 54th held the right of the storming column, led by Gen. Strong, commanding the 1st brigade. The regiment went into action six hundred and fifty strong, and came out with a loss of two hundred and eighty privates and officers, being over one-third of the whole number. Among the officers, the proportion is much larger. Of twenty-three who went into action, but eight came out uninjured. The regiment marched up in column by wings; the first was under command of Col. Shaw in person, the second under Major Hallowell. When about one thousand yards from the fort, the enemy opened upon them with shot, shell, and cannister, which kept flying through their ranks incessantly, and wounding many of their best officers. But still they pressed on through this storm of shot and shell, and faltered not, but cheered and shouted as they advanced.
When about 100 yards from the fort, the rebel musketry opened with such terrible effect that for an instant the first battalion hesitated-but only for an instant, for Col. Shaw, springing to the front and waving his sword, shouted "Forward, my brave boys!" and with another cheer and a shout they rushed through the ditch, gained the parapet on the right, and were soon engaged in a hand-to-hand conflict with the enemy. Col. Shaw was one of the first to scale the walls. He stood erect to urge forward his men, and while shouting for them to press on, he was shot dead, and fell into the fort. His body was found, with twenty of his men lying dead around him, two lying on his own body. In the morning they were all buried together in the same pit. The first battalion, after losing nearly all their officers, were compelled to fall back, and the second came forward and took its place, and held the position until it too lost all its officers, Major Hallowell falling severely wounded.
Capt. Appleton then attempted to rally all that
<c02>
was left of both battalions, but was compelled to give way. 
Sergeant Major Lewis H. Douglass, a son of Fred. Douglass, by both white and negro troops is said to have displayed great courage and calmness, was one of the first to mount the parapet, and with his powerful voice shouted, "Come on, boys, and fight for God and Gov. Andrew," and with this battle-cry led them into the fort. 
But above all, the color-bearer deserves more than a passing notice. Sergeant John Wall of Co. G. carried the flag in the first battalion, and when near the fort be fell into a deep ditch, and called upon his guard to help him out. They could not stop for that, but Sergt. William H. Carney of Co. C. caught the colors, carried them forward, and was the first man to plant the Stars and Stripes upon Fort Wagner. As he saw the men falling back, himself severely wounded in the breast, he brought the colors off, creeping on his knees, pressing his wound with one hand and with the other holding up the emblem of freedom. The moment he was seen crawling into the hospital with the flag still in his possession, his wounded companions, both black and white, rose from the straw upon which they were lying, and cheered him until exhausted they could shout no longer. In response to this reception, the brave and wounded standard-bearer said: "Boys, I but did my duty; the dear old flag never touched the ground."
After the main body of the regiment had been killed, wounded or driven back, Capt. Emelio, together with Lieuts. Green, Dexter, and Tucker, rallied one hundred men and held a position near the fort until one o’clock in the morning, when they were relieved by the 10th Connecticut, by order of Gen. Stimson. But even then they did not retire to the rear, but remained in the front and brought off a great number of wounded, who would otherwise have fallen into the hands of the enemy."

PROCLAMATION FOR PRAYER.
What men and angels will, when Jeff. Davis’ proclamation is announced, be most disposed to do-laugh until the blue and gemmed vaults ring with echoes, or weep until their tears descend in showers upon the unbelieving earth-it is not for us laymen to say. We are not angelic enough to conceive what the feelings of angels will be in view of that most impious and monstrous invocation of Heaven, its Mercy and Justice, which the President of the man-selling Confederacy has put forth. We can imagine the reception with which the petition of a penitent son of Earth who had forgotten God in the commission of crime, would be heard by the infinite patience and pity with which the hearts of the elect and the redeemed are filled. But the outcry of a nation avowing a giant wrong for its corner stone-a wrong which hopelessly curses four millions of men, which sells them into the hardest of bondage, which uproots the sacred relations of the family, which dooms them to ignorance and brutality, which leaves their souls in all the peril with which unconscious sin and enforced brutality can environ them-the outcry of a nation that has attempted the enforcing of this wrong by a war, causeless, bloody and protracted, waged with infernal malignity and devilish hate-this outcry, what shall men and angels say to it?
Let us pray! saith Jeff to his Confederates. In churches built by the toil whipped out of unpaid men, the supplicators will gather at his command; from Bibles that have been purchased by the wages of infamy that women have been compelled by fear of the lash or the branding-iron to earn, the words of Christ the Apostle of Human Equality and of the first Christian Democracy will be read; in surplices bought by the sale of little children torn with merciless hardness of grasp from weeping mothers’ arms, men whose pay is the price of blood will harangue other men, the crowning labor of whoso lives is the effort to extend this business of man-selling, woman-whipping, and child-stealing-these legalized outrages of all the precepts that Heaven teaches or that good men observe-this aggregation, embodiment and type of all villanies-into lands where civilization and Christianity have heretofore said that every man owns himself, that every woman is the mistress of her own virtue, and that every child is its mother’s. Let us pray! saith Jeff.-pray that the light of the world-this sublime enunciation of God’s truth that man is superior to his accidents-may be put out; let us pray that the doctrine of human eqality may be uprooted and destroyed, and that the other doctrine that the strong may govern the weak-that capital may own its labor-that the hopeless and helpless may be enslaved, set up instead; let us pray that the best government that Providence has yet vouchsafed to men may be overthrown, and that tyranny may grow thriftily on the ruins thereof; let us pray that the dominion of Slavery-American Slavery, that most iniquitous of all bondages that man ever invented to torment his fellows may be extended all over this continent, and that Freedom, with its so-called blessings to the millions, may be forbidden in the hearts and in the practices of men; let us pray for the incoming of anarchy and the destruction of order, for the victory of those whom anarchy has armed and the defeat and death of the armies that civilization and religion have put into the field, for the reopening of the African slave trade and the horrors of the middle passage, for the wide-spreading of Southern civilization through, by and in which God is denied and Atheism exalted-let us pray! We defy the King of Dahomy and the cannibals of the Fejee Islands to equal the impiety of the petitions which the subjects of the Pirates’ Confederacy will press upon the patience of the Almighty in that day of horrors which Mr. Davis calls a season of Thanksgiving and Prayer. Whether the elect and the angels will weep or laugh, let our readers judge, each according to his notion of what will most befit the case.-Chicago Tribune.

THOMPSON ON CARLYLE.
The following brief article by Thomas Carlyle, who still chooses to be a defender of slavery, appeared in the August number of Macmillan’s Magazine.

ILIAS (AMERICANA) IN NUCE.
PETER of the North (to PAUL of the South;) "Paul, you unaccountable scoundrel, I find you hire your servants for life, not by the month or year as I do! You are going straight to hell, you-!"
PAUL. "Good words, Peter! The risk is my own; I am willing to take the risk. Hire you your servants by the month or the day, and get straight to heaven; leave me to my own method."
PETER. "No, I won’t. I will beat your brains out first!" (And is trying dreadfully ever since, but cannot yet manage it.)
MAY, 1863. T. C.
Upon this General Thompson comments as follows, in a letter addressed to Working-men in the (English) Bradford Advertiser:-
This is what among the richer and more powerful than you, passes for wit and for reason. This is the stuff the men are made of, who refuse you the ballot, and taxed the poor man forty times over in his tobacco. Take measure of them and see what they are when brought to the test of the Working-man’s examination.
Allow a friend of some standing to show you what it means, in case it should not be at once apparent to you. And then take it to your families, and show it to your wives, who perhaps are not so tired of you as to be anxious to exchange you for a new husband by direction of a Manager, and to your young daughters, who possibly do not like the idea of being set upon a horse-block and sold according to their good looks. There is no need either why you should exclude your sons, who would not like being told they must fall in with a gang of handcuffed chattels, and so be carried comfortably to Australia or the Cape. But all this is in the wind, though perhaps you may not directly see it.
The title, translated into the English tongue means, "The American War of Troy in a nut-shell." The Trojan War, as those of you who have book-learning know, was an ancient war that lasted for ten years. And after this comes the declaration, for your benefit if you will allow it, of what the war in America is about, and what is its bearing upon yourselves.
The assertion then is simply this, for you to judge of before it produces the effect intended. It is, that the difference between the condition of you, a Working-man at Manchester or elsewhere, and the condition of a slave in the Southern States, who is whipped as many times a day as suits his masters, who is not allowed marriage except as a dog may be,
<c03>
whose children are sold in different markets like the sucking pigs, who cannot give evidence though he sees his fellow murdered or his wife or daughter abused before his face,-the outrageous and insulting falsehood thrust into your faces under the disguise of joke and literary slang, is that between this and your existence at Manchester or elsewhere, there is no difference, but that you are hired by the month or day, and the others are hired for life. Sift it, look at it, tell us what shadow of truth there is about it. Put together all the experiments on human forbearance in history, and see if you can get beyond it. This is your enemy’s scheme; if you choose to lie down before it, at least charge something for your wives and children. Is it true that the slave is hired at all; is not be whipped? Fancy your manager driving you with a cart-whip, and saying, "I am hiring you for life."
Remember that the one glorious thing for men to do, is to release themselves from slavery. The next glorious, is to stave it off before it comes. What a head of iron and clay must it be, which after giving proof in some directions that it could not escape under the plea of imbecility, ventured on putting out such a misrepresentation to insult hard-working people. And all the rotten pears among your aristocracy and upper classes are shouting in his train. Parliament, too, is gone to bed, where a few stout-hearted might have shown front against your enemies? One of the first requisites for defence is to know who is your enemy. Your enemies have taken great pains, that if you are not the dullest of human kind, you shall make no mistake this day.
Yours sincerely, T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Eliot Vale, Blackheath, London, 13 Aug. 1863.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 1863.
The Editor of the Liberator is absent from his post, endeavoring to obtain recreation, recuperation and inspiration from the ocean breeze near Plymouth Rock. Letters for his personal attention may be addressed to him, until the last of the month, at Plymouth, Mass.

PROGRESS FROM WORST TO BETTER.
It has been well said by General Butler, in a recent address, that the only hope of the rebels now is such diversion as may be effected in their favor by the "Peace party" in the North.
It is sad that the very word "Peace" should be poisoned, and rendered unfit for the use of decent people, through its perversion by the Copperhead faction; but it is certain that a change, ever from the manifold calamities of the present war, to such a peace as they are striving for, would be the worst of calmities to this country.
Our most dangerous enemies, it is true are those Northern men who side with the South in both its characteristics, of rebellion and of slavery. These men, in our chief Northern cities, are doing as much for the enemy as either his ambassadors abroad or his Generals in the field; and it is amazing that the administration allows such unobstructed continuance of their "aid and comfort" to the national foe; allows one favorable opportunity after another to pass without laying its hand upon them. To mention only one instance:-in consequence of the President’s neglect to crush the New York riot with the strong hand at its very commencement, and his neglect, in the tardy half-measures afterwards taken, to seize the heads of the riot as well as its hands, he is now obliged hold that city in a state of seige, and to keep a large army performing guard duty at the North, when they should be, and might have been, at liberty to march against the Southern foe.
But the next worst obstruction to permanent peace and prosperity in this country is found in the efforts of those who favor the slavery of the South, even while they make pretence of opposing its rebellion. Success, on the part of those who clamor for "the Union as it was," who urge the President to attempt the reenslavement of those whom he has set free, who claim for rebels, as soon as they have dropped their arms, a right immediately to resume the status of loyal slave-holding citizens, and who vehemently oppose the admission of colored people, North and South, to those rights which our Declaration of Independence declares to belong to all men, would be the most certain means to prolong and intensify the present contest.
The Boston Post, which holds a prominent place in the party last mentioned, quotes with full approbation a sentence which it attributes to the New York Times, as follows:-"The admission of such a body of men as those now or lately living in slavery to the possession of the suffrage would inevitably bring about, and in a very short space of time, the destruction of popular institutions on this continent."
We should not be greatly troubled, even where the fact was yet to be tried by experiment, at the prediction of an enemy that political ruin would result from the execution of justice. But in the present case the evil apprehended by the Post has already occurred, and occurred from a cause directly opposite to that which it specifies. The use of the suffrage for half a century past by slaveholders and upholders of slavery, North and South, has destroyed popular institutions in this country, and also that freedom which popular institutions were expected and intended to maintain. Through the predominance of that infamous system, an oligarchy, instead of the people, have been supreme rulers in the South, and have imposed serious restrictions on the freedom and the rights of Northern people also, through the whole lifetime of the present generation. Instead of dreading the danger threatened, as future, we are now called upon to shake off the pernicious results which its long continued existence and active operation have brought upon us. And the only way to prevent future results of the same sort is to strike at the cause.
The evil of ignorance among voters is a very great one. We have long had a conspicuous specimen of it in the political course of that body of immigrants to this country, unmatched in ignorance and degradation, who have followed with remarkable unanimity the standard of the Post, swallowed its blarney, accepted its sophisms, and acted blindly by its dictation. Even allowing the mass of the slaves to be as ignorant as the mass of the Northern Irish, the former would vote nearer right than the latter, because they love liberty, the object for which our Constitution and Union were originally formed, and hate slavery, the monstrous system which has well-nigh wrecked both Constitution and Union. Ignorant as the slaves are, ignorant as the Northern negroes are, the ballot in their hands would be vastly less abused than in the hands of those brutal wretches who lately made the riot in the city of New York, the constituents of Fernando Wood, the sympathizers with Seymour, the tools of the World and the Journal of Commerce, the murderers of unoffending negroes, the assailants of women and children, the aged and the sick, the orphan and the orphan’s friends. Political power, in the hands of the whole mass of freedmen, would certainly not be abused so grossly as it has been here by those mobocrats who call themselves Democrats.
But, let the future have what it may in store for us, we have already sounded the lowest depths of political evil. Even ignorance is not so bad in its working as intelligent malignity. The slaves cannot possibly vote so ruinously for the welfare of this country as the slaveholders have voted. They cannot give us a President so bad as Pierce or Buchanan. A return to that state of things would be the very superlative of disgrace and ruin. Let us have a change from that, and we cheerfully take the risk of what else may come.-C. K. W.
The Post says-"No honest man, who understands Governor Seymour, can say that be is actuated by a desire to embarrass the Administration." Is the Post competent to judge in regard to that matter?
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
"The New Gospel of Peace, according to St. Benjamin.-Sinclair Tousey, 121 Nassau St, New York." pp. 42.
This little pamphlet, skillfully written in Scripture style, and full of pungency, wit and sarcasm, describes the doings of the people called of men Copperheads, and of Fernando Wood, their leader. It sketches the condition of things in this country before the war, and at its commencement, and gives an accurate idea of the motives and purposes of the class of men in the North who are now most accustomed to cry out for peace. It is for sale at Loring’s and at the bookstores generally. Extracts may be found in another column. The whole of it is well worth reading.
"The Empire of the Mother over the Character and Destiny of the Race. By Henry C. Wright, Author of Marriage and Parentage; The Unwelcome Child; &c.-Boston: Bela Marsh, 14 Bromfield St., 1863."-pp. 132.
Here is another book by one of the deepest and clearest thinkers, and one of the most independent speakers of our time. It is designed to call attention to the Pre-natal education of man, and to the fact that the Mother is his God-appointed Educator. It shows, like all Henry C. Wright’s books, an earnest desire for the elevation and happiness of man, and makes important suggestions to those who now hold, and especially to those who are to hold, the parental relation. It is suited to excite serious thought and aspiration, and cannot fail to do good, whether or not the reader accepts all its conclusions.
The September "Atlantic Monthly," published by Ticknor and Fields, 135 Washington St., gives its usual variety of solid and interesting matter, consisting of the following articles:
1. The Puritan Minister. 2. Thoreau’s Flute. 3. Mr. Martin’s Disappointments. 4. Robert and Clara Schumann. 5. The Freedmen at Port Royal. 6. No and Yes. 7. The Mather Safe. 8. The Tertiary Age, and its Characteristic Animals. 9. The New Sangreal. 10. Thomas De Quincey. 11. Mrs. Lewis. 12. Lyrics of the Street. 13. Interesting Manuscripts of Edmund Burke. 14. Harvard’s Heroes. 15. Who is Roebuck? Reviews and Literary Notices.
The article on "The Freedmen at Port Royal," by Edward L. Pierce Esq, contains details eminently valuable and instructive at the present time. "Interesting Manuscripts of Edmund Burke" is understood to be from the pen of Hon. Charles Sumner.
The "Continental Monthly" for September contains the following articles:-
1. Southern Hate of New England. By Miss Virginia Sherwood. 2. Waiting for News. By Mrs. Mary E. Nealy. 3. Early History of Printing and the Newspaper Press in Boston and New York. By W. L. Stone. 4. Reconnoissance near Fort Morgan, and Expedition in Lake Pontchartrain and Pearl River, by the Mortar Flotilla of Captain D. D. Porter, U. S. N. By F. H. Gerdes, Asst. U. S. Coast Survey. 5. Diary of Frances Krasinska. 6. The Isle of Springs. By Rev. Mr. Starbuck. 7. The Grave. 8. Reason, Rhyme, and Rhythm. By Mrs. Martha W. Cook. 9. Remembrance. By G. F. G. 10. The Great Riot. By Edward B. Freeland. 11. The Deserted House. 12. Spring Mountain. 13. Japanese Foreign Relations. 14. Was He Successful. By Richard B. Kimball. 15. Jefferson Davis and Repudiation. Editor’s Table.
The table of contents of "Harper’s Magazine" for September is as follows:-
1. An Unprotected Female in the East. 2. The Pennsylvania Coal Region. 3. The Battle and Triumph of Dr. Susan. 4. The Religious Life of the Negro Slave. 5. Paul Hayden’s Confession. 6. The Statesmanship of Shakspeare. 7. Once upon a Time. 8.Romola. 9. The Small House at Allington. 10. My Operation in Gold. 11. Mistress Gowan and her Son. 12. The Battle of Antietam. 13. In Memoriam:-F. B. C. 14. Five Years. 15. Parson Russell’s Secret. 16. The Career of a Joker. 17. Harbor Defense. Monthly Record of Current Events. Literary Notices. Editor’s Easy Chair. Editor’s Drawer. Some of the Shoddy Aristocracy. Fashions for September.
It may be found at the bookstore of A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street, and elsewhere.
Part XXXIV. of "The Rebellion Record" is received, continuing its detail of facts and documents pertaining to the Slaveholders’ war, and adorned with portraits of Major General Sedgwick and General O. O. Howard.
A CHEAT UNMASKED. About a fortnight ago, a report was put in circulation by the N. Y. World of the murder of six persons, the entire family of Benjamin Beckham, in Tennessee, near Island No. 10, by a party of eighteen black U. S. soldiers from that Island. The story was improbable, not only from the place of its publication, but from the ascription of such an outrage to black soldiers, who are accustomed to strict conformity to military regulations, and who, finding themselves elevated and honored by their new position, punctiliously keep themselves within its boundaries, and are far less likely than white soldiers to commit any violence not enjoined by military command. The calumny is now contradicted by a correspondent of the St. Louis Democrat, who says that the perpetrators of this murder were neither from Island No. 10 nor in the U. S. service at all, but were sent by a white man to commit the crime.
The draft in New York city was recommenced on Wednesday, August 19th, and (abundant means to enforce it having been provided by the Government) has gone on without obstruction or disturbance. On that very morning and not before, Governor Seymour published a Proclamation forbidding resistance to the draft, and declaring that all illegal violence should be put down by the authority and military force of the State. The Tribune, however, very properly notices that this document, besides being unjustifiably late, contains sundry insinuations suggesting injustice in the conscription, and thus tending to keep up that discontent which was fomented by the leaders of the late riots.
The Commonwealth has now nearly reached the close of the year for which its continuance was promised and its support guarantied. It has proved itself, under the administration both of Mr. Conway and Mr. Sanborn, an exceedingly vigorous and able paper, faithful to the principles of freedom, and prompt in the exposure and rebuke of those who give aid and comfort to the enemy. Its literature, original and selected, has been of a high character, and it has displayed a rare independence in criticism, both of the writings and action, the literature and politics of the day. The support of such a paper should neither cease nor be left doubtful. Let subscribers renew in season to insure its continuance.
The general distribution of funds collected by the Merchants’ Relief Committee in New York, for the aid of the colored sufferers in the recent riots, was brought to a close on Saturday last. Some of the leading colored clergymen and laymen of that city took that occasion to present to the Committee an Address of thanks for their beneficence. The document was elaborately engrossed on parchment by one of their own people, and tastefully framed.
The late Ecclesiastical Council at Georgetown published a "Result" authorizing Rev. Charles Beecher’s church to dismiss him from the pastorate. But, at a church meeting called to consider that matter, a decided majority voted to retain and sustain their pastor, and expressed their decided disapprobation of the action and spirit of the council.
A response to the Address of English clergymen to the American churches in regard to slavery has been written by Rev. Dr. E. O. Haven, of the Methodist church, (one of the committee of nine appointed a few weeks ago at Park St. church,) and will appear in the next Liberator.
<c05>
ERRORS AND NEEDS. 
Slaveholders and their apologists, both at the North and at the South, have always contended that the freedom of the slave meant idleness and vagabondism. "If you liberate," say they, "what will you do with them, for they won’t work? God made them inferior to other races, and expressly designed them for slavery through all coming time." We are told that this is the only condition in which the negro can be made to perform faithfully his part of the world’s work; best for his body, as he enjoys better health, and best for the preparation of his soul for the life beyond: The white for master, the black for slave; the lash and the lashed, force and the enforced; compulsion and unquestioning submission; superior and inferior; tyranny and slavery-a well-fitting and all-beautiful relation; a splendid social phenomenon; the highest form of society. Politically, says the slaveholding politician, the most-enduring foundation of the State, and the very best guaranty of a true American Democracy!
This doctrine has been preached in the pulpits, sown broadcast by the press, illustrated and enforced by political slave-propagandists and stump orators, and caught up, reflected and believed by multitudes. A monstrous delusion! a huge mental hallucination! 
Unique, alone and unsympathetic, this doctrine has deflantly asserted itself in the face of the Christianity and civilization of this nineteenth century, and in its persistent attempts to spread itself over the fairest region of God’s earth, it has sought to destroy the last lingering ray of hope among the oppressed of nations, and culminated in a civil war unparalleled in the intensity of its wickedness. 
If ever we get this rebellion conquered, the past of our political history should be faithfully written and studied; but reenacted-never. The authors of the rebellion and the class to which they belong must be made forever powerless to do further wrong, by the complete destruction of the weapon with which they ever work-SLAVERY.
Then an era-a new one-filled with bright hopes and wise purposes for the well-being of man the world over; and the establishment of a government, wise and firm and just and benignant enough to insure complete protection to life, to property, and all political and civil rights through every inch of our domain, to all the citizens, of whatever language or color.
Without such a result as this, in vain are the lessons of the past thirty years. In vain our efforts to be a people or nation-to be respected either abroad or at home. But, before such an era as this can be inaugurated, we must cast out the false ideas and insane doctrines into which the Slave Power has schooled us in the last generation. We must reëxamine our convictions on all social and political subjects in their connection with ourselves as a people. If we do this work faithfully, we shall soon take the dimensions of the hideous power which, unconsciously to ourselves, has so long held us in bondage. The false imbibed in our civil education must be separated from the true.
Thank God, we are getting fast aroused to a sense of the dangers which beset us. The cause of our national woes is fast being discerned. The rebellion is waning, and slavery is dying. American Democracy has taken upon itself its ultimate and most appropriate form. It has always crawled on its belly, a huge, undefined monster. It has, in these	 latter days, diminished more and more in size, and at length it is about to pass off in the shape of a disgusting copperhead snake. Whack away, boys, and don’t leave it alone till you see the last expiring sign of life in the very tip of its tail!
This all accomplished-the track clear-the sky beyond the clouds once more made visible-our old Constitution dragged forth from under the rubbish of strained interpretations, with new life breathed into it by those who love it for the love they bear the blessed country whose liberties it was designed to shield, we may, calmly survey the vast field which lies around, and look forward into the future. Problems of government, of political economy and social wellbeing may then seek solution in the spirit of true liberty.
But, in the mean time, while we are passing through this revolution, there are many questions to be considered and settled in our own minds-questions which the contest almost daily drops at the thresholds of our doors, which we cannot avoid if we would, and should not if we could.
Is this rebellion to be conquered, and are we ready as ever with our men and money? Is the manifest cause of all our troubles to be crushed out forever, or is it to be allowed to re-engraft itself upon the body politic, filled with ten-fold hate and desperation? Shall the Government or the mob rule now and in the future? At what point does opposition to the Government become treason? When men of low ambition and muddled brains, filling high positions, and wielding an influence over the degraded and unfortunate, stir up such to deeds of violence, in what sense are they freely-speaking citizens? Do we owe any duties to the down-trodden slave higher than that of military necessity? If we do, shall the first of these duties be his unconditional freedom? and shall we see to it, that while on his passage from his old to his new estate, he has fair treatment both by friend and foe? These and many more questions ever suggesting themselves, will find their answer in the events of the hour, and in the experiments yet to be tried.
Perhaps there is no question among them all which more immediately interests us than the one which seems to lie very honestly in most of our minds: Will the negro in the South work for wages more and better, and whether the South, as an agricultural region, can be made more productive under free than slave labor?
Those who have the management of affairs, and all who look to the future well-being of the country, cannot but be interested in this question. If, in the settlement of the elements of strife, the experiment is left at liberty to be tried, we shall then be better able to decide the question; but it would seem as if, after what intelligent observers have noticed elsewhere, and carefully recorded in the shape of well-authenticated facts and statistics now in our possession, and circulating so freely in current literature, that we are fast approaching toward a satisfactory answer to this question.
To those who have, in addition to this light, opportunities to observe the freedmen within our military lines, conviction is fast taking the place of theory, and with some of the best experience, and with opportunity to observe, it has passed from opinion to actual knowledge and belief.
To every common sense man of business, who loves his country not so much for what it has been or is but for its splendid capabilities for a grand possible future-to all such, the naked question of Free or Slave labor is one of unsurpassed magnitude. All facts and figures from impartial sources-as the Southern country is laid open for observation within our lines-will not fail to help those who are honestly wishing to know the whole truth. Could it be conclusively shown that the South, by the adoption of more scientific methods in the cultivation of the soil, would increase its products two, three, and perhaps fourfold, and that free in lieu of slave labor is the best condition for this, it seems as if all opposition to the suppression of the rebellion would cease, even among copperheads themselves.
A few facts touching this matter, drawn from the experiment now trying at Port Royal, may not be unacceptable to your readers. W.
It is reported that Fort Sumter has fallen, and that, the surrender of Charleston having been demanded and refused, Gen. Gilmore has commenced a bombardment of that city.
PERSONAL Rev. Erastus O. Haven, D. D., of this city, late editor of Zion’s Herald, has accepted the office of President of Michigan University, and leaves Boston to enter upon his duties in a few days.
<c06>
THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE.
NO. 11.
BY REV. JAMES A. THOME.
In the thick gloom of the present, we all need the soul-cheering visions of a good time coming. We are saved by hope! and there is hope for the country, hope for our children, in the promising future of the freed people. If hitherto, we have unwisely builded our house on the treacherous foundation of wrong, on the crushed interests and rights of the negro, let us not wonder that it has fallen with a crash that resounds throughout the world; and if, hereafter, we would insure for ourselves a permanent peace, and a perennial prosperity, let us cherish a hope, based on adequate grounds, of the ultimate well-being of the freed.
1. We will first survey this future, not from the present, but from a point in the remote past, from the stand-point of prophesy. How buoyant is the tone with which the ancient prophets foretel events, separated from their own times by thousands of years! They see far-distant transactions as being near, as soon to come to pass. With the vividness of eye-witness, they portray the scenes which lie latest in Time’s drama. When the Psalmist, as an occasional prophet, passes from the wars he waged and sung, and from the worship he rendered, to the future conflicts and trials of Zion, he breathes a fuller inspiration, and strikes his chords with a bolder hand, evoking more jubilant strains. Among his remotest visions is one of Ethiopia. Looking over the land, shrouded in the deepest darkness, he sees, emerging out of the gloom, a radiant form, the impersonation of Ethiopia redeemed, and he utters this bold prediction: "ETHIOPIA SHALL SOON STRETCH OUT HER HANDS UNTO GOD."
By a prevalent misconception of the text, this splendid image is degraded into that of Ethiopia disowned, abhorred of men, "on suppliant knee" appealing to Heaven for mercy, and imploring vengeance on her inhuman plunderers. This attitude did not need to be emblazoned in prophesy. "The poor privilege of petition" was not reserved to a late period, was not a theme of prediction, but rather a thing of practice from the beginning. It was a widely different vision from this that rose before the Psalmist’s ken. It was not Ethiopia prostrate, pleading in her unpitied woe; but Ethiopia ransomed, regenerated, raised into a power rich in the resources of manifold art, piously bringing her offerings unto God, laying her tropic treasures on the altar of the Lord. Ethiopia, for ages a waste, howling wilderness, a jungle of fierce beasts, her torrid wastes swarming with savage tribes, from whose redundance no revenue accrued to the King of Heaven and Earth, but dishonor rather, as if he had made a hideous failure in the creation and governance of that continent; Ethiopia should at last offer her full tribute, she should outdo all the world by the plenitude of her presents; she should become the richest province in God’s terrestrial dominions, in spiritual revenues. Over all the lands tributary to Christ, she should be exalted by the munificence of her free-will offerings; insomuch that, in the prophetic visions of redeemed peoples vieing in tributes, Ethiopia appears conspicuous, stretching out her hands in praise unto God. This is the significance of prophecy; this is the attractive image it presents; and so bright is the image, that it appears to the Psalmist as if it were soon to be realized. He sees in Afric’s future the form, more imposing than obelisk or pyramid, of Ethiopia herself, free, erect, tendering her votive offerings unto the Most High. This is the form the patient God looks down upon, expectant and well pleased. This is the figure we love to gaze at, as we look into the future lighted up by prophecy. Across a tract strewed with the ruins of oppressive nations, from the Psalmist’s standpoint, we behold this luminous form. Through a vista, darkened by the clouds of our own dubious national destiny, we see this worshipful impersonation of Ethiopia. And, deny it as they may, this phenomenon is now attracting the notice of leading minds throughout the civilized world; and, like a comet looming into sight from its long aphelion flight,
"With fear of change
Perplexes monarchs."
But the realization of this vision must be subsequent to the extinction of slavery and the slave-trade; subsequent, too, to the Christianization of the freed people of this country, whose superior advantages indicate that they shall first stretch out their hands unto God. Here, then, will be the earliest fulfilment of this prediction. Ethiopia is with us! And can we doubt that the ancient seer embraced in his foresight this extent? He could hardly have been gifted with so clear a view of the future of Ethiopia proper, and been unenlightened with regard to that of the millions of her children in America, the probably predestined instrument of her redemption. We conclude that this prophesy foreshadows the ultimate destiny of our freed people. Theirs is, therefore, to be a future distinguished by acts of devotion, by sacrifices and services rendered freely to God, and accepted of him. This is decisive, both as to their prospective character and condition; it denotes a character eminently religious, godly, sacerdotal; which is the highest type of character; a condition of cultivation, of prosperity, of independence, of joyfulness; a character and condition designating that happy people whose God is the Lord.
Thus we foresee the children of Ethiopia, so long in bonds among us, stretching out their hands unto God, compassing his altars with votive offerings, derived from their own acquisitions, from their improvement of their natural and providential advantages, from their growth in grace, their attainments in civilization, and their achievements in useful enterprise. We see them with a gratitude peculiar, in fervency, to their race, returning their acknowledgments to their heavenly benefactor. Nor can we fail to see that such zeal in devotion implies high mental endowments, receptivity, reason, conscience, will, energy, earnestness, capabilities of action, of acquisition, of execution. Eminence in piety does not usually coexist with mental inferiority. We argue, that the hands which are stretched out worthily unto God are ready for every good work, are versed in productive arts, are skilled in ingenious devices, are competent to sway government, to conduct commerce, to lead armies to manage the complex concerns of an advanced civilization. Such is the future of the freed people, as indicated by prophecy. It is one of expansion, of adaptations and activities under the impulses of an emotional religion, of inexhaustible ardor. And what nobler destiny cauld any people have!
"And though the Ethiop can not change his skin,
Or bleach the outward stain, he yet shall roll
The darkness off that overshades his soul,
And wash away the deeper dyes of sin.
Princes, submissive to the Gospel sway,
Shall come from Egypt; and the Morian’s land
In holy transport stretch to God its hand."
2. Let us next inquire what the character and dealings of God warrant us in believing he will do for this people. Not without the living God are they to work out their salvation. What evidence have we in his being, and in his doings heretofore, that he will work in them effectually? From the supreme observatory of God’s throne we now survey the future of the freed people. "He doeth his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of earth, and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?" "Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?" The crowning attribute of God is LOVE; this is the comprehending attribute, in which are justice and truth, mercy and compassion, and tributary to which are all the resources of divine power and wisdom. GOD IS LOVE. This infinite Goodness, armed with all the terrors of justice, and with all the benignities of mercy, governs the nations; and, with infallible truth and wisdom, discriminates between the evil and the good, between the haughty and the humble. Though with God "there is no respect of persons," "yet hath he respect unto the lowly; but the proud he knoweth afar off." His love is long-suffering, yet he has his time to avenge those who cry day and night unto him. There is no justice so
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
dreadful or so benignant as that which succeeds protracted patience. Mercy knows its bounds, and “turns to vengeance there.”
“Behold, now, the goodness and the severity of God!” He has long heard the cry of the bondman, and has come down to deliver and to avenge them. Judgment has begun. The day of vengeance has come, and the day of  redemption.
“I frankly confess to you, gentlemen.” said a distinguished politician, addressing an assembly, not long since, “I frankly confess to you that, for myself, I take to interest in the negro; but, gentlemen, I am at a loss to conceive how any man can review the history of this rebellion without a clear conviction that Almighty Procidence does!” It is a shame for a public man thus to avow his own destitution of humanity; yet even such a man is constrained, by the evidences that confront him, to testify that God condescends to care for the despised negro. There are thousands of such men, proudly contemptuous, but irresistibly convinced, that Almighty Providence has undertaken the negro’s cause.
What, then, shall be the future which this presiding Power will open to the people it has begun to liberate! What untold blessings must the Divine Goodness have in store for those whom it no longer suffers to be held in bondage! By what consummate vindications will it “justify the ways of God to man”! By what signal exhibitions of favor will it confound
“The oppressor’s wrong, the proud man’s contumely!”
By what munificent bestowments will it reward the meek endurance of this down-trodden race!
Assured that God’s justice will not sleep forever seeing, indeed, that it has already awaked toward the negro-we may reverently consider the principles of its procedure.  They will be such, as these, we may presume:
That, in proportion to the wrongs which have been inflicted upon this unoffending people, will be the remunerative favors Divine Goodness will confer. Making the most of this principle, we may assume that the wrongs inflicted during past generations will be the broad basis on which God will mete out his awards to the future generations; and that the redress will exceed the grievance. The future shall be more abundant in good than the past has been in evil. “For your shame, ye shall have double; and for confusion, they shall rejoice in their portion.” For their weakness, they shall have transcendent strength.  As they have been thrust down and trampled upon more than any other people, they shall be raised above other peoples, especially their proud  oppressors. “Though ye have been among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.” So the Lord exalted the Jews above their Egyptian task-masters, and their Chaldean captors! So has he honored the descendants of the Puritan-Pilgrims before the haughty power that persecuted them, and drave them out! And as this Ethiopian people have been more grievously outraged than Jew or Puritan were, they shall be more signally avenged by the great Benefactor. As they have been reduced to property, they shall be advanced to the rank of property-holders; not, however, by a change of places with their masters, for, while retaliative justice would seem to warrant this reversal, righteousness forbids it as a crime-and God has for the treed people some better property than slaves. As they have been denied the attributes and rights of manhood, they shall be fully invested with these, so that the vindication of their title to humanity shall be triumphant. Before the war broke out, the negroes were called chattels; soon after it commenced, they were denominated contrabands; since the proclamation was issued, they have been styled freed people; but, in the future, they shall be pronounced MEN. And not the name alone shall be given them; the full brightness of manhood shall be awarded to them; the prerogatives of freemen. God will be jealous over them with a jealousy which will see that all their interests are promoted. He will guarantee to them the benefits of education, the advantages of occupation unrestricted by prejudice, the spheres of usefulness, the endearments of home, the sanctities of religion, the liberties of society. In the vindication of their manhood it may seem fit, in the Lord’s sight, to rebuke the arrogant Saxon assumption of their inferiority to the white man, by demonstrating their superiority in the qualities which most adorn the human character.
THE CONSCRIPTION LAW.
Extract from a speech delivered by GERRIT SMITH, in Oswego, N. Y., July 29, on the Rebellion and the Draft :-
Let us now take up the Conscription Law. Some say that it is unconstitutional. I cannot see anything unconstitutional in it-though perhaps I could were I a lawyer. Some go so far as to deny that the Constitution gives Congress the right to compel persons to defend the country. All I can say is, that if it did not give the right, it should not have empowered Congress to declare war, and raise and support armies; for thus to have empowered it was, in that case, but to mock it. It was only to seem to give much, whilst really giving nothing.
For one, I’ do not look into the Constitution for proof that the National Legislature has the right to compel persons to fight the battles of the country. It is enough for me to know that this vital right inheres in a National Legislature that the supreme power of a nation necessarily has it and that a Constitution which should deny or in the slightest degree restrict it would be fit only to be thrown away. For the credit of the Constitution, I am happy that it recognizes and asserts the right. But the Constitution does not create it. My refusal to look into the Constitution for the origination of this right rests on the same principle as that by which I am withheld from looking into the Bible for the origination of the parent’s right to take care of his children. It is, I admit, one of the merits of this best of books, that it recognizes the right and enjoins its exercise. But the right is older than the Bible. It dates as far back as the time of the first parent. It is an inherently parental, as the other is an inherently national right.
It is also said that the Conscription Law favors the rich, and oppresses the poor. The National and State militia laws do so; but the Conscription Law spares the poor, and spares not the rich. Members of Congress, Postmasters, and a score of other classes, making in all no very small share of the men, are, under those laws, exempted from  military service; whilst, under the Conscription Law,  none but poor men are exempted, save only the Vice President, the Heads of Departments, the United States Judges, and the Governors of the States. And now mark how numerous must be the several classes of the exempted poor:
1st The only son of the widow dependent on his labor.
2d. The only son of aged or infirm parents dependent on his labor.
3d.  One of the two or more sons of such parents.
4th. The only brother of orphan children, not twelve years old, dependent on his labor.
5th. The father of motherless children, under twelve years of age, dependent on his labor.
6th. Where there are a father and sons in the family, and two of them are in the army, and in humble positions in it, the residue not exceeding two are exempt.
Now, was there ever a law less sparing of the rich, and more tender to the poor? And yet this law, so exceedingly honorable to the heads and hearts of its makers, is denounced as oppressive and cruel by demagogues, who, to get themselves into power, would destroy the popular confidence in the Government, and destroy the country also.
But it is held that the commutation or three hundred dollar clause is oppressive to the poor. It is, on the contrary, merciful to the poor. But for it, the price of a substitute might run up to three or four times three hundred dollars-a price which a poor man would scarcely ever be enabled to pay. The three hundred dollars, however, many a poor man
<c02>
can, with the help of friends, be able to raise.  But why not, it may be asked, have favored the poor by making the maximum no more than fifty or a hundred dollars? This, instead of favoring, would have but oppressed the poor; for the Government, not being able to procure substitutes at the rate of fifty or a hundred dollars, would have been compelled to repeat its drafts. And thus tens of thousands of poor men, who had paid their fifty or a hundred dollars in order to keep out of the army, would, after all, be obliged to enter it.
Alas! this clamor against the unconstitutionality of the Conscription Law! How sadly it betrays the prevailing lack of patriotism! Had there been no unpatriotic person amongst us, there would have been not only nothing of this clamor, but not so much as one inquiry into the constitutionality of the law. The commonness of this inquiry indicates how commonly the love of country must be very weak in the American bosom. Why is it so weak? Some say it is because of our characteristic or Yankee greed of gain; and some say it is because of oar long-continued and soul-shrivelling practice of persecuting and outraging an unfortunate race. Some ascribe it to one thing, and some to another. But, whatever the cause, the effect is obvious.
Oh, how base must they have become, who, when rebels are at the throat of their nation, can hie themselves to the Constitution to see how little it will let them off with doing against those rebels-how little with doing for the life of that nation! Our noble Constitution should be used to nourish our patriotism; but, alas! it is perverted to kill it!
I have noticed the action of the authorities of several of the cities of our State, in regard to the Conscription Law. In some of them, this action is very bad. The sole object of the law is to raise an additional force for completing the destruction of the Rebellion. Now, the city of New York and some other cities would take advantage of its humane feature of commutation to defeat this sole object of the law; for they would take advantage of it to buy off the mass of their drafted citizens. This wholesale buying violates, to the-last degree, the spirit of the law; deprives the country of the benefit of the legitimate and intended effect of the law; and saves the Rebellion from being crushed by the faithful and fair carrying out of the law. If one city may resort to this wholesale buying, so may every other; so may every county, and so may every State; and so may the Conscription Law be rendered unavailing.
I admit the duty of the wealthy to avail themselves of this commutation clause to save, here and there, from going to the war the man to whom it would be a peculiar hardship to go. I also admit that every city, disposed to do so, can very properly vote the three hundred dollars to every drafted man who serves, or to his substitute. I care not how much the cities help the soldiers-the more, the better. I am glad that Oswego voted ten thousand dollars two years ago, and five thousand last spring, to the families of her soldiers. Let her vote hereafter as much as she pleases to the soldiers and their families I will pay cheerfully what share of the tax shall fall on my property in the city; and more cheerfully would I take part in voluntary contributions.
I have sometimes heard the remark, that neither the rich nor the poor should be allowed to procure substitutes. The remark is both ill-natured and foolish. Among the drafted will be both rich and poor men, who ought to be spared from going to the war. I am not sorry that so many rich men have gone to the war; nevertheless, let as many rich men as will remain at home to continue to give employment to the poor in manufactories and elsewhere, and to maintain a business and a prosperity which can be heavily taxed to meet the expenses of the war. Men of property should be heavily taxed to this end; and my only objection to the Income Tax is, that it is not more than half large enough. It should be six and ten, instead of three and five per cent.
But I must close. How unreasonable, how unpatriotic, how wicked to murmur at this Draft! The South, to serve her bad cause, is, at this moment, responding to the call for, absolutely all her able-bodied white males between the ages of eighteen and forty-five-whilst the call to serve our best of all causes is for not more than about one seventh or one eighth between those ages. And yet we murmur at the Draft; and in a few localities, there is a rabble so far under the sway of traitorous demagogues as to resist it with force and arms. These demagogues, by the way, as silly as they are wicked, instead of seeing in this resistance  only another argument with the Government for proceeding promptly, very promptly, with the Draft, flattered themselves that the Government would succumb to the mobs, and abandon the Draft-would surrender to anarchy, instead of maintaining law.
Our people need to be loyally educated. When they are, they will be eager to serve their imperilled and beloved country in any way, however expensive or hazardous. I rejoice to see that, in many parts of the country, the Draft is met in a cheerful and patriotic spirit.  May this spirit soon obtain everywhere.
The love of country-the love of country-that is what we lack. Would that we bad somewhat of that love of country which Robert Emmet felt for his dear Ireland; somewhat of that love of country which awakens the sublime utterances of Kossuth for his dear Hungary; somewhat of that love of country which stirs the great soul of Garibaldi as he contemplates his still, but not-ever-to-be, disunited Italy; somewhat of that love of country which arms her young men, ay, and her young maidens too, to battle for their down-trodden and dear Poland! Let us have somewhat of such love;- and then, when our bleeding country makes her call upon us, we shall not pause to inquire whether it is couched in Constitutional words, but we shall hasten to obey it, simply because it is our country that makes it, and our country that needs our obedience.
THE CAPTURE OF A NEGRO PRAYER MEETING.  The capture of a negro prayer meeting in Mississippi by Lt. Col. De Costa, of the Second Arkansas (colored) regiment, is thus described by a Helena correspondent:-
“On Sunday, while reconnoitering the country, Col. DeCosta came upon a negro prayer meeting in the woods, where a large number of blacks were assembled, for worship.  With his small party he lingered in the outskirts for a while, and listened to the prayer of the black preacher. He was praying for the deliverance of his brethren from the chains of slavery with all the earnestness of the negro minister-for God to hasten the coming of the Yankees and the annihilation of their white enslavers. The Colonel then suddenly made his appearance in their midst with his small party, and informed them that their prayers were answered, and that he had come to deliver them.
They hailed them with shouts of joy, and, raising their hands to heaven, called on God to bless their deliverer. Col. DeCosta instructed them to come to the shore immediately, and bring with them all the horses, mules and cotton they could lay their hands on. Shortly, the entire assembly of worshippers was transformed into one vast caravan, pursuing its way to the river bank. The scene was novel and grotesque in the extreme-men and women on foot and mounted on mules and horses; children, cotton, household goods and subsistence stores in carts. The old and young, the lame, the halt and the blind were also there. It was a motley assemblage, and all seemed animated by the same desire-the desire for liberty-all singing ‘The year of Jubilee has come.’”
THE DISGRACE OF NEW YORK.  The Rev. J. N. Gloucester, of Brooklyn, and the owner of a considerable amount of property in this city, for which he pays heavy taxes to the State and County, on Tuesday sent his daughter, a young woman about eighteen years of age, to the upper part of the city, to collect some rents due from his tenants, being unable to go himself on account of sickness. The girl stepped on one of the Sixth avenue cars, from which she was ejected by the conductor with a rude “ get out” She then tried the Eighth avenue cars, but was told they “ didn’t carry niggers.”  Remonstrating with one of the conductors, and begging permission to ride, as she had a great distance to go, he told her to “get out and foot it.” Such was the treatment on Tuesday extended to a cleanly and well-dressed colored girl, whose father is a heavy tax-payer of New York.-
N. Y. Tribune.
<c03>
EXTRACTS FROM “THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE.”
CHAPTER I.
1. The mystery of the new gospel of peace.
2. In the days of Abraham, when there was war in the land of Unculpsalm, and all the people fought with weapons of iron, and with ships of iron,
3. (For there came a man out of the country beyond the North Sea, a son of Tubal Cain, and joined himself unto the people of Unculpsalm, and made unto them ships of iron, with towers upon the decks there of, and beaks upon the prows thereof, very mighty and marvellous),
4. There went out one who preached a new gospel of peace. And it was in this wise.
5. It came to pass in those days that in the country of Mannatton, in the city which is called Gotham, that is over against Jarzee, as thou goest down by the great river, the River Hutzoon, to Communipah, there was a man whose name was Phernandiwud.
6. And he was a just man, and a righteous; and he walked uprightly before the world.
7. But when he was not before the world, his walk was slantindicular.
8. And he loved the people.
9. And Phernandiwud said within himself, Of a truth I love the people; but am I not one of the people; yea verily, am I not number one of the people?  and shall I not therefore first love myself?
10. So Phernandiwud first loved himself, and the rest of the people after himself.
CHAPTER II.
1. Now, it came to pass that in the city of Gotham were many Pahdees, like unto locusts for multitude. And they were not of the land of Unculpsalm, but came from an island beyond the great sea; a land of famine and oppression. And they knew nothing. They read not, neither did they write, and like the multitudes of Nineveh, many of them did not know their right hand from their left.
2. Therefore the men of Unculpsalm, who dwelt in Gotham, troubled themselves little to govern the city, and paid the Pahdees richly to govern it for them.
3. For the men of Gotham were great merchants and artificers, trading to the ends of the earth; diligent and cunning in their business, wise and orderly in their households; and they got great gain, and the fame of their wisdom and their diligence was spread abroad.  Wherefore they said, why shall we leave our crafts and our merchandise, and our ships, and our feasts,. and the gathering together of our wives and our daughters, and our men-singers and our women-singers, to give our time to ruling the city? Behold, here are the Pahdees who know nothing, who read not, neither do they write, and who know not their right hand from their left, and who have never governed even themselves, and who will be glad to govern the city in our stead.
4. Wherefore the men of Unculpsalm who dwelt in Gotham, went the one to his craft, the other to his ships, and the other to his merchandise; and the Pahdees governed Gotham.
5. Now Phernandiwud saw that the men whom the Pahdees appointed to be officers in Gotham fed at the public crib, and waxed fat, and increased in substance. Moreover, so great and mighty was the city of Gotham that they who ruled it were powerful in the land of Unculpsalm; stretching out their hands from the North even unto the South, and from the East even unto the West; but most of all were they powerful with the men of the South.
6. And Phernandiwud said within himself, Shall I not feed at the public crib, and wax fat, and increase in substance, and become a man of power in the land of Unculpsalm?
7. So he made friends unto himself among the Pahdees, and of certain men of Unculpsalm who had joined themselves unto the Pahdees, and who called themselves Dimmichrats.
8. And he became a great man among them. And they made him chief ruler of the city.  And it was of the Pahdees that he was first called Phernandiwud.
9. Now, when Phernandiwud was chief ruler of Gotham, the Pahdees, and the men of Unculpsalm which were also Dimmichrats, did what was right in their own eyes; and they worked confusion in the city, and devoured the substance of the men of Gotham.  And the watchmen of the city were as clay in the hands of Phernandiwud.
10. For he said, I will have a one man in power; and the one man shall be me, even me Phernandiwud; and the Pahdees, and the Dimmichrats, and the watchmen of Gotham, shall do my will; and after they have done my will they may do what is right in their own eyes, and work confusion, and devour the people’s substance.
11. And the men of Gotham were amazed and confounded; and they said one to another,
12. Behold, we are held as nought by Phernandiwud and them that are under him, and he will destroy us and our city.
13. But they could not cast him out, because of the Pahdees, and the men of Unculpsalm who also were Dimmichrats.
14. Wherefore they said, we will pray the governor and rulers of the province to take the watchmen of the city from under his hand, and put in other watchmen who shall guard the city, and the country round about the same; and he shall no longer work confusion, and devour our substance, and destroy our city.
15. Wherefore the watchmen were taken from under his rule, and there were appointed other watchmen, whose captains were not Pahdees and followers of Phernandiwud.
16. But Phernandiwud, because he loved the people, and himself first, as number one of the people, withstood the watchmen which the governor and the rulers of the province had appointed. And he gathered together his watchmen and much people of the Pahdees, and of the men of Unculpsalm which also were Dimmichrats,
17. Hittites, so-called, because they hit from the shoulder, and Hammerites, because they brake the heads of all them that set themselves up against them.
18. And the watchmen of Phernandiwud, and the Pahdees, and the Hittites and the Hammerites, fought with the watchmen appointed by the governor and chief rulers of the province, doing in this the will of Phernandiwud. And they fought many times, and they brake each the heads of the other: yet was neither vanquished.
19. And when the judges of the province saw this, they declared unto the governor, that by the great law of the province, he could march an army upon Phernandiwud, and his watchmen, and his Pahdees, and his Hittites, and his Hammerites, and put them to the sword.
20. And when Phernandiwud read this declaration of the judges, he saw that there was an end of his rule over the watchmen, of his one man power in Gotham, and he said unto the watchmen, and to the Pahdees, and the Hittites, and the Hammerites, Get you to your houses, I have nothing more to give unto you.
21. But be charged the cost thereof unto the city.
22. And this was the first time that Phernandiwud conceived in his mind the mystery of the new gospel of peace.
CHAPTER III.
1. Now the war in the land of Unculpsalm was in this wise.
2. The people were of one blood, but the land was in many provinces. And the people of the provinces joined themselves together and cast off the yoke of a stubborn king who oppressed them beyond the great sea. And they said let us have no king, but let us choose from ourselves a man to rule over us; and let us no longer be many provinces, but one nation; only in those things which concern not the nation let the people in each province do what is right in their own eyes.
3. And let it be written upon parchment and be for a covenant between us and our children, and our children’s children forever-like unto a law of the Medes and Persians which altereth not.
4. And they did so. And the Great Covenant became the beginning and the end of all things unto the men of Unculpsalm.
5. And the men of Unculpsalm waxed great and mighty and rich: and the earth was filled with the fame of their power and their riches; and their ships covered the sea. And all nations feared them. But they were men of peace, and went not to war of their own accord; neither did they trouble or oppress the men of other nations; but sought each man to sit under his own vine and his own fig tree. And there were no poor men, and few that did evil, born in that land: except thou go southward of the border of Masunandicsun.
6. And this was noised abroad; and it came to pass that the poor and the down-trodden and the oppressed of other lands left the lands in which they were born, and went and dwelt in the land of Unculpsalm, and prospered therein, and no man molested them. And they loved that land.
7. Wherefore, the kings and the oppressors of other lands, and they that devoured the substance of the people, hated the men of Unculpsalm. Yet, although they were men of peace, they made not war upon them; for they were many and mighty. Moreover, they were rich, and bought merchandise of other nations, and sent them corn and gold.
8. Now there were in the land of Unculpsalm Ethiopians, which the men of Unculpsalm called Niggahs. And their skins were black, and for hair they had wool, and their shins bent out forward and their heels thrust out backward; and their ill-savor went up.
9. Wherefore the forefathers of the men of Unculpsalm had made slaves of the Niggahs, and bought them and sold them like cattle.
10. But so it was, that when the people of the land of Unculpsalm made themselves into one nation, the men of the North said, We will no longer buy and sell the Niggahs, but set them free; neither shall more be brought from Ethiopia for slaves unto this land.
<c04>
11. And the men of the South answered and said, We will buy and sell our Niggahs; and moreover we will beat them with stripes, and they shall be our hewers of wood and drawers of water forever; and when oar Niggahs flee into your provinces, ye shall give them to us, every man his Niggah; and after a time there shall no more be brought from Ethiopia, as ye say. And this shall be a part of the great covenant.
12. And it was a covenant between the men of the North and the men of the South.
13. And it came to pass that thereafter the men of the South and the Dimmichrats of the North and the Pahdees gave themselves night and day to the preservation of this covenant about the Niggahs.
14. And the Niggahs increased and multiplied till they darkened all the land of the South.  And the men of Unculpsalm who dwelt in the South took their women for concubines and went in unto them, and begat of them sons and daughters. And they bought and sold their sons and daughters, even the fruit of their loins; and beat them with stripes, and made them hewers of wood and drawers of water.
15. For they said, Are not these Niggahs our Niggahs? Yea, even more than the other Niggahs? For the other Niggahs we bought, or our fathers, with money; but these, are they not flesh of our flesh, and blood of our blood, and bone of our bone; and shall we not do what we will with our own?
16. But there arose men in the northern provinces of the land of Unculpsalm and in the countries beyond the great sea, iniquitous men, saying, Man’s blood cannot be bought with money; foolish men saying, Though the Niggah’s skin be black and his hair woolly, and his shins like unto cucumbers, and his heels thursting out backward, and though he have an ill-savor not to be endured by those who get not children of Niggah women, is yet a man; men of Belial which said, All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
17. And the slaves were for a reproach throughout all the world unto the men of the South, and even to the whole land of Unculpsalm. But by reason of the great covenant and the laws of the provinces, the men of the North had nought to do in this matter.
18. But the men of the South which had Niggahs (for there were multitudes which had no Niggahs, and they were poor and oppressed) heeded it not; for they were a stiff-necked generation. And they said, We will not let our Niggahs go free; for they are our chattels, even as our horses and our sheep, our swine and our oxen; and we will beat them, and slay them, and sell them, and beget children of them, and no man shall gainsay us. We stand by the Great Covenant.
19. Moreover we are Tshivulree.
20. Now to be of the Tshivulree was the chief boast among the men of the South, because it had been a great name upon the earth. For of olden time he who was of the Tshivulree was bound by an oath to defend the weak and succor the oppressed, yea, even though he gave his life for them. But among the men of the South, he only was of the Tshivulree who ate his bread in the sweat of another’s face, who robbed the laborer of his hire, who oppressed the weak, and set his foot upon the neck of the lowly, and who sold from, the mother the fruit of her womb and the nursling of her bosom. Wherefore the name of Tshivulree stank in the nostrils of all the nations.
21. For they were in the darkness of a false dispensation, and had not yet learned the mystery of the new gospel of peace.
22. And when the Tshivulree found within their borders those men of the North, iniquitous men which said that man’s blood cannot be bought, and men of Belial which said, Do ye unto all men as ye would, have all men do unto you, they seized upon them and beat them with many stripes, and hanged them upon trees, and roasted them with fire, and poured hot pitch upon them, and rode them upon sharp beams, very grievous to bestride, and persecuted them even as it was fitting such pestilent fellows should be persecuted.
23. And they said unto the men of the North, cease ye now to send among us these men of Belial preaching iniquity, cease also to listen unto them yourselves, and respect the Great Covenant, or we will destroy this nation.
24. Then the men of Unculpsalm which called themselves Dimmichrats, and the Pahdees, seeing that the Tshivulree of the South had only one thought, and that was for the Niggah, said, We will join ourselves unto the Tshivulree, and we will have but one thought with them, even the Niggah; and we shall rule the land of Unculpsalm, and we shall divide the spoil.
25. And they joined themselves unto the Tshivulree; and the Tshivulree of the South, and the men of the North, which called themselves Dimmichrats, and the Pahdees ruled the land of Unculpsalm for many years; and they divided the spoil. And they had but one thought, even for the Niggah.
26. Wherefore he was called the everlasting Niggah.
27. Now, about these days came Philip, from the new Athens, a priest of Beelzebub, and he taught in the Tabernacle at Gotham.
28. And Philip had many words, but only one thought, and that, like the thought of the men of the South, was for the Niggah. But he respected not the Great Covenant. And he said unto the people ye ought to set the Niggah free.
29. And it came to pass that when he was teaching in the Tabernacle one Isaiah entered (not the prophet, but he who was captain of a band of Hammerites) and protested unto him that he should no more teach such pestilent doctrine. And having his band of Hammerites with him, he knocked Philip down, and thrust him from the pulpit wherein he was speaking, and drave him out of the Tabernacle.
30. Now this was the first ministration of the new gospel of peace. But as yet it was not preached; for it had no apostle.
CHAPTER IV.
17. Now in those days there was a man in Gotham named Ken Edee, who was chief captain of the watchmen of the city and the region round about; and in Joarji was a man named Robert, who dwelt among the tombs, and who was possessed of an evil spirit whose name was Blustah. And Robert was a Phiretah.
18. And Ken Edee, chief captain of the watch in Gotham, found arms going from Gotham to the phiretahs in Joarji, and he seized them. For he said, Lest they be used to destroy the nation, and against the Great Covenant, which is the supreme law in the land of Unculpsalm, to which first belongeth my obedience.
19. Then Robert, who dwelt among the tombs, being seized upon by his demon Blustah, sent a threatening message unto Phernandiwud.
20. (For at this time Phernandiwud was chief ruler in the city of Gotham.)
21. Saying, Wherefore keep ye the arms of the Phiretahs? Give them unto us that we may make war against you, or it shall be worse for you.
22. Then Phernandiwud, because he hated the chief of the watchmen of Gotham, and because he hoped for the good success of the Phiretahs, compromised himself unto Robert, and crawled on his belly before him in the dust, and said, Is thy servant a man that he should do this thing? Thy servant kept no arms, neither would he do so. Let them who have the evil spirit Bak Bohn do thus unto my lords the Phiretahs. Behold, thy servant is no man, but a Phlunkee.
23. (Now the Phlunkees  were men who had never had the spirit Bak Bohn, or who had had it cast out of them, because when they would have prostrated themselves and humbled themselves in the dust and compromised to their profit, the spirit rent them sore.  So they had each of them his Bak Bohn cast out of him.)
24. And the Phiretahs went on their way without hindrance.”  For James, by facing both ways, faced neither; and both of the men of the South and the men of the North be was not regarded. And  the nation spued him out of its mouth.
25. And Abraham ruled the land. But the Phiretahs withstood him, and made war upon him, and drove his captains out of the strongholds which were in their provinces, and humbled the banner of Unculpsalm.
26. Then all the men of the North, even the Dimmichrats, of whom were the Pahdees, were exceeding wroth; and they rose up against the Phiretahs of the South, and marched against them to drive them out of the strong places which they had seized, and to plant thereon again the banner of Unculpsalm.
27. For they all had exceeding reverence for the Great Covenant, and they were filled with pride of their nation, its might, and its wealth, and its vastness, and chiefly that its people were more tree than any other people, and that its tillers of the soil and its wayfaring men could read and understand, and that there each man sat under his own vine and under his own fig tree with none to molest him or make him afraid. And they worshipped the banner of Unculpsalm, and its folds were unto them as the wings of a protecting angel.
28. Moreover, the Dimmichrats said, We have striven for our brethren of the South against the men of Belial, who teach that it is wrong to oppress the Niggah by the power of Unculpsalm, and now they can no longer use us they cast us off. Behold, we will fight against them, lest, also, they make good their threats, and sever their provinces from our provinces, and there be no more everlasting Niggah, and our occupation be departed forever.
29. And thus it came to pass that there was war in the land of Unculpsalm.
CHAPTER VII.
28. O, men of Gotham, you see this day how your rulers oppress you, and will allow no man to speak evil of them, that they may wage this war without let or hinderance; and that all men’s mouths are shut by fear of the gallows or the dungeon, who will not prophesy smooth things of their damnable doings, and cover up their wickedness and glorify their abominations.
29. Therefore I declare unto you that we must have the peace, the peace which ensueth from free speech. So that when men of Belial seek to turn the hearts of
<c05>
the men of the South to setting their bondsmen free, and taking away from us our everlasting Niggah, the Phiretahs may seize upon them, and heat them with many stripes, and hang them upon trees, and roast them with fire, and pour hot pitch upon them, and ride them upon sharp beams, very grievous to bestride. Peace and free speech, such as there was on the day when Prestenbruux smote down Charles the Summoner. and beat him until he was nigh unto death.
30. Let this Peace hover over the land, scattering balm from her outstretching wings.  Balm for the wounded souls of the Tshivulree and the Phiretahs; balm for the wounds which Dimmichratic  brethren have inflicted on each other; balm for my bruised spirit and defrauded expectations.
31. Let this peace come to us, my brethren, and the lion of the South and the lamb of the North shall lie down together, and there shall no more be contention between them; for the lamb shall be inside of the lion.
32. Let us then be lambs, O men of Gotham! Yea, let us be meek as lambs. For it is written that the meek shall inherit the earth.
33. Then the Hittites and the Hammerites again cried out Hi! hi! after their fashion; and in a twinkling many of them took an oath that they were the meek, and that they should inherit the earth.
34. Then Phernandiwud said. All now is well with us, my brethren, and with the land of  Unculpsalm. Peace and free-speech shall prevail among us now and forever.
35. Then the Hittites and the Hammerites shouted with a great shout, and they clenched their fists and said, God do so to us and more also, if we break not every man his head which saith there shall not henceforth be peace and free-speech throughout the land.
36. And no man answered. So they said, Lo there is peace.
37. And Phernandiwud said these things many times.
50. Now I, even I, Benjamin the scribe, the brother of Phernandiwud, have written these things, not of my own will, or of the promptings of my own heart, for the truth is not in me. But forasmuch as the spirit of prophecy hath descended upon me, like Balaam, the son of Beor, I have uttered the innermost thoughts of my heart in mine own despite, and I have written the mystery of the new gospel of peace.
51. And to few shall it be given to comprehend this mystery.

DESTRUCTION OF  LAWRENCE, (KANSAS.)
HORRIBLE ATROCITIES.
NEARLY 200 CITIZENS KILLED AND WOUNDED.
LEAVENWORTH, Aug. 22. From citizens of Lawrence, Kansas, who have arrived here for supplies and medicines, I have gathered the following particulars of the burning of that city by the guerrillas:
The list of killed and wounded numbers some 180, the majority of whom were killed instantly. The names of all the killed and wounded can’t be given now. The houses that remain standing are filled with the killed and wounded, who belong to all classes of society.
From the ruins of the burned houses the charred remains of victims are constantly being found. But one hotel is left standing in the place, and Quantrell spared this in consequence of his having made it his home there some years since without expense; but the proprietor was shot by his men. Among the most prominent citizens known to be killed are the following: Gen. G. W. Colemor, Mayor of the city, and his son; J. G. Low, Josiah Wash, C. P. Throop, Dr. Griswold, James Eldridge, Col. Stone and his two brothers, John Spear and his three brothers, Judge Carpenter, Rev. Mr. Snyder, L. Yates and two brothers, and Brant.
These were killed instantly, most of them in their own houses, with their wives and children clinging to them, while the murderers placed pistols to their reasts and shot them down. In one case, the guerrillas drove twelve men into a house, shot them and burned the building. The friends of these twelve men, while standing on the banks of the river, were fired into by the murderers, and a number were killed and wounded. Twenty-five negro recruits were shot dead. The guerrillas took all the money that could be found in the pockets or houses of the citizens. They stole all the jewelry of the ladies, even to the rings on their fingers. They spared nothing that was at all valuable.
Gen.  Jim Lane managed to escape on horseback, and rallied about twenty men, fully armed and equipped,” and followed and overtook Quantrell when twelve miles from Lawrence. The result of the fight is not known. Quantrell is now retreating toward  Missouri, burning and laying waste everything on his route. It is not expected he will be interrupted by our forces. He will probably get away without loss. No resistance was made at Lawrence to the guerrillas. The people were shot down as they ran through the streets in their night clothes, and their bodies thrown into the wells and cisterns.
The citizens of Lawrence have been expecting this raid for some time, by threats made by Quantrell, and companies had been organized for the defence of the place. These companies for some time were constantly kept under arms, but from some assurance that Quantrell would never invade Kansas again, this military organization was abandoned.
A large train left here to-day with supplies of clothing, provisions, &c., for the sufferers.  The citizens of Leavenworth have opened their doors to all who choose to come, and many of the victims have availed themselves of the hospitality offered them. The feeling among all classes of citizens here is very bitter against the commander of this department and district for being so wholly unprepared to meet such an emergency. The commanding general was absent from headquarters at the time the raid occurred, and did not know of the invasion until the city was destroyed. Everything, however, was then done in regard to intercepting Quantrell, but it was too late. Our State authorities are now taking the matter into their own hands.
Col. Jamieson has been reinstated in command of a new regiment, and is about starting down the border with sufficient troops to overcome any rebel force that can be brought against him, and, if not interfered with by the commanding general, raids into Kansas will end with the present one.
The guerrillas are probably safe in Missouri with their plunder as good Union citizens.  The loss at Lawrence is not less than $2,000,000, and will fall heavily on New York and Leavenworth merchants. Two banks were robbed of every dollar.-Journal.
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Aug. 25. Quantrell’s force reached the headwaters of Grand River, Cass county, about noon on the day after the burning of Lawrence, and there divided into squads of 40 and 50, and scattered in various directions. Our troops were a half hour behind, and also divided into squads and continued in pursuit. A detachment ordered from Lexington met a part of the rebel force near Pleasant Hill, killed 7 of them and recovered a considerable amount of goods taken from Lawrence.
A report has just been received that Major Plumb and Major Thatcher overtook a company of the guerrillas in Lafayette county and killed 30 of them.
The total number of rebels killed, according to last reports, is between 60 and 70.  Our detachments are still in pursuit
It is ascertained that Quantrell’s whole force consists of 300 selected men, who assembled from Lafayette, Salem, Clay, Johnson and border counties on Thursday noon at the head of Middle Fork, Grand river, fifteen miles from the Kansas line, and on the same day started for Kansas.
The following banner was conspicuously displayed in Brooklyn, New York, by the Copperhead mob, during the recent riots:
“GIVE US MACKLENEN!”
“12 ward on deck-in favor of re union. But are now ready to assist, their. New York & Brooklyn Brothers, No $300 arraingements. with us.”
The reader will not be astonished to learn that the authors of this exquisite embodiment of the Vallan-digham faith robbed four farmers’ wagons of the marketing they were taking to the city that day.
LECTURES BY AARON M. POWELL.-The friends of the cause of the enslaved on Nantucket, Cape Cod, and in the Southern portions of this State, will doubtless be glad to hear thatour faithful and indefatigable coadjutor, AARON M. POWELL, will visit their localities in the course of the next ensuing weeks, to address the people on the momentous issues of the present hour. We bespeak for him an attentive hearing.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at 
Kingston, (probably,) Sunday, Aug 30
Hyannis, Thursday, Sept. 3.
Nantucket, Sunday, Sept. 6.
Barnstable, Tuesday, Sept 8.


E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Barre, Sunday, Aug. 30, at half-past 10, A. M., and 1 and 5, P. M.
In Natick, Sunday, Sept. 6, at half-past 10, A. M., and 2 and 7, P. M.
THEODORE D. WELD will lecture in Portland, (Me.) on Sunday, August 23, afternoon and evening, on “ The Cost of Reform,” and on “ The Higher Law.”
DIED-At Osborn’s  Bridge, N. Y., Aug. 24,  ELLA I., only child of Joshua B. and Emeline I. Smith, of Cambridgeport, Mass., aged  11 years and 5 months. Her growing attractions had made her a special favorite, and her loss will be keenly felt.
<c06>
Second Edition, Published This Day, July 31.
SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND 
LETTERS,
BY 
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octave, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted linen paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press uniform with their admired edition of De Tocqueville’s Democracy in America, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture
Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains  his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by the author.
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips’ works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts  of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.
CONTENTS:
I.
The Murder of  Lovejoy.
II.
Woman’s Rights.
III.
Public Opinion.
IV.
Surrender of Sims.
V.
Sims Anniversary.
VI.
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement
VII.
 Removal of Judge Loring.
VIII.
The Boston Mob.
IX.
The Pilgrims.
X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President 
Walker.
XI.
Idols.
XII.
Harper’s Ferry.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown.
XIV.
Lincoln’s Election.
XV.
Mobs and Education.
XVI.
Disunion.
XVII.
Progress.
XVIII.
Under the Flag.
XIX.
The War for the Union.
XX.
The Cabinet.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.
XXII.
Toussaint L’Ouverture.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.
XXIV.
The State of the Country.

This book will be sold by the Publisher and his Travelling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire County,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to canvass their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for Counties.
The volume will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON.
IN PREPARATION
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY 
Miss L. M. Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author’s last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of about 128 pages.
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted any ournal.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON. 49
The Liberator.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CORRESPONDENCE WITH AN ENGLISHMAN.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—Herewith you have two letters sent by me to the (London) Herald of Peace, in the hope of showing to its editor the injustice of his accustomed style of remark in reference to the American war; and also his reply, showing my efforts to have been unsuccessful. To the reply I append a very few words of rejoinder. Publish them or not, as you find desirable.
It is a significant fact that Mr. Richard finds it necessary to evade answering the questions contained in my letters. That he may evade answering, he assumes that there is no such necessary alternative as I have supposed. Being committed in regard to Peace, he chooses to keep silence in regard to slavery.
C. K. W.
BOSTON, March 26, 1863.
To THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD or PEACE:
DEAR SIR—In your December number, you “fear the course taken by the Anti-Slavery party in America is largely responsible for” any special reaction that may have occurred in the English mind against Anti-Slavery, and you speak of the Northern Americans as going forth to “ravage and destroy, to slay and burn, and plunder and exterminate, in the name of freedom and Christian benevolence.”
In your January number appears an “Extract from an American Letter,” the author of which talks just as our must pro-slavery papers do respecting “the hope of peace through the Democratic preponderance”–”the tyranny of the President”-”the inconceivable madness of our people that sustains so destructive a war”—”—and the lamentable waste of “money expended for unproductive objects.”
In the leading article of your February number, you speak of Northern Americans as evoking the grisly host of Acheron “to serve as the army of Benevolence, and to fill the earth with havoc and desolation in the name, and for the defence, of Christian philanthropy.” You say they “encourage bodies of armed men to bombard cities, to sack towns and villages, to slaughter men by the myriad, to fill the hearts of women and children with unimaginable agony, in order to teach their enemies examples of humanity and mercy.”
Singularly enough, you admit, in the very next paragraph, that—” it is only simple justice to the Federal Government to say that it does not pretend to be fighting for philanthropy”; and you appropriately quote from the Emancipation Proclamation itself, to show that that movement was made only “upon grounds of military necessity”. I acquit you of intentional misrepresentation. But is it not carelessness well-nigh inexcusable to have left the charges in the preceding paragraph unerased, after you had thus proved their incorrectness? Try to keep in mind hereafter the unquestionable fact that, as far as the Government and the army are concerned, they are not fighting in the interest of Anti-Slavery or other philanthropy, but of self-preservation; and also, that it is the Government, and the nation, not the Abolitionists, who are carrying on this war.
You will allow (you have already allowed) that the President and the North are not fighting in pursuance of any philanthropic object; but you may be disposed to maintain that the purpose of the war is to “exterminate “the Southern people, or to “subjugate” them, or at least to prevent their attainment of a rightful “independence.” One of the two objects of this letter is to show you, if possible, that this is strictly a war of self-preservation; that the inevitable alternative before us is to conquer or to be conquered; that compromise between non-slaveholders and slaveholders is precisely equivalent to a defeat of liberty; and that defeat, for us, means the forcible establishment of the slave code North as well as South. So that there is absolutely no resource for us but to fight, unless we mean to allow slavery to be reestablished in New England, and the foreign slave trade to be again legalized, and made more extensive than ever.
Please take note, here, that those hot-blooded individuals who have used the word “exterminate,” in relation either to the Southern Secessionists or to the slaveholders, have been moved to use it by their recognition of the inevitable alternative above spoken of. They really think that the death of the whole of those two classes would be a less evil to the country and the world than the reestablishment of slavery and the slave trade over this whole continent under the authority of law. Do yon think otherwise?
Please take note, too, that the use of the word “subjugate” proceeds from a recognition of the same fact. People here know that the question is not in the least about letting the Confederate States “go,” but of submitting to their enforcement of slave laws upon us as well as upon the negroes.
When the leaders of secession say that their only wish is that we should “let them go,” there is but one answer to be made, namely, that they lie. You see I follow the Quaker custom of using the “plain language.” The tendency of slavery is to cultivate a habit of falsehood, among both masters and slaves; and so long, and so thoroughly, have our slaveholders cultivated this habit, that in the common use of the grossest falsehoods, Ferdinand Mendez Pinto was but a type of them. They are liars of the first magnitude, constantly falsifying in speech, writing and print, and mixing deception even with public records and legislative proceedings. You may read, if you will, the printed proofs of the falsification of the U. S. census in regard to slavery by Mr. De Bow, in 1850 and 1840. And, although there is abundance of evidence, from the admissions of secessionists themselves, that the reestablishment of the foreign slave trade was one of their purposes, they inserted a prohibition of it in their code when that movement was necessary to draw the great slave-breeding State, Virginia, into alliance with them.
One of the secession lies is, that they are fighting only for “independence.” This has a plausible sound, and is well adapted to excite the sympathy of strangers, especially of those who do not stop to reflect what this claim of independence includes, and to read, in current history, the means by which, from the beginning, they have sought to establish it.
The “independence” which the rebels are fighting for is the permanent establishment and legalization of slavery, and of all those means which seem to them needful to secure, extend and perpetuate it; and a limitation or suppression of all those things, in any part of the country, which would interfere with it. Just think, for a moment, how much this includes.
1. The immediate and unobstructed rendition of fugitive slaves, and the punishment of all who have aided or sheltered them.
2. The right of the slaveholder to travel or sojourn, with his “property,” in any part of the country, and to buy, and sell, and use his “property “in any part of the country.
3. The right to punish all action, direct or indirect, of individuals or associations, tending to oppose slavery, and to suppress all literature tending to disparage it, in any part of the country.
4. The right to make the punishments effectual for the purposes in question; to flog, tar-and-feather, hang, and burn alive, just as much as may be needful to prevent interference with slavery.
These four unjust and iniquitous things, the enforcement of which would make a tyranny far worse than that of Russia or Austria, are just what our slaveholders have always been striving to carry into effect. Finding themselves defeated in this purpose by the gradual advancement of intelligence and self-respect at the North, they next make the movement called “Secession,” claiming to do this for the establishment of a rightful independence. You believe them sincere in the wish to separate. I believe this claim was, originally, only a lying pretence, and that they intended to bully the North into submission to further encroachment, as they have often done before. Nevertheless, for the sake of argument, I yield this point.
<c02>
How did they proceed in the attempt to gain their “independence”? By the use of means utterly dishonest and unjust as well as illegal. Forming an immense conspiracy, which included Representatives, Senators and Cabinet Officers in the U. S .. Government, (every one of whom falsified his official oath,) they stole money from the national Treasury, and arms and munitions of war from the Northern forts and arsenals, then claimed ownership in all those portions of U. S. property situated in the Southern States, then with force and arms repelled the supplies sent by the Government to its garrison in Fort Sumter, and then murderously assailed the garrison itself.
Now, keeping in mind that these people are accustomed to disregard honesty and justice, as well as law, in the pursuit of their purposes, and that they are as pertinacious in behalf of slavery as yon are in behalf of peace, let us see what would have followed from a concession of their claims by the U. S. Suppose we had peacefully relinquished to them, as rightfully theirs, not only the governmental control of all the slaveholding States, but the forts, arsenals and custom-houses built and stocked by our government, the lands of Florida and Louisiana which cost us so many millions of dollars, and the supreme control of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. Would that have been the end? Would that have averted war? Let as see.
After the accomplishment and acknowledgment of secession, the slaves will be just as discontented with their condition as they were before. They will still paddle across the Ohio river, and cross the border elsewhere, to reach the free North, or the safer land of Canada beyond it The “Confederate States” everywhere along this border will be losing their “property,” unless this process is immediately stopped. What will be done to stop it?
Two things will be immediately done; precisely the two things that were done when the States formed one nation. Armed pursuers will be sent after the fugitives, and a requisition will be made upon the authorities of the free State in question for the punishment of those who aided or harbored them. Our soil must still be hunting-ground for the kidnapper, and our freedom to give bread to the hungry and shelter to the weary must still be abridged by the Slave Power. We shall gain peace only by the basest submission and complicity with slavery.
But, do you say, the Confederate States cannot justly or reasonably require these things of a foreign nation? Granted. They will require them unjustly and unreasonably; but require them they assuredly will, and enforce the demand by whatever force is necessary; first using individual violence, according to their custom, and if that be repelled, declaring war. Do you suppose they will leave slavery, after secession, with less practical protection than it had before? Do you suppose that in protecting the “sum of all villanies” they will confine themselves to the use of just and honest means? Rely upon it, when the enforcement of slavery is in question, they will accomplish, as individuals and as a nation, whatever violence can accomplish. We can escape war with such, a neighbor only by one possible means, complicity in the enforcement of slavery and the suppression of anti-slavery. Are you prepared to advise that this price, be paid for peace?
You and I, Mr. Editor, are Peace men. As we understand Christianity, it never allows fighting; and we propose not to fight, under any circumstances. But surely these ideas of ours do not prevent our recognizing the fact that most men (and some worthy and excellent men) are of the opposite persuasion; still less do our peace principles prevent us from recognizing the grounds of difference between two parties who are fighting, and distinguishing one party to be right and the other wrong in the matter about which they began to quarrel.
The Peace men in this country, always an insignificant minority, and now fewer than ever—rarely making converts even in favorable periods, and now making none—see no prospect of success in labors for the cause of peace at the present time. Moreover, those of them who are Abolitionists see that all and more than all that they can do is needed for the cause of freedom, in this great transition period of our country, and that, while their labor is successful and mightily effective in that field, every word now uttered in advocacy of peace is prejudicial to liberty, chiming with the party cry now raised by those who wish only the success of the rebels, and have no sympathy with what we recognize as “peace principles.” There is among us a large and powerful party, of men not only willing to fight, but ready at all times for lynch law and mob violence, who are now raising a cry for peace to be made by the North, that their Southern friends may return to power, and that slavery may again rule this country. This is the only result that could possibly come from overtures of peace made by the North. Recognizing this fact, and also the further fact that, of the two parties which choose to carry on this war, one is wholly wrong and the other to a great extent right in the position taken and the purpose contended for—and recognizing the certainty that no permanent and really beneficent peace can come to this land but by the overthrow of slavery—I, a peace man, say without hesitation that I have no desire to see an end of this contest until slavery is utterly extirpated.
Call this paradoxical or self-contradictory, if you will; but I do not see the least abandonment of my principles in the fact that, when I see two parties determined to fight, one in the right, the other in the wrong, I wish success to the former and defeat to the latter. Is it otherwise with you? When you read of a combat between Russians and Poles, Austrians and Italians, slaveholders and slaves, does no thought enter your mind but the official and technical one— “How wicked they both are to be fighting”? Does Peace seem supremely lovely to you when it comes by the consent of the weaker party to bear gross oppression without resistance? Is Peace the one thing needful when it leaves one party established as tyrant and the other as slave?
A few Abolitionists hold the same views that you and I do of the wickedness of all wars. We hold it not permitted to Christians to fight, and we, individually, choose to die whenever the time shall come that we cannot live but by killing our enemy. Very few of us, however, ever held that position. The great majority of anti-slavery men share the common views upon that subject The American Anti-Slavery Society, however, confines its action, as it has always done, to the use of moral and peaceful instrumentalities. We spread abroad truth upon that subject by the voice and the press; and we have not the slightest idea either of abandoning that method or practicing a contrary one. This, however, does not prevent as from rejoicing when the great cause of Freedom is helped by those who “walk not with us”—those who think they still see good work to be done “by the sword of the Lord and of Gideon”—those who, like that noble and excellent man, John Brown, devote their whole time to the work of seeking and saving them that were lost. No instance of heroic, disinterested self-devotion to a righteous cause appears in all history superior to that of John Brown. He gave himself for the rescue of God’s poor, using such means as be sincerely deemed right. To his own Master he must answer for himself. But I, a Peace man, not only feel no call to cast a stone at him, but I will not, because he used a method which I cannot use, withhold my feeble tribute of praise from his life-long devotion to the cause of the slave.
The few of us who are Peace men do not desert our principles. But we recognize the fact that there are other principles also to be advocated; and we pray you, our English friends, to distinguish between things that differ, and to see to it that your advocacy of Peace, in commenting upon the American crisis, be not an advocacy of such peace as once reigned in Warsaw; be not a stumbling-stone cast in the path of freedom.
Respectfully,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
<c03>
BOSTON, May 23d, 1863.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD OF PEACE:
DEAR SIR—If you will look again at my letter of six or eight weeks ago, I think you will readily see the injustice of imputing to me the sentiment expressed at the top of page 202 of your May number, namely, that “we are justified” in destroying six or seven millions of men, &c. The sentiment to which I really challenged your acquiescence was merely this: that, of two specified evil things, one the death of every secessionist-slaveholder, and the other the legalized re-establishment of slavery and the slave-trade over this whole continent, the former would be less, and the latter greater.
You surely recognize the possibility of trying to estimate the influence and tendency of two vices (say caste and drunkenness) and expressing the opinion that one of these does more harm in the world than the other, without imagining or implying, in any manner or degree-whatever, that one of them is therefore justifiable. This sort of comparative estimate is not only all that I meant to make, but all that I did make. And you should also, I think, have observed that the passage referred to was incidental or parenthetical in character, trying to state candidly the point of view of certain persons who hold opinions opposite to yours and mine on the subject of War.
It seems to me also that it would have been fair and just in you (who have copied so much intemperate language from the Northern advocates, good, bad and indifferent, of uncompromising war,) to have given to your readers the statement of an Abolitionist and Peace-man of thirty years standing respecting the inevitable dilemma that now lies before the U. S. Government and the Northern people, namely, that if they do not fight, they must submit to the extension and the domination of slavery over the whole country. I gave you the reasons which compel me to consider this alternative inevitable; and I hoped that they might also be laid before your readers.
You and I, my dear Sir, being Peace-men, hold that our duty forbids us to kill men under any circumstances whatever. Consequently, when we can no longer live without fighting, we patiently submit to die. But those who hold this opinion with us are numerically a very insignificant minority, both in America and England. We cannot reasonably expect the majority, who have always argued against our theory, to become immediate converts, and adopt our practice, when the alternative of fighting or enslavement is suddenly set before them. And, as a matter of fact, I perceive that you, in the very article of which I am speaking, no more expect your Government, and your nation, to act upon Peace principles, than I do mine. You assume that England may be forced into a war with the U. S., just as I assume that the U. S. has been forced into a war with the seceding rebels. You say—
“It is perfectly clear, that so long as it [this war] lasts, there is the most imminent danger of this country becoming involved in hostilities with the North. Indeed, we greatly fear that, unless it is pretty speedily brought to a close, such a collision is all but inevitable.....It is one of the necessary consequences of this miserable conflict itself, so to derange and com plicate the relations of the two countries, that no human statesmanship will long avail to prevent an imbroglio.”
Very well. This language, like mine in my previous letter, is the language of one who, however firm in holding Peace principles for himself, can yet take a candid and common-sense view of the probabilities and necessities affecting the action of those who hold war to be sometimes right. If England declares war against the U. S., I shall not accuse you of having “justified” her conduct. I ask of you an equal fairness of consideration for my language.
In a little tract which I wrote and published in 1838, entitled “Evils of the Revolutionary War,” I not only maintained that no war whatever was justifiable, but that that particular war was unnecessary for the attainment of its professed object; declaring that calm and peaceful persistence in a claim so just as ours must ultimately have been recognized and granted by a nation like Great Britain.
 I still hold, in regard to the unjustifiable ness of war, precisely the ideas which I then held. But I recognize the fact that our present conflict in this country (a Revolutionary war not less than the other) is materially different from that other in regard to the attainment of its object by means other than war. Resolutely determined not to fight, myself, and continuing firm in the position of advising no one else to fight, I yet recognize the fact that, if somebody does not fight to prevent the success of the slaveholders, they will succeed and will bring this whole nation under the operation and control of the slave system. I gave you in my last letter, at moderate length, the reasons which make this result seem to me certain. They are (as far as I can compress them into a paragraph) the following:
Slavery, in the course of three generations, during which it has been continuing, extending and fortifying itself, has transformed the people of the slave State into its own image: the great majority of the 8,000,000 whites who people those States are voluntary and hearty supporters of the control (antagonistic as it is to their real welfare) which 100,000 of the chief slaveholders exercise over that whole portion of the country: these 100,000, and that vastly larger number of the “poor whites” or “mean whites” who are their dependents and partisans, having lived all their lives under the immensely deteriorating influence, not merely of slavery, but of vigorous partisanship in support of slavery, have become assimilated to the element they work in, and are now, in my judgment, the very worst, the very most depraved and hardened men and women existing on this earth: neither truth, nor honesty, nor honor, nor humanity, nor the performance of duties, nor the fulfillment of promises, are to be expected from them: they have always got their living by theft and robbery out of the negroes, and their associate, Floyd, only extended his thefts to another department; they have always lied, by choice, to support the credit of the slave system; what wonder that their leaders, A. H. Stephens and Jeff. Davis, are notorious and enormous liars? They brutally assaulted, mobbed, and murdered peaceful citizens before they began the war, for only expressing—often for only being suspected of expressing—opinions adverse to slavery; what wonder that, since the war began, they should murder helpless prisoners, and even , surgeons, and fire upon flags of truce, and ambulances carrying wounded men. Abundant proof exists of all these things; and in all of them the secession women (including the class of women called ladies) are proved to have been as bad as the men. These things having been so in the green tree, will be worse in the dry. Wherever the Government yields an inch, the secessionists will take a hundred yards. They will agree to nothing less than the supremacy of the slave system, and the full execution of the Fugitive Slave Law; and not the slightest confidence can be placed in their keeping any agreement whatever, beyond the period of their own pleasure or convenience. With such an antagonist, war is inevitable unless everything be yielded. Do you counsel that the Government of the U.S. yield everything that these traitors, murderers, robbers and perjured persons choose to demand? If we do not yield everything, we do not gain that peace which was the motive for yielding. What shall we do? What do you recommend?
You refer to the “power of Christian truth, mighty through God to the pulling down of the strongholds of iniquity and oppression.” I firmly believe in this, and in the yet greater power of Christian love. I expect from the influence of these forces much, but not everything. I expect these influences to accomplish much with the average of civilized people and the average of savages; nay, with many classes of vicious people and profligates. These are comparatively accessible to moral considerations, certainly to the feelings of humanity. But we, in this country, have to deal with a class worse than any of these; men who do not recognize truth as better than falsehood, except when it chances to serve their temporary purpose; men who scoff at the moral sentiments and at the ordinary feelings of humanity; men who really get no
<c04>
idea from an act of humane forbearance towards them, except to suppose you are afraid to treat them as they deserve. God of course can, and will, accomplish some good purpose with them, in some one of his days of a thousand years. What I mean is, that in all human probability, there is not the remotest chance of succeeding with these men by the use of kindness’ or forbearance. As to justice, the Government of the U.S. have never treated them otherwise than with perfect rectitude.
You speak of these people as “our fellow-Christians.” I pray you not to do Christianity so great an injustice. Slaveholders are not Christians. The Gospel has never been preached in the slave States, and never will be while the power of slavery bears sway there. If you abstain, as I hope you do, from calling soldiers Christians, be at least as careful not to desecrate that honorable name by applying it to the supporters of slavery.
I, a Peace-man on principle, choose rather to die than to fight; and if any one asks my counsel as to the Christian and the right course, I must recommend the same position to him, since I know of no other. And if the statesman, or the philosopher, or the man of large humanity, looking at the welfare and progress of the human race, should ask me how I can justify myself for allowing free government, and civilization, and Christianity, to be indefinitely put back on a whole continent, and the whole black race here to be re-enslaved, and the better portion of the white race to be reduced to semi-slavery, rather than wage war to the extent of subduing those hundred thousand scoundrels—all I can say is, that I am but a servant, acting under orders; God has placed me here to teach and exemplify the law of love; I believe I can serve Him better by simple obedience than in any other manner; and I have such confidence in His Wisdom, Power and Goodness, as to feel sure that in the long run He will secure, in some way, the good working, the practical success, of this simple obedience. This is what I understand by faith in God. And an appeal to this principle is the whole of my answer. But I am never surprised when the statesman, or the philosopher, or the unreligious philanthropist doubts the correctness of my rule, and recommends war in its stead as the speedier cure of our particular disease. It may cure, he says; and we shall be sure to die, or do worse, without it.
Perhaps we shall die. I feel very sure that the Providence, of God is now overthrowing slavery in this country, so that it can never be re-established on the old footing. But I am not so sure that this nation is to be preserved. To any one who may consider this very doubt as a lack of faith in God, I would reply that we have a long arrear of guilt to be settled, and that this people, North and South, are now reaping what they have sowed. They have chosen to continue a horrible system of oppression, the South from love of it, the North from fear of the inconvenience to themselves involved in its removal. Both are guilty before God, and the rebellion is one item of His retributive justice. But the South is guilty, not only of sin against God and the slave, but against the North: whereas the North has committed no offence against the South, but continued to treat her, for the half-century preceding the war, with all the kindness and indulgence that could possibly be expected, even by the admission of A. H. Stephens and Jeff. Davis themselves, whose testimony I send you with this. The war was unjustly and causelessly begun by the South, and, if we look only at the relative position of the two parties at its commencement, the South was entirely wrong, the North entirely right, according to the rules admitted by civilized nations.
Now the Government of the U. S., as well as that of Great Britain, profess to hold allegiance to the law of nations, and occupy (or at least propose to themselves to occupy) the position of statesmen and philosophers. They are not very much concerned about the law of love. Even if they call themselves Christians, they do not the less, in government matters, make the New Testament subordinate to the statute-book and the law of nations. Let us look at them as they are, and consider what we may reasonably expect them to do, looking at their belief, their point of view, their understanding of their own position, the purposes with which they took those high offices, and the purposes for which the people placed them there. Can they fairly be expected, after having all their lives believed in the rightfulness of making war, to turn about and become Peace-men just at this moment, when immensely powerful circumstances are urging war upon them? It is plain that you do not expect this of Lord Palmerston and Earl Russell. Why should you expect it of President Lincoln, when, unless he uses that war power which is one essential feature of his great office, he leaves the Nation’s Capital, Treasury, Archives and Monuments to fall into the hands of her worst enemies, and faithlessly abandons the very work which he was elected to perform. And, unless you do expect something so unreasonable as this, where is the fairness of constantly speaking (as you do) of the war, and of the particular measures of arbitrary power naturally and necessarily accompanying war, as the fault of President Lincoln, the defendant, rather than of Jeff. Davis, the assailant.
Another thing. You have quoted a portion of a base and brutal speech (possibly correctly reported— I never saw or heard of it before) from “the Hon. James Lane, Senator for Kansas.” Of this person (who is never spoken of here except as “Jim Lane,”) I know very little, except that he is a coarse and rough man, a determined opposer of slavery, who, having had to stand on his defence for years in Kansas against the “Border Ruffians” of Missouri, and to see that same course actually pursued, year after year, by those men, against abolitionists, which he now declares himself determined to pursue against ”Copperheads,” (active supporters of the rebellion,) seems to have caught the contagion of their language and manners. Perhaps he said, perhaps he has done, the things referred to. I ask for no suppression of any real evidence unfavorable to the North, or any portion of it. My point is that the strain of thought, language and action here described are rare and exceptional with the Northern people, while they are frequent and customary among the slaveholders. It seems unfair, therefore, to select a Northern man as the representative, to your readers, of these thoughts and expressions, while you say nothing about the thousand-fold more numerous Southern representatives of them. I say as Northern man. For the rabble of Washington, who are represented as applauding and echoing these expressions, have themselves been educated under slaveholding manners and morals, and now oppose only the rebellious, not the oppressive character of the South. They, therefore, in everything but secession, represent the South and not the North. As to the two Northern clergymen whom you mention as having given utterance, in Philadelphia, to ideas kindred to those of Jim Lane (one of whom is represented as making the ridiculous statement that President Lincoln purposed and expected that his Proclamation would produce a St. Domingo massacre at the South,) all that needs be said is that these, and the dozen more like them which scrutiny might discover, are exceptional instances among Northern men, while the slave-holding States abound in men of worse ferocity in language, and having, in addition, a habit of acting as brutally as they talk.
You offer us this problem to solve: “Can you overcome your difficulties, and emerge out of the trial-hour with which every country and race is sometimes tested, by some other-means than the old, brutal, barbarous expedient of cutting each other’s throats?”
I reply, for myself, and also for the Northern Government and people—No! We do not see that our difficulties can be overcome, and that we can emerge, successful, from this trial-hour, in any other way than by fighting. If you see any other way, please to communicate it.
Or, to put the demand within narrower limits, let me suppose that, to avoid further horrors of war, our Government shall condescend to make the first overtures to the rebels who began the war, and ask what terms of peace will content them. Suppose they say
<c05>
in reply—” Separation; the acknowledgment of our independence; the return of all slaves who have escaped, or who may hereafter escape, from the Confederacy to the United States; non-interference with our foreign slave trade; and agreement that our citizens may travel or sojourn among yours with their slaves, and with the right to use them as at home.”
Suppose extended negotiation to make it certain that no terms less than these will be accepted. What would you propose that oar Government reply?
I respectfully request the insertion of this letter in the Herald of Peace.
In the hope that my country may become “first pure, then peaceable,” I am, sincerely,
Your friend and servant,
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
PEACE SOCIETY. 19 New Broad Street, LONDON, June 30, 1863.
DEAR SIR—I had intended to answer your first letter as soon as it came to hand. But the pressure of numerous and urgent duties obliged me to postpone, from time to time, the fulfillment of that intention. I was pleased to hear from you. I had read with great satisfaction such of your writings as had fallen in my way, and from them had learned to look upon you as an able and earnest fellow-laborer in the cause of peace. And in proportion, of course, to the value I attached to your advocacy, is the regret I feel that you, alas! like so many others, have been carried away by the excitement of this unhappy war into a position which I find it impossible to reconcile with the principles which you formerly held.
From my experience with other correspondents on your side of the Atlantic, I am convinced it would answer no good purpose to argue with you on the subject of the war. I dare say you will not admit it, but it seems to me painfully dear that you are all breathing such an atmosphere of passion as to have become far too feverish to listen with any temper to what appear to you the cold-blooded counsels of unprejudiced observers, though they may in reality speak to you the words of truth and soberness. I have, therefore, given up the hope of doing any good by reason or remonstrance while the present moral delusion lasts. I must, however, say a word or two by way of self-defence.
You charge the editor of the Herald with inconsistency in saying, on the one hand, that the Northern Americans are filling the earth with desolation in the name of Christian philanthropy, and, on the other, that the Government does not pretend to be fighting for philanthropy. There is no inconsistency, or, if there be, it is not ours. In truth, I am obliged to say that there is a little want of ingenuousness on the part of our Anti-Slavery friends in your country as respects this matter. You first claim the sympathy of British Christians for the North because it is fighting against slavery. Such have been the whole tenor and testimony of Mrs. Stowe’s repeated appeals and of a hundred articles I have seen in your journals. But when we say in reply that we do not believe in promoting the objects of Christian philanthropy by the malice of war, you turn sharp round upon us and say, “Who is trying to promote the objects of Christian philanthropy by war? We are not. We are only fighting for union, for national existence.” Of course, the answer is obvious enough. If such be the case, then what special ground have you for invoking the Anti-Slavery sympathies of England? If your object be, as Mr. Lincoln says, to restore the Union, with or without slavery, the interests of the slave being made entirely subservient to a political end, where is the justice(l) of your indignation with British Abolitionists for not backing you up in this war? But if, on the other hand, as the Anti-Slavery party in America are proclaiming with a hundred tongues, the war ought to be carried on, and, as they are now boasting, is being carried on, for the great object of liberating the slave, then we or the Peace party (I answer for no one else) have a right to say that we object to the idea of promoting a purpose of pure Christian philanthropy by rapine and slaughter and extermination. You see, then, dear Sir, that our inconsistency, if it be one, springs entirely (2) from the conflicting and contradictory representations that come to us from your side of the water.
You say that it is the Government of the nation, and not the Abolitionists, who are carrying on this war. True, no doubt, technically. But who supplies the fuel to generate the steam of public opinion, which keeps the governmental machinery in motion? Who clamors most loudly for the continuance of the war? Who demands that it shall be made more and more rigorous and ruthless? Who protests most angrily against the very name of peace?(3) Why, the Anti-Slavery party. I cannot describe to you the bitterness of sorrow with which I have observed this. All my acquaintances and friends in America have been of that party. I have been accustomed to admire and applaud them as models of Christian heroism. I have defended them to the best of my ability in all companies and against all comers. And do you think it is possible for me, without the deepest grief, to hear such men now talk with a ferocity worthy of the French Jacobins in the wildest days of the Convention? You say that the persons whose “exterminating” diatribes I cited in the Herald were “exceptional instances.” But look at the language of Wendell Phillips and Mr. Stanton at the last meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society. Such men must be regarded, surely, not as exceptional, but representative.
You ask me to publish your letters in the Herald. I wish to explain to you why I do not think that expedient. Believe me, it is from no want of respect to you.
But, in the first place, I have already published a long and elaborate letter from my esteemed friend, Mr. Amasa Walker, in which the whole case of the Anti-Slavery and Peace men quoad this war was put as clearly and forcibly as it could be put. I tried to answer that letter as well as I could, and I really see no advantage in re-opening the discussion, and travelling over precisely the same ground again.
In the second place, I do not see the desirableness of having a long plea in favor of war from the pen of an old Peace man in the pages of a periodical that has so often before refuted such pleas when coming from the advocates of war. Why should we be called upon to betray to our enemies such grievous apostacy among our friends? For, in truth, my dear Sir, if your reasoning be sound, Peace Societies may as well break up at once, and acknowledge that their whole foundation is a rotten one. If there be no other means—for that is what your representation amounts to—of conquering evil but by the wholesale butchery of war, and if that be a right and effectual way of conquering it,(4) why should we any longer talk of the power of truth and love and the weapons that are not carnal?
You say you “firmly believe “in this power of truth and love with almost everybody but the particular people who are your enemies, but that with them nothing will do but fire and sword. They are such liars and scoffers and utterly hardened reprobates as to be inaccessible to all moral influence. Serious as the whole subject is, I really could hardly forbear smiling at your simplicity. Are you not aware, my dear sir, that such is precisely the aspect in which every nation that is at war looks upon its enemies while the conflict lasts? The language you apply to the Southerners, though sufficiently emphatic, is really mild in comparison (5) with what our people applied to the French fifty years ago, to the Russians ten years ago, and to the nations of India five years ago. You affirm, again and again, that Southern men are such unmitigated liars that no one must believe a word they say. It is curious enough that when I received your first letter, I had just been reading a book by an English lady who had been blockaded in the South during the war, and among the diatribes she reports as having heard against the North, this was one: that the Yankees are such habitual liars, that they have at length lost the faculty of distinguishing between truth and falsehood. I don’t believe this of course. Nor, to speak quite candidly,
<c06>
do I believe all that you good Northern people say in the heat of passion against your Southern brethren. But if we allow the conclusiveness of your plea, that though all war is unchristian and unlawful, yet this particular war is Christian and lawful, (6) because those against whom it is waged are such desperately wicked sinners, we give up the whole question, seeing that every nation, while its mind is inflamed with warlike passions, does look upon its opponents as desperately wicked sinners, for which no correction but war will suffice.
But I have another reason for not wishing to publish your letters. If you will forgive me for saying so, I don’t want that you, as an old friend of peace, should be publicly committed to a position which I am convinced you would in calmer moments see to be utterly untenable for a peace man. I make large allowances for the extremely perplexing circumstances in which you and others, holding your views, have been placed. But I am a little surprised that, while feeling how difficult it is for you, while the violence of the tornado is sweeping past you,(7) to keep your footing on the high ground of principle, as to war, you have hitherto occupied, you should want to drag us down also to a lower position? Ought not the Peace-men of America rather to say, “Let us be glad and thankful that our British co-adjustors, not exposed to the same fiery temptation as we are,(8) are still left to hold up the banner of peace, and to remind us of the allegiance we have formerly sworn to it?”
Let me just advert to one other argument you use, which seems to amount to this, that since both parties in this war refuse to recognize our principles, it is our duty as peace-men (9) to encourage those who are fighting, or nearest fighting for the right. Rely upon it, my dear sir, that no moral reform ever made any progress if advocated in such a compromising spirit as that. Suppose Thomas Clarkson, when he first awoke to a sense of the sinfulness of the Slave Trade, had allowed such reasoning as this to prevail: “Well, no doubt this is a bad business altogether. But since there is a competition in the trade between the British and the Spaniards, and since I believe the British are carrying these poor creatures away to a country where they will be brought to a knowledge of the pure Protestant faith, while the Spaniards will take them where they will be exposed to the errors and superstitions of Popery, it is my duty, as an Englishman and a Christian, to side with, and, so far as I can, to get a monopoly of the trade into the hands of my countrymen. It is true the whole thing is essentially wicked and abominable; but since none of them acknowledge it to be so, I would rather the wickedness should continue in the hands of the British, who will turn it to better account than the Spaniards.” If, I say, he had argued thus, would he have ever convinced the conscience of the world of the utter sinfulness of the slave trade? Assuredly not. But what be did do, was to denounce the whole traffic as an iniquity per se, and by whomsoever and for whosoever purpose carried on. And this is what, by God’s help, I intend to do as respects war.(10) And when I see a war waged in the name of religion or of philanthropy, I look upon it as the worst of all wars, because it tends to consecrate an evil system, in the estimation of mankind, by associating with it a great and sacred cause, while that cause is, itself, in reality, degraded and dishonored by the association.
I had no intention, when I began, to write at this length. You will see by the Herald of this month, just published, that though I have not inserted the whole of your letter, I have inserted so much of it as relates to your self-justification from what you thought an unfounded imputation on my part.
Yours very truly,
HENRY RICHARD.
P. S. I return your letters according to your wish.
I will make a very few remarks by way of rejoinder to the above letter, designating by figures the passages to which I reply.
(1) It is inappropriate for the editor of the Herald of Peace to complicate my position with the diverse ones taken by President Lincoln, Mrs. Stowe, and others. My claim is that the sympathy and aid of Britons, men and women, should be given to the North rather than to the South, in the contest now pending; because, while the purpose and tendency of the Southern warfare are to maintain and perpetuate slavery, the purpose and tendency of Northern warfare are growing more and more adverse to slavery. A fatal blow has already been inflicted upon that system by the Proclamation, so that it can never recover its former supremacy; the movements of the Federal government and armies are effectively and rapidly diminishing its strength; and the proportion of our Northern people who hate slavery, and are determined to strive for its entire abolition, is increasing far more rapidly than ever before. These circumstances seem to me to make it right for Englishmen to favor and help the North, and wrong for them to favor and help the South.
(2) Not so. A sad (and to us amazing) portion of your inconsistency is that your indignation against rapine and slaughter finds expression only when these are used by a legitimate government in opposition to rebels; while you preserve a systematic silence in regard to acts of the same sort when they are perpetrated act by rebels, in the attempt to maintain and perpetuate negro slavery.
(3) If space to untwist these misrepresentations and exaggerations were allowed me in the Herald of Peace, I would gladly undertake the work. I will not ask it is the editor of the Liberator.
(4) The reader is referred to my letters above, to see how far these two suppositions are correct and how far incorrect.
(5) If my language respecting the rebel slaveholders is comparatively mild, it is because I preferred to be accurate, and to avoid exaggeration. For its correctness I appeal to such facts as, are before the world Read “American Slavery as it is,” the testimony of slaveholders respecting slavery, compiled by Theodre D . Weld, Red the “Journal” lately published by Mrs. Kemble, a dispassionate statement of events occurring under her own eye. Judge from these two books, one old and the other new, what sort of character is likely to be formed by constant association from infancy, with the scenes and influences of slavery. Then read Mr. William Phillips’s “Conquest of Kansas, by Missouri and her allies,” and see what sort of character is formed by the system of propagandism of slavery which then sent its emissaries to overrun Kansas. I reaffirm my statement respecting the character of the men who are now fighting for the maintenance of slavery, and I am willing to stand or fall by the evidence.
(6) Let the reader refer to my letters, and see that have made no such plea.
(7) This talk about passions and tornadoes in reference to my letters, is simply ludicrous. Correct or incorrect, they represent my deliberate opinions, stated without excitement.
(8) Alas! that so many of them, exposed to a different temptation, have fallen under it, giving their influence to the support of slavery.
(9)I have uttered no such folly as is here imputed to me. We have other duties in this world besides those incumbent upon us “as peace men.”
(10) I wish, my dear Sir, that you would do this is regard to slavery as well as in regard to war-C,K.F
*The Kansas war of 1854, 5 and 6, was a miniature sportsmen of the present rebellion.
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE CONSCRIPTION LAW. Hon. B. R. Curtis and H. W. Paine, Esq., have been employed to argue the unconstitutionality of the Conscript Act, whenever the matter shall be brought before the courts.
General Sibley  has fought three battles with the Indians in Dakotah Territory. The Indians last upwards of 150 in killed and wounded. Our loss was small. The expedition is now considered at an end.
It is said that 20,000 pounds of cotton daily find their way to New Orleans, being part of the crop <illigeble> burned by the rebels, as advised by Jeff. Davis & Co,
