THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, is advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 36.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1602.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE SLAVERY POLITY OF THE ADMINISTRATION-OPPOSITION OF THE ABOLITION INCENDIARY PRESS.
It needs no argument at this time to prove that to the operations of the abolition agitators of the North can be traced the cause of the present war, and all the evils, sufferings and loss of life attending it. Their continued and systematic agitation, in season and out of season, through their conventions, pulpit orations, stump speeches, fascinating novels, communications and editorials, in such organs as the Tribune, Times, Boston Liberator, and that class of journals, has, from time to time, furnished the revolutionists of the South with their material to inflame the Southern mind, prepare it for secession, and unite the entire South in their policy for a separate confederacy. In attempting to build up a party in the North, based exclusively on the abolition of slavery, they have palmed off upon their followers imaginary statements of hardships, falsehoods and misrepresentations, which, coming to the attention of their antipodes of the South, furnished the basis for a revolutionary party and their entire political food, in the absence of which, they would have been without power or influence. Going before the people of the South-by nature, habits and education an excitable race-with these statements and misrepresentations started at the North, they have increased in power and influence just as the agitators of the North grew more noisy and arrogant. Leading the Southern mind step by step, through its several stages, they finally succeeded in infusing the belief that the election of Lincoln was only another name for the immediate emancipation of the slaves, and that their only salvation was in immediate secession and a separate confederacy. Thus we find that as soon as the election of Lincoln was made known, several of the Southern States declared themselves out of the Union, and immediately entered upon extensive warlike preparations; the leaders, daily strengthened among their own people by the domineering attitude of the agitators of the North, found also willing hands in Buchanan's Cabinet to place at convenient points the latest style and most approved weapons of warfare in the hands of the government.
With the revolutionary material furnished them by the abolition agitators, they continued to strengthen themselves, until, soon after the inauguration of Lincoln, eleven States adopted this heresy, and united their fortunes with the Southern Confederacy. Continuing the same system of appeals, and declaring to their followers that the entire North were abolitionists, bent upon emancipating the slaves, and that President Lincoln was but their mouthpiece and tool in this work, they have succeeded in uniting the South, and working them to the pitch that we now find them-in arms against the regular constitutional government, and menacing the national capital. They are to-day enabled to keep their army together, amidst privations and sufferings, by reiterating to the rank and file the very words of the agitators of the North, holding those views to be that of the entire North, and that which the President is pledged to carry out. We regret to say that to the latter statement the course of the Tribune and Times furnishes the appearance of plausibility. The columns of those and kindred journals arc still filled with articles attempting to force upon the Administration the emancipation of the slaves as the war-cry. Thus, in the Times of Monday, we find two or three communications, apparently meeting the approval of the conductors of that journal, arguing the importance of making the war a war for the abolition of slavery, in which we find such sentences as, "we need a war-cry, a professed object;" "besides, we must proclaim emancipation if we would conquer." Another writer adds, after admitting that the issue which the Administration is carrying on is not the abolition of slavery, "that a more radical cure would be to proclaim slavery incompatible with our national safety, and the end of slavery the only end of the war." "Slavery and freedom, the one or the other must go down."
Now, we know that the President and his Cabinet are not gathering armies, nor are our generals drilling and perfecting them, to destroy the institution of slavery, but to restore the Union to its former prosperous condition, through such constitutional means as that instrument and Congress have placed at his disposal. "The war now prosecuted on the part of the Federal Government," writes Secretary Cameron, in his letter to General Butler, "is a war for the. Union, for the preservation of all constitutional rights of States, and the citizens of all the States of the Union." Again, Caleb B. Smith another member of the Cabinet, and constitutional adviser of the President, in a recent speech delivered at Providence, states unequivocally that "this war is not a war upon the institution of slavery, but a war for the restoration of the Union and the protection of all citizens, in the South as well as the North, in their constitutional rights." The law passed by Congress, confiscating the property o rebels, affects that of slavery only the same as other property. There is not, in fact, the slightest evidence that the Federal Government is now conducting a war having for its object the abolishment of slavery. On the contrary, we have an accumulation of evidence that it is a war for the maintenance of the Union and the protection of all citizens in their Constitutional rights, slavery not excepted.
This being the real object of the war, as the letter of Cameron, the speech of Smith and action of Congress declare it to be, the course pursued by those organs of this city that labored for the election of Mr. Lincoln-and which arc consequently believed by the South to be the organs of the President, now that he is in power-is manifestly doing ten-fold more damage to the cause of the Union than all the so-called peace organs combined. Their systematic appeals to adopt the abolition of slavery as the war-cry, and thus attempting to force the government to adopt that policy, are not only strengthening the rebels at home, but dividing the North, weakening the hands of the Administration, and obstructing the prosecution of the war for one of the wisest and most just causes that ever a nation went to war upon. Those journals that have recently been visited with a mob, and others which the government has attempted to prevent their circulation, by seizing copies in Philadelphia, are harmless as doves, compared to the Tribune and Times, engaged as they arc in hounding the Federal Government into adopting the policy and inscribing upon the banner of the armies the emancipation of slavery. The aid and comfort given by the so-called peace organs to the rebels is but a drop in the bucket, compared with the incendiary appeals of the agitating press; and the sooner the Administration put a stop to their incendiary appeals, the earlier the receive the united and undivided support of the North, and completely disarm the rebels and their allies in the South,-N. Y. Herald.
<c02>

HISTORY SUITED TO THE TIMES.
I. More than twenty years ago, a number of able but mistaken men in Boston raised a cry against both the Union and the Constitution. They met in private council, they gathered in public meetings, and everywhere, with eloquence and ardor, they proclaimed the Constitution a covenant with death, and sought the destruction of the Government. It was considered a time of public danger. They were mobbed, and all good citizens from that day have condemned the act. That same faction, in the revelation of the present year, recognizes its handiwork.
II. Some years later upon the floor of Congress, an ex-President of the United States presented a petition for the dissolution of the United States, for the abrogation of the fundamental law of the country, for the disorganization of the Government itself. The act met not only with a tame approval from the North; it was greeted by at least a portion of the Press of New York with loud hallelujahs; and the successful defence then of the right of the people, even in the halls of Congress, to assail the very existence of the Government in speech and in petition, is the chief historical fact that hallows the name of John Quincy Adams, since his descent to the grave.
III. During the Administration of President Pierce, the legally established Territorial Government of Kansas was attacked by enemies at home and enemies abroad. A systematic and well-organized conspiracy existed to inaugurate a revolution in the Government of the Territory. An independent and unauthorized Government was set up, without the pretence of legal authority. It was a case of rebellion, and of armed resistance to the laws of the United States. The newspaper which principally advocated and principally instigated that rebellion was published in New York; and although the then President of the United States considered it a time of public danger, the publication of that paper was neither suppressed for its advocacy of treason, nor was any violence suggested.
IV. During the autumn of 1856, a resident of the North, a confident and counsellor of the Northern Anti-Slavery organization, with Northern money, organized a conspiracy for the purpose of inaugurating the horrors of a San Domingo insurrection in the Southern States, and of overturning State and National Government in a war for the emancipation of the negroes of the South. The man was honored as a hero and a martyr. At his death, printing offices and pulpits were draped in mourning, and sympathy with his treason was proclaimed by at least one of the principal presses of New York. That, in the view of the then Government of the United States; was a time of public danger; yet sympathy with the author of that treason was expressed and promulgated without restraint, and there was no opportunity afforded to congratulate a Marshal of the United States upon the suppression of that sympathy, or of a treasonable Press.
V. Less than a year since, when the public dangers had culminated in dissolution and prospective civil war, the people of Boston, maddened by a sense of the deep injury which the Government had sustained from the assaults of treasonable orators and a hostile press, mobbed the most finished orator of their city, and with paving stones drove him from the streets. It was then a time of public danger. Yet the assault upon Mr. Wendell Phillips, by the unanimous voice of the country, was declared an outrage upon free speech and upon the Constitution of the laud.
VI. A few months since, a portion of the people of the North, fired with resentment at the calamities induced by the treasonable teachings of one of the New York presses, hung its editor in effigy, heaped ignominy and reproach upon his name, believing him guilty of the highest of crimes against the Government in a time of public danger. No one congratulated that mob upon having done its duty.
VII. A few days since, a meeting was held in the State of Ohio, at which one of the principal advisers and office-holders of the present National Administration was the principal speaker. At that meeting, resolutions were passed, advising the proclamation of liberty to the slave throughout the land, in violation of the laws of the country, and of the usages of civilized nations. The purposes of the meeting were applauded by press and people, and though a time of public danger, no man has questioned the right of that meeting, under the Constitution, to promulgate its barbarous sentiments to the world.
VIII. There is a newspaper published in the city of Boston every week, advocating with as much persistence as ability the dissolution of the Union, and the destruction of the present form of our Government. In its columns, moreover, are found many of the most able articles which see the light of day, showing the utter folly and fruitlessness of the present war to accomplish the results proposed. It is a time of public danger-yet the Boston Liberator is an honored and respected press in the ranks of the Republican party, (!) and no United States Marshal suppresses its editions, nor are mobs daily incited to attack the office in which it is printed.
IX. There are presses in New York which daily proclaim the Constitution of the United States suspended; that there is and ought to be now no protection for freedom of speech or of the Press; which virulently assail the Ministers of the Government, dictate its policy, and embarrass its operations by virulent dissensions over party spoils, and which have confessedly brought disaster upon our country and Government. It is a time of public danger, when teachings like these are likely to plunge our people into anarchy, or chain them down beneath a despotism which shall expel all liberty from our land. Yet a patriotic people permit this teaching without violence, and no Marshal of the Government interferes with the promulgation of their dangerous and vitiating counsel.-New York News, August 27th.

ONE WEIGHT AND ONE MEASURE.
If the President may, in such times as these, go beyond the written Constitution and the laws, without imputation, it is not strange, perhaps, that a patriotic people should feel themselves warranted in suppressing, as in New England at least they do, with as little violence as possible, the promulgation of sentiments calculated to destroy the power of the Government. Formally, such a course is illegal; but the spirit which inspires it may, nevertheless, be engaged in vindication of the law and the Constitution. But we must have one weight and one measure. Let Secessionists be quieted, but let not Abolitionists be allowed to vilify and denounce all that we hold dear, with impunity. Indict traitors, but indict them all. Let Pierce Butler and Mr. Faulkner be put upon their trial, but let not Owen Love-joy and Mr. Phillips be forgotten. If the New York News is seditious, make it hang out the stars and stripes, but do not forget the Anti-Slavery Standard and the Boston Liberator. If treason is to be talked, leave every traitor the use of his tongue,-if it is to be suppressed, let all be silenced. Let not the small flies be snared, and the big ones spared.-Boston Courier.
<c03>

Selections.
EDWAER EVERETT ON SECESSION NEWS PAPERS IN THE NORTH.
It is an old proverb that the laws arc silent amidst arms. The laws are, for the most part, made for a state of peace, excepting those which expressly refer to war, and the manner of conducting it. When a state of war arises, the community necessarily undergoes a great, and sometimes a rapid change; the quiet pursuits of society are, to some extent, checked, and in the immediate vicinity of the seat of war suspended, and with them the laws, which regulate those pursuits, must for the time give way to the stern necessities of the now state of things. It should, however, be, and it is, the great effort of an enlightened Government in civilized countries, to keep this disturbance of the peaceful order of things within the narrowest limits; and allow the supremacy of the law to be interfered with by military authority as little as possible. It is in particular a cardinal maxim of free governments, that the military commander should be subordinate to the civil magistrate. There are undoubtedly cases, when war exists, in which the public safety absolutely require that the operation of the laws and the authority of the civil magistrate should yield to the paramount considerations which require summary measures. The patriotic magistrate, of whatever rank, must in such cases exert that moral courage-quite equal to the courage required for the risks of the field-which is needed for the discharge of the unpopular duty of suspending the laws. He must not shrink before the reproaches which his conduct is sure to bring upon him from the timid, the perverse, and the disaffected, cloaking their disloyalty under an assumed zeal for constitutional principles. He must take the risk even of subsequent disavowal, for poor humanity is very prone to be wise after the event, and brave after the danger. But he will confine his interference with the regular march of law to the narrowest limits and fewest occasions, and be the first to welcome the restoration of its authority.
These are the general maxims which apply to the conflict of civil and military authority, and the practical difficulty will naturally be, not in their general soundness, but in their application to particular cases. This difficulty will of course be much greater in the commencement of a state of war, than after it has lasted some time, and the community has been obliged to conform itself to the exigencies of the contest. At the present time, those citizens in some of the Border States, who sympathize with the Confederates, think it hard that they cannot be at peace and at war. in the Union and out of it, at the same time. They claim the protection of the Constitution as in a time of profound peace and universal obedience to the laws, while they render secret and, when circumstances admit, open aid to those arrayed in arms against them. They assault the forces moving to the defence of the Capital; they convey supplies and arms to the enemy; they recruit his ranks openly and by stealth; and to effect these objects, they sometimes avail themselves of official position and authority derived from the Government which they assail; and when that Government, in self-defence, interferes to arrest these treasonable movements and machinations, they clamor that the liberties of the citizens are invaded.
There are presses, for the most part in the Border States, though some of them are found in cities more remote from the scene of action, which are daily pleading the cause of the enemy, misrepresenting and vilifying the Government of the United States, exaggerating every article of unfavorable intelligence, and exerting themselves to the utmost to dishearten the friends and defenders of the Constitution and the Union. But such is the all but superstitious devotion to the liberty of the Press, that these pernicious journals have, with the exception of a single instance in St. Louis, never been interfered with. It seems to have been thought better by those in authority to tolerate the mischief of these unpatriotic presses, than to elevate them to greater importance by prosecution, or to encroach in the slightest degree upon that freedom of public discussion which in ordinary times is justly regarded as one of the greatest safeguards of liberty. But it is preposterous to sacrifice the end to the means. We should in this respect learn wisdom from the enemies of the Union. While we regard as unbecoming our Christian civilization that resort to lynch law, by which every expression of opinion adverse to the popular sentiment is suppressed in the seceding States, we ought to remember that, in tolerating a traitorous Press among ourselves, we practise a liberality which awakens no gratitude at home, and never is reciprocated by the opposing party. It is in fact an absurdity in terms, under the venerable name of the liberty of the Press, to permit the systematic and licentious abuse of a Government which is tasked to the utmost in defending the country from general disintegration and political chaos. The Governor of Malta was once censured in Parliament for some alleged severity toward the editor of a journal in that island, and the liberty of the Press was declared to be in danger. The Duke of Wellington said he was as friendly as anybody to the liberty of the Press in London, but a free Press in the Island of Malta was as much out of place as it would be on the quarter-deck of a man-of-war. We suppose the most enthusiastic champion of the liberty of the Press would hardly think it right to publish a journal within the walls of Fort McHenry, in which the officers of that garrison should be daily advised to desert, and the men constantly exhorted to mutiny; and whose columns should be filled with persistent abuse of the Government, and all engaged in its defence. Why should journals of that description be allowed to diffuse their poison beneath its walls, amidst the excitable population of a large city?
So too with reference to the freedom of speech in debate, one of the vital conditions of republican liberty. The late session in Congress has witnessed a magnanimity on the part of the majority in both Houses of a truly romantic cast. The acts and the motives of the Government, in the suppression of the insurrection, (admitted by one of its most distinguished chiefs to proceed mainly from the disappointment of leading aspirants to office,) have been assailed from day to day with a virulence and a persistence which would be harmless in time of peace, but which in time of war can have no other effect upon the popular mind than to perplex and dishearten those who are staking life and fortune in the cause of the country. This generosity excites no gratitude on the part of those toward whom it is practised; and so far from being reciprocated, the member of the Confederate Congress at Montgomery or Richmond, who should assail the conduct or policy of that body, as the Government of the United States has been assailed by the sympathisers with secession at Washington, would not reach his hotel in safety. He would swing from the next lamp-post.
Not merely is all freedom of speech and of the Press prohibited in the seceding States, bat the most quiet and the humblest rights of citizenship are in-
<c04>
<illegible>. When the Ordinance of Secession was about to be submitted to the vote of the people of Virginia, a distinguished Senator of that State in Congress, and who in that capacity was under oath to support the Constitution of the United States, published a letter, signed with his name, in which he declared that such citizens of Virginia as did not approve the ordinance must leave the State; a summary sentence of banishment and confiscation against about a third part of the people of that ancient Commonwealth; a sentence which the seceding majority are now attemping to enforce at the point of the bayonet, to illustrate the principle that "the right of government rests upon the consent of the governed."
The necessity which, in time of war, partially suspends the operation of the laws, transfers the governing power to the military authority, not absolutely and without conditions; far from it; but under the limitations of the Constitution, and of the laws enacted to meet such a state of things. The power which existed in the Roman Republic of creating a Dictator, in seasons of imminent danger, who was clothed with absolute authority for a limited period -a power which was substantially, though not avowedly, assumed by Congress in the Revolutionary war-is unknown to the Constitution; and it is to be devoutly hoped will never be called into exercise by perils too formidable to be otherwise averted.
For all the ordinary purposes of war, the President of the United States is clothed with the requisite power as "Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the United States, when called into active service." The laws of the land provide the means for exercising the great powers which he possesses in this character. The present is not the first occasion on which they have been called into action. The proclamation of the President calling for seventy-five thousand volunteers, although not issued till the war had actually commenced by the reduction of Fort Sumter, by the general armament of the South, with ordinance and munitions treasonably prepared beforehand by the sworn officers of the United States, and by an official threat of a movement on Washington, has been denounced by President Davis as an unprovoked measure, whose magnitude transcends all constitutional limits, and can aim only at "the subjugation" of the South. At a time when the population of the United States did not exceed four and a half millions, General Washington called out fifteen thousand troops to suppress an insurrection in the western counties of Pennsylvania. Our population is now thirty millions, and the insurrection has assumed the dimensions of a civil war. The only reasonable objection to the military preparations of the United States is, that they did not at once proceed on that gigantic scale, which wisdom and humanity alike dictate, as the only means of bringing the auspicious conflict to a speedy <illegible>. To lot it drag on by inadequate means is to prolong the sufferings which it inflicts on both parts of the Union; to protract the perilous duress imposed upon the friends of the Union at the South, who look with aching eyes for the hour of deliverance; and to augment all the difficulties which are to be overcome before peace is restored to the country.-New York Ledger.

GOVERNMENT AND THE PRESS.
The determined action of government toward a few secession presses, which is but the reflection of that public opinion which is known to exist from the fact of the violent destruction of similar presses in widely separated parts of the country, has called forth considerable comment and criticism from some journals that may be regarded as cousins of the assailed secessionists, and as feeling that they deserve, and may possibly receive, treatment not much different from that which has befallen their relatives. These critics are much concerned because of the muzzling of traitorous papers, but we do not remember that they ever had anything to say against the muzzling of journals of a liberal tone. They bore with philosophic composure the suppression of papers in the South that were believed to be heretical in that excitable section; and some of them even justified that suppression, on the ground of the necessity of the case. The South, they said, would not tolerate "incendiary publications," the circulation of which was sure to excite the slaves to revolt. Well, let them apply the arguments that were then used to the circumstances of the present case. Without questioning the right of slaveholders to suppress abolition journals, (i e., any journals that it pleased them to consider abolition in character,) we think we are warranted in saying that the American Union is of as much value to the American people as slavery can be to slaveholders; and if the slaveholders were allowed to use vigorous measures in order to preserve their Ebony Idol, the Federal Government <illegible> to be firmly supported when it has resort to vigorous measures to promote the preservation of the Republic. If incendiaries of the abolition school were promptly punished, let not incendiaries of the slavery school escape.
There is no country in which the freedom of the press is more valued than it is in England. The English say it is their air, and without it they die. But can it be supposed that the English Government would allow a score of papers to advocate the repeal of the Act of Settlement, the banishment of the royal family, the violent abolition of the peerage, the overthrow of the church, the seizure of the public property, and the establishment of a democratical republican polity? Such papers would be suppressed on the very day of their appearance. Yet they would have done nothing more than is done by our secession journals, which advocate the success of thieves, and support the subversion of government. If papers published here were to advocate the right of every man to commit murder, to perpetrate rape, and to steal and set fire to his neighbor's property at any moment he might feel inclined to take a little pleasure of the Roman imperial character, they would be promptly suppressed, and with the general approbation of even gentlemen of the secession persuasion in politics. Now, men object to rebellions because they cause murder, rape, theft, and fire-raising, and misery generally. If a rebellion could be got up, in the course of which there should be no bloodshed, no violence of any kind, no personal outrages, no conflagrations, and not the least disturbance of the public peace or the ordinary business of life, it might safely be allowed to go on and spend itself, without there being any expenditure of money and of men by government to put an end to it. But a rebellion of that kind is not possible. Not even the Dorr rebellion was quite so harmless as that, though it had nothing to do with fire and blood, or with powder or steel. The trouble with rebellion is, that it includes almost every other crime that can be named, and is so much the more intolerable than any other crime. Those papers which support the rebels here do, so far, advocate the burning of Northern cities, the ravishing of Northern women, the seizure or depreciation of Northern property, and the conquest of the whole North by the slaveholding interest. The Southrons have threatened us with fire and
<c05>
sword, if we should not succeed in keeping the war in their country; and all who adhere to them, "giving them aid an comfort," do just so much toward bringing destruction upon us as individuals, as States, as a nation. Those presses that advise and urge men not to enlist in the army or to enter the navy, which stigmatize as "unholy" a war waged for the maintenance of the nation and the redemption of its obligations, which advocate the right of the disaffected to refuse the payment of taxes legally levied, which predict the repudiation of the debt contracted by the Federal Government, and which urge the rebels to continue in their lawless course,-such papers, we contend, are not entitled to plead the freedom of the press in their behalf as against the legal action of the authorities to suppress them. They are the enemies of the communities in which they are published; and, under the general law of self-preservation, these communities have the right to suppress them-the same right hat they have to exterminate bears and wolves. Beholding what are the objects of the secessionists, and how those objects are to be accomplished, if at all, a secession editor at the North ought to be regarded as a caput lupinum, to be hunted down until destroyed. He is as much an enemy to the country as a wolf could be, and far more dangerous than a whole pack of wolves. There are lines beyond which no individual is allowed to proceed in speaking and writing, in every country. In some countries the field of discussion is very broad indeed, and suffices for the exercise of every man's talents, except those few men who belong to the class of destructives. The field is thus broad in the Northern States of this country. In the South, they limit he field. There you can say nothing against the institution of slavery, or in support of its abolition. Here we are not so stringent. If any man has "a call" in New England to say anything in behalf of slavery, he is at liberty to say it in any language that he may think best adapted to his purpose; but we cannot permit him to argue, day after day, in support of the right of slaveholders to cut our throats, to destroy our freedom, to overthrow our government, and to play the mischief generally with us. If Mr. Kimball, late of the Essex County Democrat, chose to apologize for inadvertently having called slavery a sin, we do not see that that was the business of anybody but the persons who chose to support his silly paper; but when the Essex County Democrat supported the rebellious secessionists, the men who are in arms against the government, and who are seeking the destruction of social order, it was high time that it should be suppressed. Our only regret is, that that was done by a mob which should have been done by the agents of the law. But even when a mob destroys a secession press, it does no more than the conductors of such press have held to be right in the case of editors who may have offended against the majesty of slavery. We know that the action of one band of violent men is no justification for the action of another band of violent men; but nevertheless there is a sort of satisfaction, poor human nature being what it is, when persons who have done all that they could to make mob law prevalent at the expense of others, get hoisted by it themselves. A man may not be a lover of indiscriminate hanging, nor a very warm worshipper of the gallows, and yet think the gallows an attractive spectacle when the hangman is to be seen firmly tied to it, and swinging in the wind.-Boston Traveller.

THE CAUSE OF THE WAR.
The cause of the civil war which distracts our country is so plain that a wayfaring man, though a fool, may see it. Says a driveling sheet, "This is a war neither for nor against slavery, but for the preservation of the country. This contest has no reference to the institution. The irritating and distracting question of slavery must be kept entirely out of sight."
Self-deception is a chronic disease in a doughface. The crooked way is ever preferred to the straight. He will cling to a self-evident falsehood, and reject a palpable reality. Every man with a spoonful of sense knows that the revolt is a slaveholders' revolt. Slavery alone is the cause of all the trouble. It has no other parentage. No good is accomplished by denying the real nature of the disease, and employing quacks to prescribe ointment for the itch, when cancer is the malady preying on the body politic. The object of the insurrection is, to establish Slave Despotism on the ruins of American Liberty.
They have no disguise as to their purpose down in Dixie. They proclaim from the house-tops that they are waging war to enlarge the privileges and boundaries of slavery. They demand more territory for the slaves and more slaves, for the territory. They insist on the right to rule this nation in the interest of their system of bondage; and that being refused, they proceed to destroy it.
Vice-President Stephens, the great orator among the Confederates, is sent forth to proclaim the object of the rebellion. He declares in the face of mankind, that the purpose is to found on the ruins of the Union, a government whose corner-stone shall be slavery. He pronounces the ideas of freedom held by Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Madison, Henry and the other founders of the Union, to be heresies, that must be discarded and repudiated, and the new gospel, taught by Calhoun, must be accepted as the true faith, viz: that capital should own labor.
Were it not for slavery, the ocean bound Republic would be profoundly at peace throughout its length and breadth. There are no geographical nor climatic reasons for discord and civil war. There is nothing in the productions or local industries of the different sections of the country, calculated to breed treason, or cause rebellion. On the contrary, the three great sections are mutually dependent on each other. The manufacturers of the East, the farmers of the West, and the planters of the South, each produce what is essential to the comfort and welfare of the whole. Take slavery away, and as cordial a friendship would subsist between the South and the North as we behold between the West and the East. The "sum of all villanies," as Wesley called it, is the slimy serpent which has crawled into our happy Garden of Eden, and turned our joys into sorrows, our bliss into misery. But, says shallow pate, "If you impress this fact on the minds of the people, the government will be deprived of much support in the North, and the loyal slaveholders of the border States will fly from us instanter."
The "loyal slaveholders" (they are precious few) are not ignorant of the cause of the war. They know that it is a slaveholders' rebellion, and nothing else. Some of them are loyal because, though they love slavery much, they love the Union more. Others are loyal from having the sagacity to perceive that the rebel slaveholders are rushing the "institution" upon its doom, in their mad attempt to destroy the Republic, and convert the continent into a Slave Despotism. They know that their loyalty to the Union will secure them exemptions
<c06>
and indemnity not accorded to rebels when the cause of the war shall be swept away.
This general rule may be laid down, that wherever a man is claimed as the property of another, the claimant is a traitor and a rebel. The few honorable exceptions do not invalidate the rule. the proof of this proposition is perfectly overwhelming. Show us a State filled with slaves, and we will show you a State putrid with treason. This rule holds good when applied even to districts and counties. Take a few examples. Delaware is more loyal than any other slave State, because she has the smallest proportion of slaves. Northern Delaware has scarcely a slave and scarcely a disunionist, while Southern has many disunionists because of considerable slaves. Southern and Eastern Maryland are full of slaves, and, as a consequence, these sections are full of traitors. Western Maryland, where a slave can hardly be seen in a day's ride, is almost a unit for the Union. The 6,000 slaves in Baltimore are owned by the aristocracy, and it is notorious that the aristocracy of that city are bitter secessionists. The slaves of Eastern Virginia are as numerous as the whites, and that country is pestilent with secession. Western Virginia is cursed with but few slaves, and the result is, that the Union has many friends. Western Tennessee is foul with slavery and rotten with treason. Eastern Tennessee is afflicted with but few bondmen, and there the Union lamp burns brightly, and freedom has yet a strong foothold among the mountains, where the air is untainted by slavery.
Kentucky forms no exception to the rule. In the Northern and Eastern counties, where there are few slaves, there are few secessionists; and in these counties where slaves are numerous, these who are not secessionists are "neutrals." The line of demarcation in Missouri is clearly drawn, between the free and the slave-labor counties and sections. The Germans hate slavery, and they constitute the backbone of loyalty in that State. The other professing Unionists are generally of the "neutral" stamp, while the slaveholders and these under their influence are rabid secessionists. There are some remaining sparks of Unionism in Western Texas, because there are but few slaves, and many Germans.
Ask the question, which is the worst secession State? and the spontaneous answer is, South Carolina, which contains a larger proportion of slaves than any other State. And so we may travel over the whole Republic, and wherever a slave can be pointed out, we will find you a secessionist not far off. Show us a community free from the baneful presence of bondage, and we will guarantee it to be loyal to the Union. As well dispute that the sun gives light as deny that slavery is the cause of the rebellion. The truth of the statement, that slaveholders are traitors, is not in the least impaired by the fact, that the slaveholders' treasonable standard is followed by many persons who have no interest in the system. The aristocracy of the South keep about them large numbers of dependents, who are always ready to support the owners of wealth, who feed or patronize them. The rich, in all ages, have been able to wield an influence out of all proportion to their numbers. The rebel slaveholders are hostile to popular freedom, and, like the deadly Upas, poison the atmosphere all around them. The supreme folly of the attempt to put down the slaveholders' revolt, and to preserve as sacred the cause of the rebellion, is apparent to all who reflect, and is confessed by all who honestly avow their convictions.-Chicago Tribune.

THE LESSONS OF THE REVERSE.
The Spirit of the Southerners-A War-Cry Needed-Our Armies the Armies of Liberty.
WASHINGTON, Tuesday, July 30, 1861.
There is still something wanting to the Northern side in this struggle with the rebels. These men fight with desperation, for they believe, they strike for the chastity of wives, the safety of children and homes. Their war-cry is, "Death, rather than subjection!" To the masses who do not think, this watch-word is the most exciting appeal. Time may indeed lessen its force, as the enemy behold the good order and humanity of our armies towards the conquered; still, there will always be, in the march of a large invading body, enough exceptional deeds of violence and plunder to give rise to the most exaggerated stories, and it may need many valuable months before the Southern armies learn that our war-cry is not "Beauty and Booty." Our men, on the other hand, profess to fight for "Government!" and for "Union!" while every one knows that the deepest impulse which actuates the Northern masses, though but little expressed, is hostility to slavery. We need a war-cry, a professed object, which shall answer to the greatness of our cause. "The Union!" particularly when forced upon your partners at the point of the bayonet, is not a stirring enough appeal to rouse our Northern farmers and mechanics to the highest deeds of valor. "To execute the laws" is a high and just object, but-not one on which the multitude can spend lives and means for a long course of time. The New Englander, and his descendant or kinsman in the West, needs a profound moral object before he can face comfortably a discharge of grape or a fire of musketry. He values his life; he believes in a hereafter, and he must be fully assured that the cause for which he exposes himself is worthy of his religious faith, before he can die indifferently. When assured of this, the Puritan is the best of soldiers.
What we need is a war-cry that shall touch the deepest springs of conscience, that shall be in harmony with the. highest purposes of the human mind, and the most noble causes of History. Why have we not this lying back in the instincts of the multitude, in the very cause which has produced this war? What has brought on the insurrection? What has split a happy people into two warring parts, and well-nigh wrecked a beneficent government? What has sown this crop of villanies, perjuries and cruelties among Southern gentlemen? Why should an American from Alabama be so different from one in Massachusetts, that the one deliberately bayonets his wounded prisoner, and the other gives him medicine? We all see, each day, more clearly. There is but one answer now, and the most stupid read it-Slavery!
Why not, then, give it out to the world that we go forth to give freedom to the oppressed and liberty to the captive?
Our armies are there; the armies of Liberty. They early the inspiring words on their banners, of freedom to all men of all countries and races. They are the vanguard of the hosts of civilization and humanity in all lands. They offer to their misguided Southern brethren, something better than the Union cemented with the blood of battle-even deliverance from their own curse. Around such an army and such a cause would gather all the best wishes and hopes of humanity. Our struggle would be even nobler than the life-and-death efforts of Italy and Hungary, for we should be contending for
The United States Constitution, is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility over known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. . . . It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can ho likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under thee name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
freedom to others, not freedom to ourselves. All fear of an interference of England (now an imminent danger) would pass away, for the English people and the popular sympathies would be with us so strongly as to overpower the action of government.
Besides, ice must proclaim emancipation if tee would conquer.
It is, to any reflecting mind, perfectly useless to attempt to conquer the South, unless we attack them on their weakest point After four months' preparation, we are beaten back in disgrace from the first twenty-five miles of Southern territory.
Suppose that every ravine, from the Potomac to Charleston, from Charleston to New Orleans, is defended like this little pass near Manassas! Why should it not be? Is there the least reason to suppose the South Carolinians or Louisianians will not fight as well on their own soil as in Virginia?
We may, indeed, accumulate vast armies, attack their ports with navies, pour expeditions over their wide territory, but it should be remembered that battles are greatly determined by chances, or by powers which we do not see. A single accident may ruin a whole expedition, or a panic destroy a half-won victory. All foreign observers consider it nonsense to believe that we can subjugate the South, or hold it with our armies. Our only chance, in a military point of view, is in weakening the enemy by proclaiming emancipation. With such a purpose blazoned abroad to the world, and published wherever the armies advanced, we have at once an ally in every county and by every hearthstone.
The enemy's eight millions are weakened by the necessity of guarding and providing against the four millions of slaves.
A moral terror, a panic would pervade every Southern State. By landing expeditions on their coasts, their army in Virginia would be almost entirely broken up. Each regiment must retire to guard its own State or county.
What the precise move should be of proclaiming and limiting emancipation, it is not necessary here to lay down. The resolution which has passed the Senate is too retaliatory, and has not the greatness of a broad promise of freedom.
We should lose nothing anywhere by such a proclamation,-nothing at the North, for there it is seen more clearly every day that this is the only key to victory; nothing at the South, for there it is war a <illegible>; nothing before the world, nothing before history.
And may not the religious mind look upon this mysterious and sudden panic, just in the moment of victory, as a warning to us to make our cause the cause of freedom and humanity, even the cause of the slave? C. L. B.

GRAND SCHEME OF TEE REBELS.
Correspondence of the Cincinnati Gazette.
LEXINGTON, Ky., Aug. 24, 1861.
I have just this day returned from a long, tedious, and dangerous, but thorough ramble over the Southern Confederacy, undertaken for the purpose of estimating the full extent of the strength, facilities, preparation, and disposition of the Rebels, as well as of ascertaining their intentions and prospects, and what degree of cohesion they possess. My tour has been in the highest degree successful. And I hasten at this, my first opportunity, and with all possible dispatch, to apprise you of a scheme, detected by the utmost vigilance, and discovered from the most authentic and unmistakable source, which, in excellence of conception and magnitude and grandeur of execution, if capable of success, exceeds anything of the kind ever devised. Omitting all allusion to all minor circumstances that may have met my observation, I shall confine my remarks briefly to a sketch of the outlines of this grand machination-for it is truly a daring and splendid plot. Day after day, night after night, I have toiled to learn it. I watched, and waited, and listened, and prowled. There must be a plan, a great and decided plan, of operations under discussion. I knew it, and I must have it. Publish it-spread it broadcast over the whole North- circulate it from print to print-let it be sounded loud in the ears of the Cabinet, and let every man know it and prepare speedily for the mighty struggle.
The Administration at Washington, and all its officials, both military and civil, have confined their attention altogether too strictly to matters and movements of trivial value, and to strategies covering but a small area of territory. They are not comprehensive enough. Not so with the Rebels. They must do or die. And from the very start they have concocted and matured a definite, tangible, extensive, and desperate project. While our Government is pursuing a desultory system of tactics, molesting the enemy with insignificant damage, penetrating his territory at scattered and unimportant points, and diffusing its forces over untenable spots, thereby weakening the efficacy of the army, and exhausting its spirit, the Rebel leaders are engaged in the execution of a design deep-laid, wide-spread, long-cherished, steadily adhered to, and which shall sweep at one signal from the Atlantic to Kansas. It is necessary to speak thus plainly, however disagreeable it may be. The Government is not fully aroused to its highest interests and impending peril; it is not vigilant and expeditious enough, nor broad enough in the range of its visions and operations. Hence this gigantic scheme for its destruction has escaped its suspicion. It is the united invention of Johnston, Davis, Beauregard and Lee. Prior to the battle of Manassas, it was only meditated; now it is being vigorously acted upon. Had they been defeated, it is impossible to say what would have been their course. They had no alternative for a disaster. All was staked upon victory; and upon that issue alone they calculated. The struggle occurred just at the precise time they desired most to have it. All their exertions, advances, counter-marches, retreats and artifices were employed to bring it on just then. The services of the three-monthsï¿½ volunteers was just expiring; and they hoped, by defeating them, so completely to demoralize them as to render them useless, or to make it necessary to return them home to reorganize or recuperate. Now follows the critical juncture. Washington, by the departure of these troops, would be left in a much more exposed condition than ever before. The plan is to threaten an attack on that city-not really with the view of assaulting it immediately, but with the intention of hurrying on incomplete and undisciplined regiments and skeletons of hastily raised companies to its defence, and then, before they can be properly solidified and systematized by McClellan, to fall upon them in their unorganized state, in hopes to scatter the army and again achieve another Manassas triumph. They will not attack the capital now; for that would bring upon them two battles-one with that force which is already there, and one with the balance of the three-years' troops which are destined thither when they are concentrated. They want to have but a single struggle of it, and hence will postpone it until all the forces intended for Washington are gathered there, and when, as they imagine, they will be poorly prepared to resist. A month will elapse before they want this engagement to occur; and probably it will be longer, for additional and remoter reasons, which I will proceed to state. The design is to have a united and simultaneous movement from Virginia, Tennessee, and Arkansas. In Virginia they only wait the congregation of troops at Washington, as stated above. In Arkansas and the southern edge of Missouri, they only require an additional complement of men and arms, which are rapidly being accumulated, and which will be all prepared by the time the advance is made from Virginia. In Tennessee alone their circumstances are such as not to give them full assurance of being able to execute their design in its full extent; or, rather, the discontented state of East Tennessee will not yet allow them to subduct their entire force from the State, and the peaceful attitude of Kentucky has not as yet given them a sufficient pretext to advance their troops beyond her borders. These two difficulties they are now toiling to obviate. Hence their endeavors to crush out the Union feeling in East Tennessee, to suppress the loud clamors of patriotism, and propitiate the favor of their loyal population. Hence, too, the establishment of camps just in sight of Kentucky soil, to exasperate the people of Kentucky. Hence the habitual annoyance and provocation given to Union men in Kentucky, by sending recruiting emissaries throughout the State, to enlist her young men, insult her neutrality, and ascertain the strength of her Union force. Hence the constant threat of an invasion of her soil to assist the Secessionists, and wrench the State from the Union. All this is in promotion of one great end. Kentucky, like Missouri, must be embroiled in the conflict before the great battle is fought at Washington. When that is done, all things will be ready. And the establishment of Union camps upon her soil, with the intention of carrying men and arms for the relief of East Tennessee, will afford the long-sought opportunity. Then the match will be applied to the fuse
<c02>
which will flash and blaze from Washington to St. Louis, and the armed hordes of the South will pour their combined volume northward with simultaneous tread toward the Potomac, the Ohio, and the Missouri. This is the entire design exposed in all its expansive proportions. Their success in Virginia, with the death of Lyon in Missouri, and the withdrawal of his forces from the south-western portion of that State, has raised their hopes of triumph high; and do not imagine those hopes are groundless, but let the whole vast North awake, and rally with an ocean of power to resist and hurl back the mighty deluge of invasion that threatens it. I must talk seriously; for it becomes men encompassed with peril, or in apprehension of it, to speak candidly, and counsel and advise each other of what the danger really is. It is folly to do otherwise. The Confederates are strong in purpose, united in motive, expeditious in action, terrible in their fiendish hate, and far more numerous than the North has ever dreamed of. We under-estimate their strength in Virginia, we have so in Tennessee and in Arkansas. Now I say that the forces assembled in each one of these States far exceeded my utmost calculation; and, besides, there are thousands of reserved troops in all the Cotton States, who are constantly but silently tramping northward to reinforce their comrades. The force in Virginia cannot be less than 210,000 men, enlisted not for three months, nor for any other fixed time, but for the war; hence they suffer no diminution in numbers, nor loss of time in collecting a new force. In Tennessee I was amazed at their numbers. They must amount to 75,000 in that State. I saw them in towns, in cities, in the country, in camps, on the inarch, on railroad trains, in squads, in companies, in regiments, in armies. I want Kentucky saved from the invasion of these men, and kept free from the great strife if possible. But she must be involved in it, and these are the troops intended to be used upon her when the great movement in Virginia begins, when? as in Missouri, they expect to be augmented by volunteers here, and march on to the Ohio. Should they ever reach that stream, the fate of Cincinnati cannot be doubted. Washington, St. Louis, and Louisville will be spared, because situated in slave States which may one day become part of their Confederacy. They can never hope to possess Cincinnati, hence it will be the object of their direst vengeance. Where now stands that proud collection of beautiful and gorgeous architecture will, if they succeed, be but a blackened, blasted, and smoking mass of ruins.
The same policy as heretofore will continue to be pursued in Missouri. They will press on their divisions toward St, Louis, joined by the State forces, and endeavor to expel the Unionists from the State.
Therefore let the Government exert its utmost; energy and expedition. Let the best and greatest number of men be speedily transported to Washington. Defeat the grand movement at its most important point, where the Eastern cities are in danger and where the project has its birth. Let the balance of the troops not wanted at Washington be deposited at Cincinnati and St. Louis, or at points convenient to those places. And in order to procure more time, do not at present send troops into Kentucky, but let the Union men in that State prepare themselves, by arming and drilling in camps. This will avoid giving cause for Tennessee to invade that State, which, as a part of their programme, is the very thing that the Confederates most desire.
The Rebels intend to make this whole movement co-incident from East to West, and they will strain every muscle to succeed in it; and if they are successful, they trust as a part or rather result of the project, that it will give encouragement to England to insist on an opening of the blockade. Thus by one grand master-stroke of policy they hope to liberate themselves from the thraldom of the legitimate Government completely and forever. I have thus given you a hasty and cursory statement of the Rebels' grand project. Do you make it known to the world. L. W.

COMMON SENSE.
The Americans were always accessible to "Common Sense;" and if one party in England is justifiable in trying to appeal to it, another is.
At the same time, it cannot be concealed that every man's "common sense" is his own "common sense," or what the ordinary faculties of mankind, if they were in his place, would point out as for the advantage of his particular cause or interest. The common sense of the burglar directs him to try his hand where careless house-maids have left a bolt unclosed, and the common sense of the policeman directs to catch him when he can. So that one man's common sense may be directly hostile to another's; and the meaning of the general term is to appeal to that overwhelming mass which feels an interest in the question of policeman versus burglar.
It is wonderful how men can reason, on their own side. Hear to the reasons, why Northern America should abstain from uttering the word which would quash the mischief, like Virgil's handful of dust among a swarm of bees. Besides, it would be so unfair; it would be such a shabby evasion of what everybody wants to see, a stout stand-up fight between the Northern and Southern States, with backers to keep the ring, and all due ceremonies to prevent a blow being hindered.
"The instant a servile war broke out, or became imminent, the frenzy of alarm would seize one race, and the frenzy of vengeance would seize the other."
Why should a servile war be allowed to break out? Who wants a servile war to break out, but those who are for passing by the opportunity of putting down the danger of it for ever and for ever, and are for nursing the certainty of its occurrence a few years hence? Why should either alarm or vengeance be allowed to play their freaks, when there was an overpowering force of honest men to keep all to their good behavior?
"The barbarism of savage life and the barbarism of civilized life would be let loose upon each other. Where the blacks decidedly preponderated, they would massacre the whites. Where the whites decidedly preponderated, they would massacre the blacks."
What would General Scott be doing all this time, who did not let the barbarisms of all colors understand there was a third party in the field, and the sooner they made themselves in visible, the better?
"This would not be the worst; much would go before massacre, and much would accompany it. We have already from time to time had glimpses and warnings of what would happen. The women would be outraged; the men would be tortured; both victims and criminals would be burnt alive. What has happened on a small scale before now, would happen on a great scale then. It would speedily become a war of extermination; and who can doubt which race would succumb?"
What would General Scott be doing all this time? It is true that where a generation of men have seen their women habitually sold to the brothel to the best bidder, it would not be contrary to what is known of human nature, that there should be danger of revenge. But a picquet of the 1st New Englanders, with the provost-marshal on horseback, would be a hint that would be taken. It is simply unmilitary babble, that would talk of the difficulty of doing what is wanted, when once the military superiority is decided. Enormities like those threatened are asserted to have occurred where there was no third party to interfere; (though it is not so certain that anybody believes it.) But the bumps of civil and military talent must be absent in Northern brains, if anything of <illegible> kind was allowed to happen now. Ask no man to rise, till you have military possession of his arrondissement; then regiment him.
"But before this point was reached-at the first rumor of an intention on the part of the Northerners to emancipate and raise the slaves, every fetter would be doubled, every stripe would be multiplied by ten. Mistrust and terror would goad the slave-owners and their overseers to the wildest excesses of severity, and might thus even expedite the menaced outbreak and the fearful retribution. Words cannot paint the state of affairs that would prevail throughout the entire South, the moment slaves and slaveholders became aware that the negro population were to be summoned to the field as combatants and arbiters in the strife."
Arguing for the peril of putting down highway-men, lest they should be obstreperous in the process! On the contrary, your defeated felon has generally a clear eye to the fact that he is beaten, and deports himself accordingly. No man who ever saw the world has the least belief that any of these consequences would take place. Either they are sham terrors, or real. The probability is, there is a little of both.
"We only ask two questions to those who either suggest or contemplate such a proceeding. Could any object, or any result, justify those who brought about such a hideous saturnalia of atrocity and crime? And could those whose friends and fellow-citizens had suffered such outrages as we have hinted at, ever, for generations to come, forgive those who had let loose
<c03>
the nameless horrors upon them and theirs? On what terms could those who had called out four millions of slaves to wreak their vengeance on their former masters, and those who had undergone that vengeance, ever again unite in one commonwealth, or become citizens even of one empire?' There are injuries which nature cannot forgive; she would cease to be nature if she did.'"
They made the giants first, and then they killed them. Could anything justify those who threw up he opportunity of putting an end to such a mass of atrocity for ever, through terror of a feeble bugbear put forward without likelihood and without support? Must there not be a fools' ward built for their special use, in that debatable climate of the other world, which contains those who do their evil negatively by preventing all the good they can?
One further consideration, a military one, for the contemplation of those who are not at home in military calculations. Operations in the South are difficult by reason of the climate. The enemy has brought out the Indian tomahawk, as suited to the state of the thermometer. What a judicial blindness must be on the general or statesman, who does not meet it by calling on the four millions of approved salamanders, who are bound, not in the great river Euphrates, but in the dry places where the enemy of God and man has taken post!
One word in another direction. Is Manchester such a dullard as not to see the way out of its cotton difficulties, and put its shoulder to the wheel to help so far as able?
Yours sincerely,
T.PERRONET THOMPSON,
Lieut. General.
Eliot Vale, Blackheath, Aug. 1, 1861.
-Bradford (England) Advertiser.

The Liberator.
No Union, with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPT, 6, 1861.
"WHO WILL CARRY THE PEOCLAMATION?"
Under this head, a correspondent of the Independent argues against the proposal that the President of the United States proclaim freedom to the slaves of those who are now in armed rebellion against his government.
He alleges that-all loyal persons within the rebel States being now objects of suspicion and persecution, and often of violent expulsion-the official bearers of a Proclamation so damaging to the rebellion would most of all be interfered with, and would find it impossible either to execute their mission or to preserve their lives. So far, undoubtedly, he is right. But, in jumping to the conclusion that the whole plan is therefore useless, that because a loyal messenger cannot go to the slaves, and because the slaves are restrained from such combination and such concert of action as would enable them to act together as a body, and because, even if they could combine, they have neither the arms nor the discipline requisite for efficient military cooperation with our army-therefore no such Proclamation should be issued-in jumping, I say, from such premises to such a conclusion, he seems to me to overlook several essential features of the case, and to form a very erroneous judgment.
The first blunder of the Independent's correspondent is his assumption that the movement in question is suggested primarily for the sake of the slaves, or as the means of benefiting them by accomplishing their liberation. How much so ever the originators of this idea desire emancipation for the slaves, they have seen, as yet, not the slightest reason to expect success in asking Mr. Lincoln to emancipate them. In the first place, he has never shown any care or interest for the slaves; and next, he is directly pledged to enforce the enslavement of those whose masters are still faithful to the Constitution and the Union. He could not be expected to favor such a purpose as universal emancipation in any manner or degree whatever. Of course, it would be a waste of time to ask this of him, except as a means to some end which he recognizes as desirable.
But what the President has very much at heart-what is all-important to him, both as a man and as the head of the United States Government-is the suppression of the rebellion. And it is as an important instrument, as the very most effective instrument to this end, that the measure in question is proposed to him. We ask him to do this, because he is the only person who can do it, and because it would manifestly be most efficacious towards the accomplishment of his object, the reestablishment of the rightful authority of the general Government. If, in addition, the same movement will partially accomplish our object, crippling the Slave Power, and restoring a certain proportion of the slaves to freedom-so much the better.
Does any one fail to see how this movement would help towards the suppression of the rebellion? To me it seems plain that it would most seriously affect the rebels, changing their whole plan of operations, and compelling their retreat from an offensive to a defensive position, even before it reached the ears of a single slave.
Ever since the time of John Brown, the slaveholders have apprehended a renewal of such an attempt as his, in every quarter accessible to his surviving friends and sympathizers. In spite of the disclaimers of the Republicans, the leaders of the pro-slavery party have insisted upon stigmatizing them as Abolitionists, affecting to believe them bent not merely upon resisting the extension, but effecting the overthrow, of slavery. This lie has been told as a means of exciting odium against the Republicans, and of uniting all slaveholders in determined opposition to them; but so little has it been believed, that the rebels now boast of the security with which they leave their slaves to labor in the accustomed manner, and to raise the customary provision for the subsistence of both parties, while they, the superior, non-laboring class, can devote themselves thoroughly to the defence of their rebellion, marching the whole of their fighting men to Richmond, Washington, Cairo, or wherever else they may be wanted. Of course, this also is a lie, but the fact that no expedition for the help of the slaves has been attempted since John Brown's time has undoubtedly caused the slaveholders to relax their vigilance against incursions of this sort, and to send their men freely to Virginia and Missouri, assuming that these will be, substantially, the only battle-grounds, until they succeed in carrying the war into the North.
This state of things must, of course, be immediately changed by a Proclamation of the President, offering freedom to the slaves of all rebels, and authorizing all legal citizens to aid in carrying this measure into effect.
From that moment, the fear which the leaders of the Slave Power formerly pretended to feel, of predatory incursion from the North against them as slaveholders, becomes a reality. Prom that moment, all the slaveholders living upon the long border line of the rebel States will have good ground to expect expeditions, little and great, by day and by night, sometimes of private parties of those Northern men whom they have been taught to believe all Abolitionists, and sometimes of military or naval expeditions sent by the Government, for the purpose of offering freedom to the slaves! Of course, measures of defence must be taken along the border line of each State in question. Of course, part of this defence must consist in the instant summoning home of portions of the force which has marched from each of these States to form Jeff. Davis's army. From that moment, they must protect their "peculiar institution" at home, instead of concentrating themselves upon the capture of Washington and the occupation of Maryland.
The rebels have laughed to scorn the proclamation of a blockade on our part, saying that the innumerable inlets giving entrance to their Atlantic coast would enable them both to carry on their commerce, and to dispose of the prizes taken by their privateers. Just as far as this boast is true, there exists opportunity for the landing of anti-slavery expeditions along this coast, and a corresponding necessity
<c04>
for defensive operations on their part. So large, however, is the force needful to defend such an extensive region, that if the whole of Jeff. Davis's 180,000 men could be distributed along this border, they would form a, very inadequate defence of it, to say nothing of the line of coast bordering the gulf of Mexico.
Now, suppose that the President should issue his Proclamation, that the slaves of the rebels everywhere are henceforth free, and that all loyal citizens may assist them in taking and holding their freedom-and suppose that immediately thereafter, a large naval expedition should sail from the North with sealed orders, no intimation being given of the point at which they were to operate-how much of the force which North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas have sent to the support of Jeff. Davis would be suffered to remain hanging around Washington? Would not a very large proportion of them be recalled with utmost speed? Does not the thing speak for itself?
The necessity thus imposed upon the rebels of guarding their rear-of defending slavery itself, thus directly attacked, instead of leisurely carrying forward a war of invasion for the purpose of extending slavery-would alone operate so decidedly for the Government and against the rebellion as to prove its expediency, even if the slaves should never hear of it till an emancipating army brought the news. But they would begin to hear of it from the very commencement of these movements. All the slaveholders would be informed, with the speed of lightning, of a measure the most damaging to them of anything that has yet occurred, and this knowledge must cause active counteracting measures on their part. It would cause the intensest excitement, debate, energy of defensive operation, among all the slaveholders of the assailable border. Is all this to begin and go on without notice or understanding on the part of the slaves? The masters themselves, in spite of their utmost precautions, would let this knowledge leak, from their words and acts, into the possession of the slaves; and this would occur simultaneously, over all that part of the slave region. The laws of nature will spread this news from slaveholders to slaves, faster than any express from the President could carry it to them.
These things being so, why should not the President be urged, by hundreds of thousands of the Northern people, immediately to take a step combining such various advantages to his own administration as a Proclamation of freedom to the slaves of all rebels? Nay, why should not the more comprehensive wish of a large and increasing portion of the Northern people be made known to him, by their re quest that the crisis now affecting us be used to de story the cause of all our troubles, to put an end to slavery throughout our country, and provide that, in what way soever the existing war shall close, The United States may then commence the career of a Free Nation?
New England has already lost the opportunity of commencing this movement. Already, in Pennsylvania and the further West, they are circulating for signatures the following petition:-
To His Excellency, the President of the United States.
The undersigned, citizens and inhabitants of, believing Slavery to be the great cause of our existing national calamities, earnestly desire that it be immediately abolished, by Presidential Proclamation, under the War Power.
Ought not this to be the request of Massachusetts also? While she promptly contributes soldiers and money for the present emergency, should not her judgment be given as to the best method of bringing permanent peace and welfare out of the existing troubles? While the President is subject to so many conflicting influences, is it not just to him as well as to ourselves to show him who, and how many, prefer a radical cure, rather than merely palliative treatment, for our well nigh fatal disease? Why should not this very petition be circulated throughout New England, joining her voice to that of the Western friends of liberty?-C. K. W.

LETTEE FROM LIEUT. GENERAL THOMPSON.
The following private letter is from one of the oldest, bravest, and most <illegible> reformers in England- the associate and efficient coadjutor of Cobden, Bright and Wilson in the Corn Law repeal movement. He is a veteran essayist, and is now actively wielding his pen in the service of Northern freemen versus the Southern traitors. Duplicates of all his printed articles have been received, and will be turned to good account.
ELIOT VALE, BLACKHEATH, LONDON, 
July 20, 1861.
DEAR SIR-I do not think we have ever met; but we have been in positions where we might possibly have been acquainted with each other's names.
I was Governor of Sierra Leone in 1808, 1809,1810, and was fortunate enough to put a block on a plan which was on foot for establishing a system of purchase of negroes from the interior, under color of apprenticeship, on the prohibition of the slave trade. It was, as might he expected, at the expense of my immediate prospects in life; but it naturally left me with a strong will to be acting in opposition to slavery in all shapes.
I have since been Member for Hull and for Bradford, and trust I have lost no opportunity for following up my early impressions. In the capacity of Member of Parliament, I have been in the habit of keeping up a weekly communication in the press with my constituents. And I have continued the practice with my old constituents of Bradford, after I ceased to represent them.
I had further some standing and reputation with the public, as being the earliest mover for Free Trade, and the author of a work entitled the "Catechism on the Corn Laws," which was considered as having had considerable effect in turning the public mind in that direction.
My object in now troubling you is to forward to you some articles or letters published in the Bradford Advertiser, and published on the same day in The Elector, which is the organ of the friends of the Ballot in England, and published by the Ballot Society in London. It so happens that I have only copies of The Elector at hand, which are forwarded separately by post, and a list of references here inclosed; but having now possession of your address, I hope you will be supplied from time to time with copies of the Bradford paper, or with slips of articles prepared for publication, either from me or from my friends.
There is reason to fear that the major part of the commercial interest is unsound on this subject. As one mark of which, I was pointedly excluded from the assemblage of the professed supporters of Free Trade at the Mansion House on the 17th July. In fact, I have lost all my parliamentary supporters, from being believed unsound in devotion to Cotton.
It is in hopes of furnishing the means of proof that everybody in England is not tarred with the same brush, that I trouble you as I have done.
Yours, very truly,
T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq.

BUCKLE'S SPAIN AND SCOTLAND,
HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION IN ENGLAND. By Henry Charles Buckle. Volume II. From the Second London Edition. To which is added an Alphabetical Index. New York. D. Appleton & Co., 443 and 445 Broadway. 1861. pp. 476.
The first volume of this remarkable work exhibited such powers of investigation, intellectual vigor, mental independence, breadth of observation, boldness of statement, accumulative evidence, profound reasoning, masterly generalization, and scholarly range, as to challenge immediate and wide-spread attention, like a sudden phenomenon in nature, and excite emotions of surprise and admiration, even where its startling theories failed to secure complete assent By narrow and bigoted theologians it was hotly assailed for its "materialistic" character, and proscribed as dangerously heretical; but by the believers in progress and free inquiry, it was hailed as the greatest historic and
<c05>
philosophic production of the nineteenth century, or, indeed, of any antecedent period. It occupied 677 large octavo pages, and was so copiously furnished with notes and references, that even the mere names of the various authors consulted by Mr. Buckle required for their recital and classification no less than fourteen closely printed pages! Ever since its publication, though three years have elapsed, an intense interest has been felt to see the second volume, which, happily, is now within the public reach. Reserving what criticisms we may have to make upon it for another occasion, we give below those which an able and accomplished correspondent has sent us for publication in the Liberator.
Buckle's second representative has been seasonably introduced among us through the enterprising firm of its American publishers, D. Appleton & Co., of New York city. This volume is uniform with its predecessor, and is quite as able, philosophical, and attractive. It treats of Spain and Scotland, whose initials are the two crooked sticks of the alphabet, as their people are the two rigid nations of the civilized world. Should he sketch Ireland and Italy, the two blind I's of superstition, he would indicate as discouraging aspects as he has in those already handled. But, for his next, he has decided a portraiture of Germany and the United States.
His is not merely a history of battles and carnage, of courts and diplomacy, an enumeration of intrigues, or a census of the population which ebbs and flows like the tides; but a philosophical consideration of the ideas that constitute the essence of things and control events, the groundwork of history. Principles are his materials sought. He does not adopt the ancient and exploded East India mode of supposing a huge tortoise to be the globe's support; but is convinced that invisible forces form a solid floor, upon which rotate and revolve the spherical planet and other cosmical bodies whose avoirdupois weight and rapid motion would crush and pulverize a platform constructed of matter. It is a survey of human nature in its multifarious phases, or with variations, as its subjects happen to be situated in different countries, under different laws, with different customs and institutions. Climate also and physical phenomena influence our physical nature as well as our conduct, and upon a people they wield much power, as nations are composed of individuals.
It is, among other things, a candid criticism of the World's theology for ages; and he brings it before a test standard, arraigns its deportment and actions before the deliberate and impartial tribunal of reason and common sense, analyzes its ingredients, and demonstratively ascertains a large proportion of its composition to be superstition. Wherever this corroding and paralyzing feature predominates, similar sad effects result to its victim. In Spain, the love of creed ever eclipsed the love of country; and her history blazons the consequences. That ignorance is the mother of devotion has long been a proverb among liberals; and it is equally true that it is the mother of superstition, as Mr. B. remarks, just as necessity is the mother of invention, or scepticism is the mother of inquiry, and leads to information. He demonstrates his remark. He lays it down as a principal plank in the platform which observation has authorized and prompted him to construct. He nails it to the timbers with pointed facts, whose sources he cites. If a critic disputes one of his well-weighed assertions, as in the case of the Edinburgh Review, he appeals to his three or four hundred authorities familiar to him as the ivory keys of a piano-forte player, and showers forth a formidable array of authentic statements, which rivet down the plank with immovable stability. To his antagonist, he is like a whale in his native element, attacked by an unarmed and inexpert swimmer.
The austere divines of Scotland and elsewhere may wrangle over the elaborate magazine of Mr. Buckle, they may pour forth their bitter invectives upon his model performance, but it will be unavailing. He has presented a bone which it will require sharp and strong teeth to pick clean, and will baffle their powers to annihilate it. Facts arc too stubborn, and truth is too mighty, to be easily hurled out of their native element of eternity by bigotry or theological ostracism. The secret has been promulgated, the plan has been made known to the public, the true method of sketching history has been revealed to the race; and they will tenaciously preserve them for future application. An example of moral courage has been vouchsafed to historians worthy their imitation. Fulsome panegyrics on gouty Popes, sycophantic adulations on dissolute kings, queens and princes, hyperbolical eulogies on unprincipled Presidents, and reverential flattery on licentious and selfish, ante-celestial and grossly material ecclesiastics, when compared with the style of Buckle, will disgust readers of such hypocritical and venal histories. His is a permanent production, based on eternal principles; not ephemeral, and resting on the thin curve of an inflated bubble. His is reality, deduced from observation; not a phantom, conjured from the shadowy domain of imagination. His is sincere, drawn from reliable sources; not dissimulation, to gain some private end, some personal honor or emolument. He furnishes you with the outlines of a nation, by delineating its prominent features, and generalizes into unity, as some master artist, with a few bold but natural strokes, imprints upon the canvass the speaking eloquence of his prototype. Historians and readers of history, intelligent laymen, do not countenance the sneers of illiberal theologians on such a chef d' wave as this. Their craft is in danger. Their fluttering is that of the shot bird; like the partridge on the approach of one to its home. For their shrines and altars, and the concealment of their modus operandi of preserving them, they fight, and not for the truth. If a disclosure will injure their interests, they often oppose it, though truth. Buckle has opened the hall-door to the masses, and exposed the gowns, surplices, bibs and white cravats, in ludicrous masquerade, and not in devotion. He shows how they look in the convex mirror, elliptical and horizontal. In public, the mirror is vertical. His panorama distinguishes the short from the long faces, the jovial from the austere. They will never forgive him for lifting their masks, nor for describing his Asmodean visit in their secluded banquet halls. The clergy shrink from the reformer, as the spider shrinks from the broom. Wherever they have the power, all history proclaims that they strive to shape education, as sectarians do at a Sunday school, to exclude heresy, venerate their own dogmas, and indoctrinate the scholars with the tenets of the sect. It is narrow as a hornpipe in a keg, and about as progressive. A cat chasing her tail symbolizes their style of progress. And when we consider their stagnating influence on humanity, we cannot say the historical truth, as developed by Mr. Buckle, is too severe exposure; for, had they not enacted it, no one could have exhibited the same. No greater proof of ecclesiastical illiberality diluted can well be instanced than the idea entertained by the London Christian Observer, as manifested by that periodical in cautioning people against purchasing the work, even of respectable booksellers, and in citing a beautiful passage from the last page but one as a caveat to young men, learning of its existence, and its being ready for sale in a store. That: such devout sentiments, couched in such elegant language, should be held up for reprobation, indicates how bigoted and cloister-scented must be the views of the juvenile and priest-ridden wards to whom it appeals. This very appeal proves the actual need of the production. On the contrary, we recommend a universal patronage of the work, not only as a compliment and as an encouragement to the laborious author, but out of sincere respect for the ennobling views in evolves, and for the inestimable value it is to society, as well as to patronize the liberal publishers in America. It is a gem, and should not be slighted by a discerning, intelligent and refined people; for, it is a history of civilization, in which we all are, men, women and children, families, societies and nations, deeply and unavoidably interested. It is a history of the people, for the people, and it belongs to the people.
W.
<c06>
SECESSION AND GOVERNMENT
The theme of Secession, -a theme upon which there is at this hour a violent contrariety of opinion and feeling between North and South also measurably doubtless between persons in the one section and in the other,-is one whereon it seems Abolitionists are not fully agreed. That it should occupy and engross their thought prominently is not unnatural, since the right and duty of secession in the relations of North to South have in former years been much discussed among them, and for most part strongly insisted upon. Now, some seem to suppose that, upon the very same grounds on which the withdrawal of the Northern States from the Federal Union was urged, and would have been justified, is the secession of South Carolina and her sisterhood of confederates also justified. To deny this, they deem, would be to deny the sovereign right of self-government the right of a community or a State to the conduct and control of its own affairs.
Others seem, at the present time to regard the Federal Union as, in itself, a sacred affair, an organic whole, bound together in vital bond, one, indivisible, perpetual, wielding in its own right prerogatives sovereign and inviolable, a thing not without guilt to be denied or renounced. The seceding States, therefore, are guilty of treason-treason in setting at naught the Federal Government, casting off allegiance to the Union, and essaying to establish an independent sovereignty and nationality of their own. The rebellion must, therefore, be promptly and decisively put down, or all things go to pieces-society is broken up-institutions become a nullity-federation, union, government a phantasm, a mockery.
Are not.both these views partial and incomplete, and so m a measure awry and misleading? The sovereignty of the individual does remain supreme and inviolable, transcending in sacred worth and commanding claim all possible combinations, and compacts among men. No government, no federation, called of what name and armed of what prestige soever, may, without murderous guilt, throttle or trample it under foot. The right to renounce and withstand any such attempt as a rebellion, a conspiracy against the supreme authority-to withdraw from it, or to resist and destroy it, as the relations of the case may be-is one of the indelible and all-sacred rights of human nature.
But this sovereignty is a sovereignty not without qualification. It is a sovereignty for truth and justice alone. The right is the right to fulfil the ends of human existence-to honor verity, virtue-to move forward upon the pathway of human duty, growth, welfare, as above and before all social institutions, agreements and enactments. Here it is sacred and supreme; nowhere else does it even exist. To secede from injustice, oppression, wrong, is loyal,-a sacred duty; to secede or attempt secession from the presence and sway of truth, justice, integrity, is rebellion and treason evermore.
The renunciant States of the South are guilty of treason, not by virtue of the fact that they have rebelled against and withdrawn from the actuality called the Federal Union, but that, in this, they have rebelled against and attemptedly withdrawn from the felt presence of justice, from the authority of those ideas and truths which professedly, however falsely and perjuriously, that Union symbolizes and represents. In this, the essence of their rebellion and treason consists, and not in the renunciation per se of one or another federal pact; certainly, not of a pact of such character as this of ours. Not unfrequently have men been guilty of gross and glaring wickedness in just this way,-maligning and assailing truth under the form of some symbol that, for the time, might stand professedly, however unreally, as its representative; scoffers, for instance, bitterly renouncing God, religion, the human soul, in their renunciation of some institution of church or worship, which, false, delusive and atheistic as it might be, yet ostensibly represented the sacred.
And all this of the Southern Confederacy may remain true, while the Federal Government, under its thus far actual character, is destitute of just claim for respect and allegiance from true and faithful men. That government, with all its professions of freedom, has been from the beginning the accomplice and willing instrument of slavery; up to within recent months, it has surrendered itself, unhesitatingly and shamelessly, to all its demands; and to this hour it pusillanimously consents to give it the national recognition and protection. It bases itself at the bottom for the legitimacy of its existence and claim; not upon a moral verity, an immutable principle in the sphere of great truth, but upon an incident, a caprice, affirming the foundation, the source, seat, soul of governmental authority in the decisions of the popular will, making the voice of the people practically the voice of God. It is thus in its elemental theory atheistic, and so, false and anarchic. No loyal man can, for a moment, assent to a dogma stated thus baldly, and without the all-vital qualifications, so flagrantly untrue, so pregnant with misrule and mischief. And the actualization is not greatly better than the theory. The expressions of the popular will are pretty generally far enough from being the utterance of the supreme law and justice. The representatives selected to wield the sacred prerogatives of government are far enough from having embodied the divine and authoritative elements in their character. Pretty generally, the vassals and bond-slaves of the senses, the appetites and the passions, their wisdom the cunning of the hawk and fox, in playing upon the multitude, and these in turn the idolaters of their great exploiters, and of the sovereign statutes their hands have " made."
Nor is there mystic sacredness in any pact or combination of States, in a Government or Federal Union, to impose obligations of allegiance, irrespective of the intrinsic character of such organization, and of its reactions to the requirements of men. As an arrangement, it is-relative,-relative to the wants and needs of human creatures. If it be an embodiment of wisdom, ministering encouragement, guidance, strength to men foe the fulfilment of the purposes of their existence, exerting itself for their elevation and welfare efficiently, beneficently and continually,- if, in a word, it be a Government, an expression in character of the Laws of the Eternal Kingdom, then is it divine, of sacred prerogative, and may not be renounced abjured, except with deep guilt and damning treason.
But, apart from this question of intrinsic character, there is no power in any incident, any enactment of the sovereign people, baptized into the name Constitution, and sanctified through long years of subsequent prosperous history as it may be, to arm a federation with authority to bind men to allegiance to it, or make it treason in them to withdraw from it.
All this furnishes no word of justification apology for the Southern Confederacy, steeped as that is from its inception in malignity and crime,-itself an atrocious conspiracy; but it does involve the right, sacred and inviolable," of men and women, whether few or more, intent on honoring and fulfilling the true ends of their being, to withdraw from any government, so called, which stands false or hostile to these, and to seek to set up and maintain institutions, and a state quite other than their own. Such are no rebels; nor may they be decried or assailed as disloyal or traitorous to the true purposes and just claims of civil government. They stand where they do in loyalty, by the indefeasible rights of human nature.
In our own country, the true men and women. scattered sparsely enough all abroad, found for most part one here and another there, solitary and alone must be perpetually seceding from the Government,-from its falsehoods in theory, its misanthropics, wrongs and oppressions, in fact,-and must build up among themselves, and with each other, an imperium in imperio, seeking through mutual cooperation and assistance to help each other forward in the fulfilment of their proper destiny, to enrich each other with ministrations of that quickening, guidance, strength, which what assumes the name, place and privileges of government among us, is sacredly bound, yet signally fails even to attempt to give.
Syracuse, N. Y., July 30, 1861. M.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
GEN. BUTLER'S CONTRABAND OF WAR.
PART IV.-[CONCLUSION.]
PRESENT ASPECT OF THE E QUESTION.
Before proceeding to treat of thesis topic, I recur for a moment to the crimes of the slaveholding traitors, not proving now, any more theme at first, to furnish a full catalogue, but only a brief list of the most violent and flagrant, leaving unnoticed a large class of a stealthey kind, in which fraud, deceit, treachery and swindling have been the main ingredients.
14. Violating by unheard of rules of parliamentary proceeding, imposed in defiance of natural and divine law, of the guarantees of the Constitution, and of all the venerated charters of English and American liberties -the sacred and fundamental rights of petition and debate, with no relaxation during ten years, except for the insulting admission of memorials from slave States for the annexation of Texas; and crowning these strange and persistent outrages by an attempt under the charge of treason to expel John Quincy Adams for presenting a respectful petition, praying that Congress would "adopt measures for the peaceable dissolution of the Union," although he had moved, in the sander breath, that the petition be referred to a select committee, with instructions to report in favor of its rejection, and the reasons thereof.
15. Systematic and incessant rapine, fraud, corruption and cruelty practiced upon the unfortunate natives of our country, by Southern States, citizens and federal agents,-selected mostly from the South,-and by Administrations, wielding in the interest of the slaveholders, and in obedience to their behests, the whole power of the Republic-treasury, army and militia of rapacious borderers, greedy of federal pay, greedy of Indian" beauty and booty," greedy of pickings and stealing from the commissariat and quartermaster's department; and repeatedly provoking wars of extermination against those simple and upright peoples by disguising themselves as Indians, murdering whole families of their white neighbors, and then summoning, in well feigned terror, the ready ruffians of the frontier and the nearest garrisons of the army to the harvest of death.
16. Enacting and executing, in palpable and virtually admitted violation of the Constitution, State laws for the seizure and enslavement of citizens of Free States, coming within the limits of Slave States on their lawful business; persisting for forty years in this flagitious villainy in the face of a judicial decision against the validity of those laws by a national court, composed of Southern judges; expelling, with ignominious threats and demonstrations of personal violence, under the direction of Preston S. Brooks, representing the Governor of South Carolina, the envoy of a Free State, deputed to test in an amicable manner in their own courts, and finally, if necessary, in the highest of the nation, the constitutionality of those inhuman enactments; and consummating this unparalleled audacity and defiance of all law, divine and human, by ordering that it shall be felony, punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, for a minister of peace to come within the borders of South Carolina on such mission of justice and humanity again!
17. Corrupting and subverting, by fraud and force, the vital prerogative of the elective franchise, and thereby foisting into the highest dignity in the Republic, and, as we have proudly boasted, the highest upon earth, two false and usurping, to the exclusion of two legally elected Presidents. And because fraud and violence, striking at the ballot-box, will no longer serve their purpose of ruling the nation with despotic sway, they have at last resorted to treason to ruin it.
Having presented the foregoing as supplementary to the preceding part of this disquisition, I proceed to the object of the present division.
It has been asked, why seek to explode Gen. Butler's 
doctrine of "contraband of war," when you yourself 
cannot but rejoice in the result of its application, inasmuch as it has been the means of rescuing a goodly
number of human beings from wicked thralldom? Conceding that every friend of justice, liberty and humanity
must feel a satisfaction in the immediate and apparent result, I and still constrained to reply:-
1. That the assumption of Gen. Butler is totally unfounded and false.
2. That the doctrine, besides being false, would be narrow and impracticable if it were true; narrow, because
it applies to property only, and does not recognize
slaves as persons; impracticable, because the seizure or reception and possession of property as contraband
does not divest the owner of his right, and transfer it to the possessor. the right remains in the original proprietor until the property has been condemned
by a court of prize, duly advertised for sale at public auction, sold accordingly, and the proceeds paid into court; and then, after deducting the costs of court, paid over to the treasurer or other proper officer of the United States. thus the human chattel would remain a chattel, with only a change of masters, the cities and towns of Free States would be converted into slave marts, and the United States into a regular slave-trader. 
Mr. Cameron, in reply to Butler's first letter in May List, directs him "to employ the fugitives, keep an exact account of the labor by them performed, and the expense of their maintenance." He evidently understands
that the property is not changed by the mere possession of the captor, but must await subsequent proceedings. He evidently means that the fugitives shall still be held as slaves, subject to the claim of their rebel masters, and that in some contingency they may be restored to their possession; for there is no instruction to give them any compensation for their labor, or the promise of any. thus they have been working diligently and very effectively, it is said, many of them for mouths, without the comfort and encouragement of wages. It is plain that their wages is reserved for settling day with those amiable people, who have been robbing their servants all their lives, and in order that they may continue to do it with impunity, are now striving to murder us and destroy the nation. With prodigious assurance, they demand that we send back these persons to help them do these things.
If, then, we correctly understand the forecasting and proposed accounting of the Secretary of War, he is making the United States the agent and factor of slave trading pirates and enemies, with whom, by the laws of war and the President's proclamation of August 16the, neither he nor any member of the government, any more than a simple citizen, can lawfully have any contract, intercourse or correspondence, unless it be to treat of peace, the exchange of prisoners, the care of the wounded, the abandonment of barbarian practices in the conduct of the war, reprisals for atrocities perpetrated upon Northern and Union men, and other analogous subjects.
The fugitives thus held by us may be restored by one of two methods, either by the United States voluntarily relinquishing its claim, or by decree of a prize court, determining the property not to be condemnable as contraband of war, as any decent prize court would certainly do.
The first method must be the one which Mr. Cameron has in view, for no man in his position would ever think of proceeding to adjudication on such a claim in any court inside of Christendom. If such be the intention, it follows that the government is still under the sorcery of the Delilah of compromise, and will continue to be shorn of its strength, and to be the sport and derision of its foes; for only by compromise with traitors can such restoration take place. To make it under any other circumstances would be to incur mortal guilt.
By the Rules and Articles of War, enacted in 1806, "Whoever shall be convicted of holding correspondence with, or giving intelligence to the enemy, either directly or indirectly, shall suffer death;" and by a law of 1790, "If any person owing allegiance to the United States, shall levy war against them, or shall adhere to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort within the United States or elsewhere, and shall be thereof convicted, shall be adjudged guilty of treason against the United States, and shall suffer death."
It was decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, in its golden days, that the words, "owing al-
<c02>
legiance," are immaterial, and that "not only the persons, who bear arms, but those who assist otherwise, are included among those levying war." Every slave, therefore, who performs a part in the drama of the war on the side of the rebellions faction, is a traitor, and all slaves might well be warned by proclamation not to incur the penalty of treason by aiding and abetting
the treason of their masters! Of course, slaves can contract no guilt when, in taking such part, they yield to overruling force, and act under duress; but though they do thus act, the mischief may be the same as if they levied war against the United States with the hearty concurrence of the will.
He, therefore, who from our side sends a man into the ranks or trenches of the traitors, or a woman into the kitchen or laundry of a rebel regiment, or either of them into the potato, corn, rice, tobacco, cotton or cane fields to raise provisions for their armies, or bags and hogsheads of merchandize to fill the parricides' loan, is an traitor. If one should enlist men in the North or in Canada, and send them South for any of those purposes, or knowing that their service or labor would be applied to any of those purposes, there would be no doubt of the highly criminal nature of the transaction, and no hesitation in seizing and arraigning him for treason; because he could in no way levy war against the United States more effectively. It was decided by the sander Court in the same wise, [4 Cr. 470,] that a recruiting officer, sending men to the ranks of traitors, commits treason, though he never go to a traitor camp, fort or field.
What mode of "corresponding with and giving intelligence to the enemy" can be more direct and certain than sending back a fugitive slave, who has seen our forces, forts and lines of fortification? We have received and are almost daily receiving useful information, little as we have profited by it, and little as we have merited it, from fugitive slaves. As our armies advance under competent leaders-if that is to be-into the enemy's territory, their topographical knowledge, their communications and guidance will be of inestimable value. Already, in repeated instances, the lives of our officers and soldiers have been saved by vigilant and patriotic women of Frank Pierce's "subject race." Subject! just as if he himself, when he uttered that apostate and undemocratic phrase, was not the abject subject of the meanest and most ferocious despotism on the face of the fair earth, which it contaminates! Those great-hearted women, at the risk of their lives, have again and again warned our men of ambuscades, which, without such warning, would have been fatal. The refuge slave sent back to torments, sure to be increased by his escape and his efforts to be loyal, will have the strongest motive to propitiate the tyrant, who holds his life or death in his hand, by imparting, though his whole heart may be with us, all the information against us which may be in his power!
Not a single fugitive has thus far been set free, or obtained an assurance of ultimate freedom. A great number, how many none can tell, have been thrust back, against law and without mercy, to chains and traitors: from Fort Pickens by Lieut. Slammer, to die under tortures as a terrible example; from Fortress Monroe by Col. Dimick; from the steamer Quaker City; from the camps and columns of Gov. Sprague and Col. Burnside, of Rhode Island; Col. Jones, Col. Cowdin and Gen. Banks, of Massachusetts; Patterson, of Pennsylvania, himself a slaveholder, and strongly suspected of Secessionism; and many more. 
While our armies have thus been violating law and humanity, and in effect aiding and abetting traitors and enemies, citizens of Free States in the service of the United States, endeavoring to take on board the steamer, Star of the West, some of the troops betrayed by the black traitor Twiggs, and afterwards captured in their unarmed state, contrary to capitulation, and their safeguard violated by the blacker traitor, Van Dorn,-were seized by the rebels, and sold at public auction as slaves! These unhappy men-unhappy, I fear, are all who trust this government for protection, except Secessionists and spies-were marched off by their purchasers to life-long servitude in the interior, nobody can tell where, and nobody thus far seems to care! that no circumstance of aggravation and insult might be wanting, they were carried a thousand miles from Indianola to Montgomery, that they might be put upon the block, and knocked off under the nose of Jeff. Davis! Has this fellow been warned, by any word or deed of our government, of the consequences which such fiendish acts must draw upon him and his confederate kidnappers and flesh-jobbers? Not a bit of it! These living martyrs of liberty, more to be commiserated than those among the dead, have not obtained from the government even so slight a token of recognition and sympathy as an official notice of their fate, or a public record of their names!
Twice has our country engaged in foreign wars for the single object of punishing this stupendous crime of reducing its citizens to slavery. In 1803, under Commodore Preble; and in 1815, under Decatur, before Tripoli and Algiers, we redeemed our countrymen at the cannon's mouth from captivity, barbarian in name and nature, but far less inhuman than that to which these traitors have doomed the citizens and servants of the United States within the last three months on our own shores.
So far from discerning any sign of a determination to redeem, as the government should do at any cost or sacrifice, the victims of this high-handed villany, or to deter, by a just and necessary retaliation from a repetition of it, we have seen new enormities of the same kind committed in Florida and Louisiana. Meantime, the venomous reptiles, who sting us thus, are threatening, with high and swollen crest, to enslave two Yankees for every fugitive slave whom we shall sell to Cuba, in addition to the 250 we have already sold thither! Thus do they invent calumnies to excuse the crimes they have committed, and new ones which they meditate.
I have entire confidence in the integrity, sagacity and good intentions of the President, but I wait with deep solicitude for proofs of decision, firmness, promptitude and vigor, corresponding to the exigencies of this great crisis in the nation's life. That this intellectual, high-spirited, industrious, opulent and powerful people will demand, and speedily at any price, will have, a more comprehensive, searching, cleansing, trenchant, swift and formidable conduct and sway of its unequalled moral and material forces, and a more complete executive
mastery of the magnificent situation, is as certain as that Hercules, in his war against the thievish, brutal and bloody enemies of mankind, had a club; and grappled them not, as in the beginning, with naked hands "He cut his club for himself in the woods of Nemea."
I was one of the most anxious for the election of Mr. Lincoln; and by suggesting every considerate and reasonable allowance for the extraordinary difficulties and trammels contrived for him and the country by his mean and worthless predecessor, I have striven earnestly to repress an impatience for aggressive action against so malignant an enemy, already making open war upon us before Mr. Lincoln's accession; and another impatience, more pronounced, for the thorough expurgation,-if nothing more,-of spies and Secessionists from the Executive Departments, and traitors from the city of Washington. But, now, every true friend of the administration or of the country has begun, however reluctantly, to feel that time and the prodigious popular movement, now in its fifth month, have rendered that defense as state and worthless as the name of Buchanan. Some time ago, this impatience found a little indirect vent through the press in referring to the sudden dismemberment of a British Cabinet at the bidding of the people of England, grown impatient and half frantic at the national disgraces and virtual murders, resulting from their neglect, blundering and imbecility; and more especially from the unhappy management of the War Department,-in the beginning of the Crimean war, a war of remote and slight concern, compared with ours for national existence.
A curt and pretty severe reply was flashed back from Washington, to the effect that such allusion betrayed a pitiable ignorance of the great difference of organic structure between the Executives of this Re-
<c03>
public and that Monarchy. Shall we take tamely this rebuff of red-tape, and subside in awful silence before it?
Few of us are unfamiliar with that difference. We have had sorrowful and mortifying occasions to consider it; and I, for one, venture now, through this unshackled and unshackling press, to declare, that the sooner the feature of the British system, whereby the administration of it is rendered flexible to the will of the nation, and the tools at all times transferable from feeble, infected or unskilful hands, to those which are trusty and able to use them, the better it will be for our safety, honor, prosperity, and the perpetuity of all that is dear and valuable in our noble institutions.
Things have changed since our Constitution was formed. We have had experience, and we have had trials and humiliations. We have lost some prejudices and learned some new truths. We have ceased, most of us, to mix in one hash-
The Pope, the Turks,
The King, the Devil, and all their works;
and we have painfully learned that, in its most important executive feature, our Constitution is a failure, and executive responsibility to the law, a myth.
When John Tyler was negotiating with filibusters for dismembering and robbing Mexico, pledging to them the protection of our army and navy against the efforts of the Mexican government to destroy or whip them from its borders, and,-that scheme being defeated by the exercise of the treaty-making and veto power of the Senate, -was intriguing to bring in Texas by circumventing the treaty-making of the Senate; when Franklin Pierce was backing the Border Ruffians in their murders, rapes and arsons, with the aid, and whenever they got into trouble and danger, with the protection of the Federal troops; and when James Buchanan was found to have been playing into the hands of traitors the greatest stake in our land or the world-I urged, in each case, upon some of our most faithful members of Congress, that these men should be impeached by the House, and brought to trial at the bar of the Senate. The unvarying answer from each of them was "It would be useless. The effect, if any, would be to confirm their malversations, and lend them the appearance of a legal sanction." One gentleman said "As well impeach Satan before his 'Synod of infernal Gods,' Moloch, Belial, Beezebub, Mammon and the rest."
Chancellor Kent, having been consulted in respect to Tyler, replied that his course had been unconstitutional, unprincipled, and "would lead to the ruin of the Union"; and that he ought to be impeached.
Yet Tyler's sins were white as snow, compared with the crimson dye of Buchanan's and Pierce's.
It may be safely assumed, as an established result of the working of the Constitution, that the Republican executive, ordained for us by the fathers, is practically as irresponsible and inviolable as the sovereign of Great Britain. A vicious President can do but little
harm, if majorities of both houses are against him; and if both or either is for him, it will always be impossible to impeach and punish him, and consequently to make good his constitutional responsibility.
The error of the Constitution consists in not providing a tribunal, removed as far as possible from the political arena, instead of the Senate, to try impeachments.
We, therefore, need, and if we love our country or ourselves we shall have, some new political arrangement to remedy this capital defect.
The English have for ages recognized and accepted the law and the fact of the entire irresponsibility of their sovereign. "The king can do no wrong." But they have never left themselves for a moment in the helpless condition, in which it has long been obvious that we are lying.
The British ministers are held responsible for executive offences; and the ordinary method of enforcing this responsibility is by driving them from office, either by voting down the measures they propose, or by a direct declaration of "want of confidence."
This is the point of difference between the British and American Constitutions, to which the rescript from Washington, in reproof of the distant muttering of the press, referred.
Seeing, therefore, that our actual position on this subject is precisely that of Great Britain, why should we not adopt her eminently democratic custom, and pack off a cabinet, or part of a cabinet, whenever dissatisfaction with their principles, conduct or measures has become general, or "want of confidence" has been unmistakably pronounced? If our American Secretaries value office more than they do the approbation of their countrymen, and more than they do the welfare of their country-for, surely, those are powerless for good who have lost or never possessed the public confidence-so much the worse, and the President should remove them forthwith. If he refuse, Congress should withhold from him the means of exercising his office and carrying on the government. It is scarcely conceivable that a continued disagreement and a dead lock should ever ensue. That our government has freed no slave, but has prevented many from passing to freedom, and is treating as slaves all the fugitives who have escaped to them, is evident not only from their being worked without wages, payable to them, but also from their being confined to our camps and fortifications, or to the jail of the District of Columbia, in which, according to accounts, many have long been languishing. When the Massachusetts third and Fourth Regiments (their term of service having expired) were about to leave Fortress Monroe, taking with them some of the servants to whom they had become attached and wished to employ, they were peremptorily forbidden by Gen. Butler. Fourteen of their favorites were wrested by superior authority from the Ellsworth Soaves, under similar circumstances, within that ancient and famous slave-pen, the District of Columbia. Since that occurrence, the Provost Marshal of the District has issued orders, interdicting the departure of any refuge slave for the North; while, on the other hand, Gen. McDowell had forbid them to go with the army South-a superfluous proceeding, so long as he was in command!
After such an accumulation of merits on our part toward the traitors in arms, would it not be a wise and delicate overture of conciliation and compromise, if Gen. Scott were to write a letter, by a flag of truce, to the chief of the traitors, enumerating and acknowledging the little amiabilities practiced on their side toward us; toward our seamen of the Star of the West; toward our defenseless prisoners and wounded heroes, butchered on the field of battle; toward our Northern citizens, tarred and burned alive at Pensacola and other places, because they refused to take arms against their country; toward Northern men and Southern unionists, continually hung and shot all over rebel Dom for the sander cause! And when these and other flowers of chivalry shall have been gathered for the traitor into one huge nosegay of overpowering sweetness, tell him that "for these courtesies we will lend" them our soldiers to pen and to guard their slaves, and a score or two of our regiments to put down the risings for freedom, if so dreadful a crime as insurrection should be committed by them, and their masters cannot conveniently quell it without weakening too much the grand army with which they are preparing to take Washington!
In his second letter dated in July ordering a change in the imprisonment of fugitive slaves from the Alexandria jail to our fortifications and camps, Mr. Cameron directs that their labor be "paid for," not paid. Here is no freedom nor justice for the slave, only a change of masters.
In a third letter of "August, 1861," in reply to Butler's of July 30, the Secretary marches two steps forward. He directs that fugitives from loyal masters be no longer surrendered or sent back, but employed, and, as we must presume from former instructions, the sander accounts kept as in the case of fugitives from traitors. This is, undoubtedly, of considerable importance, and if the intimation that the loyal masters of fugitives thus received may expect compensation should be sanctioned by Congress, this
<c04>
great class of slaves may be considered to be free as fest as they may please to leave their masters, and take refuge with the Union forces. This, it seems to me, is the plain and obvious construction of the Secretary's letter; and yet it is impossible to feel confident about it, in the face of the fact that the writer has since interposed directly to effect the restoration of a fugitive to a master, represented to be loyal! If this be so, the Secretary of War still hangs fire, and must be too infirm of purpose to admit of much reliance upon his declarations or actions.
No positive assurance of freedom to the enthralled can be found in any thing emanating from the government, except in the confiscation act, passed at the late session of Congress, and in Gen. Fremont's recent proclamation. The confiscation act is a virtual invitation to all slaves employed, or intended or permitted, or given or sold by their owners to be employed, "in aiding, abetting or promoting insurrection or resistance to the laws," to flee and take refuge with us. Of course, such slaves can never be restored. The act also makes the sander class liable to capture and confiscation as prize, and enjoins upon the President to cause them "to be seized, confiscated and condemned." This is interposing the sander delays and embarrassments which must attend the operation of the contraband doctrine, but with this important difference, that the judicial process in the former will undoubtedly result in the enfranchisement of some slaves, but in the latter of none.
The proclamation of Gen. Fremont, a name of good omen, declaring the slaves of all the rebels of Missouri FREMEN, is the first word touching the real cause and end of this war, which has had the right ring. It abolishes instantly and absolutely two-thirds of the slavery of that State. I venture this assertion, not because there is an equal or any preponderance of the white population and wealth in favor of treason, but because a rebellion, begun and waged for extending and eternizing slavery, necessarily embraces in its folds a disproportionate number of the devotes of that basest and beastliest form of Mammon worship; and because treason, like all other lawlessness, violence and crime finds congenial nourishment in its rank pollutions.
The residuum of slavery in Missouri cannot abide long under the effects of this brave and wide sweep, but will be speedily drawn into the vortex.
Nor will the effects be confined to one great State. The keynote is struck, which will awake the grand symphony, and usher in the Year of Jubilee.
"From harmony, from heavenly harmony,
This universal frame began;
From harmony to harmony,
Through all the compass of the notes it ran,
The diapason closing full in MAN.'' D. L. C.

LETTER FROM A WESTERN WOMAN.
Another breeze, hot with battle, heavy with sad news, has blown from the West. Lyon, the brave the lion of the house of Judah-has fallen; and the Germans are again busy in the midst of their sadness, giving honor to their "tapfem und braven Sigel," whose death we must be prepared to hear in the next news of importance; for the enemy loves a shining mark, and Sigel, according to Atchison, is "the best commander in America, without any exception."
How many such will even the faithful Germans (God bless them!) be willing to give to slaughter, if their beloved ideal, LIBERTY, is not to be realized in the land watered by their blood? The word Democracy has blinded many of them, but they are too simple and too wise long to be deceived into the belief that the thing they mean by that word is at all compatible with slavery.
How long shall we play the sickening game of fighting the Northern battle with one hand, and building up Southern slavery with the other, while our best and bravest fall, like autumn leaves, around us? Must they all die before the real work of war has begun?
We all know that the Republic of America has come to mean the North. It is OUR COUNTRY, with her free institutions, her civilization and industry on one side, and-I hardly dare to say what on the other. All of an aristocratic government that can be made to mean proscription, all of a free one that can be tortured into license. The line between them is distinctly drawn; there is no need of confusion. The choice is between Slavery with its horrors, and Liberty with its unspeakable blessings. 
We have a vital interest in this question- "we women," Our brothers, sons, nephews, whom we taught to" speak plain the word country," are in this war, and we will require them at the hands of government. We do not demand that they shall return safe as to life and limb, but that, if they lose either, it shall be in the service of that which is better and dearer. We can se them fall, but not covered with dishonor.
I remember long ago reading or hearing a song, the gloomy refrain of which haunted me ever as the most hideous of curses:-
"Shame and dishonor sit by his grave ever-
Blessing shall hallow it, never, no, never!"
Such, it seems to me, will be the doom of those who fight for the extension and perpetuation of slavery; and rather than it should fall upon those dear to us, we would se the young heads only yesterday, as it were, hushed to sleep upon our bosoms, laid too low or Shame to touch again.
Letters from volunteers in Cox's brigade breathe ominous indignation at the Shameful tasks they are sometimes set to do since the capture of De Villiers, their ganant Colonel and real general. To guard the return of slaves, they had brought in as prizes-to se prisoners they had taken, by toilsome marches in pursuit of an and bushed and unscrupulous foe, a dangerous
guerrilla chief amongst them, escorted through the camps, introduced to officers (!) and then dismissed "Scot free," and loaded with presents! The poor fellows say, ","Here we are, cooped up among mountains that hardly allow us air to breathe, fed on poisonous food, and unable through the weakness of our General to accomplish anything." These are the things that really" demoralize" a soldier.
A great deal is said about the sympathy of England. Mr. Phillips says we do not deserve it. We do not, but our cause does; and it is that for which we wish to be heard, and that which will compel the sympathy of all good hearts.
But that is not the question, after all. We may be interested in knowing how the sympathies of foreign nations tend; but the thing of importance for us to know is, what they are going to do.
You remember the story of Catharine of Russia saying to a man, who, instead of shouting, "Long live the Empress!" muttered," "It is too bad." We do not want to know what you think, but what course you will take.
The Queen of England's proclamation of neutrality was well enough, so far as it went; and if it shall be obeyed in good faith, in spirit and letter, we can have no just cause of complaint; but the people need not be surprised if we think we se indications that it will not be. I think no nation can complain of her inaptitude to go to war; certainly, that is not our complaint. But what means her flirting with Southern Commissioners? What means the present course of Lord Lyons, and the childish demand that one port be kept open? That eminently cautious and sensible nation is not in the habit of doing things that are childish and unmeaning. For a nation so old, so well versed in rebellions and the way to met them, to call traitors who seize the arms of a government, and use them for the subversion of the same, "belligerents," seems to us plain people, and women ignorant of political sinuosities, a little queer.
Why should England studiously ignore the point, that certain ambitious men, calling themselves by the names of South Carolina, &c., are in arms against their government for the purpose of overthrowing it, and building up a Slavocracy upon its ruins? They know it. There can be no confusion in the English mind on this subject.
Our people have a little cause for indignant apprehension. They not only remember the murder of the
<c05>
Sikhs, the conquest of China and Russia, but whose iron hand it was that, for centuries, crushed the life out of Scotland and Ireland. I have the blood of both nations in my veins. The old historic, glorious associations of Scotland live in my heart. I have pride in them, while I remember who bowed the neck of this proud nation to the yoke, and taught her the lesson of submission. But enough. We are well aware that England does not go to war until it is clearly her interest to do so, and then she does not spare her foe.
Mr. Richard Webb spoke of our readiness to go to war. I have no idea to what he can refer. He must be thinking of the Indians and a portion of the South. Peace, with its results to trade, commerce, agriculture, is our passion. We have submitted to every thing but the actual overthrow of government, rather than have our dear trade, our most unparalleled material prosperity interrupted. War is generally looked upon by our people as the greatest of calamities, only to be invoked for a cause like ours. Not till our national difficulties culminated in the attack on Fort Sumter, and the President's moderate and strictly constitutional proclamation was met by the impudent defiance- 
"with mortar, Paixhan and petard,
We tender Old Abe our Beauregard."
Think of such a reply from an English mob to a similar order from Victoria! Did we know that we had soldiers amongst us? And even yet, the splendid regiments that go by seem to us as if evoked by a magic not less strange than that of the "Specter Caravan." Winthrop's hit of the "dragon's tenth that came up dragoons," no doubt seems fantastic to English ears. To us it has a wonderful fitness of illustration. Our nineteenth regiment, who won the reputation of regulars, and did such execution in Virginia, were quiet mechanics, many of whom never saw a military drill, or a soldier in full uniform, previously to their enlistment for this war.
In Pittsburg, which has sent out so many fine regiments years ago, such drill was brought into disrepute by men appearing on parade disguised as various animals, braying, crowing, squealing, and showing fight according to the fashion of beasts. 
A standing army is regarded as the greatest of nuisances. In short, we have no idle, savage and mutinous population to be used as bullet-marks. Our people are thoroughly aware that, in a war of conquest, they have little to gain, and much to lose; and they have quite enough to do in "making a home" of the 160 acres given them by "Uncle Sam" for the pretty wife and six children God is to give them.
While travelling in Minnesota, we rested for a few moments on one of the boldest bluffs of the Mississippi to take a view of Fort Snelling, as it lay there on the river-side like a great ship becalmed. I said to my friend, "Those port-holes are dangerous-looking things: what do you suppose they are used for?" "If I might guess," he said, "I should say the old folks hid their pipes, and the young ones their marbles there; an attack is probably the last thing any of them think of. I'll bet, now, there isn't a gun fit for service in the concern; and what nonsense it is to keep those big fellows there, when they ought to be out on the prairies at work." The reveille sounded, the soldiers left play, and lounged through their task. It seemed to us all a great humbug.
I speak of these things, because it seems to me that, to any one taking the view your friend does, the great significance of the present vast movement in our country is lost. Mr. Phillips has cause to fear a compromise. Suspension of business, a standstill in monied affairs, is the thing that shakes the nerves of an American. The Fabian policy did well for Fabius, but we fear it will be disastrous for Scott. What force can hold our men to "drill" through many long months? To them it is idleness-waste of precious time-and that is death.
Ohio. E.
Laus Deo!-"the beginning of the end."
GEN. FREMONT'S PROCLAMATION. ST. LOUIS, Aug. 31. The following proclamation was issued this morning:-
HEADQUARTERS, WESTERN DIVISION,
ST. LOUIS, Aug. 30, 1861.
Circumstances, in my judgment, are of sufficient urgency to render it necessary that the Commanding General of this Department should assume administrative powers of the State. Its disorganized condition, helplessness of civil authority and the total insecurity of life and devastation of property by bands of murderers and marauders, who invest nearly every county in the State, and avail themselves of public misfortunes and the vicinity of a hostile force to gratify private, and neighborhood vengeance, and who find an enemy wherever they find plunder, finally demand the severest measures to repress the daily increasing crimes and outrages which are driving off the inhabitants and ruining the State. In this condition, the public safety and the success of our arms require unity of purpose, without let or hindrance, to the prompt administration of affairs. In order, therefore, to suppress disorder, maintain the public peace, and give security to the persons and property of loyal citizens, I do hereby extend and declare martial law throughout the State of Missouri.
The lines of the army occupation in this State are, for the present, declared to extend from Leavenworth by way of posts to Jefferson City, Rolla, and Ironton, to Cape Girardeau on the Mississippi river. All persons who shall be taken with arms in their hands, within these lines, shall be tried by court martial, and, if found guilty, shall be shot. 
Real and personal property, owned by persons who shall take up arms against the United States, or who shall be directly proven to have taken an active part with the enemy in the field, is declared confiscated to public use, and their slaves, if any they have, are here by declared free men. All persons who shall be proven to have destroyed, after the publication of this order, railroad tracts, bridges or telegraph-lines, shall suffer the extreme penalty of the law. All persons engaged in treasonable correspondence, in giving or procuring aid to the enemy, in fomenting turmoil’s and disturbing public tranquility by creating or circulating false reports or incendiary documents, are warned that they are exposing themselves. All persons who have been led away from allegiance are requested to return to their homes forthwith. Any such absence, without sufficient cause, will be held to be presumptive evidence against them. 
The object of this declaration is to place in the hands of military authorities power to give instantaneous effect to the existing Laws, and to supply such deficiencies as the conditions of the war demand; but it is not intended to suspend the ordinary tribunals of the country where law will be administered by civil officers in the usual manner, and with their customary authority, while the same can be peaceably administered. 
The commanding General will labor vigilantly for the public welfare, and, by his efforts for their safety, hopes to obtain not only acquiescence, but the active support of the people of the country. (Signed,) J. C. FREMONT,
Major General Commanding.
The Philadelphia Inquirer says that a decree has been entered in the United States District Court, in the case of the schooner Enchantress, awarding salvage, in the sum of $1,500, to the crew of the U. S. vessel Albatross; and also decreeing that the negro cook, Jacob Garrison, who, by jumping overboard, gave the alarm, thus causing the recapture, should come in the same as one of the crew of the Albatross, for proportionate share of salvage. Restitution of the schooner to the owners was likewise decreed.
The Ashtabula Sentinel says:-"We understand that John Brown, Jr.,-if, as it is expected, he obtains authority from the War Department for their equipment and transportation,-will raise a company of one hundred picked men accustomed to the use of of the rifle, to serve the United States during the war, with Col. Montgomery, in the brigade of Gen. James H. Lane of Kansas."
MAUCH CHUNK, Sept. 1. A Disloyal Pennsylvania Paper "Cleaned Out." The Carbon Democrat office was entered last night, the type destroyed, and stands and cases upset, &c. The press was undisturbed. INDIANAPOLIS, Sept. 1. A Peace Convention met at the Court-House yesterday. There were but few of participants, although a Large crowd assembled. Hon. R. S. Walpole, Chairman, while addressing the meting, was interrupted, and he left the stand amid great confusion. A man named McLean then attempted to address the crowd, at the same time drawing a pistol, when he was handled rather roughly. Numerous fights occurred, but without any serious result. In the evening, the crowd visited the residences of Walpole and others of questionable loyally, and forced them to take the oath of allegiance. The editor of the Sentinel was among the latter.
Gen. Butler was serenaded at Washington on Sunday night, and responded in a stirring speech.
<c06>
BRILLIANT VICTORY-CAPTURE OF the FORTS AT CAPE HATTERAS.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 1. the following General Order has been issued by Gen. Wool:-
HEADQUARTERS OF DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA, &c, FORTRESS MONROE, Va., Aug. 31.
General Order No. 8.
The Commanding General has great satisfaction in announcing the glorious victory achieved by the combined operations of the army and navy at Hatter as Inlet, North Carolina, under command of Commodore String ham and Major General Butler.
The result of this gallant affair is the capture of 715 men, including the commander, Barron, and one of the members of the North Carolina cabinet, 1000 stand of arms, 75 kegs of powder, 5 stand of colors, 31 pieces of cannon, including a 10inch columbiad, a brig loaded with cotton, a sloop laden with provisions and stores, 2 light-boats, 150 bags of coffee, &c., all of which was achieved by the army and navy and 800 volunteers and 60 regular artillery of the army.
This gallant affair will not fail to stimulate regulars and volunteers to greater achievements. Obedience under discipline and instruction are indispensable to maintain the interest, honor and humane institutions of the Union.
By command of Major General Wool.
CHARLES CHURCHILL,
Capt. 3d Artillery, A. A. G.
AN ACCOUNT SQUARED. the Federal forces took exactly the same number of cannon at Cape Hatteras, last week, that the rebels captured at Bull Run.
Gen. McClellan sent a general order, giving in brief the news of our success at Hatteras to every regiment, which was read at evening parade, and received by all with the greatest enthusiasm.
Not one of the Federal forces was hurt. the enemy lost eighty in killed and wounded. All the prisoners have been brought to New York for safe keeping. Among them are Col. Martin, Col. Thompson, Major Anderson, Lieut. Sharpe, late of the Navy, Col. Bradford, and other important officers.
LOSS OF THE PRIVATER JEFF. DAVIS. Our merchants and ship owners need have no more anxiety as respects this piratical depredator upon our commerce. She was totally wrecked on the Florida coast on the 17th ultimo, and will never more do mischief. the Charleston Mercury says-"the number of her prizes and the amount of merchandize which she captured have no parallel since the days of the Saucy Jack."
NEW YORK, Sept. 4. the Herald's Washington correspondent reiterates the report of the death of Jeff. Davis, and says it is generally believed in Washington. the Tribune correspondent says that Jeff. Davis has long had a disease of the optic nerve, threatening a cancerous result, and that his physician, apprised him that death would speedily follow the extension of the disease to the brain.
THE CONFISCATION ACT PUT IN FORCE. New York, Sept. 2. Surveyor Andrews, yesterday, seized twenty-five vessels, owned wholly or in part by rebels, including 8 ships and 7 barks. the value of the vessels seized is over two millions.
CINCINNATI, Sept 2. there was a fight yesterday at Boone Court House, Va., resulting in the total rout of the rebels. their loss was 35 killed and a large number wounded. Forty prisoners were also taken. None were killed on our side, and but 6 wounded. Our men burned the town.
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
Collections By A. T. Foss: At Osterville,40c; Nathan Colman, $4; Contreville,
2 14; East Dennis, 7 30; Harwich, 8 50. Collections by E. H. Heywood: At Rutland, 3 31; Hubbardston, 3 26. Collections at Abington, Aug. 1, $89 75.
EDMUND JACKSON, Treas'r.
ANNUAL METING OF the MASSACHUSETTS STATE TEMPERANCE ALLIANCE.-the Massachusetts State Temperance Alliance will hold their Annual Meting, THEURSDAY, Sept 12, at 10 o'clock, A. M., in the Meionian Hall, Tremont Temple, Boston, for reorganization, and for such other business as may properly come before them.
All members of the Alliance, and all Temperance friends in the State, are urgently requested to attend
EDWARD OTHEMAN Sec'y.
MIDDLESEX A. S. SOCIETY.-A meting of the Middlesex County A. S. Society will be held at Reading, Sunday, Sept. 15. Andrew T. Foss, E. H. Heywood and others will speak. the public are cordially invited.
SAMUEL BARRETT, President.
ANDREW WELLINGTON, Secretary.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Lather Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
MARRIED-In this city, on Wednesday forenoon, Sept. 4the, by Rev. Dr. Dewey, Mr. CHARLES A. HOVEY, (eldest son of the late Charles F. Hovey, Esq.) to Miss GEOSGIAXA PRIEST.
DIEDAt Rome, (Italy,) July 22d, Miss LUCIA WZST ox, daughter of the late Capt. WARREN WESTON, of Weymouth, Mass.
Exiled from her native home, for several years past, by slow-wasting disease with which her cheerful and serene spirit bravely struggled to the last, she has finally yielded to that all-conquering power, before which nothing of strength, or beauty, or worth, or purity can stand; for never was there exemption known, in any age or clime, from its decaying touch, in that all are mortal. Anxiously, tenderly, with loving and tireless assiduity, was she watched and tended by those who were the nearest and dearest to her, and upon whom this bereavement must fall very heavily. She was endowed with qualities of mind and heart which strongly endeared her to all who knew her. At an early period of her life, her sympathies and activities
were warmly enlisted in the cause of the poor oppressed and outcast slave, and she deemed it high honor to be ranked (even though opprobrious) as an abolitionist; never abutting her interest in the struggle to save the life of the nation by the abolition of slavery. So let her memory be honored and blessed!
"Over her bosom tenderly
The pearl-white hands are prest;
The lashes lie on her cheeks so thin,
Whore the softest blush of the rose has been,
Shutting the blue of her eyes within
The pure lids closed in rest.
Over the sweet brow lovingly
Twineth her sunny hair;
She was so fragile that Love sent down,
From his heavenly gems, that soft bright crown,
To shade her brow with its waves so brown,
Light as the dimpling air.
Hearts-where the dear one's head hath lain,
Held by Love's shining ray-
Do you know that the touch of her gentle hand
Doth brighten the harp in the unknown land?
Oh! she waits for us with the angel band
Over the starry way." [ED. LIB.
WEST NEWTON
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 1, 1861. both sexes are received as family or day pupils. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. West Newton, Aug. 15.
HOPEDALE.
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Reformatory and Progressive Institution will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and continue Fifteen weeks. For full particulars, please address 
WM. S. HAY WOOD, Principal.
Milford, Mass., Aug. 6, 1861.
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle st., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the
most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Boston, Jan. 7. S. NEWELL.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street,
AN elaborate Work, entitled "Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery. By Charles K. Whipple,"-a volume of nearly 250 
pages. In cloth, 37 cents-in paper, covers, 25 cents. Aug. 30. tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
MISSING.
Not among the suffering wounded;
Not among the peaceful dead;
Not among the prisoners. "MISSING"-
That was all the message said.
Yet his mother reads it over,
Until, through her painful tears,
Fades the dear name she has called him
For these two-and-twenty years.
Round her, all is peace and plenty;
Bright and clean the yellow floor;
While the morning-glories cluster
All around the kitchen door.
Soberly, the sleek old house-cat
Drowses in his patch of sun;
Neatly shines the oaken dresser;
All the morning's work is done.
Through the window comes the fragrance
Of a sunny harvest morn,
Fragment' songs from distant reapers,
And the rustling of the corn;
And the rich breath of the garden,
Where the golden melons lie;
Where the blushing plums are turning
All their red cheeks to the sky.
Sitting there within the sunshine-
Leaning in her easy chair;
With soft lines upon her forehead,
And the silver in her hair-
Blind to sunshine-dead to fragrance-
On that royal harvest morn;
Thinking, while her heart is weeping,
Of her noble-browed first-born:
How he left her in the Springtime,
With his young heart full of flame,
With his clear and ringing footstep,
With his lithe and supple frame:
How with tears his eyes were brimming,
As ho kissed a last " Good bye,"
Yet she heard him whistling gayly
As he went across the rye.
MISSING. Why should he be missing?
He would fight unto he fell;
And if wounded, killed, or prisoner,
Some one there would be to tell.
MISSING. Still a hope to cheer her!
Safe, triumphant, he may come,
"With the victor-army shouting,
With the clamor of the drum!
So, through all the days of Autumn-
In the eve and in the morn-
She will hear his quickening footsteps
In the rustling of the corn;
Or, she will hush the household,
While her heart goes leaping high,
Thinking that she hears him whistling
In the pathway through the rye.
Far away, through all the Autumn,
In a lonely, lonely glade,
In the dreary desolation
That the Battle-Storm has made.
With the rust upon his musket-
In the eve and in the morn-
In the rank gloom of the fern leaves
Lies her noble-browed first-born.
La Crosse, Wisconsin. MRS. F. A. MOORE.

SECESSION.
RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO GEN. BEAUREGARD.
The sun's hot rays were falling fast,
As through a Southern city passed
A man who bore,' midst rowdies low,
A banner with the strange motto Secession!
His brow was sad; his month beneath
Smelt strong of fire at every breath:
And like a furious madman sung
The accents of that unknown tongue-Secession!
In happy homes he saw the light
Of household fires gleam warm and bright;
Above, the spectral gallows shone,
And from his lips escaped a groan-Secession!
"Try not that game!” Abe Lincoln said,
" Dark lower the thunders over head;
The mighty North has been defied."
But still that drunken voice replied-Secession!
"O! pause!" the Quaker said, "and think
Before thee leaps from off the brink!"
Contempt was in his drunken leer;
And still he answered, with a sneer-Secession!
"Beware the pine-tree's bristling branch!
Beware the Northern avalanche!"
And that was Scott's restraining voice;
But still this was the traitor's choice-Secession!
At close of war, as toward their homes
Our troops as victors hurried on,
And turned to God a thankful prayer,
A voice whined through the startled air-Secession!
A traitor by a soldier keen,
Suspended by the neck was seen,
Still grasping in his hand of ice
That banner, with this strange device-Secession!
There, to the mournful gibbet strung,
Lifeless and horrible he hung;
And from the sky there seemed to float
A voice, like angel's warning note-Secession!

A MODEST CLAIM.
'All we ask is to be let alone."-JEFF. DAVIS.
A trifling boon for traitor hosts
To claim at loyal patriots' hands!
A meek demand,' mid Southern boasts,
To come with grace from rebel hands!
"Let us alone! " was Arnold's cry,
When foiled in treason's lighter deed;
"Let me in peace to England fly,
Without coercion in my speed."
"Let us alone!" was echoed wide
In Shay's rebellion, and in times
Of whiskey riots, that defied"
The arm of law to reach their crimes,
"Let us alone!" was Burr's demand,
In dark conspiracy of yore;
" Why interfere for foreign land,
And guard so strict an alien shore? "
"Let us alone! was Kidd's own prayer,
When coasting wide with pirate crew,
And dealing death-a slight affair-
To every prize that came in view.
"Let us alone! why art thon come
Us to torment before the time? "
The evil spirits-elsewhere dumb-
Could ask of Christ, despite their crime.
"Let us alone!" was sounded far
Through Heaven's vast conclave, in alarm.
By rebel angels, when-at war
Against the power of God's right arm.
" Let us alone!" the South now claim-
When every flap of Freedom's flag
Points to that " deed without a name"
That dared in dust our banner drag.
"Let us alone?" No NEVER! NO!
While treason stalks o'er land and sea;
And arms proclaim a rebel foe
Steep'd in such hellish treachery.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE WAR, AND COLORED AMERICAN AUXILIARIES.
The recent master-stroke of Gen. Butler, of converting slaves into contrabands, since mainly endorsed by the Secretary of War, is destined, under God, to materially weaken the rebel power, which is equivalent to that extent, at least, to abolishing slavery.
Among the various motives prompting to this military order, there is great satisfaction in the belief that one most potent element helping to such a conclusion has been furnished by the colored American himself, who, both as slave and nominally free, has in this early stage of the war exhibited that prowess, sagacity and patriotism, so conspicuous in the war of 1776, and which, in the war of 1812, elicited from Gen. Jackson, at the battle of New Orleans, the memorable tribute that " he found among them (his colored soldiers) a noble enthusiasm, which leads to the performance of great things."
The brilliant and daring feat of William Tillman, the colored steward, in which, including the taking the life of three men, he executed the plan of mastership and rescue of the brig J. S. Waring from Southern pirates, and restoring the vessel and her valuable cargo to her owners in New York, won from the Tribune the merited compliment that " to this colored man was the nation indebted for the first vindication of its honor on the sea." Another public journal spoke of that achievement alone as an offset to the defeat of the Federal arms at Bull Run. Unstinted praise from all parties, even those who are usually awkward in any other vernacular than derision of the colored man, has been awarded to this colored hero. At Barnum's Museum he was the centre of attractive gaze to daily increasing thousands. Pictorials have vied with each other in portraying his features, and in graphic delineations of the scene on board the brig; while in one of them Tillman has been sketched as an embodiment of black action on the sea in contrast with some delinquent Federal officer as white inaction on land.
This one signal act of colored American executive ness, thus exhibited in shop windows and elsewhere to the masses, outweighs any amount of argument or rhetoric-for here is a palpable fact, directly appealing to their sense of justice, and invested, let us hope, with a potent and magical influence towards conquering that offspring of slavery, prejudice against color. Then followed immediately after, the rescue of two other vessels, the " Enchantress" and the "Tropic Bird," both through the exertions of colored men.
The Philadelphia Ledger suggests that contrabands who know the localities should be selected to lead a few enterprising men safely into the swamps and inlets on the Southern coasts, to break up the piracy now harassing our Northern commerce.
The Tribunes account of the Great Bethel fight makes mention of a colored man who offered to show the Federal troops a road by which they might avoid the masked batteries, and take them in flank and rear; but he was not heeded, and the world now knows what a disaster resulted.
A colored man with Capt. Reynold's company, from Rhode Island, filled the place of a white gunner, who had been killed, and it is said he worked most bravely.
These are but a few of the many incidents of the war, daily suggesting to the nation the propriety, if not indeed the necessity, of the employment of colored soldiers in the Federal armies; for, remember, it was a matter of unfeigned surprise to Brigade Quartermaster Pryor, of the Mississippi forces at the Manassas battle, that the Northern regiments had no colored allies; and he boasted that the Southern army had them in large numbers; and the latest intelligence from Missouri is, that the best drilled military organization at New Madrid is a negro cavalry company. A plain lesson is thus to be learned from our enemies, inasmuch as it is now generally known that most of the formidable and effective war service of the rebel army, including the masked batteries, has been assigned to their colored men, the most of whom, instead of being reluctant auxiliaries in Slavery's army, could, if an honest attempt were made, be converted into eager and efficient soldiers in the Northern army of Freedom. And at the North, to-day, there are thousands of colored men ready to enlist for the war the moment they can do so on equal terms with other men.
We know one young colored man in Rhode Island, who, being urged by some young white men with whom he was a favorite, to accompany them to the war, replied that he too was an American, and claimed to be no less loyal than themselves; but though ready to share with them all dangers consequent upon putting down Southern rebellion, if he went with them, he must go as an equal, not as a subordinate. By this manly avowal, he struck a sympathetic chord, which, vibrating through their breasts, resulted in his being duly enlisted. He served his three months in the Federal army, and with his brave companions stands ready to reenlist for three years, or during the war; all which is but in keeping with the history of Rhode Island colored soldiery in colonial times; for Gov. Eustis, in his able speech against admitting slavery into Missouri, (1820,) speaking of colored men's services in the revolutionary war, says-" In Rhode Island, the blacks formed an entire regiment, and they discharged their duty with zeal and fidelity. The gallant defence of Red Bank is among the proofs of their valor"; and Dr. Harris, a revolutionary veteran, says, " Three times in succession were they attacked, with most desperate valor and fury, by well-disciplined and veteran troops, and three times did they successfully repel the assault, and thus preserve our army from capture."
One would naturally suppose, that at this signally auspicious moment for averting the evils impending over the land, by peaceably ridding the nation of slavery, and thus preserving the republic, there would be a mighty union of effort to abolish at the North all the remaining relies of slavery, and, by so doing, facilitate the entire destruction of the accursed thing, the prolific source of all the nation's trouble.
But how humiliating is the fact that, just in this crisis, there should be Northern politicians, who, nursing the hatred they bear towards the colored man, because they have injured him, seem determined to deny him every right to which, as a man and a citizen, he legitimately aspires! Witness the New Hampshire Legislature, at its recent session, doing homage to Jefferson Davis by voting, after an animated discussion, by yeas 221, nays 32, for inserting the word white in the Militia Bill, thereby excluding the colored man from equal participation with other citizens in military service, one member (Mr. Brigham of Littleton) quoting Gov. Banks's veto in the Massachusetts Legislature as a precedent.
How different this from the spirit manifested in the Republic's early days!-for then, as testified in the works of Dr. Jeremy Belknap, and as confirmed in vol. 7, chap. 39, of Bancroft's History, " the right of free negroes to bear arms in the public defence, in 1775, was as little disputed in New England as their other rights. They took their place not in a separate corps, but in the ranks with the white man, and their names may be read on the pension rolls of the country, side by side with those of other soldiers of the Revolution." One colored man, Peter Bartlett, was recorded as one of the quota from Kingstown, and was enrolled in Col. Reed's regiment, and another colored man, Wentworth Cheswell, was Justice of the Peace, Moderator, and one of the Selectmen for the town of New market, from 1790 up to 1816; but with a marked and most lamentable degeneracy from those days, the New Hampshire legislature of 1861 adjudges the colored American but as a fractional man, and ruthlessly consigns him to the negro pew.
Look at the Connecticut Legislature, which last year voted by a large majority to amend the State Constitution so as to allow colored men to vote, reversing their decision this year, and shamefully rejecting the amendment, by a vote of 130 to 44! And yet Connec
<c03>
ticut had a colored regiment in the revolutionary war, which was noted for its fidelity and efficiency. One of the regiment, Brister Baker, at the close of the war, was presented with a Badge of Merit, and a certificate for six years' faithful service, signed by George Washington. (The original is in my possession.)
At the storming of Fort Griswold, two colored men, Lambert Latham and Jordan Freeman, performed feats of bravery far surpassing any recorded of their white companions in arms. When Major Montgomery, one of the British officers, was lifted upon the walls of the fort by his soldiers, flourishing his sword, and calling on them to follow him, Freeman received him on the point of his pike, and pinned him to the earth; and Lambert being near Col. Ledyard when he was slain, retaliated upon the officer by thrusting his bayonet through his body. Lambert, in return, received from the enemy thirty-three bayonet wounds, and thus fell, nobly avenging the death of his commander. In that Fort (as writes one of their descendants) there was no negro pew, although there was some praying as well as fighting. But there they stood, side by side, shoulder to shoulder, and after a few rounds of firing, each man's visage was so blackened by the smoke of powder, that Lambert and Latham had little to boast of on the score of color. The Connecticut of 1801 has no recognition to offer the descendants of these noble and patriotic colored Americans but disfranchisement!
A colored man, a native of Virginia, but for many years resident in Massachusetts, was comparing notes a few days since with a friend on the signs of the times, when, in reply to the remark that, despite all the aid of Northern sympathizers, slavery had received its death-blow, he said, it was indeed true, but he did not know, however, but that the monster would be a long time dying.
Thousands of Northern young men in the Federal armies, having for the first time seen slavery as it is, and from their tablets furnishing copious details to newspapers and family circles of their experiences with the slaves, confessing their former skepticism when listening to the narratives of fugitive slaves who have escaped to the North, and that the half had not been told them-are thus doing an effective work in rousing the moral indignation of the people, who, concentrating as did the populace of Paris in 1789, against the Bastile, even to its overthrow, will not stop short of the utter annihilation of America's curse, her system of negro slavery. Indeed, the page of history is emphatic in its testimony, that civil wars have always resulted in liberating the slave. " The civil war of Marius and Sylla made free the slaves in Italy; and slavery in Mexico and the South American Republic was abolished by civil war. The States invaded by Bolivar offered freedom to all the slaves who would join the ranks to oppose him. Bolivar, on his part, proclaimed universal emancipation to recruit his ranks."
This summing up by F. P. Blair is arresting the attention of many minds, who cannot be made to believe that America will prove an exception, and the only one, to the logic of cause and effect. Let the faithful continue to labor, and await the hour of victory!
Boston, Aug. 18, 1861. W. C. N.
CHRISTIAN PEACE AND THE WAR.
The angels that heralded the birth of Christ sang, "Peace on earth, and good will to men "; and when that divinely commissioned and anointed One entered upon his public ministry, he preached peace to all-" to them that were near, and to them that were afar off." He appeared among men as " the Prince of Peace," and to establish a kingdom of Peace. The Apostle Paul represents his great object to be "to make peace through the blood of the Cross, and to reconcile all things to the Father." He repudiated the "eye for eye and tooth for tooth" doctrine of the Old Testament, and taught his disciples to love their enemies, to be forgiving, and to return good for evil; and this, that they might be the children of their Father in heaven, who is impartially good to all.
This was, too, according to the vision of the Messiah and his reign, which the Jewish Seers had been inspired with centuries before. They were worn and wearied with war, and nothing seemed so desirable to them as rest from the terrible scourge and calamity; and their hearts bounded with joy, even at the prospect of a distant peace for their land. According to Isaiah's prophecy of the coming One's reign, he was to "judge among the nations; and they were to boat their swords into plough-shares, and their spears into pruning-hooks, and nation no longer lift up sword against nation, nor learn the art of war any more."
Such, also, is the Christian Ideal of society, to which all have often responded with the most joyful anticipations; especially as it has been paraphrased by our best modern pools. All humane persons; who comprehend what war is -how numerous its evils, both physical and moral, and how terrible and permanent-gladly join in spirit, if not with voice, in singing the hymn:-
" Years are coming-speed them onward!
When the sword shall gather rust,
And the helmet, lance and falchion,
Sleep in silent dust.
Earth has heard too long of battle,
Heard the trumpet's voice too long;
But another age advances,
Seers foretold in song.
Years are coming when, forever,
War's dread banner shall be furled,
And the angel, Peace, be welcomed,
Regent of the world.
Hail with song that glorious era,
When the sword shall gather rust;
And the helmet, lance and falchion,
Sleep in silent dust."
But there is danger, in the midst of the strife and din of war, of our losing that fair Christian Ideal-at least, of its becoming dim and shadowy to us-and that the aspiration will die out of us. Against this, it is needful that we continually guard, and not forget that we are Christians, even now. However much of an unavoidable necessity war may now, or ever, seem to be, none of us should think of it in any light and frivolous spirit. I cannot but think of it with horror.
" To me it talks of ravished plains, And burning towns, and ruined swains, And mangled limbs, and dying groans, And widow's tears, and orphan's moans, And all that misery's hand bestows, To fill the catalogue of human woes."
A few years ago, it seemed as though the time had almost come in our community when the people would rise up in a regenerated Christian manhood, and forever put an end to war; and Peace Societies and Leagues of Universal Brotherhood sprung up all over the North, and greatly prospered. So was it likewise in parts of Europe. English, French, and American literature seemed to be newly inspired to repeat the song the angels sang at the Saviour's birth-"Peace on earth, and good will to men "-and great and enthusiastic meetings upon the subject were held in many places, and were addressed by some of the ablest and most influential men of the times.
It was at one of these meetings at which I was present in Providence, R. I., that Rev, Elnathan Davis, a liberal orthodox minister of Massachusetts, was inspired to write the following hymn:-
"Not with the flashing steel,
Nor with the cannon's peal,
Or stir of drum;
But in the bonds of love,
Our white flag floats above;
Her emblem is the dove-
'T is thus we come.
The laws of Christian light,
These are our weapons bright,
Our mighty shield;
Christ is our leader high.
And the broad plains which lie
Beneath the blessed sky,
Our battle-field.
What is that great intent,
On which each heart is bent,
Our hosts among?
It is that hate may die,
That war's red curse may fly,
And war's high praise for aye
No more be sung.
<c04>
On, then, in God's great name!
Let each pure spirit's flame
Burn bright and clear;
Stand firmly in your lot,
Cry ye aloud, doubt not,
Be every fear forgot-
Christ leads us here!
So shall earth's distant lands, In happy holy bands
One brotherhood, Together rise and sing, Gifts to one altar bring, And heaven's eternal King
Pronounce it good."
And my memory of that great gathering is as of a Pentecostal descent of the Holy Spirit; and earth and heaven seemed, for the time being, to touch each other. Elihu Burritt was also, at that time, scattering abroad his " Olive Leaves," like leaves of autumn, and the millennium seemed to be dawning. We shall have, we said, few more, if any, international wars; and all the difficulties that rise between the great Peoples of the earth will be settled by "arbitration." We were also thinking that slavery might be done away by " the sword of the Spirit," far sooner and more effectually than by the sword of steel; and the prospect of this civil war did not rise before us. O'Connell had said that " no revolution was worth a single drop of human blood," shed by the hand of violence, to secure it; and many were his disciples.
But this Peace Movement turned out to be premature, and it soon waned. There is now no efficient Peace Society in all the country, if in the world. The cry of to-day is that of the prophet Joel:-" Prepare for war; wake up the mighty men; let the men of war draw near; let them come up: beat your plough-shares into swords, and your pruning-hooks into spears; let the weak say, I am strong.....Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe; their wickedness is great." And hundreds of thousands, moved as by one mighty impulse, have responded to the cry, and put on the panoply of war.
It is the Old Dispensation that we live under still, and not the New; at least, the Sun of Love and Peace'has not yet risen to our meridian. If any have entered into the war from true Christian motives and in a true Christian spirit-ready to offer themselves up as sacrifices to universal Liberty and Humanity-the masses evidently have not. It is the best war, perhaps, on the part of the North, ever waged; but when we look at its immediate fruits, and then at the Cross, can it justly be called a Christian war? Good Christians are engaged in it-unless we say that only non-resistant are Christians, not more than a hundred, perhaps, in all the world. But, whether the war is, or could be made, Christian or not, I here leave as an open question for others to settle. It needs a re-discussion; but now is not the time for it. Still, that Isaiah's prophecy, that, under the Messiah's reign, men will " beat their swords into plough-shares and their spears into pruning-hooks, and learn the art of war no more," must wait a long time yet for its fulfillment, is evident to all. Its fulfillment is certain, however, though distant.
But what is it that has so changed the spirit of our progressing North from peace to war-creating the seeming but terrible necessity of an armed soldiery? It is SLAVERY-only SLAVERY; the rebels and the traitors of the South being the legitimate productions of that barbarous institution. No other institution in America could have produced such a class of men-naturally enough thinking that they were born to rule in the general government as on their own plantations. No sooner was the Fugitive Slave Law passed, and flying bondmen were chased over our soil, than many of the disciples of peace began to say: "We can be peace men no longer. There is a point beyond which forbearance seems to be a virtue; and this is it." And some of those men who went to Kansas, and passed through its fiery trials with "Border-Ruffianism," wrote home: " We can carry out our sacred principles of peace among men, but not among wild beasts; and here we are in the midst of the latter, and must fight to defend our lives and our liberties." The South had all along, in the years before, made many and violent aggressions upon the rights of Northern men, tormenting and torturing many unto the most cruel and painful death; but the spirit of peace, nevertheless, continued to increase in the ranks of the Abolitionists. The Fugitive Slave Bill and Kansas barbarity triumphed over it. Then culminated the wide-spread reaction from the peace principle, under the lead of William Lloyd Garrison, (still a peace man,) into the war principle, for self-defence and liberty, under the lead of John Brown. And many Abolitionists now, if not most of them, are with the Government in its life-and-death struggle, believing that to break the power of slaveholders is to break the power of slavery itself. If it shall turn out, however, that slavery does not get destroyed, or at least greatly crippled, by this war, these once peace Abolitionists will probably return to the doctrine that " Wisdom is better than weapons of war." But, should slavery receive its death-blow from the war, will not that be proof that war sometimes helps the progress of the race 1 So it would seem. But the answer is not yet; though when it comes, be it on which side it may, it will be important. If it only establishes a genuine Northern Republic, it will be proof that it is not wholly evil to the race.
I see in this war a necessity of the present character and condition of our country and countrymen-especially at the South-and do not see how it could have been avoided, without a miraculous interposition and prevention by Providence. I see, of course, that if North and South had all along been thoroughly civilized, humanized and christianized, they could have avoided it, and have secured permanent peace and prosperity; or if North and South had been blessed with leaders sufficiently wise and Christian. But such was not the case, and the war is upon us as the legitimate result of SLAVERY. On the part of the North, it is probably as purely defensive as a war can be; and it has been dragged into it by the South against its long and constant inclination and purpose. Jesus foresaw such conflicts when he said, " Offences must needs come, but woe unto him by whom the offence cometh! "
And who does not feel like hating slavery from foundation to top-stone, when he thinks what woes it has brought, and is still bringing, upon its victims, and upon the whole land! Every humane person must. But we should be careful not to let our hatred extend to slaveholders. We should remember Jesus rebuking Scribes and Pharisees, and yet weeping over Jerusalem; and endeavor always to mingle mercy with justice. War cannot nullify the Beatitude: "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy."
When our country shall have passed through this war, begun with such fearfully ominous signs, we shall probably come out of it, even though triumphantly victorious, with even more horror of such bloody and destructive feuds, and a much higher appreciation of Peace, than we now have. God grant that this may be one of the good results of it; and that it may be the last great war that shall ever be carried on by the Government! May the nation learn wisdom by its bitter and sad experience, and henceforth " proclaim liberty, every one to his neighbor, and every man to his brother," so that the Lord will not have to proclaim liberty for us through the retributive laws of his often terrible Providence!
COLORED CHILDREN AND THE PEOVIDENCE SCHOOLS.
PROVIDENCE, Aug. 26, 1861.
The only legal obstacle to an equality of school privileges in this city is the construction authoritatively put upon section second of the " Ordinance in relation to Public Schools," which reads thus:-" There shall be three Public Schools maintained exclusively for the instruction of colored children, the grades thereof to be determined, from time to time, by the School Committee." In this brief paragraph, and this alone, the School Committee and the City Council profess to find their authority for closing the doors of all the white schools in the city, the High School included, against all shades of colored pupils. Time and again, but thus far in vain, have the colored citizens and their friends petitioned the School Commit-
<c05>
tee, the City Council, and the General Assembly, to give this ordinance a more equitable construction, or repeal it altogether. In vain before Committees, and Councils, and Legislatures, have the colored people demonstrated their absolute, constitutional, legal right to the use of any and all those schools which their money helps to maintain. A few days since, a petition, signed by white and colored citizens, reiterating the request, " so to amend the city ordinance relating to the public schools as to provide for the admission of all the children, irrespective of color, into the schools for which their qualifications fit them," was presented to the City Council. This petition was tabled by a vote of thirteen to six. Being one of the aforesaid petitioners, and, " what is more,", a voter, and wishing to make a record somewhere of the character of the opposition, I forward a specimen or two from the speech of "William Binney, Esq., Chairman of the Committee on Education, to which Committee it had been moved the petition be referred. Mr. Binney, who, by the way, is a Providence lawyer, with Philadelphia antecedents, made a speech in opposition to this motion, in which speech he embodied the general characteristics which mark all the arguments hitherto put forth by the enemies of equal educational rights. His speech is saturated with plantation odor, as you will perceive by the three brief extracts which I herewith transmit, with a few short comments:-
"I hope," said he, "that the Council will not receive the petition; I am opposed to it, right or wrong." This is as frank as it is atrocious. It is, perhaps, lucky for Mr. Binney, that no Providence paper will lay before his constituents his own avowal that, in deciding on public measures, their inherent right or wrong is, with him, a matter of no consequence. If the college-hill voters should, by chance, get hold of this, I conjecture they would say that he was the wrong man in the wrong place, and would be less mischievously located in some collection of Egyptian mummies or fossilized curiosities. The least they could do would be the presentation of a volume of first and easy lessons in Civil Ethics, with a suitable instructor to teach him the rudiments.
I quote again:-" I have yet to learn whether any person has a constitutional right to education in this State, whether white or black." If Mr. Binney has a sharp appetite for information on this point, I refer him to any of the pupils, bright or stupid, in any of our intermediate schools. They have learned, if he has not, that their right to education is founded on the Constitution, and the laws made in accordance therewith. There is not a school-boy in Providence, ten years old, white or black, who is not familiar with the constitutional argument on the equal right of all the children in the Commonwealth to education. Some of the truant ones have had a little painful experimental knowledge added to their a priori reasoning. Try your hand with them, Mr. Binney, and you may rapidly learn what you say you are ignorant of. I venture to say that the white children in your ward will earnestly protest against your destroying the rights of negro boys by assaulting theirs.
The last specimen which I select from this Chairman's argument reads as follows:-"I believe that the colored children are better separate from the white. In my judgment, it shows the ignorance of the petitioners in supposing they are not." In previous discussions, some of the opposition have frankly admitted the cogency and conclusiveness of the abstract argument on the side of educating the white and colored children in the same schools, while maintaining, at the same time, its impracticability. "While conceding that it would be abstractly right, they have forcibly dwelt upon its mischief's in practice. But Mr. Binney does not belong to this class of opponents. He does not stoop to the discussion of principles. Indeed, his notions on the intrinsic right or wrong involved in a proposed public measure preclude him from all such debate. Hence he deals in bald assertions, and assumes his facts. It would occupy too much of your space to analyze the word better in the above extract, and show in detail that Mr. Binney is as much in error in his belief, as he is deficient, according to his own admission, in Rhode Island constitutional knowledge. Unsophisticated people will deem it better for all classes to act rightly, constitutionally and legally, in all practical cases which these three may conjointly sanction. Any measure thus conditioned must, of necessity, be beneficial. And these ignorant petitioners have, with surprising success, collected an overwhelming mass of facts, confirmatory of the safety and wisdom of adhering to well settled principles. Allow me to say that Mr. Binney is not so very ignorant nor so skeptical as he professes to be. He owes most of his knowledge on this question, and much of his faith, to the light with which the colored men have illuminated his understanding. It is to them he is indebted for the undeniable fact, that wherever the experiment of educating the blacks and whites together has been fairly tried, success has crowned the effort. He knows, as well as we do, that, in the Bridgham-Street School, this very summer, the experiment tried there on a small scale, on the sole responsibility of a humane teacher, worked so well that the Committee peremptorily put a stop to it, and turned the two colored children into the street. He knows, as well as we do, that only fifteen minutes' walk from that same school, over in Elmwood, just outside the jurisdiction of Mr. Binney's Committee, there are in one school eighteen or twenty colored children in constant attendance, and no trouble. He knows,-for the evidence has been placed in his hands by these ignorant petitioners,-that, in every school in this State, as well as in other States where the same policy is pursued, there is none of that terrible tumult between white and colored pupils which Mr. Binney and his friends are so often asserting, and so exultingly predicting.
I have outrun my limits, and will leave Mr. Binney with his constituents and the readers of the Liberator.
D. B. H.
THE COURAGE OF THE AMERICANS.
[Translated from the Pioneer for the Liberator.]
A reader of the Pioneer. in the State of New York, finds in the flight of the Union army from Manassas to Washington, and in the simultaneous retirement of the rebels to Richmond, a proof that Americans lack courage. He means, that this flight was so entirely without reason, the loss being only a thousand killed and wounded, that it can only be explained by a lack of courage, and dwells especially upon the circumstance that, at that time, the Irish, who had participated in the battle, were for the most part worn out, while the Germans stood in reserve at Centreville. According to this, the Americans, when reduced to themselves, fled from each other; the one to Washington, the other to Richmond.
We cannot agree with this definition. First, the physical courage, in rank and file, is always the last which we doubt in a people, because it is altogether too common and cheap a virtue. Then, all reports agree that, before the occurrence of the panic, the troops in general bore themselves bravely in the battle, although the boastful accounts of the local press, which give a place of honor in the telegraphic dispatches to every wounded horse, necessitate a considerable reduction in the estimate of the deeds accomplished. But the principal thing is that, except in large cities and other nurseries of effeminacy, Americans, through their natural disposition and whole training, are not made for cowards. Where they are or appear to be so, their nature, as a rule, has been for the moment misled or repressed by pernicious influences; for instance, by the spirit of haggling, or legal narrowness. But, in general, we believe that nowhere can better "fighting material" be found than among Americans; and this will certainly be proved true, when they become accustomed to military discipline, acquire greater self-reliance through practice of arms, and, what is the principal thing, are led everywhere by able officers, and set in motion by right motives.
<c06>
Subjects, who are driven by a despot to battle, only need for enthusiasm the order or hope of favor from their master Men, who belong to themselves, need to expose their life to bullets, an idea which warms and fills them, in opposition to another which excites their hatred. They must not only, on their side, have a cause which, has their love, but also an enemy opposed to them, whom they hate fiercely with his cause This is, indeed, the only thing which converts the barbarians of the South into soldiers: they hate the men of the North. They feel themselves in entire, unadulterated opposition to everything that represents the North, as the robber feels himself in entire opposition to moral society; and, therefore their military action takes that character of decision and regardless ness, which regardless ness, which, alone can make them formidable. They are never taught that they are fighting against friends, but only against worthy objects of their muskets and bowie-knives. They are enemies, and act as enemies, whose aim is the destruction of their opponents.
 But is it so on the side of the North? This question the eunuchs and old women may answer who until now, have conducted the war and inspired the soldiers. Have they not said every third word, that the war was carried on only against "brothers"? Cannon, cartridges, bullets, against "brothers"! Slave-dealers, assassins, barbarians pirates, brutes your brothers"? If you really fight against "brothers," ye Christian souls, take prayer-books, instead of guns into your hands, and let psalms be heard instead of the roar of cannon! Is not to official nonsense about "brotherhood" the best means to pervert all military spirit in the beginning, and to paralyze all power of attack? Must not the hand on the barrel and the finger on the trigger lose their firmness when, behind the backs of the soldiers, is heard eternally the official cry, "You are fighting and shooting brothers!" when the representatives of the nation should thunder, instead, in their ears " You are fighting and shooting criminals, knaves, barbarians. the outcasts of humanity!" Fill the soldiers with the right hatred and they will have the right courage. Bad enough is it if a shameful defeat, instead of moral repulsion must be the school of this hatred; but better even the spirit of revenge, than the spirit of reconciliation towards the representatives of shame and barbarism.
But then, what is the idea that urges the Northern soldier to battle? What is he to think of the mad cry for " the Union," which can only appear to his eyes as a rude battle-field of eternal confusion and barbarism, if the opposition of slavery to freedom continues? And what is he to think of a war for the Constitution, which lie left unmolested at home and which was as little esteemed at the South before as it is during the conflict?
All the watchwords and mottoes which have been hitherto used to inspire the Northern army do not touch its very heart, and do not give it the right understanding of the opposition towards its enemy. The only men who have comprehended, realized 'the nature of this opposition have been the Germans, and, therefore, they have, when opportunity has been given them, been effective enemies against the rebels.
See to it that the troops of the North represent a whole, like those of the South, and they will also become whole soldiers. Let FREEDOM, ENTIRE FREEDOM, comprising Union, Constitution, Civilization, and all else, be written on their banner; then will they know that they represent the opposition to slavery and barbarism; for which the Southerners make war; then will they say to themselves that they must never rest until they have destroyed what they oppose.
Physical courage Americans do not lack, but higher moral courage, that courage which does not hesitate to speak the true word, and to stand up openly and frankly for the truth. Over the whole battle of the North has been displayed, till now, as the war motto, a GREAT LIE-the lie that this is no war against slavery. And that this is a lie is better, indeed, than if it were truth. The whole North has been branded, hitherto, with the stamp of moral cowardice, which, in the midst of the war, does not dare to call the real point of conflict by its true name, and to attack it directly. So long as this cowardice rules, and gives the war its character, so long will it communicate itself to the soldiers, and enervate them morally; and so long will they be unable to go into battle with undivided heart and real enthusiasm. There is something like a bad conscience that haunts the whole Northern conduct of this war; and, so long as this bad conscience shall not be banished by open, true, entire standing forth for the whole cause, the panic remains in all the forests of the South, and awaits a new occasion.
Freedom, entire freedom, destruction of slavery and all barbarism, radical purification of the Republic from all the filth and decay which defile and threaten it-make this your battle-cry, then, in spite of masked batteries, and in spite of the despair of a enemy struggling for his life, and the spirit of the North will stand so firmly, and will penetrate so indomitably, that no paroxysm of panic can again disturb its assurance of victory, or stop its march.
The later history of this Republic shows you a man who, standing alone, opposed to the whole South thirsting for revenge, though sure of death, could nevertheless by no panic be made untrue to himself. But this was a man who did not hide his designs behind a false opposition; he had the courage to be and to wish for something complete; moreover, he called his enemies by the right name, as "robbers and murderers," nor did he degrade his reason and manhood by a "brotherly" obtrusion upon those whom he hated and despised. How high does this man stand above those who are now carrying on a war for the so-called banner on which they dare not write the word, FREEDOM! So long as you dare not plant the banner of John Brown, and act in his spirit, so long do you lack true courage and heroism. Had you erected a monument of honor to that hero at Charlestown, you would not have left behind you at Manassas a monument to shame.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents, of Howe, Wheeler A Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LENONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan. 18, 1861 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging; the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tendon, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with, the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
