THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per an <illegible> in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inarted three times for 75 cents-one squre for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Panasylvains, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societiesare authorised to receive subscriptions for THE <illegible>.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but, are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with half.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential rapports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking, at it folly, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; near ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 8. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1860.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1522.

REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov.27, 1859.
The poet Saxe lectured here on Friday evening. His subject was 'Yankee Land.' It was a poem, and I understand was full of patriotic and Union loving sentiments. I did not hear him, though I was very desirous to do so. The truth is, I lost so much time in getting here, and am so anxious to get away, that I could not afford to spare two or three hours' time from proof-reading, and thus cause another day's delay. Of quite a different character, I presume, was the lecture last night, by Wendell Phillips. As it was Saturday, and no work in the printing line could be done to-day, I had plenty of time to hear him; but I did not choose to contribute fifty cents towards the support of a vile traitor to the Republic, and a lying slanderer of the whole South. His subject was 'Toussaint L'Ouverture, ' the leader of the negro insurrection in St. Domingo. I remember to have read, years ago, a novel written by some lady who was afflicted with an excessive love for the negro race, of which Toussaint was the hero, and in which the ignorant and bloody-minded brute was assigned a place by the side of Washington. I do not know how far Wendell Phillips may have drawn on that novel for his facts, or how far his imagination supplied them; for I have seen no one who heard him, and the Sunday Dispatch, (an abolition sheet,) of this morning, makes no mention of his lecture. The Southern reader, who has heard so much of Wendell Phillips, may be curious to know what manner of man he is. He is described to me as a tall man, with a most unpleasing expression of countenance, cold, gloomy, and impassive (!!)-without the least animation of manner, or one indication of genuine, honest feeling. (!!) He is a graduate of Cambridge, and practised law until 1840, when he took up the trade of abolition lecturer, and has since lived upon the profits of that nefarious pursuit. His lectures are all delivered for money. They are carefully written out, and exhibit an accurate knowledge of the English language, and a correctness of literary taste which is shameful to see employed for such foul purposes as those to which he perrerts them.
He is said to be, personally, a wretched coward, and that he would be the last man in the country to brave himself the dangers to which he is constantly urging others. By the way, this is no uncommon phenomenon. I have witnessed it often, and it has as often furnished me with a theme for curious speculation.-Corr. Memphis Enquirer.

THEODORE PARKER.
Theodore Parker's letter from Rome-his second canonization of a traitor-is about the strongest and most foolish piece of Osawatomie Brown fanaticism that has appeared. He goes in for a fight between the North and the South; a fight not with paper pellets but with leaden bullets; not with the reword of the spirit but with material, rapiers; not at some future day but for this day. He holds that John Brown, in drawing about his neck a halter, has done what the Lexington Militia did, on the 19th of April morning, 1775, when they drew upon them the fire of the British grenadiers; that is, he has made the one nation of the North and South in peace into two nations at war! Thus Theodore writes in the zenith of his blasphemous nonsense, 'What the masterly eloquence of Seward could not accomplish, even by his manly appeal to the higher law, nor the eloquence of Phillips and Sumner, addressed to the reason and common sense of the people, seems likely to be brought to pass by John Brown.' Why, the man's daft.-Boston Post.

FANATICISM STILL LIVES.
Fanaticism, indeed, still lives. But the monster is no longer what he was. His ears grow shorter by degrees, like the tresses of the nut-brown maid; and there is reason to hope that he can never again make so many fools on this continent, as he did during the loggy, know-nothing, free-love, spirit-rapping period referred to. In oter words, the American people have so far recovered the sterling common sense, which has made them a great nation, as to see and admit what we often told them-namely, that the real enemies of the Union are the very parties who were most unscrupulous in charging the Irish with treason against their adopted country. They know, by this time, that if 'foreign influence' has been at work against the Union, it comes not from Ireland, but from Ireland's oppressor. The London Times has tried to divert attention from the well-founded charge openly made against the British government, (not to mention the Exeter Hall Abolitionists,) of contributing large sums from the secret service fund towards widening the breach as much as possible, between the North and the South. The means adopted are characteristic of the 'leading journal.' Crocodile-like, it pretends to weep over the 'unhappy strife;' and even goes so far as to say that slavery is not such a bad thing after all. But that large sums of money are regularly furnished in London, for the support of Abolition publications in this country, is beyond a doubt. The journals thus subsidized in order that they may deluge their country in blood, if they have the power. not content with playing the traitor, under the guise of philanthropy, make it a point to sneer with all the little sacrasm of which they are capable, at the Irish and their religion.
But the thing does not pay, even with the addition of the Exeter Hall fund. The Anti-Slavery Standard, for example, has never been able to sustainitself, but is constantly making 'appeals' for support to the friends of the cause. Putnam's Magazine survived the first of its Abolition lucubrations only one year; and its publisher saved himself from ruin only by throwing it into other hands to die. Even with this precaution, he had a narrow escape from being crushed. Nor has the Atlantic Monthly succeeded better. That it has been the real cause of the failure of Messrs. Phillips, Sampson & Co., is now well understood. We might well fear for the Messrs. Ticknor & Fields also, ample as their resources are; but they are 'wide awake.' It is, we believe, pretty generally known that they risk very little, if anything, more than their name on the title page. Otherwise they would be far too shrewd, as business men, to leave it still in the hands of Mr. Russell Lowell, the regular correspondent and chief contributor to the Anti-Slavery Standard-to make it at once an Abolition organ of the darkest dye, and a medium of periodical attack on the Irish and their religion. Mr. Lowell does all in his power to please Exeter Hall; but all the Halls from this to Delhi, and round again by Timbuctoo and Congo, could not induce the English people, or any other people of taste, to read his 'poetry,' except to laugh it to scorn as Blackwood laughed at his lectures on the English Poets! Thus the real enemies of the Union are precisely those who are most disposed to give veat to petty spite against the Irish; but who, it is pleasant to add, have too poor an intellect to hurt any but their publishers, save fanatics like John Brown and his followers.-Boston Pilot.
<c02>
SENATOHIAL LEGERDEMAIN
Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, is a gentleman fond of nice distinctions. He is as acute as the celebrated Linkum Fidelius, who could abstract the color, taste, smell, shape and all other appearances of the orange, and then contemplate the substance of which these were qualities. He can admire and applaud the traitor at the same time that he reprobates the treachery. He can take to his heart the former, and abhor the latter. He can love the Union  ith a devotion supreme and deathless, and can venerate as a hero the man who has declared that the Constitution is ' a league with hell and a covenant with the devil.' He 'never in his life breathed hostility to the Union'-not he; but he ' did attend an abolition festival in Boston, and made a speech.' Garrison was present, and raved and blasphemed as usual; and though Mr. Wilson took issue with him in relation to his views on State rights, and so forth, yet he admired Garrison ' for his devotion to what he believed a duty.' He had also paid a tribute to the abolition party in England who liberated eight hundred thousand slaves in the West. Indies, and left them more abject in their misery than any body of laborers in the world; but still he was no abolitionist.
This is the substance of the defence which Mr. Wilson set up in the Senate when arraigned before the country for fraternizing last summer with the open enemies of the Union. It is a fair sample of the straightforwardness and sincerity of the party which is laboring might and main to bring the quarrel between the North and South to such a pass that compromise will be impossible, while they are loudest in their shouts of ' long live the Constitution!' We are reminded by this policy of the scene in the quaint allegory of Bunyan, where the pilgrim beholds a man pouring water upon a fire which, notwithstanding, blazes more brightly every moment, the solution of the wonder being found in the fact that another is behind the flames casting a continual stream of oil upon them. Such tactics are unworthy of any cause; but they especially misbecome and profane the highest legislative body in the nation. There was a time in our history when such pitiful double-dealing would have secured the prompt repudiation of any Senator by his constituents; but these simple and unsophisticated times have gone by, and Yankee smartness is a badge of distinction, even when it invades the precincts of the Senate of the United States, once the synonym of all that was pre-eminently dignified, honorable and patriotic.-St. Louis Bulletin.

SELECTIONS. 
THE TRIAL OF STEVENS. 
SPEECH OF GEORGE SENNOTT, ESQ. 
COUNSEL FOR THE PRISONER.
MAY IT PLEASE YOUR HONOR, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY,-I appear before you with unfeigned solicitude. The case is a most serious one. It is serious to me, because I am defending a most unpopular cause, in the midst of a justly indignant and highly excitable people, and may be obliged, in the defence, to express sentiments unpleasing to you all. It is serious to the unfortunate prisoner, and it is serious to you, gentlemen; for the providence of God, working out great ends in most mysterious ways, has brought you together upon a case wherein brothers and friends are assembled to judge a friend and brother, and condemn him, perhaps, to inevitable death,-not because he was worthy of moral blame, but because he violated a municipal law,-the first case of the kind that ever has occurred in our history. May Heaven in mercy grant it to be the last! My countrymen, was there ever under heaven a land so happy as ours has been for the last forty years? What other race of man, since his creation, ever received from God benefits so many and so great? Separated from every enemy on every side-overflowing with riches and with strength-with productions so diversified and so correlative that what one had the other needed, and thus we could not rival each other, or compete with each other, any more than man can rival woman, or woman compete with man-crowned with a common historic glory- proud of a common and most illustrious ancestry-governed by a common law, and bound together in the loving, melting, heart-moving music of a common mother tongue-what madness has overwhelmed us all, that we find ourselves suddenly glaring at each other with blood on both our hands; and, merciful God, what blood! What has caused it? Who did it? What spirit of satanic malignity-what heart and brain set on fire of hell first entered our Western Eden, and set us on each other? Ah, fellow-citizens of the dis-United States, it was no infernal spirit from the other world that wrought us so dire a mischief. It was a small source from which those horrors sprang. The thing that did it all has neither heart nor brain. It has only a tongue and a belly-a tongue to twaddle, and a belly to fill. It is that feeblest production of the decay of American statesmanship, to wit: the professional politician. A statesman, the gift of heaven to distracted nations, is as rare as a prophet. But the race of politicians is cheaply propagated, and is as numerous and as useful as the thistle and the burr. It was after the establishment of the Missouri compromise that this miserable breed began to annoy us. The great old statesmen who had laid the foundation of our greatness broad and deep, were going calmly to their great reward. Discussions upon slavery, and its abominations, were almost confined to the slave States themselves. You had almost reached the conclusion, now so distant, that you were ready to end the detestable thing-and do it yourselves without assistance, or even advice from us, your brothers. It was emphatically an era of good feeling. We were all one people, and many men still living remember with regret the happy and cordial interchange of benefits and good wishes between the fine old Southern gentlemen and the princes of the Northern commerce, who met round the hospitable tables of the Capital to felicitate each other on the magnificent progress of a common country. All at once, a small society appeared in the city of Boston. It was a very insignificant company then-very much resembling a missionary or a peace society, and composed apparently of the same sort of people-enthusiastic women, and respectable, benevolent and sympathetic women, old and young. Its purposes were entirely peaceful. Its numbers were utterly insignificant, and its personnel of no manner of influence, except that some of the ladies belonged, I believe, to high Boston society. Such as they were, the member of Congress at that time did not think them of sufficient consequence to notice their questions on the subject of slavery. Happy would it have been for us all if his successors and their opponents and friends had ever since followed his example. But it was not so to be. Instigated by some contemptible political rogue, an unruly mob of well dressed blackguards surrounded their place of meeting-offered insult to the assembled ladies, drovethem out of their hired hall, and in open day, and in the heart of the most peaceful and orderly city in the whole civilized world, actually put a rope round the
<c03>
neck of one of the men to hang him. That rope may one day strangle the life out of the American Constitution. That man was William Lloyd Garrison. Almost about the same time, other and similar outrages were perpetrated in various cities of the North, and one of the earliest and most vivid recollections of my childhood, is the recollection of the horror I Felt when I was told that the man I saw pelted down the street, by a shouting crowd, was a 'vile abolitionist.' I did not know what that meant then, but thought it must be a monster, of course.! I grew up almost to manhood with similar feelings, and can truly say, that for a long time I saw an abolitionist about as often as I saw a negro-a race of man not much encouraged at the North. At school and at college, it was nearly the same. An abolitionist was seldom heard of or seen, and when he was, he was pretty severely saubbed. If, daring these years, a Southerner or anybody else had told us that the North was to be abolitionized, or that we thought about the South in any way except as a country full of generous, hospitable people, we would undoubtedly have thought him unsound in mind. We were full of our own affairs, and never, I venture to say, so much as thought of your existence, except to your advantage. The South to us had a traditional raputation for courtesy, magnanimity, and even for statesmanlike and scholarly men. In those happy, and it may be irrevocable days, a Northern man would come here without being thought to be an abolition sneak, and a Southern man could visit us without being considered a blustering humbug. Southern men respected us, and we loved them. Mr. Preston, an eminent man from South Carolina, for example, paid us, during those happy days, before his own constituents,, one of the finest compliments we have ever had. With your Honor's leave, I will repeat it. He said-
'No Southern man can journey, as I have done, 'through the Northern States, and witness the prosperity, the industry, the public spirit, which they exhibit-the sedulous cultivation of all those arts by which life is rendered comfortable and respectable-without feelings of deep sadness and shame, as he remembers his own neglected and desolate home, There, no dwelling is to be seen abandoned, no farm uncultivated, no man idle, no waterfall, even, unemployed. Every person and everything performs a part toward the grand result, and the whole land is covered with fertile fields, with manufactories and canals, and railroads, and public <illegible>, and towns and cities. Along the route of the great New York canal. (that glorious monument to the glorious memory of De Witt Clinton,) a canal, a railroad, and a turnpike, are to be seen in the width of perhaps a hundred yards, each of them crowded with travel, or overflowing with commerce. Throughout their course, lands that before their construction would scarcely command five dollars the acre, now sell for fifty, seventy-five, or a hundred. Passing along it, you see no space of three miles without a town or village, and you are never out of the sound of a church bell. We of the South are mistaken in the character of these people, when we think of them only as peddlers in horn flints and bark nutmegs. Their energy and enterprise are directed to all objects, great and small, within their reach. At the fall of a scanty rivulet, they set up their little manufactory of wooden buttons or combs-they plant a barren hillside with broomcorn, and make it into brooms at the bottom, and on its top they erect a windmill. Thus, at a single spot, you may see the air, the earth, and the water, all at work for them. But at the same time, the ocean is whitened to its extremities with the sails of their ships, and the land is covered with their works of art and usefulness. Massachusetts is perhaps the most flourishing of the Northern States. Yet of natural productions she exports but two articles-granite and ice. Absolutely nothing but rock and ice! Everything else of her commerce, from which she derives so much wealth, is artificial-the work of her own hands. All this is done in a region with a bleak climate and sterile soil, by the energy and intelligence of the people. Each man knows that the public good is his individual advantage. The number of railroads and other modes of expeditious intercommunication knit the whole country into a closely compacted mass, through which the productions of commerce and of the press, the comforts of life and the means of knowledge, are universally diffused; while the close intercourse of travel and business makes all men neighbors, and promotes a common interest and common sympathy. In a community thus connected, a single flash of thought pervades the whole land almost as rapidly as thought itself can fly. The population becomes, as it were, a single set of muscles, animated by one heart, and directed by a common sensorium. How different the condition of things in the South! Here the face of the country wears the aspect of premature old age and decay. No improvement is seen going on-nothing is done for posterity-no man thinks of anything beyond the present moment. Our lands are yearly tasked to their utmost capacity of production, and when exhausted, are abandoned for the youthful West. Because nature has been prodigal to us, we seem to think it unnecessary to do anything ourselves. The industry and skill that have converted the inclement and barren hills of New England into a garden, in the genial climate and fertile soil of the South would create almost a paradise. Our natural advantages are among the greatest with which Providence has blessed mankind, but we lack the spirit to enjoy and improve them. The rich ore is beneath our feet, yet we dig not for it. The golden fruit hangs from the bough, and we lift not our hands to gather it.'
And this was said of us twenty years ago, since when, every advantage and energy have been more than doubled. Yet to-day, owing to the machinations of foolish, unprincipled politicians alone, and from no other earthly cause, it is safer to be a murderer, dripping with blood, in many parts of the South, than to hail from the illustrious Commonwealth of Massachusetts, or the imperial republic of New York. Permit me here to tell you, though you know it well, what sort of thing a politician is. At the North, he is likely to be a bankrupt shoemaker, who prefers to swindle and go half starved rather than work and pay his honest debts; in the South, he is more than likely to be a lawyer without a brief, and often without a book, whose practice is confined to the bar of the village hotel. The whole stock in trade of one is anti-slavery gabble; the whole stock in trade of the other is pro-slavery bluster. The respectable people of their several localities are too busy, and in the North they are certainly too much occupied in money-making, to vote them down, but they shun these brawlers like an unmentionable disorder; they abandon the polls to them; they stay at home in Massachusetts to the number of 120,000 votes. The fellow-loafers of the two specimens of rogues elect them; and now two men are appointed to look after the interests of the country, who are not acquainted even with its geography. And they are entrusted with the business of the nation, who have been chiefly remarkable for reckless and fraudulent neglect of their own. These men meet each other perhaps in the halls of Congress-not to consult, for they can only vituperate-not to counsel, but to harangue-not to enact useful laws, but to invent ways and means to get themselves re-elected. And thus they have done again and again by abusing men and institutions of which they respectively know nothing, and playing upon, and trading with the passions of the most frivolous of this people. Such in the material which makes up the bulk of what we are pleased to call eminent
<c04>
politicians, on both side of Mason and Dixon's line. Such are the men whose want of sense and want of principle have led, step by step, to the <illegible> horrors of Harper's Ferry. You may say, if you please, that abolition teaching did this. But what produced abolition teaching, and gave it its widespread effect? I will tell you. It was political rascality undertaking to put down freedom of speech by force, that made men help on the abolition movement, who were not then, and who never will be abolitionists. Let me prove it, gentlemen, by well known, historical facts. The mobbing of abalitionists by their own fellow-citizens had hardly ceased, when a few people petitioned Congress to abolish slavery in the District, and also the internal slave trade. The petitioners were then just as inconsiderable as  they had been when first dispersed and half hanged, for they were the same people who  had experienced that treatment, without being contented or improved by it. And now, were they left unnoticed? Were they quietly and sensibly sent about their businees? No, your Honor; no, Mr. Foreman. If any quiet and sensible counsel bad prevailed, the politician’s occupation was gone. The mischief-makers then in Congress seized it as a gadsend. They wanted something to twaddle about, and they reached into the ark of our covenant for their subject. They laid their dirty hands upon the sacred right of petition, belonging as a birthright to the sovereign people of the United States. They broke up the hearthstones of the edifice of the Union to pelt away a few of the poor tenants with the fragments, and then affected surprise at the indignation of the owners. From that dilapidated house, through Kansas, the road leads straight to Harper's Ferry, and the poor prisoner came in that direction before you.
Now, gentleman, allow ma to give some information that I hope will not displease you. If it does excuse, it, for it is true, and presented from good motives. I know the sentiments of the people Where I live. I mean the people, not the polticians, who have no sentiments that they are not ready to sell. We are all sound on the slavery question; for we all detest slavery-all of us. We cannot help datesting it. But we ardently, desire to let it alone. It is your institution-not ours, thank God. Hands off-let it alone-mind your own business, ' these are the expressions that suit us to use when Northern men attempt to meddle practically with you. But then we have an institution which is ours, if not yours-it is freedom of speech, and we want you not to maddle with that. It is not your business, but mine, if I like to listen to, and do go to hear my honored acquaintance, Wendell Phillips, or that I am proud of the friendship of Dr. S. G. Howe, or that I admire the character of Wm. Lloyd Garrison. It is true you cannot help yourselves, and I am glad you cannot interfere about it; but it is an offence and an outrage for you even to try-so do not try. Let us alone- hands off, if you please. Mind your own business. It is our turn now to cry out; and however much we detest slavery, don't undertake to keep us from saying so or thinking so, as long as we never meddle, practically, with you and yours. That meddling, foolish men on both sides have undertaken to interfere in practice with what did not concern them at all, is the cause of all our difficulties, from the hanging of William Lloyd Garrison down to the execution of Captain John Brown and the trial of this young man beside me. And now, hear the determination of the young men of the North. This meddling shall be stopped. We number nearly one million of actual votes. We, I mean, who habitually attend to making money, and who commonly abstain from voting. We have hitherto cared nothing for politicians or their gabble; but this Harper's Ferry affair would haply have awakened the dead. It will not be many months before you will find us more conservative than will be agreeable to you. It will be a sad mistake of yours, if you gauge the sincerity of the North and East by your knowledge of the transparent hypocrisy of the Union meetings. They are Union meetings, indeed, where the political tradesman and the trading politician unite to advertise their respective wares, and cheat you into paying for them. Do not disbelieve the sincerity of the slowly moving voters because you understand the motives of Mr. Caleb Cushing; and as for your counsellor, Mr. O'Conor-he does your law business, I am informed, and does it well-could you not instruct him to stick to your law business, and let the defence of slavery alone? It is not singular that you wish Northern men to let you alone on that point, for whenever they touch it, even as friends, they do you damage. When Mr. O'Conor, reciting his argument in the Lemmon case to the New York tradesmen's meeting, tells us in your name that if slavery is not morally right, the Union ought not to endure, he not only makes you doubt his patriotism, and even his sincerity, but he gives up to Wendell Phillips more ground, in one instant than the Democratic party can recover for you in twenty years. 'If slavery is not right, then the Union cannot and ought not to endure!' Great God! what more formidable postulate could the devil himself require for our complete destruction? Why, this is the very thing we have been trying to keep out of politics; it belongs to ethics. Gentlemen, sin is not right, but the Union can and ought to endure, for Providence has seen fit to leave the tares and the wheat together until the harvest. It is exactly this illogical application of the rules of theoretical ethics to the conduct of practical life, that has always distinguished the fanatic and ideologist from the man of sense, as completely as would a wing or a fin. Do, not, therefore, trouble yourselves about the declarations of these gentlemen. It is from a very different and far other source than the mouth of a professional politician, of any grade, that you will ascertain what the earnest and thoroughly awakened North will do with our part of this vast inheritance, which is yet, I believe, an undivided portion. We have not attended to your grievances, before, because we really did not stop to see if you had any. But now we are ready to remedy some, of the mischief by resolutely overwhelming, with the honors of private life, some of our ablest partisans, beginning with the principal savers of the Union. Help us, gentlemen, by a good beginning, on your side. Extend to us the right hand of brotherly love, and in it hold out the gift of the life of Stevens. With this living proof of the magnanimity of Virginia, I could collect as many, Union meetings in the next two years as  are there meeting-houses in the Northern States. And they would mean something. I should not be afraid to say to you, that even what you  call the compromises of the Constitution might then be enforced to some extent. For men, you know, would often do for gratitude what they could not be got to do for money; and many men not now so friendly, would be grateful to you for sparing the life of Stevens.
Genttleman, pardon me for dwelling so long on the national aspect of the case. The opening of the government enabled me to do it-indeed, it in some measure compelled me to attend to that branch of it. We will now, if you please, attend to the indictment and the testimony.
Some months ago, about twenty misguided young
<c05>
men followed an old man into the town of Harper's Ferry. The old man was one 
whose character extorted admiration from strangers and deadly enemies, and excited more than filial devotion in the hearts of those to whom he was a father and a friend. He led them, open-eyed, to his and their perdition. With one poor exception, they followed him blindly and without complaint. The rocks, the river and the hungry gallows devoured the blood of most of them, and the poor remnant is before you, patiently waiting if you want more blood, and ready for either fortune. Gentlemen, you cannot, you do not desire the blood of this fine young man. It was your fellow-citizens that saved his life after, he was wounded. It was the care of your people that staunched his gaping wounds, and raised him almost out of the grave. Gentlemen, did you save him from the bullets of the soldiery and nurse him for him for so many days, only to deliver him at last to the hangman? The indictment is founded upon a statute of four lines. There are three counts in it. It, with two other indictments, takes the place of one older indictment now disposed of The older indictment was the one I was is prepared to try. if any was tried here; but I did not think any case would be tried here. I thought, when I was here before-indeed, I was assured, and had reason to think-that Stevens would be tried at Staunton, before the courts of the United States. This new indictment is one of three, in which all the errors' pointed out in the other trials have been most carefully avoided. We saw it, for the first time, on Thursday evening. The jury was empannelled on Friday morning. Such an examination as was possible, under those circumstances I have given to it; but I have often had more time to examine an indictment for assault and battery than I have had to examine this indictment, founded upon a most sweeping statute, embracing the most shadowy title of the criminal law, and with death in every line. Gentlemen, the law of Virginia gives you power to judge of the law. This places the law of the land upon the same level with the testimony of the witnesses; and if you have a reasonable doubt of the application of the first, or of the credulity, or even the competency of the second-and by that word competency I mean, gentlemen, its fitness to come before you-yon must give the prisoner the benefit of that merciful doubt. Let me make myself plain to you, gentlemen. Have patience with the imperfections of my expressions, and excuse me, and lay it to my anxiety if I seem to talk as if you really needed to have matters made plain. The law and the witnesses art. both left to your consideration. If you think the witnesses tell things which have nothing to do with the case, you have the right to say to yourselves: 'We will act as if we never heard that. We will leave that out,' whatever it was, or even if the Judge did not stop it when I asked him, as you know I have very often. If you think the witnesses all tell the truth, then you must look at the law, and make up your minds whether it applies to what you have heard them say. And if Judge and counsel differ, it appears, after all, that you must decide. The prisoner is accused of three different offences, one in each count, as we call it. The first charges him with advising slaves to rebel, and even tells us who the slaves were. Is that true? Col. Washington has told you what he heard and saw. You remember it; we have not denied it. It seems that Stevens, with others, armed to the teeth, took master and slaves all prisoners together; that the slaves were very much frightened; that Mr. Alstadt's house was broken open forcibly, and his negroes captured, and frightened also. They were then all carted down to the ferry, and delivered to Captain Brown, who was armed like all his men. You are told that the slaves took arms very unwillingly, and it has even been boasted of Now, how can you believe all that, and believe that Stevens, or any one else, advised them to do anything? If it were said he forced them or compelled them to rebel, that would be true, and the truth is that Stevens forced every one, and had no time to persuade any one. Do not let the government lead you astray by telling you that advice can be given without a word; so can threats. A man can advise another to lend him money, but when he advises him with pistol in hand, we call it compulsion and robbery, accomplished, as the lawyers say, by 'force and putting in fear.' To advise has many meanings, but to force or compel is certainly not one of them., You may be told that Brown, or some others, advised the slaves, and that the advice of one of the band was the advice of all. It was, if all consented to it at the time it was given. It was, if the advice was in accordance with the original design. If not, it was not. If you doubt any of these particulars, you must acquit, and if you doubt whether the evidence concerning it was rightly admitted, you must give the poor prisoner the benefit of your doubt, for you are judges of the law, and a doubt is of the law of your part is as fatal to the government's case as a doubt of the fact. You know that much law was discussed-you heard the discussions, and you, after all, must decide them. The next count charges us with conspiring with the slaves to make insurrection. Gentlemen, the word conspire comes, you know, from two Latin words, and means literally to breathe together, that is, to agree entirely together to do something not lawful. Of course, it has a bad meaning-worse than the word agreement. With this understanding, how plain it is that there can be no conspiracy of Stevens with a slave, unless they agreed about it! And it must be mutual. Bad as the agreement may be, it must be an agreement, or there is no conspiracy. It takes or the consent of two minds to make a bargain, even to commit a crime. Surely, if Stevens and his associates forced the slaves to take up arms, there never was any agreement or consent between them. It was force on one side and fear on the other, or else your testimony is not true, and the constant assertions that your negroes would not join the invaders cannot be true. Here, gentlemen, is a matter for you to settle. If Stevens is guilty, then your negroes are not faithful. If your negroes are not faithful, then Stevens never did conspire, and you must say he is not guilty. And if you really cannot tell whether the negroes were faithful or not, but he bat only suspect it, for God's sake do not hang a young man upon suspicion. The next count charges us with conspiring with others to induce slaves to rebel. We have examined the word conspire. Let us try the dreadful word 'rebellion.' That, also, is from the Latin, and means to rise in war against lawful authority. But all resistance is not rebellion. Inducing slaves to run away is not exciting rebellion. Helping them to run away is not helping rebellion. Forcing them to take up pikes is not inducing or persuading to rebellion. And to agree, or, if you please, conspire, with forty men to run off slaves, and to resist all opposition, and even to resist to bloodshed, is a totally differernt offence from the dreadful one of agreeing to excite rebellion; yet the evidence, torture it as you will, certainly proves that, and does not prove a conspiracy to stir up insurrection or rebellion; and if you cannot tell what the design of those men really was and God alone can tell what it was-let your doubt be given in favor of liberty and life-the life which you did not give, and yet may take away. Gentleman, why should you take it away? The broken law
<c06>
has been dreadfully avenged. The active abolitionists are all destroyed or captured. You can afford to be magnanimous now. You are told he has broken the law. Well, duellists break the law every month, and come dripping with blood before juries, who yet acquit them. I recollect-you probably never have forgotten-that a fine young man, the son of one of your own citizens, was stabbed to the heart in open day, in a neighboring place, by one of his schoolmates. The murderer was tried, defended by nine lawyers, and when he was acquitted, the town was illuminated for joy. This man here never murdered a human being-never threatened to murder-never laid a bloody vindictive band upon any one in all his life. His moral character is above reproach. You heard your own jailor say he had not heard a profane or impatient word from him during his long confinement. Could I have had notice of the time of trial, I could have produced strong evidence before you that he never committed a crime in his life, except the crime of in his life. He was trained in the North to hate slavery. He was forced to fight in Kansas. With a mind fanaticised by what he saw, he is here to day, having, after all, rather attempted to break your law, than succeeded in actually breaking it. Can't you extend to this misguided, lanatical young man, the same mercy that you show to the murderer and the duellist? You may be told that, on the authority of the law, mercy is not yours. Gentlemen, I tell you, on the authority of God, ' Vengeance is mine-I will repay, saith the Lord.' Aaron D. Stevens may soon die. You and I must follow him. Some of you may precede him. It is you, and not the sheriff, who will put the rope around his handsome neck. It is you, and not the sheriff, that will answer to our Lord. That responsibility is yours alone. And I would rather mount the gallows, I would rather be riddled with shot in the street, I would rather perish slowly in torment, and there end, than fall into the hand of Him who can destroy the soul and body in hell, with such a dreadful doubt upon my shrinking soul Gentlemen, it has been said here that Stevens threatened profanely to kill the prisoners and burn the town. I shall not impugn the testimony, except to say that I do not believe it. It is inconsistent with all we know or ever heard of him. Stevens is a brave young man. We all understand that. He showed that at Harper's Ferry; he shows it here to-day. Now, I will not call names, lost I should offend delicacy; but we have brave men in Jefferson county, as brave as Stevens, or even as Brown himself. You all know who I mean. If anything at all distinguishes this class of men beside their courage, it is their kindness and tenderness of heart. It is with Stevens as with his jailor. He is too brave to be cruel, and the infamous thought of burning and slaughter never came into or out of his heart. Gentlemen, I see white hairs among you. The hair of Stevens' old father is very white-his heart is very heavy. You can cause it to sing for joy, or bring down that gray hair in sorrow to the grave. The man writes to me that' Aaron was a good boy to him; he thought he would be a comfort in his old age.' Gentlemen, you may take away that comfort. God alone can judge you for it. May He direct you. I can say no more, except to leave the case in your hands, hoping, rather than confiding, in your justice and good sense.
This address was listened to with profound attention by the jury and the large crowd of spectators present.

From the New York Tribune.
REPORT ON PERSONAL LIBERTY.
Mr. Powell from the Select Committee on the subject of a law to protect personal liberty and to prevent slave-hunting in this State, made a written report to the law Assembly on Saturday. We give below an abstract of its principal points.
The Committee recommend the enactment of a law in accordance with the prayer of the petitioners, for the following reasons, among others:
Because God has explicitly forbidden the rendition of fugitive slaves to their masters. He has said,' Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee. He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose, in one of thy gates, where it liketh him best; thou shalt not oppress him.' Deut. xxxiii, 15, 16.
Because protection is the first duty of civil government; and the state that does not protect all the rights of all human beings within its jurisdiction, forfeits its claim to the allegiance of human beings, disbands society, and compels its citizens to protect themselves, each with his own arms, as he best can. And a government that cannot protect personal liberty, can protect none of the minor rights that grow out of it.
Because, so far from its being true that the enactment of an effective Personal Liberty law by the State of New-York would injure, disaffect, and alienate 'our brethren of the South,' the reverse of this would be true. Of the ten millions of 'our brethren of the South,' about four millions are slaves or free persons of color, who would hail with delight such a statue. Of the remaining six millions, who are free whites, only about one-fourth of a million are slaveholders, or could have say interest in the reclaiming of fugitive slaves; while the five and three-fourth millions of non-slaveholding whites could have no desire for their being sent back among them, to compete with and degrade their free labor. So that only one-fourth of a million among ten millions, or a proportion of 25 to 1000, or 2 1-2 per cent. of all 'our brethren of the South ' could have the least objection to the most stringent Personal Liberty bill that could be enacted by the Legislature of New-York. The union and fraternity that are yet to be between the citizens of the North and of the South would be greatly promoted and accelerated by such an enactment.
The Committee further maintain, that
The clause of the Constitution respecting 'persons held toon service and labor,'furnishes not the shadow of a pretext for the Fugitive bill of 1850, as expounded and enforced by the Federal Commissioners, is respect to fugitive slaves. The Constitution speaks of 'persons.' But, according to the code of Slavery, slaves are not persons, but things, chattels. It speaks of persons held to 'service and labor.' But slaves are not, by the Slave code, 'held to service'-they are only held as chattels. The Constitution speaks of 'persons held to service and in one State, under the laws thereof,' But there are no State laws holding slaves to 'service.' By the testimony of John O. Calboun, Senator. Mason, Judge Matthews, Judge Porter, and other prominent statesmen and civilians of the South, holding slaves, there are, in the Slave States, no laws establishing or creating the relation of Slavery; The Constitution, speaks of persons from whom service or labor, is 'due.' But nothing, by the code of Slavery, can be ' due ' from a slave, for he 'can make no contract' and incur no debt. The slave is held as property, and nothing can be 'due' from property to its owner. The letter of the Constitutional provision, therefore, does not warrant its application to slaves. Neither does its
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States <illegible> is a covenant with <illegible> and an agreement with half "<illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
spirit. There is documentary evidence to the contrary. It is on record that the <illegible> refused to adopt a proposed clause providing for the rendition of fugitive slaves, but afterwards adopted, without debate, the existing clause respecting 'persons' (that is, apprentices and others) from whom labor was honestly 'due.'
There is, therefore, no Constitutional obstacle to the enactment of a law by the people and of New York for 'securing the blessings of liberty' to all their Inhabitants.
The Committee give, in an appendix, the substance of the different Personal Liberty laws in the Free States, as follows:
In 1850, Vermont led the way, immediately after the passage of the Fugitive Slave bill, by adopting a stringent Personal Liberty law, which has since been made still more effective.
In 1855, the Legislature of Massachusetts passed one' yet more stringent which was vetoed by Gov. Gardner on May 21, 1855, and immediately passed over his head by 32 to 3 in the Senate, and 230 to 76 in the House, and it is still the law.
Michigan has adopted a similar law.
Wisconsin adopted a yet more stringent law afterward, declaring all liens or executions upon judgments obtained under the Fugitive Slave law absolutely void; and this law has been enforced.
All these laws secure trial by jury to every fugitive slave.
Maine has forbidden all State officers from assisting in capturing or holding fugitives from labor, and has denied the use of her jails.
These laws will be found in Laws of Massachusetts 1855, p. 924; Laws of Michigan, 1856, p. 413; Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, ch. 158, p. 912; Revised Statutes of Maine, 489, 491; Laws of Vermont, 1850.
In this State the Liberty bill received 84 votes last winter, against 22 in the Assembly, and failed in the Senate, the Committee thinks, only from want of time-not of votes.
The action of this State in favor of Freedom is traced down from John Jay's administration through those of Tompkins and Seward to the present time. The record is honorable to the State, and the Committee believe it only wants the enactment of an effective Personal Liberty law to make New York in fact as in name a Free State. No worthier monument they say could he erected to the honor of Jay, Tompkins, Seward and other champions of Liberty, than such a statute.
BROWN NOT AT POTTAWATOMIE.
, Mass., Feb. 8, 1860.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
In a reminiscence of John Brown, published in The Journal a few weeks since, I gave it as my impression that Judge M. F. Conway (Member of Congress elect from Kansas under the new Constitution) had informed me that 'Old Brown,' in a conversation with him, admitted being present at the killing of Doyle and his confederates on Pottawatomie Creek. Not feeling absolutely certain in regard to the matter, I enclosed the paragraph to Judge Conway, asking whether I had understood him correctly; and have received from him the following reply. Will the Boston Courier, the Journal of Commerce, Express, and other journals which copied the original statement, also publish Judge Conway's letter, in justice both to the living and the dead? 
', K. T., Jan. 28, 1860.My Dear Friend: You are mistaken in supposing I told you that Brown confessed to me complicity in the affair on Pottawatomie. He said the very opposite. My recollection of our conversation is, that I told you he said to me that he was not at the killing, but he approved it. This is, at any rate, the fact. I have some solicitude to be correctly represented in the matter, because the Old Man was one of the noblest of those who stood up in defence of Kansas; and no Kansas man can see his memory unjustly aspersed without indignation-much less, he himself used to asperse it, without regret and anxiety. I of course exonerate you from any intention to do injustice. Ever truly yours, M. F. 
We have received a letter from Judge Conway, reiterating in the most positive terms this denial and adding:
'It is, indeed, a wonderful circumstance, taken from any point of view, how many persons have recently sprung up to whom Brown long since confided a dreadful secret-a secret which, if exposed, would have cost him his life-and which not being exposed, made every one in it liable to the penalties of a capital offence. And still more wonderful that all these persons are of a class with which Brown never had any sympathy, and towards which he always entertained a profound aversion! These witnesses are entirely too swift. They pretend to have been the bosom friends of the old man, to have shared with him the most awful secrets of his soul; and yet they are among the loudest in execration of his memory. They pretend to be in possession of a secret which could only have been conveyed under bonds of the most sacred private friendship; and yet they are ready to expose this secret, to blacken the name of their friend. This is unnatural and impossible. I distrust all such testimony. From what I know, I am convinced that Brown never any personal participation in the killing of the men on the Pottawatomie; and that, of course, he never told anybody he had. My recollection of what I said to Mr. Richardson on this topic, is very distinct, and to this effect, namely, that John Brown said to me in Boston, two years prior, he was not at the killing on the Pottawatomie, but that he approved of it. Mr. Richardson could not have been doing me the honor of giving me his attention at the time, or he would not have so far misapprehended me.
The statement made to me by Brown was precisely the same made by him to all his best and most confidential friends, touching the subject, and may be very safely taken for the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth in the matter. The fearful story of his seizing five or six men in their beds at night, tearing them away from their weeping wives and children, killing them by slow degrees, within hearing of their families, and then wantonly mutilating their dead bodies, was invented and propagated by one of the most notoriously lying rascals in the United States-an individual who has been doing all manner of base work for three years past, in this territory, for the Democratic party, and getting paid for his wretched service in hard cash. It was, of course, seized on by all of old Osawatomie, as soon as it appeared, and hawked about the country, as embodying the indubitable record of the 'Pottawatomie Massacre.' But it is utterly unworthy of credit, and should be discarded by every honorable mind, as a malignant attempt to; injure the fame of one, who, whatever in the of some may have been his errors or his crimes, was the purest embodiment which the century affords of exalted self-sacrifice; and as such, dear to every friend of humanity.'
DR. WAYLAND ON SLAVERY. At a recent meeting of the Providence City Tract Society, an auxiliary of the Boston, Anti-Slavery, American Tract Society, Dr. Wayland delivered an address of considerable length, defending the act of separation from the American Tract Society in New York, on account of its refusal to publish anything against slavery. He said, that 'no man had a right to carve out the word of God; distribute a portion here, seal up a portion of it there; but that the whole word of Christ was to be sent abroad among the nations everywhere, whether men like it or pot, and if they did not like it, there was all the more reason why they should have it.' He considered that the silence of the Society on the subject of slavery had been a tacit acknowledgment of the justice and beneficence of the institution, and that hence the South have begun to defend slavery as right. Dr. Wayland says:
'I am old enough to recollect the time when you did not see and could not find a Southern Christian. They would say at once, "slavery is wrong, we know it, and want and should be glad to get rid of it; we will do anything which you will point out; we shall be happy to receive any instruction or help; we wish to know anything you feel to be wrong in the sight of God." A change, I say, has come over us; slavery is now held to be right, not only in the abstract, but slavery just as it is. There must not be a hair of it touched, with all its bold defence of the laws of God and man. It has been said that slavery is allowed and approved by the Son of God; that the undefiled and harmless Saviour approves of the sin of slavery, and approves of shutting out men from the knowledge of God.
A change, too, has come over the North. This matter has been brought home to us in a great variety of ways. The press has devoted much space to it, and facts have been continually developed which have aroused the Christian conscience of the whole Northern country. Christian men are be-
<c02>
ginning to ask-setting aside the abstract question of slavery-"Have we no duty to discharge to these our brethren and sisters in Christ? Can we see all these things without bearing testimony? Here are Christian men and women suffering oppression such as can be equalled nowhere, not even in Austria. The Madiai family were punished and sent to the galleys in Italy, for reading the word of God. The whole Christian world is aroused, and different Protestant governments have sent to beg their release. The Mortara boy was caught in Rome, and they determined to make a Papist of him, and the Christian world is all <illegible>. Here are two or three millions of enslaved men and women, and hundreds of thousands of Christian people among them; and did it not behoove us to bear testimony in behalf of these outcast children of God, and also to hear testimony to those who were oppressing them, whether they knew they were wrong or not, in accordance with the words of the Saviour: 'What I tell you in darkness, that speak you in the light; and what I tell you in the ear, that speak ye upon the housetops.' There was a wrong committed against our Christian brethren at the South, who in their own consciences felt this to be a grievous wrong, and they looked up to us to utter the truth upon this matter. They said, 'This is clearly a wrong, and what shall we do?' If they spoke, they were persecuted, and the Christian men here said not a word, and the oppressors of the slave defended themselves by the action of the Christians at the North; they said, 'We never heard a word from you upon this matter. You do not think it wrong yourselves. Whatever we have done, you have approved of. You never gave us to understand that you believed slavery to be contrary to the Gospel.' So they continued to think until they came to believe that it was the Gospel."'
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN.
The Abolitionists of Massachusetts who assembled themselves together, according to their annual usage, the last week, had their meeting again baptized in sorrow. Last May they had to mourn over the instant loss of the earnest and generous Hovey, as the year before they had had their gathering darkened by the funeral of the long-tried and beloved Loring. The pang which this newest grief struck to many hearts, was the keener for its suddenness. The last illness of Mrs. Follen was short, and was known to most of that Anti-Slavery assembly first by the announcement of its fatal ending. The tidings could scarce be believed. It was hard to think that Death could still the play of those beaming features, and quench forever the light of those lustrous eyes. None could believe that more than three-score and ten years had passed over one whose heart still glowed with more than the enthusiasm of youth and whose face was radiant with a better than youthful beauty. What had Death to do with such an one as she?
And yet it was not an unmeet time for her departure from the earth. A life that had given the flower of its prime of womanhood, and the ripe fruition of its age, as a free-will offering to the service of the American Slave, was not unfitly ended at a season especially appointed for his helping. In life, she would not have failed to lend the light of her countenance, the sympathy of her heart, the wisdom of her counsel, to that congenial Anniversary. In death, she hallowed it, and made it epochal in the memories of many hearts. Mrs. Follen has been so long an integral part of the Anti-Slavery movement, that it is hard to understand how it can exist without her. Very lew indeed, none but the very earliest founders, could claim precedence of her in its list of honor. As soon as its banner was unfolded, she and her admirable husband-her fitting mate, and a man whose character it is no vulgar abuse of terms to call illustrious-were among the very first that rallied to it, in the days of its very smallest things. So small were they, that the fury of the storm it was soon to excite was looked for by none. But when it came, they faced it together, and stood unshaken when it was at its fiercest. The danger in which social position, ancient friendships, professional standing, the chances of useful labor even, were being swept away, never daunted those serene and faithful souls. Nor did metaphysical refinings, however recommended by warm personal friendship, and, urged by the highest intellectual skill, ever lure them to descend to a lower plane of principles or of action than the one on which they had first planted themselves. The fidelity of both was unswerving unto death. Neither of them knew selfishness or fear.
For more than half of her anti-slavery life, Mrs. Follen has been immediately connected with the conducting of the Movement, as a member of the Committees of the American and the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. To this service she brought her rare natural gift of organization, which was to be seen in the daily beauty of her domestic life, and the details of her refined and happy home. No one was clearer of vision as to what should be done, and as to the method of doing it. Nothing was too great or too little for her activity of mind and of hand.
Few persons have ever had more direct power over all that came within the reach of her influence, or such a gift to set the mind thinking and the body busy in whatever work she had in hand. To her long experience in the cause she added an intuition into its nature and its needs, at each successive crisis of its fate, and an enthusiasm of feeling and of manner, in developing it, which made her the wisest, the discreetest, the best and the most delightful of counsellors and of co-workers. The secret of it all lay more in the heart than in the head. It came from the singleness of her devotion to the Anti-Slavery Cause. It was entire, disinterested, fearless. Though baptized into the spirit of love, and believing in the power of love as the motiver power of the machine rather than in that of criticism, she had no mawkish sentimentalism which shrunk from the true characterization of baseness, cruelty, or hypocrisy. Bringing, as she did, the powers of her acute and well-cultured intellect to bear upon the development and organization of her intuitive apprehensions of what was right-
'The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength and skill'-
those only who have rejoiced in her sympathy and her help can fully understand the loss her death brings to them, and to the cause she loved best.
It was this principle of perfect love, which not only casteth out fear, but giveth clearness of vision and perfectness of action, that informed her whole character, and shone from her whole presence. To love, with her, was to live. While here below, she was but a little lower than the angels,
' Who by to love, do apprehend to be.'
With the impulsive energies of the poetic temperament, she possessed its sympathetic and magnetic forces. No one could be in her society without feeling how magical a away her mind exerted over his. Her powers of conversation were of the highest and rarest description. Mrs. Follen was an authoress of no email reputation. She has written many books, some of which have a wide reputation, and will became a permanent portion of English literature. Her life of her husband has been pronounced, by high English critical authority, a perfect example of that most difficult kind of composition. Some of her fugitive poems are among the most beautiful in the language. But no one who judges of her powers or graces by her published works can have any adequate idea of them. Her fluent tones, her wealth of pictured words, her fertility of imagery and illustration, her flashing wit, her earnest eloquence, the musical contagion of her laugh, are things which have died with her, or live only in the remembrance of those that knew and loved her. But they are many. She made friends everywhere. It was an essential element of her being. Virtue went out from her, and drew those whom she approached close to her, heart to heart. Widely distant from one another, scattered over two continents, will loving hearts grieve in common over the tidings of her death, and mourn with the mourners she has left desolate in her home. Yet not desolate, for her love and her example, which had blest, and perhaps shaped, their truest life, will dwell with them to the end.
Thus much to the simplest sense of duty to our dead friend-so benignant, so honored, so beloved, demands to be said at the soonest moment after our great loss. Scarcely parted from the presence of the dead, almost breathing the air of the home she had made so happy, stirred by tender memories going back through the entire of life to the earliest days of childhood, we have not the heart, if we had the gift, to attempt to portray her fitly. To delineate the fine shades and delicate contrasts of her mind, to treat of her genius as well as of her worth, as it should be done, must be left to more discriminating minds and firmer hands than ours. And we are sure that this is a labor of love which love will not permit to <illegible>.-A.S. <illegible>.
THE LIBERATOR.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 24, 1860.
EQUAIL SCHOOL PRIVILEGES IN RHODE ISLAND.
<c03>
It is generally well known that, in Rhode Island, for serial Tears past, there has been carried on, through the persistent efforts of George T. Downing and others, a movement for the abolition of the colored or caste schools of that State. These now exist only in the towns of Providence, Newport and Bristol. Themovement has yearly grown in favor, and it was sincerely hoped that, this year, a sense of justice on the part of the legislators would command the separate schools to disappear, as they have in this State. But not yet.
On Monday of last week, the bill for this purpose was indefinitely postponed by a vote of 30 to 28 in the House of Representatives. The vote was taken in a thin house, (some 13 members being absent,) a very unusual course. The opponents of the bill, fearing the result that might happen with full branches, immediately waived to reconsider the vote to indefinitely postpone, and then moved to lay that motion on the table, which prevailed. The whole matter was hurried through, in some instances, in open violation of the rules of the House.
The entire press of the city of Providence, with all the social influence, has been against the measure. The entire legal talent (four lawyers) that spoke upon the bill, opposed it strenuously, and resorted to some very disingenuous courses in their opposition. Still, with the entire press, four lawyers, social influence, and all, against the measure, and the advantage of a moment when the House was thin, the bill was lost by only two majority. This was almost a triumph.
We hear that the subject may come up in another form, this session. Whether or not, we know it will another year, if our devoted and earnest friend, Geo. T. Downing, and his coadjutors, are permitted to live. The agitation for equal school rights in Rhode Island will not die, and sooner or later, there as here, shall there be known, under the School law, no distinctions of color, race, condition or sex. Renewed effort will speed that day.
AN APPEAL TO THE BENEVOLENT.
Some persons in this city, having had their attention directed to the condition of the colored population, with a view to the relief of the aged and destitute of that class, have visited, in company with the Rev. Mr. Grime?, the quarter of the city where they live, and find, to their surprise, that there are twenty-five aged women of color in a destitute condition and dependent on casual charity. These persons are all over sixty years of age, from that to eighty and ninety; and one there was, who has passed away since she was visited, who had reached the age of 111 years. None of these women have any permanent means of support; their colored friends do what they can for them, the churche that they belong to have done something, and private charity something; but it was well ascertained that they had often suffered from cold and hunger.
It is thought desirable that a house should be procured where these persons can be taken care of together. It may be asked, why not send them to the Charles Street Home? The reply to which is, this house is not only full, but there are a number now waiting for admission. It is said by those well acquainted with these subjects, that after a house is procured, there is no difficulty in supporting it. A committee has been appointed to wait upon charitable citizens in Boston and the neighboring towns, to ask their co-operation in this charity, and it is hoped and expected that a community which has never failed to respond to all calls upon its charity, whether foreign or domestic, will lend a liberal aid to this new Home for the Destitute.
We most heartily commend this benevolent movement to the generosity of our citizens, who, we are sure, will not allow it to fail for the lack of the necessary means; and it is gratifying to know that a very encouraging beginning has already been made. It is in good hands, and all possible reliance may be placed upon those who have it in charge. 
MRS. ELIZA LEE FOLLEN. In another column we have copied from the Anti-Slavery Standard a well-written and well-merited tribute to the memory of this much lamented woman, whose life was one of thorough consecration to the cause of the enslaved in our land, and to all that was benevolent, just and holy; whose presence was full of spiritual magnetism, and an abiding benediction; whose literary efforts have done so much to interest and elevate the rising generation; and whose rare worth will be long cherished by a large circle of admiring and sorrowing friends.
'Thou art gone hence!-our joyous hills among
Never again to pour thy soul in song.
When spring-flowers rise!
Never the friend's familiar step to meet
With loving laughter, and the welcome sweet
Of thy glad eyes.
'By the bright waters now thy lot is cast,-
Joy for thee, happy friend! thy bark hath past
The rough sea's foam!
Now the long yearnings of thy soul are stilled,-
Home! home!-thy peace is won, thy heart is filled.
-Thou art gone home!'
DONATION FROM ENGLISH FRIENDS.
WASHINGTON, (Eng.) Feb. 4, 1860.
DEAR SIR-We have much pleasure in sending you fifteen pounds sterling, in a bill of exchange, payable on demand, as the contribution of friends in this neighborhood for the year 1860, towards the objects of the American Anti-Slavery Society, receipt of which you will please acknowledge in due course.
It gives us great pleasure to hear that there is a probability of seeing you in England in the course of the year; and we hope your health will be such as to help us in forwarding your great cause in this country.
With kind regards to yourself and co-workers in America, we are
Yours, most sincerely,
ANN ROBSON,
HENRIETTA BOLTON.
P. S. We know you will be glad to hear that Miss REMOND is well. She is now in London at her studies. She has lectured eleven times during the vacation.
REMOVAL OF THE WEBSTBR STATCE. In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, last week, the following petitions were presented and referred:- Of C. Cutter and 8 others of Warren, of A.. L. Babcock and 96 others of Sherborn, of Henry El well and 30 others of Manchester, of Albert could and 121 others of Leicester, of G. S. Beam an and 109 others of Princeton, of John Clement and 84 others of Townsend, of Charles T. Pool and 52 others, and A. A. Gifford and one other of Westport, severally; praying for the removal of the statue of Daniel Webster from the State House grounds.
The Committee on Federal Relations grant a hearing in the Representatives' Chamber, on Friday (this) morning, at 10 o'clock, to the petitioners for removing the word WHITE from the Militia Law, and will be addressed by ROBERT MORRIS. Esq., WM. C. NELL, Dr. JOHN S. ROCK, and Rev. J, BELLA MARTIN.
A full report of the proceedings of the recent Woman's Rights Convention, at Albany, N. Y. will be given in our next number.
ATTITUDE OF THE CHURCH TOWARD THE SLAVE.
<c04>
It will beremembered that, during the revival which was having its decline and fall about a year ago in Boston, the 'business men's prayer-meetings' were conspicuously placarded with the notice, No Controverted Topics!' This notice-understood by everybody to mean 'No Anti- Slavery!'-no doubt served the incidental purpose of assuring the 'business men' in question that the sort of piety cultivated there would not interfere with their Southern trade; but this was not its chief object. The Church counts strength mainly by numbers, and while her ministers and communicants hold 600,000 slaves in the South, she will cultivate peace with them as more important than purity; and, long before the commencement of the late 'revival,' the petition of an individual slave for prayers was refused a hearing at the Old South Chapel, in conformity with its customary policy.
These things were brought to my mind by seeing, in the regular 'Chronicles of Old South Chapel,' in the Boston Recorder, the following requests for prayer for the continuance of slavery, and the subsidence of such thought, speech and action as are now directed against it:- 
'Feb. 10. At the Noon Prayer Meeting, the following requests were read relative to our National Government. These had been previously communicated to the Fulton. Street Meeting:-
That God may save this nation from rash counsels, and may preserve the Union of these States, a precious legacy for future generations. The hope of our Union is now alone in the overruling providence of God. " A VIRGINIAN."
The following was from the North:-
"The brethren of this prayer meeting are desired to cry mightily to God, not only in this meeting, but in their closets also, in behalf of our distracted country; that he will of his infinite mercy pour oil upon the troubled waters, restore love and affection, and pour out his Holy Spirit upon our whole country, East, West, North and South."'
These requests were, no doubt, responded to by fervent and repented prayers, which were probably 'effectual,' also, in encouraging the 'business men' present to hope for a restoration of confidence between North and South, and, as a means thereto, to put their names on the 'White Lists,' by which doughfaces are now trying to propitiate slaveholders.
Is it not a curious fact that slavery should be a 'controverted topic' when prayers are asked against it, and not a controverted topic when prayers are asked for it? No, it is nothing strange or unusual! The Church is accustomed to manage her ordinary business by like this!
For instance: the New York Observer is very indignant against the Westminster Review for a recent article containing some disclosures in to revivals and revivalists. It represents this article to be dictated by hostility to the Gospel, and this representation will be considered conclusive by a majority of the Observer's readers. But the indignation of that pious journal is really excited, not merely by a general exposure, in the article in question, of that craft by which it has its wealth, but by the fact that the Westminster has taken the wrong side of the 'controverted topic,' pointing out a stain on Whitefield's character, as follows:-
'In the life of Whitefield we have a striking proof that revivalist fervor is by no means conducive to clearness of moral perception, and, consequently, to the highest moral conduct. In fact, as the success of revivalist preachers depends upon their addressing the feeling of fear, and therefore the most cowardly and selfish elements in man, we ought not, on reflection, to be surprised to find that the chief and most powerful of all revivalist preachers should not be distinguished by that strong sense of justice and genuine benevolence which makes the traffic in or holding of slaves, under any circumstances, hateful, and which would regard with the most intense abhorrence the introduction of slavery into a country previously free. The humane Oglethorpe, who projected the colony of Georgia as an asylum for unfortunate debtors from the intolerable penal inflictions of the British Code at that time, placed on the common seal of the corporation the cap of liberty. Slavery was not permitted in the colony. 'It is,' said he,' against the Gospel, as well as against the fundamental law of England. We refused, as trustees, to make a law permitting such a horrid crime.'
Whitefield, however, when in Georgia, proposed to send his travelling companion to England to petition the trustees of the corporation to admit slavery, and also to allow the introduction of rum! He became a slave-owner, and in the year of his death there were fifty slaves, men, women and children, whom he left in his will to the Countess of Huntingdon. The letters subsequently written to America by this pious lady continually refer to the value and sale of the slaves of which she had thus become possessed. See Dr. Stevens's History of Methodism, vol. ii., p. 69. This incident in the life of a great and revered revivalist leader indicates that that exalted 'other-worldliness' which forms the staple of revivalist sermons, is consistent with an ethical standard for this world, in which the maxim, 'Do unto others as you would they should do unto you,' is obscured by injunctions appealing only to the most self-interested and least noble part of man.'
The Church, almost without exception, turns her face away from truths like these, and her organs unscrupulously calumniate the men and the periodicals that give them currency. The Church is the great bulwark of slavery, and by giving 'line upon line, precept upon precept' in its favor, week after week, through innumerable pulpits, prayer-meetings, and pious periodicals, it makes good this title, and lays a foundation of corrupt public opinion upon which the profligate government of the United States can erect its superstructure. Here are some of these latest 'droppings of the sanctuary':-
Dr. Wayland, at a late Tract meeting in Providence, vindicating the recent separation of the Tract Society at Boston from the National Society in New York, says- 
'Here I wish to say distinctly, that there was no abolition action in this separation. There was no intention of turning the Society into an Abolition Society'!
Then again, the Congregationalist of Boston, and the 'Dutch [not much] Christian Intelligencer of New York, agree in approval of these four ideas, which they find (in substance) in Henry Ward Beecher's late defence of the American Board at Brooklyn:-
1. That a man might hold a slave, and not do wrong.2. That immediate emancipation is impossible.
3. That a slaveholder may be a good Christian.
4. That the influence of slavery is not always evil.
Then again, in reply to the inquiry of a correspondent-'What would the Board and Committee have done, if mission churches, or their pastors, had openly avowed Unitarian sentiments?' Congregationalist clearly sees 'a vast difference between the two cases.'
Then again, the 'Young Men's Christian (!) Association,' of Richmond, Virginia, withdraws its invitation to Bayard Taylor to lecture there, because of his connection with a paper which diffuses 'Abolition sentiments.' 
All these things teach, most clearly forcibly, that the abolition of slavery is an ndispensable prerequisite to the true preaching of the Gospel in this country, and to diffusion of pure morality and religion, both North and South. A spurious piety is the direct opponent of practical religion here, not less than it was among the Scribes and Pharisees in the time of Jesus.-C. K. W.
PERSONAL LIBERTY IN MINNESOTA. The following is a copy of a petition in circulation in Minnesota, and which has already received many signatures-To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Minnesota:
The undersigned, citizens of Hennepin county, ask of your Honorable bodies to pass such a Personal Liberty Bill as shall make it a crime, punishable by fine and imprisonment, for any person to claim property in a human being within the boundaries of this State, with a view to return such person to slavery.
FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND OF THE PRESS.
<c05>
An article in the Boston Courier, (signed y.,) affirms that the Constitution of the United States guarantees and secures freedom of speech and of the press in this country only so as any act of Congress is concerned, but does not secure these against State legislation. He further affirms that in the Constitution of South Carolina, there is no provision for freedom of speech or of the press; that the Legislature of that State may laws regulating speech, printing and, as it pleases; that such laws will be Constitutional; and that if a Northern man is punished there for such freedom of speech, or writing, or printing, as he might properly exercise at home, none of his Constitutional rights will have been violated, and he will have no remedy!
I been accustomed to suppose that a citizen of Massachusetts had a Constitutional right to freedom of speech in every part of the United States. If I had been called upon for evidence from the Constitution, I should have quoted the Preamble, which declares that instrument to have been formed' to the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity' -and that portion of Article IV. which declares-
'The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.' And, if such a thing as a Court of Justice were to be found in a slave State, I should have supposed that a Northern man might properly appeal to it in vindication of his Constitutional right of free speech, then and there to be exercised.
If I have erred in this judgment-if my natural right of speaking for the slave and against the oppressor is not supported by the Constitution of the United States, through the whole region over which its jurisdiction extends-immediate measures should be taken for the amendment of that Constitution.
Lastly, if, through the corruption of manners and morals generated by slavery, a majority of the people of this country have become so indifferent to the preservation, in theory and practice, of that freedom of speech and of the press which we at the North esteem our most precious possession, that no present or speedy amendment of the Constitution in this particular is to be hoped for, this forms an additional, and most weighty reason for a separation of the non-slaveholding States, that so a nation really free, and a Constitution really ensuring freedom, may be formed in North America, and that we may be spared the grace of maintaining a general government which regards those rights, and connives at their violation. 
C. K. W.
PETITION FOR OF THE BEREAN 
EXILES.
In the Senate of Ohio on the 11th, Mr. Monroe presented the following petition of W. W. Hopkins and forty-eight others of Ashtabula county, which on motion of Mr. Monroe was referred to a select -Messrs. Monroe, of Lorain, Cox, of Trumbull, and Schleich, of Fairfield:-
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Ohio in General Assembly met:
Whereas, Your honorable bodies did, by joint resolution, recently invite the Legislatures of Tennessee and Kentucky to visit Columbus, as the guests of the State of Ohio; and subsequently did receive said Legislatures at Columbus, in a manner highly flattering-feasting and complimenting them at the expense of the common Treasury of the State; and whereas, Rev. John G. Fee and numerous other citizens o Kentucky, ('the Mother of wise statesmen,' whose' younger sisters delight to do her honor,') have been recently driven from her borders by organized mobs, for no crime, but simply believing, and peacefully teaching, that the Gospel of Jesus, as well as the Declaration of Independence, is opposed to the system of Human Chattelhood, His Excellency, Gov. Magoffin, refusing to make any effort for their protection and whereas, many of said exiles have fled to thi State, as a temporary home, in circumstances which demand our substantial sympathies Therefore, the undersigned, citizens of Ashtabula county, Ohio, do respectfully request your honorable bodies to appropriate from the State Treasury, the sum of $5,000, o such greater sum as you may deem proper, for the relief of said exiles, and as a token of your regard for the 'honor' of that State like Executive cannot, or will not, protect them; and, as in duty bound, &c.
In the House, Mr., of Ashtabula, presented a similar petition from Alba Coleman and forty-nine others, which was also appropriately referred., March, 1860. Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
The contents for the March number of this popular work are,-The French Character; The Pursuit of Knowledge Under Difficulties; The Progress of the Electric Telegraph; Screw Propulsion; For Christie's Sake; The Nursery Blarney Stone; The ' Story; Is the Religious Want of the Age Met; and Reviews and Literary Notices.
REVIEW OF GOV. BANKS'S VETO OF THE REVISED CODE,
On Account of its authorizing the Enrolment of Colored Citizens in the Militia. By F. W. Bird. Boston: John P. Jewett & Co. Keen-racy-conclusive. Get it, and read it.
 The good people of New-buryport have been victimized, recently, by a bright, smart looking negro, who collected funds by representing that he was a' fugitive slave, direct from Maryland, whence he had escaped with his sisters to avoid being sold South, after the death of a kind master.' An abolitionist on whom the fellow had imposed last year discovered the rogue, and hastened his exit from the city.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, last week-A communication was received from Josiah Perham, announcing that certain railroads had authorized him to extend an invitation to the Legislatures of Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York and Maine, to pass and repass to Boston on their roads, free of charge; and asking the Senate and House to take such action as will authorize the Governor to invite the Legislatures of said States to participate in the hospitalities of the State, at some convenient time during the present session.
Mr. Kimball, of Boston, moved that the papers be referred to the Committee on Federal Relations.
Mr. Haskell, of Ipswich, was ashamed of the position in which the Legislature had been placed by the action of Josiah Perham. There were several insane asylums in the State, and his proper place was in one of them. The Legislature should take some action that would show the Legislature of Virginia that it had been imposed upon by a fool.
Mr. Putnam, of Danvers, moved to lay the bill upon the table.
Mr. Hale, of Bosion, made a point of order, that the extracts were not a subject upon which the House could entertain any motion.
The Chair decided the point well taken.
Mr. Shaw, of Boston, rose to a question of privilege, because false statements had been made upon the floor. He did consider Mr. Perham a fool, and denied that Mr. P. had invited Legislatures of other States to visit Boston. The subject was then dropped.
CORRECTION.
FRIEND GARRISON-In my notes of the meeting at South Danvers, as published in the last number of the Liberator, this sentence occurs, in allusion to remarks of Frederick Brown:-'It gave me pain to feel that the brother of the martyr could come before us, and justly accuse us of standing cool and careless on his bowed and fettered form.' Correctly, it would read, ' could come before us in the name of the slave, &c.; but those words being omitted in the print, a wrong impression was conveyed. The speaker's remarks bore reference to the slave, and not to his martyred brother. N. PAGE, JR. 
<c06>
FEBRUARY 24,
TO IRISHMEN IN AMERICA.
COUNTRYMEN,-My heart often prompts me to address you in a few words of kindly remonstrance. I wish you so to conduct yourselves in the distant land you made your home, as that your conduct may reflect honor on the loved country you have left behind you, and cause you to be really respected by the people among whom you now dwell. These advantages can only be secured by a steady adherence, on part, to the principles of truth and honor, which you should make the guiding stars of your life.
You love liberty for yourselves. Be consistent your advocacy of this universal right of the human race; and claim it as the inalienable privilege of all men-of the colored man, as well as the white man. I fear too many of you have forgotten your duty, in this respect, and that thus the fame of old Ireland- which we should shield from the breath of dishonor- is sullied in the eyes of those who should only reflected in your conduct, evidence of the firm determination of our countrymen to stand fast by the noble principles of Christian rectitude.
In the twelfth century, the synod of Armagh proclaimed liberty to every captive in Ireland, and then, a slave has never polluted our green isle.
Remember the faithfulness of O'Connell. Let memory, which is embalmed in many of our hearts, and his whole life, was a consistent course in favor of civil and religious liberty, be a become of light guiding you in your career. he did, that freedom for all which claim as your own birthright. 
Thus, and thus alone, can you secure true respect for yourselves, and cause the stranger to say of your country, 'If I were not an American, I should be proud to be an Irishman.' 
By all your pleasant memories of Ireland; by her glorious mountains and her beautiful valleys; by her verdant plains, which are watered by the streams in which you loved to disport yourselves in childhood; by your love of these things; by your affection for your kindred and friends, and by your honor for Almighty God,-I appeal to you, and I ask you to love your fellow-men of all complexions and of all creeds, and to demand for them all, the exact of justice you claim for yourselves. The sad moan of four millions of slaves comes across the broad ocean, and it sounds painfully in our ears. I ask you to aid in turning their into joy-to aid in enabling the fathers and mothers of the colored race in America to clasp their little and feel all the happiness and all the responsibility of being their guardians and their guides, from up to manhood. Turn not a deaf ear to the slave, but let him feel, in future and for evermore, that in every Irishman he has friend.
Whatever may be your rank or condition in the land of your adoption, believe me, countrymen, you can only acquire and maintain an honorable reputation there, by such a course of as I mend; and whatever may be your practice, whether in consonance with, or in opposition to these sentiments, I feel assured that you will say in your hearts, 'he is right.' 1 entreat you to act manfully with your convictions, and I beg to subscribe myself, Faithfully yours,
JAMES HAUGHTON., 35 Eccles Street.

THE RIGHT AND DUTY OF INVASION AND INSURRECTION TO FREE SLAVES.
GEORGETOWN, (Ohio,) Feb, 13, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON: Yesterday was held, in, this the quarterly meeting of Progressive Friends. Marius R. Robinson was present. The following resolutions were presented, fully discussed, and <illegible> adopted:-
Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, have no whether as individuals or States.
Resolved, That slaves, as such, owe no duties to their enslavers, Resolved, That any law or, any going or government, that accords to slaveholders my rights, and protects them in them, or enjoins upon slaves obligations and duties to their enslavers, deserves only scorn contempt, and ought to be resisted. 
Resolved, That it is the right and duty of the people and States of the North to the slaveholding States to free the slaves, and annihilate the power that enslaves them, and, in so doing, to use all such means as they would use if their own children and friends were the victims.
Many took part in the discussion of these resolutions. The meeting was composed of some of the most intelligent, respectable and influential men and women in this region. I do not think there was in the audience whose reason, whose conscience and convictions of right dissented from the sentiments expressed in them. A letter from the mother of Edwin Coppock was read to the meeting. It was a ter worthy the mother of so noble a son. Her son, who took part in that effort at Ferry God and Humanity, is hunted down by satanic breeders and slave-traders as men hunt a wolf. They have demanded him of the Governor of the State in which he lives, but the Governor will not give him up; and, if he does, the people will not. There many persons scattered over the broad West, from whom those bands of American corsairs, called slave holding States, will hear in due time. The that slaveholders and slaveholding States have no rights that the people and States of the North are bound to respect, is rapidly and widely spreading, not only in the West, but all over the North, and taking a deeper hold of the hearts of the people, and assuming a more tangible, practical form. It will become a leading, governing principle in social, religious, and political life, and will assuredly embody itself in every department of life, where men deem it their right and duty to live-whether on the areas of political or military life.
Have human beings a right to defend themselves and their fellows against all who would enslave them, and hold, use and work them as No one doubts it, and it the very basis of the national and State government that they may do by arms, and by killing the enslaver On this principle, it is the right and duty of slaves to free themselves, and the right and duty of the people and States of the North to go to their aid-to enter the over which those bands of American corsairs jurisdiction, and there, on the soil of Virginia, or of any other slave State, to defend the enslaved these who enslave them. We go to Greece to defend Humanity against the outrages of the to Hungary, to defend it against to Italy, to defend it against the inhumanity of the French and Austrians; to Poland, to defend it against Russian tyranny; and to Africa, defend it against the outrages of African should the people and States of the North enter the slaveholding States to defend their fellow- appalling wrongs and outrages perpetraced on them by American corsairs. 
The above resolutions have been discussed and adopted in many gatherings all over this <illegible> and are to be discussed and will be adopted by more. Let the leaders of the Republican party it as they will, it is simply true, that the ments of these resolutions are embraced by a number, by a majority of the Republicans; and Helper's book, not the abridgement, but the originalits stern and flinty words, is become a political <illegible> by which they will be guided in their action in ference to slaveholders.
Have the people and States of the North a right to shoot dead those whom they see in the act of <illegible> murder, rape and rapine? They say-Yes. So <illegible>they coming to feel that slaveholders are <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
And that it is the right and duty to kill on the spot any man caught in the act of holding, hunting, selling, buying and working slaves. So the North has, or will soon have, but one word to the slave—I e, NO OBLIGATIONS AND NO DUTIES TO YOUR ENSLAVERS. Never work another hour, never obey another command, as a slave, but assert and maintain your freedom, at all hazards.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
FOSTER'S CROSSINGS, Warres Co., Ohio, February 10, 1860.

BROTHER GARRISON:
Before this reaches you, you will have noticed the desperate efforts of the dastardly politicians in Ohio, Indians, Kentucky and Tennessee, to keep up their league against liberty, and keep down the millions of their victims. Ohio invited Kentucky and Tennessee to come over and receive assurances of good faith in keeping a bad contract—a contract which is essentially a conspiracy against freedom—treason against man and nature. The legislature left their business and came, and things were done worthy the purpose. The papers here helped on the shameful work, and gloried in it. I sent the following protest and rebuke to the Cincinnati Daily Commercial; but it was not allowed to appear. O. S. MURRAY.
For the Cincinnati Commercial.

A RAID ON FREEDOM.—THE 'IRREPRESSIBLE' JOHN BROWN.
Let me take the wind out of that sail. Let me prick that bubble. Let me turn off that gas, and stop the stench. Let me dissipate that fog. Let me settle that smoke. Let me spoil that pageant. It will take but a few short words, in brief sentences and compressed paragraphs.
What, then, signifies all this sound and fury: — this roar of cannon?—this rioting and excess?—this bacchanalian reveling, from traunt legislators and governors, and their hosts? What, but that it is to drown the dying words of a single man, devoted to freedom and sacrificed to slavery?—to protract a damaging, demoralizing compromise?—to splice ropes of sand?—to reconcile deadly antagonisms?—to part off an 'impending crisis,' that cannot be avoided nor evaded; and whose consequences increase in fearfulness with every moment of delay?—to smother internal, internal fires, that rage all the more, the more they are smothered; and that, if the folly be persisted in, will one day burst forth, and spread their desolating lava over the length and breadth of the land?
It is not then, a question of time. It is a question also of consequence—here or there—now or then—sooner or later;—for us, in a less difficult state of things, or for our children in a more difficult state of things—for us, in an earlier stage of the disease, or for them in a later and more hopeless and helpless. 'Ties delusive, 't is false, 't is fanatical, and will be found fatal, to flatter ourselves with words, crying peace, when in our deeds we are leaguing in a war upon Nature. To put over the day of accumulating retribution to our children, if we can, is not the part of brave men and heroes, but of cowards and traitors. To shirk the increasing responsibility upon a coming generation, measuring the benefit to ourselves in commercial gains, in dollars and dimes, in back-and-forth banqueting and profligacy, is to aggravate in baseness and execrableness the treachery and perfidy.
And what else is there of it? What has made the stir? What are the elements in motion? They are the disturbed parts and parties of a compromise involving the rights of man. They have been moved, agitated, agonized, convulsed, by a single individual, who, whatever may be said of his wisdom or prudence, has wrought conviction deep, all-pervading and abiding, of the sincerity and purity of his devotion to human well-being. Whatever the talk of treason, it is not possible for the intelligent and sane, in their predominating feelings and sentiments, to fix ignominy on him in the halter. They know he was inspired by elevated sentiments; that he conscientiously opposed the wrong, and battled for the right; that the humane man was sacrificed to the inhuman institution. Every thinking being, of value worth invoicing in the column of human excellences or merits, knows that precisely what has been alleged against him as a capital crime, has been extolled in others, throughout human history, as the loftiest of virtues. He failed—they succeeded; that's all the difference. Few, if any, have fought against like fearful odds. If he had succeeded, it is difficult to tell who would have been his rival in the temple of fame.
To consideration and convictions like those, suppressed, the farce and the fustian we have just now had from carousing, bargaining, bribing politicians, under the name of legislators and governors, are genuine and faithful indices. To keep ourselves and each other in countenance—to hold on our course, right or wrong— this is their plain language. Institutions against men—institutions must be sustained, by fair means or foul, whatever become of men—men for institutions, not institutions for men—these are legitimate interpretations of their words and their wind.
In the twenty-six toasts read and responded to at Columbus and Cincinnati, and in all the reports of speeches and proceedings, filling so much space in two sheets of the Commercial, there is anything but a decent manifestation of manly rectitude, and fidelity to equity—human rights—all the paramount interests of mankind. Our compromises first—man afterwards. Maintain our compromises—our bargains, whether equities or iniquitous—our league, which fills our pockets, through with the fruits of fraud, and so our stomachs with oysters and wine—and a fig or a fly for man or his rights.
The ' lord of the lash,' from the executive chair of Kentucky, appears to have snubbed the snobs somewhat as they deserved, telling them what ' the people Kentucky had no disposition ' to do, and what ' the people of Ohio must not ' do. It is presumable there was all proper humility in exercise on the part of the sycophants.
And who are these chivalrous Kentuckians, who have been so obsequiously invited and treated, and who have carried themselves through with such bearing? They are the brave men, of whom it took sixty-five to drive away thirty-six non-resistant men, women and children from their homes and twice sixty-five of whom have not the courage to attack Cassius M. Clay alone and single-handed. Courageous lions these, for whom our jackals have been providing!
O. S. M.
Foster's Crossings, Warren Co., Ohio, Jan. 30th.

TO STEPHEN S. FOSTER.
In the report of the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, you are represented as having said that you have been studying the United States Constitution anew; that you have become convinced that it is anti-slavery 
Document; and, hence, that you desire ' to organize an Anti-Slavery Political Party, to carry out and enforce this interpretation.'
To organize an Anti-Slavery Political Party! Are you not aware that such an organization has been organized for years; that it has held its anniversary meetings; that Gerri Smith stands as the exponent of this organization; and that William Gödel is now editing a paper, The Principia, devoted to the interests of said organization? If you were ignorant of these facts, or, if you were desirous of personal aggrandizement, I could understand your position. If neither of these be true, why not unite at once with the Radical Abolitionists, of which Gerri Smith and William Gödel (1) are the acknowledge leaders?
RMMETT DENSMORE.
Blooming Valley, Pa.
(1) Mr. Dens more himself seeds a little information—twists writing William Godwin for William Godel. We have <illegible>.
<c02>
LECTURES BY MISS WATKINS.
MARGARETTA, (Ohio,) Feb. 9, 1860.
DEAR SIR—About ten days since, Miss FRANCIS ELLEN WATKINS—believed here to be one of the most worthy and efficient anti-slavery lecturers who have visited the western country—made her appearance in our township, greatly to the satisfaction of all acquainted with her by reputation or otherwise.
Miss Watkins first lecture here was given one week ago last Tuesday evening, greatly to the edification and entertainment of all the friends of freedom. Our worthy and truly philanthropic citizen, R. H. Rogers, being called to the chair, in a few appropriate and timely remarks, introduced her to the audience.
Miss Watkins spoke in the house the following evening and at several other places during that week. She spoke in Sandusky City, last Monday evening, to an immense audience, with the beat effect. She is to speak there again next Monday evening. At all the places where Miss Watkins has spoken, save one, where whiskey and a contemptible ignorance are the ruling elements, there have been thronged audiences, and the most respectful order.
The effect of these lectures upon this part of the country cannot but be most favorable, not only politically, but in dispelling this unreasoning and unreasonable prejudice against the colored people of the country.
At the close of her last lecture in this township, the following preamble and resolutions were unanimously adopted, and by the request of your readers here, I send them to the Liberator for publication:—
Whereas, it is our settled and unalterable opinion, that American Slavery is the complete representative and full embodiment of every crime known to humanity; that it is truly what John Weakley called it, ' the sum of all villainies'; and, Whereas, we are bound, by every consideration of justice, to deny that there can be any law, in the proper sense of the term, for slavery, or any of its constituent crimes; and,
Whereas, we acknowledge it to be our duty, as good citizens, as friends of truth and virtue, to act decidedly and efficiently against crime, whether found: singly as in the numerous abuses of the day, or collectively as in slavery; therefore,
Resolved, That, from the nature of slavery, it is the duty of every friend of morality, virtue, good citizenship and education, to act determinedly and constantly, by every means within the range of conscientious action, against it, as an impious and barefaced outrage upon human rights.
Resolved, that all human laws which are valid derive their validity, immediately or immediately, from the laws of nature, or the Divine Law.
Resolved, that these laws are coeval with mankind, and being dictated by God himself, are, of course, superior in obligation to any others. They are binding over the entire globe, in all countries, and at all times; and those human enactments which conflict with these divine enactments, we affirm are not our rules of action.
Resolved, that, as citizens of Ohio, in obedience to Divine injunction, we shall never allow ourselves to be the passive and menial instruments for the support and perpetuation of an institution which is the hydra curse of the civilized world.
Resolved, That the Fugitive Slave Law, and all slave laws, is monuments of despotism; and we firmly resolve, with heart, and hand, and sleepless vigilance, to work for their eradication.
Resolved, That any institution, or any men or set of men, that in any way favor slavery, show themselves to be unworthy of the support, respect or confidence of any friend of freedom.
Resolved, That, in the light of the foregoing principles, it is with feelings of deep regret and utter disgust that we think of our Governor, Ex-Governor, and Legislature, welcoming to our noble State House, and to the free soil of Ohio, the Governors and Legislators of two of the States of this Union, which, in the most loathsome manner, are continually practicing all the abuses of slavery, and striving for its extension.
Resolved, That it is our sincere wish that the great Republican party, instead of following and seconding this unwise movement of some of its leaders, may repudiate and denounce this not only unwise, but presumptuous effort to identify the freemen of Ohio in reciprocal sympathy with the minions and myrmidons of slavery—men that live by selling babies, and revel in their debauchery it the expense of innocence and virtue.
Resolved, That it is with feelings of the deepest respect and gratitude, that we regard this timely visit of Miss Watkins to our township, to tell us of the wrongs of the slave, and to increase our zeal and determination to act vigorously and decidedly our part in the truly ' irrepressible conflict' between Freedom and Slavery. T. R. DAVIS, Secretary.

EXTRACT OF A LETTER FROM MARIUS R. ROBINSON.
SALEM. (Ohio,) Feb. 9, 1860.
MY DEAR MR. MAY—I arrived at home, with my family, last evening, and am most happy indeed to be here, after almost a five months' absence. I am also quite pleased with the prospect of again working in Ohio, and especially to have the co-operation of Mrs. GRIFFING, who will well serve the cause. Out friends, whom I have met since my return, all concur in saying that, not only is there great need a anti-slavery labor, but there is also an open door, far beyond the past. But for the national debauch of a Presidential election, just before us, I should expect to see the people of the Northern States make most rapid progress in anti-slavery education, during the coming season.
My New York experiences have been more agreeable than I anticipated. I have met only kindness from the friends. I have had most earnest invitation to return to moat of the places I have visited. I speak now of those I visited while alone. I left, with invitations to many new points, so that, in some respects, I was in better condition to prosecute the work in New York when I left, than ever before. My greatest drawback has been my inability to lecture as frequently as I desired. My health has been in state greatly to discourage and embarrass me.

THE COLORED AMERICAN HEROES OF HARPER'S FERRY.
Though being authorized to announce that all the participants with Captain John Brawn at Harper's Ferry (white and colored) are to be proportionate recipients—themselves or dependants—of the funds contributed under auspices of the Committee at Tremont Temple, Boston, Nov. 19, 1859, yet, it is well known that individuals and associations throughout the States have felt moved to make special appropriations—some to Mrs. Brown aid family, and some throng other channels.
The exercises at the Melonakos, January 24th, by young colored men and women, originated in a desire to respond to the circular, in aid of a Monument to Copeland, Leary aid Green, and relieving the wants of the widow of Louis A. Leary, who, it will be remembered, was shot at Harper's Ferry. This effort, though attended with some discouraging circumstances, enabled the forwarding to J. M. Fitch, Esq., Oberlin, Ohio, the sum of fifty dollars—ten of which were assigned for the Monument, the balance, forty dollars, for Mrs. Leary.
I learn that it is in contemplation, at as early a day as possible, to publish the histories of all the men whose names have been prominently associated with the Harper's Ferry demonstration, and also, through other mediums, to transmit to posterity graphic presentations of those noble souls who showed themselves worthy companies of their gallant and de-
<c03>
Voted martyr-leader, Captain John Brown. And no higher tribute surely could be awarded them, though the choicest terms of elaborate rhetoric were exhausted in the attempt.
A fair proportion from the sales is to be contributed in augmentation of the general fund for John Brown, his family, and his associates.
WILLIAM C. NELL.
Boston, Feb., 1860.

'STAND AND DELIVER!'
The business (says the New York Tribune) of blackmailing those merchants of this and other Atlantic cities who desire to stand well at the South, is one which prospects so liberally and opens so rich, that we are not surprised to see a great many enterprising citizens embarking in it. Where $25, $50, or even $100, is to be made by merely inserting a line in a Black List,' or 'White list,' according to circumstances, it is inevitable that those proffering such insertion should be numerous, and not particularly modest in pushing their trade. We are not surprised, therefore—so long as fools and their money will be parted—to see the following straightforward and business-like circular, just received by a mercantile house in this city:

SOUTHERN MERCANTILE AND BUSINESS AGENCY,
On Tenth street, between Main and Cary, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. In consequence of the increased and increasing hostility between the North and South, which has greatly disturbed the harmonious business relations heretofore existing between the two sections of the country, we, the undersigned, have opened an office for the purpose of attempting the give a right direction to Southern trade, by withdrawing it from our Northern enemies, and placing it in the hands of our friends, which we propose to do by furnishing Southern merchants and business men with such reliable information regarding Northern mercantile houses, as will enable them to trade exclusively with those who are friendly to the South and her institutions.
Our books will contain the names of every Northern house ascertained to be worthy of Southern confidence; and these names, with the business and locality annexed, will be corrected annually, and published in a Book or Dictionary, prepared for the express purpose, and circulated throughout the whole Southern country; so that each merchant buying goods at the North will be supplied with a copy, and hereby enabled to correctly discriminate between the friends and enemies of the South.
Each subscriber will be entitled to, and shall receive, our greatest efforts to extend his business, which may be accomplished by the aid of our Directory, by private correspondence, by assistance rendered to acceptable travelling Agents, and by the exposition of samples.
Our Rooms are centrally located, and will be open at all times for business purposes, and for the reception of our Northern and Southern friends.
To defray the expenses necessarily incurred in establishing our Agency, and in carrying out its design, we shall charge each house, whose name or card appears in our Directory, a sum not less than FIFTY DOLLARS, to be paid at the time of subscribing. WM. P. GILMAN & CO.
Richmond, Va., Jan. 1, 1860.

COMPLEXIONAL POLITICAL RIGHTS,
Colored citizens of ' visible admixture' have rights at the ballot-box. So has decided the wicked Supreme Court of Ohio, and that unanimously. They can recover, too, for a violation of those rights, for such is the just decision. Here it is:
COLUMBUS, Feb. 14, 1860.
Alfred J. Anderson v. Thomas Milliken et. al. Error to Common Pleas of Butler County.
Gholson J. delivered the opinion of the Court. Held—
1. Persons having mixture of African blood, but a preponderance of white blood, or being more white than black, and being otherwise qualified, were, by the settled construction of the section of the Constitution of 1802, regulating the exercise of the elective franchise, entitled to enjoy the right of an elector.
No change was made, in this respect, by the corresponding section of the Constitution of 1851. The same persons, being otherwise qualified, are not to be excluded on account of color, but are entitled under the present Constitution to vote at all elections.
2. The plaintiff being one of the description of persons so entitled to vote, having only one-eighth of African blood, and his vote having been refused for that reason only, at the election of 1856 for electors of President and Vice President of the United States, by the judges of the election, against whom he brought an action for such refusal—
Held, That he was entitled to recover for the violation of a right conferred by the Constitution.
The decision was unanimous.

PROCEEDINGS IN CONGRESS.
U. S. SENATE, Feb. 21st.
Mr. Mason, from the Harper's Ferry Committee, reported a resolution that the Sergeant-at-Arms be instructed to bring Thaddeus Hyatt, of New York, before the bar of the Senate to answer for contempt for refusing to come here and testify before the committee.
Mr. Hale said that this was a dangerous precedent. There was no varrant for it in the Constitution. Powers not expressly delegated to the Federal Government were reserved to the States. This power could only be exercised by a latitudinarian construction of the Constitution. He would ask for the yeas and nays in the passage of the resolution.
Mr. Pugh said he had arrived at the conclusion that the Senate has no power to summon any witness from beyond the District of Columbia.
Mr. Collamer thought the Senate had the same power as a court to compel the attendance of witnesses.
Mr. Hale said he must differ from the gentleman from Vermont. He seemed to think they had all the power possessed by the British Parliament. Ours was a government of limited powers. The Senate could not sit as a Court with plenary powers.
The resolution was adopted, by yeas 43, nays 12.
The noes were Messrs. Brigham, Chester, Clark, Durkee, Hale, Hamlin, Pugh, Sumner, Toombs, Wade, Wilkinson and Wilson.
The bill introduced by Senator Seward to-day, provides for the admission of Kansas under the Wyandotte Constitution. He gave notice that he would call it up on Wednesday, the 29th inst., when he will express his views upon the subject. This arrangement will satisfy the numerous enquiries which have been made as to whether he intended to make a speech.
In the U. S. House of Representatives, Mr. Lovejoy (Rep. III.) asked leave to introduce a preamble and resolution reciting the rights and privileges of citizens of the several States under the Constitution:
Whereas, it is alleged by responsible parties, that citizens of some of the States going into other States on business, such as the collection of debts, teaching, and other like lawful business, have been personally treated with indignity and violence, and driven fron their property for certain sentiments they may have held, and without allegation of crime; and whereas, an alleged practice, similar to the European passport system, is springing up—therefore,
Resolved, That a Committee of five be appointed to inquire into the above-recited facts, and whether any further legislation is necessary to give effect to the said provision of the Constitution, and that the Committee be empowered to send for persons and papers.
Mr. Lovejoy demanded a vote on the passage of the resolution. Objections were made.

From the New York Journal of Commerce.
HAZLETT AND STEVENS.
MR. EDITOR,—Permit me, through your conservative press, to make an appeal to the humanity of the Legislature of Virginia, as in their hands now rests the fate of Haslett and Stevens. In ordinary cases, the proper course to pursue would be to petition the Legislature to commute the impending sentence of these men, but, unfortunately, such bitter sentiments have been engendered by this raid, that a petition from the North would not be regarded with much respect at this time. Thousands would pray for this relief, but, it is apprehended, the more numerous the petitioners, the more hostile would be the feeling towards these misguided prisoners.
The community, here and in Europe, would regard the execution of these men with horror; besides, the sacrifice is useless, and can promote no salutary end. After the calamitous misapprehensions of the Legislature in Coppice’s case, and the many hearts so needlessly desolated by his and Cook's death, something is due to human nature—to clemency—something to manifest to the world that Virginia is neither implacable nor vindictive. Exasperation—party spirit—political capital, have caused mischief enough; it is now time reason, humanity, Christianity, and even a spirit of magnanimity be displayed by the authorities of Virginia—that, having vindicated the laws and honor of the State, they can now stay their hand, and sense to carry misery and wretchedness to the heartedness of many families, and distress to the <illegible> by say <illegible>.
<c04>
No other course then seems open, but a public appeal to the humanity of the Legislature of Virginia, to interpose its authority and stop the further effusion of blood, the further needless of life, and to assure them that all parties out of the immediate sphere of Southern party spirit would regard the execution of these men with undisguised horror, in which vindictive cruelty assumes the mask of vindicating the outraged honor of the State. B. 
CHARLESTOWN, Va., Feb. 19. Stevens and Harlot, the late victims of the John Brown raid, are kept in the closest confinement. Stevens says he feels more cheerful and resigned than he ever expected to, and he remarked yesterday that the consciousness of suffering in a good cause is sufficient consolation. Hazlet is very low spirited, and declares he would infinitely prefer the wilds of Kansas to his present position.

THE JOHN BROWN MEMORIAL SERVICES—SCENES IN A HAYTI CATHEDRAL.
On Friday, January 20th, the grand solemn service in memory of John Brown, took place at the Cathedral. Although the ceremony did not bear an official character, President Gephardt, with his wife and children, was present.
During the day the flags were all kept at half-mast, and the houses hung with black.
The church was draped in mourning, and in the middle of the nave was erected a cenotaph, covered with crape, and illuminated with lighted wax tapers. The upper part was covered with white drapery, on which were depicted a pen, a sword, and a Bible, with the inscription:—

A JOHN BROWN,
MARTYR DE LA CAUSE DES NOIRS.
The advices were celebrated with unusual religious pomp, Abe Mousse, an African, officiated at the High Mass. M. M. Federique and Vies Ana both pronounced from the pulpit eulogies of John Brown.
In the afternoon, a grand procession was made to the end of the city to a place known as the Martyr’s Cross,' where further religious ceremonies took place. The principal citizens of Port-au-Prince have decided to wear mourning badges for three days. The Revue de Commerce, of Jan. 28th, thus speaks on the all-absorbing subject:—
'The death of John Brown is a crime of humanity —a bloody defiance against civilization and God. It is, moreover, a political fault of the American Government. Who can foresee the results of this immolation? Who can tell what will come to the United States, and especially to the Carolinas and Virginia, who shed this generous blood, notwithstanding all divine laws, the tears of a wife, and the cries of all Europe for mercy?
For us Haitians, we do not wish to return evil for evil, and we hope that the blood of this glorious martyr will not rise up against his executioners. We pray God to open their eyes and soften their hearts; and while waiting the happy day of the regeneration of our enslaved brethren, let us raise in our hearts our altar to John Brown, the immortal benefactor of our race, the holy victim of our cause, and let us adopt as our sister and friend his worthy and unfortunate widow.
Of all the champions of the holy war against the absurd prejudices of color, and the infamous doctrine of the subjugation of one part of the human race to another, John Brown is the most illustrious and most unfortunate. Henceforth, greater than other philanthropists, superior to Wilberforce, his sacred name will be pronounced with a holy respect, worthy of one who has given his life for the regeneration of the oppressed of mankind.'
The country was quiet, and the popularity of President Gephardt continued unabated. 
How THEY DISSOLVED THE UKION. The South Carolina Legislature lately sent out a parcel of resolutions inviting each of the other Southern States to join in a Disunion Conference.
When they reached Texas, the Legislature eyed them suspiciously. Members remarked that Texas had had too much trouble getting into the Union to be in a hurry to get out of it. And they were summarily laid under the table.
When they reached Virginia, there was a long debate. But the Legislature finally came to the sensible conclusion that a Disunion Conference would have no power to dissolve the Union, and if it had, that was not what they wanted. So the resolutions were not concurred in.
When, they reached Maryland, the whole Legislature rose up, with two exceptions, to indignantly spurn them as an invitation to treason, which message goes back to South Carolina, with their compliments.
Cold comfort for fire-eaters, this!—Albany Evening Journal.
A KIDNAPPER. A miserable apology for a man, answering the name of Curtis, was arrested, two or three days ago, in Iowa City, upon suspicion of being engaged in kidnapping. He had in his company two free colored girls, who it was satisfactorily, proved he intended to convey to Missouri, and sell into slavery. He was held in $1000 bail to answer the charge. Of course the pro-slavery forces, which do not recognize the rights of the blacks, either bond or free, have come to his rescue, and will undoubtedly endeavor to shield him from the punishment so eminently his due. These attempts at kidnapping are becoming common at the West.—New York Post.
THE FREE NEGRO BILL DEFEATED IN MISSISSIPPI. We learn that the bill for the expulsion of free negroes from the State, which passed the Mississippi House of Representatives, was defeated in the Senate. Gov. Pettis has appointed Peter B. Stark commissioner to Virginia, in pursuance of resolutions on Federal Relations adopted by the Legislature.
Gov. Ellis, of North Carolina, having applied to the Secretary of War for 2,000 long-ranged rifles with bayonets attached, the reply was made that North Carolina had already received her quota, but that the arms now on hand will be altered at one of the United States arsenals, on the Department being informed of the number and the character of the alterations desired.
Mr. A. H. Ernst, an old and well-known citizen of Cincinnati, died on the 13th inst. He came to Cincinnati in 1808, was a strong anti-slavery man and was an active member of the Horticultural Society. His beautiful homestead was known as Spring Garden.
A man by the name of Knuckles, living near Peddler Mills, Amherst Co., Va., was taken to a pond on Thursday of last week, by a party of citizens, and ducked, in consequence of his having used seditious language. He afterwards procured a warrant for the arrest of the parties who inflicted this summary punishment on him; but, instead of the warrant being executed, the magistrate who issued it narrowly escaped a ducking himself. There is neither liberty nor law where there is slavery. Virginia means to make that fact evident.
Jesse Wheeler, formerly Surveyor of Guildford County, N. C, has been arrested for circulating sixty copies of Helper's book. Several persons of Randolph County, of the same State, have been arrested for the like offence.
Gov. Wise, in his late speech at Richmond, referring to the Harper's Ferry affair, used the following expression:—
‘Rubies would not win me to tell all the facts of the mid of John Brown. I will not tell to the world either all the facts in my possession or all my opinions on that tragedy.'
He assigns as his reason the danger of creating further troubles between the North and South. Stuff!
Mr. Buchanan has done a humane deed, for which let him have due credit. A colored man harbored and concealed his own son, a slave, for which he was thrown into prison until he could pay a fine of $200. A statement of the case showed it to be one of peculiar cruelty, and the President at once pardoned him.
A person by the name of Frederick Southgate Brown has petitioned the Louisiana legislature to allow him and his family to change their names. The reason given for the request is, that there names. The reason given for the request is that there is an undying stigma attached to the name of 'Old John' at Harper's Ferry. [Green, Starlet or Black would be a suitable substitute in this case.]
NORFOLK, Feb. 14. A destructive fire has taken plane at Elizabeth City; N. C. Forty houses were burnt, involving loss to Messrs. Gaskins, Cobb, Pool, Wheeler, and others. Many families are houseless, and without means of support. Insurance only partial. The fire was the work of an incendiary and <illegible> great excitement.
At large fire took place Saturday night in <illegible> Row, Boston, resulting in the destruction of property to the value of about $60,000. The saddest part of the affair is the loss of human life. Charles Carlit, of <illegible> and Ladder Company, and Charles H. <illegible> of Washington <illegible> Company, were both instantly killed by the falling go a brisk wall. They were both married men, and leave <illegible>. The widow of Mr. Denton is in a peculiarly <illegible>.
<C05>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
A young Friend in Pennsylvania, 1 00
George Jackson, Boston, donation, 5 00
Collections by Susan B. Anthony:
At Lockport Convention, N. Y., $14 36
Buffalo Convention, N. Y., 25 51
Auburn Convention, N. Y., 35 44
Utica Convention, N. Y., 47 01
Syracuse Convention, N. Y., 18 23
Poughkeepsie Convention, N. Y., 31 59
Hudson Convention, N. Y., 22 50
Troy Convention, N. Y., 11 00
Boston Convention, N. Y., 11 64
Albany Convention, N. Y., 72 11
Collections by Marius R. Robinson:
At Fairfield, N. Y. 2 00 
Brackett's Bridge, N. Y. 2 34
For Tract Fund.
Thomas Martin, West Boylston, Mass., 0 50
Rev. John B. Wright, Wayland. 2 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Feb. 20, 1860.

NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
PARKER PILLSBURY, AARON M. POWELL and SUSAN B. ANTHONY commenced a series of Anti-Slavery Conventions in the State of New York on Thursday, the 23r inst.
Next week they are to address Conventions at Jordan and Weedsport.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:—
Hanover, Friday Morning, Feb. 24.

FREDERICK BROWN.
Brother of the late Captain JOHN BROWN, accompanied by CHARLES LENOX REMOND will visit the following places, and address audience therein on the subject of Slavery:—
Woonsocket, Friday evening, February 24.
Worcester, Sunday February 26.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Gleason's Hall, at EAST Attleboro', THIS (Friday) EVENING, Feb. 24, on American Slavery—commencing at 7 3-4 o'clock.
Mr. Garrison will also lecture twice on Sunday next, Feb. 26, in the Rev. Mr. Babcock's church, at South Natick.
SOUTH SCITUATE.—ANDREWT. Foss, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in South Situate, on Sunday next, 26th. For particulars, see local notices.
PAXTON.—SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and STEPHEN S. FOSTER, will speak on American Slavery, in Paxton, on Sunday next, 26th inst.
DIED—in the city, Jan.5th, Mrs. CATHERINE BOSTON, aged 115 years. Many years since, this worthy colored woman came from Reading, Mass., to this city, where old and young have been in the habit of addressing her as Grandmother Boston.
Feb. 14th, Mrs. ELIZA B. BISBIT, aged 63.
At Bridgewater, Mass., Feb. 8th, BETSEY FRANCIS, formerly of Portsmouth, N. H., aged 75.
In New York, Feb. 28th, Rev. GEORGE GARNET, aged 78. This venerable minister was uncle to the Rev. H. H. Garnet, and had been in the ministry 50 years. He died, as he lived, an upright man, a true gentleman, and a humble and devoted Christian.

30th THOUSAND NOW READY!
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the Family.
LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN, BY JAMES REDPATH.
With an Auto-Biography of his Childhood and Youth.
In one elegant volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound in gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with
A MAGNIFICIENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN,
By the best artist in America, from a daguerreotype, entirely different from the photographs, and being the only authentic likeness of the PHILANTHROPIST and PATRIOT which has yet appeared.
At the extremely Low Price of One Dollar.
Comprising an account of his early life in youth and manhood up to the Kansas: together with an intensely interesting narrative of his career in that Territory, giving authentic accounts of his famous battles, with all the details of his last attempt to liberate slaves at Harper's Ferry, Va., including his entire prison correspondence, and the PRIVATE LETTERS TO HIS FAMILY, NOT HITHERTO PUBLISHED. Also, an

ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY LIFE, BY CAPT. BROWN HIMSELF.
This important document has not, and will not, appear in the public press, as it is the desire of the friends who contribute that it should appear exclusively in our Publication, FOR THE BENEFIT OF HIS FAMILY, and any re-printing of it will be prosecuted as an infringement of copyright. Of this autobiography it is sufficient to say that nothing of the kind, since the AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF FRANKLIN, has been published, which is at once so characteristic and so interesting.
A large per cent age on every copy sold is secured by contract to the family of Capt. John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:—
NORTH ELBA, (N. Y.) January, 1860.
We, the undersigned, members of the family, and relatives of the late Capt. JOHN BROWN, desire to express our approval and endorsement of the Biography of our honored and revered relative, written by James Red path, and recently published by Thayer & Eldridge, of Boston, Mass. We think the work the best that can be produced on the subject at the present time, and in all matters of fact it is essentially correct, while it is written with an enthusiasm and eloquence which we thoroughly appreciate and admire.
The Publishers have issued the work in a style which recommends itself to all lovers of a handsome book, in regard to engraving, paper, printing and binding: and the friends of John Brown who wish to procure and preserve a memorial of his life and deeds will do well to provide themselves with a copy of this publication.
MARY A. BROWN, ANNIE BROWN.
SALMON BROWN, MARTHA BROWN,
ISABELL BROWN, ABBIE C. BROWN,
HENRY THOMPSON, SARAH BROWN.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS,
114 and 116, Washington Street, Boston.
Feb 24. Tf
IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair-Dyeing.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTRAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public that she has removed to 323 Washington sty. and 20 West sty.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produce now in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Shampooing.
Ladies waited on at their residence, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Wore cutter, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves.
Feb. 24. Tf

The Thinker;
BRING the 5th volume of the ' GREAT HARMONIA,' by A. J. Darth, is just published and ready for <illegible> Price One Dollar. <illegible>
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE.
MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances. This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used For many years by hundreds of the most distain Gushed and wealthy persons, who have pre-, Piously tried all the nostrums of the day Without success, some even injuring Their hair and health. This is Entirely different from all others.

IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN 
Mrs. S.A. Allen's Hair Restorative?'
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it becomes known in St. Louis.' stylus Presbyterian.
MRS. S.A. ALLEN’S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Chan Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N. Y. Evangalist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N.Y. Independent.
'MRS.S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that Mrs. as S.A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlike-like colo and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATUREALYOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U.S. Journal.
In this time when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday evening Gazette, Boston.
Those of our readers whose hair is Turing grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will fang in Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTPRER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produce for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSESSING NONE OF THE BURINGIN QUALITINES OF A DYE.'
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Why is this > Simply because it is a preparation of real, merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER ' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy’s generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instance where its good effects have been remarkable. Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER 'performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were traveling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs., S.A. Allen's World's hair Restorer.
Providence Daily Tribunes.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs., S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER'. It has been thoroughly tested and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in the favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons. Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S.A.ALLEN;S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts, of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine'.
Brooklyn Morning Journal. This preparation superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, it possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glassy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the fixed Hours. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.'
Mercury, Philadelphia.
We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of Mrs. S.A.ALLEN'
S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is correct. Boston Olive Brace.
Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence. Norfolk Argus.
Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success Boston Trenocright. 
In is just what it purports to be Cleve Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convened, TRY IT
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States/
It does not soil or slain, Seodl by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U.S. Cube, as cananda.
DEPOT S$55 NRPPP, E STREET. N.Y. where address all letter and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which, they make more wrofit. Write to Depotter circular, some <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SAXON HEART.
The Saxon heart bears not control;
Like stately streams upon their course, 
The tide swells on within the soul, 
O'erpowering adverse force. 
The brave, good heart, that takes its stand, 
Resisting wrong, abhorring shame,
Born like a prince to take command,
Regardless still of praise or blame.
The matchless heart in bold emprise,
The conquering heart, the so strong,
The heart of heroes, brave or wise,
The heart that always rights the wrong.
The race that erst in forest drear
The deadly arrow swiftly sped,
Hath dropt he winged shaft and spear,
And wields the winged thought instead.
The race that once went bravely forth,
To beard the wild boar in his den,
Now meets the tyrant in his wrath,
And boldly clamis the rights of men.
As in those Saxon wilds of old,
The Bowstring echoed far and wide,
The words of truth ring out like gold,
The same old spirit sanctified.
New Bedford.
D.R.

For the Liberator
BY AND BY.
It is coming, by and by, 
That blest day for which we sigh,
When our joyous song shall be, 
'We are free—we are free!' 
It is coming; but, Oh! when? 
For we may not rest till: them; 
Not till our proud banner wave 
O'er a land where breathes no slave. 
Here on earth we may not stay 
Till shall dawn that welcome day: 
Heavenly joys we then may share, 
But we sure shall know it there. 
When we cast aside this dress,
That doth now our spirits press, 
Must we cease to labor then 
For our suffering fellow-men?
Nay, we'll toil till all shall be 
Both in mind and body free; 
Till that day for which we sigh, 
Which is coming by and by. 
And when in our native land 
Not a single slave shall stand,
Whether here or whether there, 
The rejoicing we shall share. 
It is coming, by and by, 
Hastened on by yon and I; 
Though but little we can do, 
Small the seed whence yon tree grew. 
So in earnest deeds we'll pray 
For the coming of that day: 
Such prayers reach the ear on high— 
God will answer, by and by. 
Sherborn, Jan. 30, 1860.
E. D. MORSE.

From the Worcester Spy. 
'DE PROFUNDIS.' 
Out of the depths, O Lord! to thee we cry! 
The bitter waves o'erwhelm as in their might! 
Prostrate before thy great white throne we lie, 
Groping for thee through all blinding night!
We hear the steps of heroes treading slow 
The Via-dolorosa,—while their Cross 
Grates on the dreary way with sound of woe, 
Filling the soul with sense of bitter loss. 
How long, O Lord—how long shall dismal night 
Brood o'er the world with murk of deadly wrong? 
Sin and foul darkness quench the blessed light 
Of thy fair earth!—how long, O Lord—how long? 
How long, O Lord—how long shall wicked men 
Dig heroes' graves, and send Thy saints to death? 
Oh, let them flee before Thy Troth, as when 
The storm-clouds vanish at the whirlwind's breath! 
Fool! know'st thou not, that, in earth's forrows dark. 
The precious, precious seed of life is sown, 
To die, that it may quicken? Who shall mark 
The ripened corn until the summer’s flown? 
The early and the latter rain must fall, 
That is of blood,--and this is always tears,) 
Upon the seeds before the harvest-call! 
The sharp, bright blade heralds the golden ears! 
On! on to death! The fateful hour draws near! 
The martyr's crown of thorns is almost won! 
Death seals once more a triumph, and men's fear 
Proclaims that still on earth God's will is done. 
Man's wrath shall praise Him! Now His power appears,
When Sin plows deep, and sows the bloody seed! 
We water the broad furrow with our tears, 
And, lo! the harvest is a (nation f reed! 
We wait Thee, Lord, as watchers wait the day! 
We know there is redemption in Thy hand! 
And plenteous mercy still attends Thy way;
For, didst Thou mark our sins, oh, who should stand! 
Worcester, Nov. 29, 1859. 

100 DOLLARS REWARD 
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, at Fairfax Court House, Virginia, Tuesday, December 27th. 1859, a mulatto MAN, calling himself Lewis Lee, 28 or 30 years of age, about five feet high, spare, but well built, active, quick in motion and speech, and very polite in his manners. Very LIGHT mulatto, straight sandy hair, and light grey eyes. I will give the above reward for his apprehension and return, or if lodged in jail so that I get him again. 
Jan. 8, 1860 
N. B. WATKINS. 

From the Northern Independent.
REPLY.
LEWIS LEE TO N.B.WATKINS.
Ye have stolen all else from the African man,
But the color God gave him to wear;
The South is now stealing that as fast as it can,
Infusing light color and hair.
If your grandsire stole mine on the African Coast,
Or, if my father was your grandfather's son, 
And your brother enslaved his half brother, 
Am I made your slave by the violence done 
To the chastity of my grandmother? 
Can-one-fourth of my blood a slave make of me— 
One year Courts bind you not to respect? 
Still. three-fourths of my blood declare I am free, 
And year claims to my service reject. 
For as oft as one pound of my flesh you can claim, 
My right to three pounds is far better, 
Just as good at your right to your body or name, 
A God-given right to the letter. Now, Shylock, If you your one pound can get 
Without a drop of my blood, nor give pain. 
Yours slave code would allow you to take it, and yet 
My own right to myself I maintain. 
You have advertised me; let me advertise you,
That’ JEHOVAH no attribute hath,'
'can side with oppressors'; His justice is due,
And man-stealers inherit his wrath,
LEWIS LEE
Underground R.R. Jan. 22, 1860.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
LETTER TO REV. DE. BETHUNE.
PEMBROKE, (Mass.) Jan. 2, 1860.
REV. SIR: In common with the public generally, I have perused the report of the speech delivered by you at the Union meeting held recently in your city, and I feel impelled by a sense of duty to trouble you with a few observations upon such an extraordinary performance. Extraordinary I deem it, not from its force of argument or felicity of method, but solely in view of the truculent tone in which you dispose of the rights and interests of millions of our common race, and the glaring perversions of truth with which it abounds I have no apology to make for addressing you in a public manner, or for the plainness of speech which I shall endeavor to cultivate. I do not wish to make your presence at a political meeting matter of reproach, although it seems scarcely consistent with your frequent reproof of others who take the same liberty, though in a different direction. 
Your attempt to take that occasion out of the category of political meetings k simply absurd. You are too shrewd to have anticipated from the antecedents of that meeting say thing different from what actually chanced—a meeting, to wit, of the most intensely party character; one which, while denouncing in unmeasured terms the errors of the North generally, and the Republican party in especial, should be deaf, dumb and blind concerning the ceaseless aggressions of Slavery. 
The evident complacency with which you regarded the whole affair, including the boldly blasphemous attack of Mr. O'Conor upon the fundamental principles of religion, and the nauseous cant in which John A. Dix paraded his Judas-like apostacy, clearly prove that the meeting and your expectations of it were entirely at one with each other. I submit, Sir, that had you not been well assured that it was a gathering whose end and aim were to serve the interests of Slavery, and to aid and comfort the dominant party in their base subserviency to its will, you would, when the character of the meeting stood revealed, have fled from the place, even as Lot fled out of Sodom. 
With some ostentation, you announced yourself as belonging to a’ higher service,' as a’ simple follower of Jesus,' &c. Oh! Sir, would not the recollection of the cross to which that service leads, inspire you with doubts 0of the propriety of a service applauded by lips blatant with blasphemy and ribaldry? 
Apostrophizing the Union, you exclaimed, in mock-heroic style,’ If the Union is to perish, may I die first!' It is charitable to suppose that this was uttered thoughtlessly, just as adjurations of a more offensive type frequently are, and were on that very occasion; but, nevertheless, think of it a moment seriously. Have you reflected properly what a fearful thing it is thus to link your fate with that of a government, against whose life the conscious or unconscious prayers of four millions of human beings are continually ascending to God? You may prise this Union as the best of governments for you; but who gave you the right to have a good government, or even any government at all, at the expense of these hapless millions? 
Build your political fabric at perfect as you can; but remember that it can be rightfully built only at your own expense.’ Woe to him that buildeth his chambers with iniquity, and taketh his neighbor's service without wages!' Vain man! has your idolatrous venerstion for the Union darkened your understanding to the extent of deluding you with the fancy that it is of any account in the sight of God, except as conforms’ to the principles of his righteous rule?' Go, then, and meditate over the rains of Egypt, Tyre, Judah, Babylon and Rome, and, with jour Bible open before you, explore the mystery of their fate. Why, Sir, the whole coast of time, from Adam until now, is strown with the wrecks of nations as great and mighty as our own, but in whom were found oppression and cruelty, and whom God has destroyed without remedy. And, with the Bible before us, do we need to be told that it shall be more tolerable for all these in the day of judgment than for this proud and guilty land?
You attempt to justify your presence at the meeting by saying,’ When the pulpit is desecrated by the wildest fanaticism, it in high time to come forward.' You were somewhat indefinite here, but I suppose you refer to the action of those few clergymen who believe that slavery is, in truth,' the sum of all villanies,' and who write and teach accordingly. 
I have an impression that I have heard or read that you are not of those who justify slavery per se. If, however, I do you injustice in this, I am open to correction. But, assuming that you do not recognize the divine right of Slavery, I would inquire whether some of the views presented at your meeting might not be fitly described as the wildest possible fanaticism? and, if so, why you suffered it to pass without rebuke? It your mission against fanaticism wholly occupied with those who err on the side of humanity? Or is your silence on this head attributable to the fact that the fanaticism you attack is that of the unpopular and intensely hated few? 
If I am correct in my apprehension of your status on the Slavery question, let me entreat you to review the address of Mr. Charles O'Conor, and answer to your conscience as you must answer to God, whether in the wide realm of erring and criminal speculation, you could select any thing so thoroughly deserving of stern and indignant reprobation? Grasp, I pray you, a few of the salient features of that speech, and condense into essence the meaning hidden under its smooth verbiage, and say whether from all that is cruel and mean in the literature of depravity, anything can be found as redolent of the philosophy and feelings of hell! The speaker said, The negro is weak compared with the white, therefore enslave him—helpless, therefore trample him in the dust— ignorant, therefore keep him so'! Is anything necessary beyond the simple statement of such a doctrine to expose its wickedness? Why, Sir, not even from the depraved throng who crowd the arena where human brutes exert their skill in mauling each other's persons, could you obtain an approval of such a doctrine when plainly stated. And yet you listened to all this, and uttered no word of condemnation. The only fanaticism visible to you was that of over-earnestness in a cause which angels might be proud to advocate-the cause of those who, more emphatically than any other portion of the race, an the poor, whom there are none to help. And yet, in justice to Mr. O'Conor, I must say, in passing, that his address was one of the few redeeming features of the occasion. It had the rare merit of being frank, straight-forward, and self-consistent; and, compared with the namby-pamby of the other speakers, tending no whither but to be despised both of God and man, it might sully be considered a manly utterance. 
I have said that Mr. O'Conor's speech was one of the meeting's redeeming features. The other was the letter of Ex-President Fillmore. That letter, with much that is objectionable, contains some plain truths, forcibly uttered, and in the right time and place. And I think that if you and your compeers had detected the bitter irony which (whether intended or not) larked beneath the sentence in which Mr. Fillmore declares that’ the occasion of your meeting is to be found in the desperate attempt made to force slavery into Kansas through the repeal of the Missouri Compromise,' you would have closed your farce incontinently, and gone to your homes with the fixed resolution that, in all coming time, Slavery should be left to eat the fruit of her own waywardness, and drain to the dregs the bitter cup she has so often pressed upon us. 
While you Sir. thus sat and consented with men stealers, these who, from <illegible> of room, could not obtain admission to the delectable entertainment within, amused themselves with hooting and yelling
<c03>
around the burning effigy of a brother clergyman! Perhaps it was from this exhilarating spectacle that you drew the inspiration to attack his fanaticism! 
Think of it!—a clergyman of brilliant talents and spotless reputation, the life-long advocate of an popular reforms, a man not only your superior, but superior area to your highest conception of yourself, was burned in effigy, yourself present, and offering no word of reproof. 
But, it is the next paragraph of your speech that most particularly deserves attention. you therein say, that’ when men are canonized with no better reason than that they have shown the pluck of a bull-dog with the ferocity of s tiger, it is high time to come forward.' This, then, is Dr. Bethune's conception of John Brown! I hardly know how to grapple with the statement, it is so utterly incongruous, so entirely unsupported by evidence; one knows not where to begin or end. The observation has at least one merit, that of originality. To you must be ascribed the credit of having uttered the most opprobrious sentiment that has been spoken concerning the hero of Harper's Perry. It would be impossible, I think, from all that has been written or spoken, to select anything evincing more malignity, or a more complete perversion of facts. I know not what significance you may attach to the phrase, ‘pluck of a bull-dog,' but it seems to me exceedingly ill-chosen to describe the cool, thoughtful, unfaltering courage of the man whom Governor Wise affirmed to be the’ bravest man he ever saw.' But,’ ferocity'-when in all that relates to John Brown is to be found the ferocity which you impute to him? To say of Napoleon that he exhibited the courage of a game-cock, and the ferocity of a mad-dog, would be quite as felicitous, and lees unjust. I do not ask you to listen to the testimony of those who are, as you sneeringly remark, disposed to canonize him. But, let his bitter enemies be heard, and, with one accord, they exonerate him from the charge of ferocity. Judged by his foes, he was eminently brave, truthful and humane. Why, sir, the very nature of his action disproves your assertion, containing, as it did, the elements of the rarest disinterestedness and self-devotion to principle. Let no false issue be attempted here. The point is not the righteousness of his enterprise, but the character of the man. And, tried by the highest standard, his enemies being judges, he is seen to be self-sacrificing beyond any known man of the billion who now people earth. Read the admonition which he gave to his men touching the duty of regarding the lives of others, and see if you can extract from it anything that looks like ferocity. Read the tribute to his character in the letter of Ex-President Fillmore, and reflect how convincing must be the evidence to have extorted such s testimony! 
Are you a man of religion, and have not been impressed by the deep and fervid piety which ran through this man's whole nature?—his undeviating devotion to his idea of right?— and, more than all, his sublime trust in God, that wavered not while life remained? 
I could charitably suppose you ignorant of the facts to which I have referred; for the man who is so easily led by the nose as to go to a political meeting without having read the Call which produced it, or without knowing anything about it, except that it contained the word’ Union,' may well commit even a greater folly. But even this would not leave you blameless. The difference is but small between him who perverts facts, and him who undertakes to unfold their meaning while in ignorance of their nature. Your estimate of John Brown has, together with his deeds, become matter of history, and I arrogate no prescience when I say, that your speech will return to plague its author. John Brown has dragged many into what will prove no enviable immortality, but to none belongs s more conspicuous elevation than yourself. The memory of the Judge who condemned him, and of the Sheriff who fulfilled the doom, may possibly perish from the earth, but History will not forget to remember you! No historian of Charles I has omitted to chronicle the hag who spat in the face of the unhappy monarch as he passed to the death, whose placid dignity has half redeemed his memory. And even as in the historical procession of the past, we see the figure of the king followed ever by the grinning fury who insulted his last hours, so in the future, inseparably attached to the memory of John Brown, shall be that of the man who, from the shadow of his bloody grave, strove to heap fresh obloquy upon him, and blacken the fame which was the sole inheritance of his children. 
There are other topics touched in your speech which I had intended to notice, but the space I have already occupied admonishes me to forbear. 
I have, in this communication, been moved by no feelings toward yourself other than those of friendliness and good will.’ Faithful are the wounds of a friend.'
With sincere wishes for your present and eternal welfare, I am yours, &c. 
WILLIAM WHITING. 
Rev. George Bethune, D. D. 

PRAYER FOR THE OPPRESSED. 
BY ALMIRA SEYM0UR. 
Four fundamental and incontrovertible reasons why the abolition of slavery and oppression should be prayed for. 
1st. Because I believe firmly in that most sublime of uninspired Scripture, the Declaration of American Independence,—in its primary and most significant clause,—' That all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that, to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.' Because my whole soul responds to this noble, self-evident truth, I pray for the emancipation from absolute Slavery of more than three millions of may fellow-beings in my own land; for emancipation from social and political injustice and oppression, resulting from slavery, of more than five millions of my white Southern kindred; for emancipation from the demoralizing and debasing crime of slave-ownership of more than three hundred thousand oppressors of the weak; and for the emancipation of upwards of five hundred millions of acres of our sacred, blood-bought soil from the blighting curse of slave-labor. For this, ceaseless prayers should be offered. Every patriot heart should prostrate itself in the dust before the God of Nations, and implore Him that this favored land may no longer be a mocking and a byword; that this foul blot may be removed from its aegis; this deadly falsehood from its history of noble facts. 
When my spirit dilates with pride and gratitude, as I contemplate the unexampled expansion of my country's territory, I want no longer the soul-sickening reminder, that, notwithstanding the eloquence of orators, the songs of poets, the labors of past and present greatness, on the field and the forum, from the press and the pulpit, more than five hundred millions of acres of this magnificent area are not within the area of Freedom. 
When fancy flies with the merchant-fleets of my nation, to the remotest islands of the ocean, as-wall as every part of the main-lands, I would no longer have the mortifying suggestion arise that over now comas. The timber, pitch, tar, which go to the construction of those white-winged miracles of speed and accommodation, are products of soil her slave sons and daughters tread in hopelessness, and moisten with their tears. The cotton, rice, sugar, tobacco, with which they are so richly laden, and which shall be exchanged for the best treasures of those lands, were planted, nourished, harvested, shipped, with increasing, crushing labor, by American men and women who shall know profit of all their toil under sun or stars; who shall never say while living, these hands With, which wrought are mine, or, in dying.
<c04>
lay me in the little spot I purchased with my hard-earned wages; nay, who shall never say to the recipients of their few imparted pleasures or pains, my husband, my wife! or to the offspring of these conjugal loves, my children! 
Yes, God of homes and families! yes, God of the oppressed and parentless, I pray to Thee for this.
When I boast, proudly but warrantably, of New England's Lowells, Lawrences, Manchesters, Dovers; when I take the distinguished foreigner through’ these mills, that he may see the extent of our enterprise in this department, and the respectable character of our industrial population, I wish no longer that he may have it in his power, with the cutting courtesy of satire, to reply—Amasing! What quantities of raw material must be annually consumed! The production of your Slave States, is it not?
When I contemplate the marvellous results of our Free-School system; when I eulogize, as I love to, the prescience of our Pilgrim Fathers in their establishment, and the increasing munificence of annual appropriation by which they are not merely sustained, but multiplied continually, and immeasurably enhanced in value and elevated in character; when I give my exultant assent to the statement, that no; country in the world is in advance of my own in this particular. I want to know that this k true of my whole country; that every American child, as well as emigrants and fugitives from the Old World, has this inestimable privilege of free-school instruction. 
To this and I pray, daily, that all Slavery and Oppression may cease in my native land. 
2nd. Because I believe in the Great Apostle's statement, for which he had precedent in classic Iore, as well as the teachings of the Master—that’ God has made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth’—I pray for the emancipation of my brethren of the South. That the vilest passions of man in the noble southern nature may no longer be fostered by indulgence; the lust for ease, leading to the lust for power and wealth through unholy channels, and this to that lower lust which profanes all the instincts of the masters being for the sake of merchandize. That these temptations may be removed from him forever, and thus. 
First, his mental eye may be cleared, to discern what are his true interests as a citizen and a man of business. That he may recognize the undeniable truth, that free labor is incalculably more productive than labor that is enforced; that the resources for industry and enterprise with which his section of the country abounds, would be immeasurably increased in value by the employment, in their appropriation and use, of intelligent, well-paid craftsmen; that the soil he tills would yield abundantly greater products, and be constantly enriched and renewed, by subjecting it to the management of men of practical scientific skill, rather than, as now, constantly impoverished and exhausted. That he may discover how his social and political prerogatives would be enhanced, by having in his employ a hundred and fifty men qualified by culture and training each to be a responsible actor in all civil affairs, each the responsible head of a family, instead of, as now, counting ninety votes among the same number of individuals, and bearing upon his shoulders the unshared burden of a hundred and fifty human destinies, with all that appertains to them. And 
Second, That his moral eye may be thus cleared to discover his obligations to the wife of his bosom and the children God has given them; that they may no longer be surrounded by impure and enervating influences, but by such as are calculated to develop the beauty and worth of their natures—the sublime capabilities with which they are endowed; that they may know the comfort, the luxury, of well-ordered homes, and experience the noble refreshment and enjoyment of making them so; that they may know the ease of independence in their domestic habits, in place of the fretting bondage to bondmen and bondwomen which is now theirs. And 
Third, That his religious sensibilities shall be awakened to a perception of the worth of immortal souls, in whatever form or coloring they are clothed; to a perception of his accountability, in this relation, for his own, the souls of his family, clogged and chained down like his own, the souls of those toiling heathen, crushed in a night of existence beneath the burden he imposes. Yes; that my thoughtless, or reckless, or vainly-striving brother, the master, may be emancipated from these terrible evils, I will pray God with my whole soul. And his enfranchisement shall be that of the millions of non-slaveholders at the South, who, through him, are debarred the privileges that belong to the citizens of a free country, and paralyzed in every enterprise that distinguishes the age, and does honor to the race.
And again: that his other victims, the black slaves of his possession, may be rescued from the loathsome brute lives to which they are sacrificed; the wasting toil whose only comfort is, that it shortens life; the deprivations of culture, progress, and all rational enlightenment; the agonies of separation from kindred, and even kind masters. That my black brethren, a part of the great kindred and the one blood, may be put in possession of some of the invaluable rights of manhood. That my black sisters may know something of the sanctity and reverent reservation of womanhood; some of the holy privileges of human hearts and human intelligences; some of the hopes that brighten the lowliest toil of this life, and of those that give certain glimpses of another. That all this may be, I pray night and day to the one Creator, Judge and Father of all, that Slavery may cease, speedily and forever, in this land—a land that leaped from the unknown ocean at the call of his religion, and was planted, by the same mandate, with the seeds of such principles as form the bask of this appeal. 
3d. Because I believe in the Ten Commandments, delivered on the mystic Mount to the Jewish Lawgiver, I must pray with groanings that cannot be uttered for the abolition of Slavery and Oppression. 
'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.'... For I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them hate me; and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.' 
Can the slave on a Southern plantation, taught in abject fear to obey a master as a God, can he or she keep this commandment? Can the master keep it, when nothing receives his heart's homage and determined allegiance but the ’peculiar institution," which he drops the hand of God to grasp? And can he, does he, escape the penalty of his disobedience? Do we not see his sin’ visited upon the children unto the third and fourth generation'? Upon the children? Ay, upon all that comes after him; upon the land he has blighted, as well as the occupants of it. 
'Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him gailtless that taketh his name in vain.' 
Listen to the echo of thy speech, 0 lord of the slave, in the various relations thy false life make needful to thee, and say whether the command is or can be obeyed? How often, during the one hundred and sixty-eight hours of the coming week will that sacred name be upon thy lips? How often, in pleading prayer or devout thanksgiving—how often in fearful, revolting passion, or from long-indulged, sinful habit? 
'Remember the Sabbath day to keen it holy. Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the Sebbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shall not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: for in six days the lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in thems is, and reated the seventh day: wherefore the lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.'
What kind of holiness is there, can there be, in the observance of a sabbath amid the toils of a plants-
<c05>
tion, or the loose arrangements of a household of slaves? If they rest from their labors, it is as the beasts rest. What kind of holiness in the master's recognition of the day through a ritual, if indeed he take his sent in the sanctuary, that must be trimmed ad smoothed to his wishes, not reverently, but earnestly addressed to his want? 
'Honor thy father sad thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.' 
Can the Africa-American honor tie father who who begot for the auction-block and the lash of the overseer—begot her for a life of loathsome pollution or self-slaughter? Can the legitimate children of the doomed race honor father and mother whom they never sec, except through the vague visions of far-off memories, kept alive by yearning affections? Can the white children of the master honor father and mother who leave them as an inheritance, not stores of knowledge and wealth of well-trained natures, not heaps of gold and leagues of teeming soil, not mercantile, or, manufacturing, or agricultural enterprise, but a mass of ignorant, indolent animal existence, in which mind shoulders and motive deadens piteously as the degraded body drags itself just above the spent, degraded soil?
'Thou shalt not kill.' 
White man! American citizen, who callest thyself a Christian! With thy foot upon the black man's, breast, thy scourge and crushing burden upon his, back, thy polluted and polluting grasp upon the black woman—dost thow not kill! Answer to thy conscience and thy God, in the awful silence of profound introspection—DOST THOU HOT KILL? 
Thou shalt not commit adultery.' 
There stands the command. It is written in the Bible that lies neglected or often read on thy polished table or book-shelves—dost thou tee it? Written in the Bible, whose gilded leaves thy purchased preacher turns daintily each Sabbath—has he dared read it to thee? Written, and cannot be cresed 
'Thou shalt not steal.' 
It were a sin by the command to take the cost, or the purse, or the horse, of his fellow-man. What is it to take his ALL? His muscular power, his mental skill, his free agency, his labor, and the fruits of his labor, his leisure and rest, his loves and the offspring of his loves; all make him fit for the life, all that could prepare him for another. Slaveholder! answer this to thy conscience and thy God!—dost thou not steal?
'Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.'
And mayest thou punish for imputed Crimes and offences, ay, punish with tortures and death, and giv-the poor wretch no opportunity to assert or vindieat his innocence; no opportunity for defence, appeal, of examination into his cause?
'But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus And who is my neighbor? 
And Jesus, answering, said, A certain man were down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell more thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, an wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead And by chance there came down a certain priest the way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was the place, came and looked on him, and passed by the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came when he was; and when he saw him he had compassion on him, and went to him, at bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, an set him on his own beast, and brought him to an in and took care of him. And on the morrow, when departed, he took out two pence, and gave them the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; are. whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again will repay thee. 
Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves? And he said, he that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus <illegible> him. Go, and do thou likewise.' 
'Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, the shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, no anything that in thy neighbor's.'
Not even covet, nor earnestly desire, my <illegible> Southern brother! Yet thou takest all this without an equivalent, without an asking, even; takest al from thy helpless, patient, powerless neighbor, <illegible> can offer no resistance with his strong right arm for it is manacled; can make no appeal for justice the laws of a free, enlightened country, for in the execution of those laws, his rights are not recognized; can turn with no hope of sympathy and redress to the boasted independence and philanthropy of the North, for that stands with dumb white lips before the importent threat of Tyranny. 
O, Thou, who calledst this people to be Thy chosen people, in place of those who rejected Thy Son! Who baptizedst this nation in its infancy ‘with the Holy Ghost and with fire!' O, confirm in its manhood that early promise of Thy pretence, I beseech Thee! Let not justice, mercy and truth be again sacrificed unto death! Let us no longer forfeit our sacrified' birthright and blessed adoption by Thee from among the nations! To-day, TO-DAY, the question is, <illegible> or Barabbas! Father of individuals, of nations, of humanity! Parent of justice, mercy and truth, let us. choose omits! 
4th. Because I believe in the eleventh commancement, given through a greater than Moses-‘The shalt love thy neighbor as thyself'—believe in the with its unmistakable commentary—' Whatsoever would that men should do to you, do ye even so them'—because I believe in these as the divine, it perative, unconditional guide of our lives and" hope our salvation, my inmost soul poors itself out prayer for the abolition of slavery and oppression. 
Would I subject that tool's eternal welfare to mad mischiefs of absolute power and unlicensed lunch? Then can I calmly can my white Southern neighbor risk his in like manner. Would I condemn wife and children that were precious to my heart, to the feebling and vitiating influences of dependence up inferiors in every act and department of life? That can I see, without remonstrance, the wives and children of my neighbors thus defrauded of the development and culture which would place them among the noble and gifted of the land. 
Could I bead to unrequited toil through all the brazen hours of the long, burning, tropic day— your after year do this begin life with no better hope-wear it through in the gnawing despair, and down to my first peaceful rest, that of the grave, the beast lies down when his existence of bone a musele is at an end? Then can I see this-inflicted my black neighbor of African distant 
Could I behold my wife torn from my bosom— prefaned by the unhallowed embraces of one who called himself her master—bartered for as a piece of merchandiseee— sent hundreds of miles from me without my consent or her own, even—her bosom bleading with the anguish of separation, her body with the stripes of the task-master? Could I look on, and this transpiring to one whom I had chosen from among the daughters of New England? Then will I hold my peace while the worm-hearted, loving daughtar of the tropic clime are thus robbed and murdered. Could I sit calm and still is a knowledge that my young children, sons and daughters, with huddled together in s feul enclosure, unfit far beason, awaiting the word of the auctioneer to send them all directions in search of infamy, ignorance. vages hondism, and the deepest darkness of heatheings? Then can I complacently hear, daily, how the incent and helpless children on Southern savannahs meeting this doom. Would I raise no arm of resistance offer no went of remonstrance if some power, foreign to the wh-geniue of our New-England institutions should <illegible> itself over massachusalts, crippling her co nature, impeding her manufactures, desolating herfortile fields, thwarting her litercy enterprises, stintl her <illegible> privilage and depairing as, a northern white citizen of all the popular rights which
<c06>
the Declartion of Independence and the National Constituion Guarantee to me? Then will I feel no interest and make no effort, by word or vote, can behalf of the millions of oppressed non-slaveholding whites at the south. But if I could not, would not, do and endure thus myself, neither must I passively submit to it for these my neighbors-the oppressor and the oppressed-if there be any meaning in he Golden $Rule, the Divine Law of Love.
For these reasons, based upon and drawn from principles here presented in the order of their authority, yet parts of one whole, ascending from the highest human wisdom to the highest divine inspiration; for these reasons, so imperative in their nature and in their obligation upon me and every American man and woman calling himself or herself a Christian; for these momentous and eternal reasons, I call upon every devout spirit in the land-the priesthood and laymen of every denomination-to join me in solemn, unintermitted appeals to the God of Nations and Father will so influence those in power, and those who place men in power, that this falsehood on the lips of our country, this ulcer at her heart, this fatal poison in her air, this negation of all her virtues and her value to the present and future as an example that AFRICAN SLAVERY, and its inevitable adjunct, WHITE SLAVERY, may be abolished speedily and forever. God grant it, for His Mercy and His Truth's sake! Amen!

CARPETING.
'All the year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY. SONS & CO>
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET.)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities). Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES 
For cash or approved credit,.
Sep. 16

30,000 COPIES 
SOLD IN ADVANCE OF PUBLICATION.]
The only Genuine and Reliable Biography, authorized by, and for the Benefit of the family.
THE LIFE OF
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
BY JAMES REDPATH
With an Auto-Biography of his childhood and Youth.
In once elegant volume of 408 pages, printed on superb paper, and handsomely bound is gilt cloth, fully illustrated, and embellished with a 
MAGNIFICENT STEEL ENGRAVED PORTRAIT
OF THE GLORIOUS OLD MAN
A large per centage on every copy sold is accrued by contract to the family of John Brown, and this work is published under their sanction and approval, as may be seen by the following letters:-
Extract from a letter of Mary A. Brown widow of Capt. John Brown.
NORTH THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEAR FRIENDS-I am satisfied that Mr. redpath is THE man to write the life of my beloved husband, as he was personally acquainted with him, and I think will do him justice. I think that the portrait is a very good one.
Yours, respectfully,
MARY A. BROWN.
Letter from Salmon Brown, son of capt. John Brown.
NORTH ELBA, December, 1859
MESSRS. THAYER & ELDRIDGE:
DEARS SIRS-I was somewhat acquainted with James Redpath in Kansas. I am also familiar with his writings, and I consider him an able biographerm, and THE MAN ABOVE ALL OTHERS TO write the life of my beloved faher, and fully believe he will do justices to the work he has undertaken.
Yours, respectfully,
SALMON BROWN.
Copies of this book will be furnished to any address, postage paid, on the remittance of $1, and 21 cents in stamps.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, PUBLISHERS, 114 AND 116, Washington street, Boston.
Jan.20 tf

CHARLES HAZLTINE
PIANO-FORTE TUNER
AND
REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post-office.
Mr.H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan. Wulf Fries, and her fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forts makers; B.F. Baker, and W.R> Babcock.
Nov.4. 6m

RESISTANCE TO SLAVEHOLDERS!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36 pages, untitled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION;
OR,
Resistance o slaveholders the Right and Duty of the southern Slave and Northern Freemen.
BY HENRY C. WRIGHT
"RESISTANCE TO TIRANTS IS OBEDIENCE TO GOD."
PRICE 10 CENTS. TO BE HAD AT Bela Marah's 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the Liberator office, 21 Cornhill.
Boston, Jan.11.
HELPER'S
IMPENDING CRISIS.
A LIVE BOOK
50,000 Copies have been sold
NOW IS THE TIME!
THIS is the work that is creating so much excittment IN CONGRESS. Large 12 mo. volume, 420 pages, cloth. Price, $1.00. Octare adition, po. per covers, 50 cents
For sale by Booksellers and news Agents evry where.
Single copies sent to any address, postpaid, <illeigable> of price Address
A.B. BURDICK, Publisher.
D23 3t No. 144 Nassu st., New York.
