THE LIBERATOR
-PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for the LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: -WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & Son, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. No. 22. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1640.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
OPINIONS OF THE PRO-SLAVERY PRESS.
The president has given the country and the world another evidence of the firmness and moral courage for which he is so distinguished. Although he had no official evidence that the proclamation attributed to Gen. Hunter was genuine, he saw that it was doing mischief, compromising his own and the position of the Government, and increasing the irritation already sufficiently violent upon the question of slavery. As in the case of General-Fremont, he took counsel of his own good judgment and sense of duty, and nipped the growing danger in the bud.-Albany Evening Journal.
The President has rebuked an assumption far less dangerous, by removal. He has declared against the Federal right of Emancipation in the States. Both Houses are pledged, by a solemn resolution, against such interference. This General, who has fought no battles and won no position, assumes to set aside the policy of the President and the pledges of Congress, by blowing this windy blast of an empty proclamation through his camp.-Albany Argus.
The President's proclamation respecting Gen. Hunter's order is admirable in letter and in sprit. The Gen. Hunter should have taken the step he did without consulting the government, without even intimating to them the possibility of his desiring to take it, is surprising and well nigh incomprehensible.-Providence Journal.
Our readers will see from our despatches that we were right in telling them in the Journal, that Gen. Hunter's abolition order was without the slightest authority. That gallant officer must be mad-at least upon some subjects.-Louisville Journal.
President Lincoln has again shown his own good sense, his consistency and steady adherence to the Constitution and the laws, by repudiating Gen. Hunter's recent emancipation proclamation.-Philadelphia Ledger.
What could have impelled so good a general to make a proclamation so wild in its statement of facts and so impolitic as to its probable effects, and so violently opposed to the officially declared policy of both the National Executive and the National Legislature, surpasses comprehension.-Phil. Inquirer.
We do not hesitate to say that, for this monstrous usurpation of power, for this inconceivable folly and recklessness, so totally uncalled for and unjustifiable by every consideration, Gen. Hunter should be peremptorily and ignominiously suspended. We need some decisive dealing with such cases to put a stop to them. Congress, especially, owes it to its own dignity to vindicate its prerogatives form such impudent and arrogant invasion, and to set its seal of condemnation upon one of the most audacious act perpetrated by General of the United States armies in the course of this war.-Phil. N. American.
It is at variance with the whole policy of the administration, and is, therefore, calculated to embarrass it extremely. Unless the proclamation has been issued under special instructions, which the President does not consider applicable to other parts of the rebel region, we shall expect to see him direct that it be modified, as was General Fremont's proclamation.-Philadelphia Bulletin.
If this infamous policy has been adopted by General Hunter, we shall look for the President to recall him, just as he overruled Cameron on a similar issue.-Cincinnati Enquirer.
General Hunter's episode having been safely finished, the country is upon the whole to be congratulated that it has occurred. So complete is the success with which the President has improved the occasion for his own purposes, that but for his denial of any knowledge or belief of Gen. Hunter’s intention to issue his order, one might almost credit the suggestion that the order was issued for the purpose of being declared void by this. proclamation. However the hopes of a limited class may have been disappointed, the President has to-day a stronger, hold than ever upon the confidence of the majority of the people. The praises of his wisdom moderation, sincerity of purpose and independence upon every tongue, and more than ever do the people now rally about him, as the chief stay of our hopes at this moment.
It is surprising that any general in the field should take the responsibility of a step of such vast consequence as this, without instructions from the President. It will be remembered that General Fremont was obliged to modify a proclamation far less sweeping than this, in accordance with orders from Washington; and we apprehend that no other officer is likely to expose himself to similar risk, even if he failed to see that such a step involves matters of policy, respecting which no officer lower than highest can well judge. 
In short, if General Hunter has really, issued this proclamation, which, as we have hinted, we are almost tempted to doubt, we suspect that he will have occasion to modify it quite materially at an early date.-Boston Advertiser.
The recent proclamation of the President is effectual to relieve the public mind to this extent,-that emancipation is not hereafter to be left at the disposition of military commanders. While the necessity which called for the proclamation shows in-what an uncertain state of the policy of the Government had been reputed to be, and we must remark that it is not creditable so to have left it, yet we must congratulate ourselves that all this is not at an end, so far as any present thought of emancipation is contemplated. Mr. Lincoln does indeed announce that he reserves to himself the consideration of the question,-whether it may be competent for him, as Commander-in-Chief, under any future circumstances of necessity, "to execute any such supposed power" as was assumed by Gen. Hunter, without authority, And since Mr. Lincoln proposes only the possibility of a contingency which might lead him to consider whether any such power resides in him, we may safely leave the matter until it comes up, fully confident that it never can come up in any shape to obtain an affirmative decision. Any careful review of the subject will satisfy Mr. Lincoln, that he can have no more authority to emancipate slaves than Gen. Hunter has, except in some capacity very different from that of President of the United States, or of Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the United States, under the Constitution-and to act outside of either of those capacities would be to institute a revolution, and to assume a jurisdiction quite inconsistent with an allegiance which citizens owe to the Government de jure, and not another Government, however it might assume to be one de facto.
It must be evident, we thing, to the plainest capacity, .that no system of emancipation can ever be instituted, except precisely in the way provided for by the Congressional resolution recommended by
<c02>
the President himself-that is, by the voluntary action of each individual State, as its own time and in its own manner. Whatever laws may be passed by Congress of a different character will be merely null and void; and whatever course of proceedings might at any time by the Executive would be equally so. Emancipation can only take effect so far as the power extents to enforce it. A certain number of negroes, as it has already happened to an insignificant extent, might be induced to run away,-and, as our armies penetrate the Southern country, these numbers might be increased-though we thing there is far less reason to expect it in the extreme Southern States than on the border. But supposes a State either voluntarily to resume its former relations to the Union,-which no one ever will, with an emancipation system hanging over it-or even to come back compulsorily-of what validity or avail would such a system be in such a State? The Constitution of the United States then resumes its away, and the courts will set aside all laws or proceedings inconsistent with it: and, as for undertaking to take possession and to hold landed property in such States, in opposition to the will of the people there-why, Ireland in its worst days would, be a Paradise to it. The whole idea of any such emancipation would be of all illusions the most unreal, of every species of self-deception of most pernicious.
Gen, David Hunter's proclamation, declaring all the slaves free in the States of Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, is enough to make him a saint forever in the abolition calendar; and it will be rich to see that delectable print, the Liberator, which holds to "no Union with slaveholders, "and that "Constitution is a covenant with death and agreement with hell," rejoice over this abolition spread. And then the logic of it! What splendid absurdity He, David, declares martial law; then reasons that martial law and slavery are incompatible in a free country; ergo, vamose slavery! Was ever anything more direct? This General must learn that the military has its line of duty, to transcend which in this way, is a huge blunder. The idea that General David Hunter by such snap logic and stroke of pen, can remould the institutions of three States, is ridiculous.
Major General Hunter's silly order relative to the abolition of slavery in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida is effectually squelched. The President has issued his proclamation, which not only settles this particular case, but defines the position of the administration on this important point, and on the compensation principle of March last.
After the unwavering line of policy of the President from the firing of the first gun at Fort Sumter to the present day. We have had no<illegible> expect any other course; and now, that the rebuke administered to General Fremont has been repeated, even more emphatically, to General Hunter, the public will be rejoiced that we have so conservative a statesman at the helm of the nation and one who is determined to adhere to the rights of the respective States as guaranteed by the Constitution.-Boston Post.
We need only say of Gen. Hunter's proclamation that we believe it totally unauthorized by the Government-we do not say by every member of the Administration-for the New York World intimates broadly that it is probably a trick of the Secretary of War, acting on his own responsibility, to which it will be traced. It is the act of a madman.-Boston Courier.
A surer mode of prolonging the war indefinitely could hardly, in our opinion, have been devised. It will inflame the Southern mind beyond measure, and if General Hunter be sustained by the President, we abandon all hope of a reunion. This, we observe, is the view generally taken, say by the ultra Abolition journals. The principle herein foreshadowed may, indeed, be pushed into practice by the superior military power of the Free States; but it must end in total ruin of the South, accompanied, on the part of the North, by the necessary maintenance of immense garrisons, prodigious disbursement, financial crises, heavy taxation, and final disarrangement of trade. The North is rich, young, vigorous. It can stand much. It could not prosper with a Hungary or a Venetia gnawing at its vitals. Is it true, as suggested, that the object of the Abolitionists is to prolong the war?-New York (English) Albion.
The conservative sentiment of the country will be with the President as against the radicals. It is stronger than cabinets. Hunter proclamation, in any case, will be the means of injuring the national cause immensely. Hundreds of thousands of the people of the South will be allowed to read the proclamation, who will never have a chance of seeing the President's disavowal of it, providing it be disavowed. We are in possession of information, which it is not proper to publish, which renders it certain that General Hunter should be at once recalled, if the efficiency of the department of the South is to be kept up. The interest of the good cause demands the President's immediate interference, and we look for it-Brooklyn Eagle.
The intelligence that the President does not sustain and did not authorize General Hunter's proclamation gives great satisfaction. It proves that he has not surrendered to the extremists, and dispels the misgivings which have recently existed as to his purposes. No calamity could be greater at this period than vacillation on his part as to any of the great measures of policy in which the mass of the people have acquiesced. Indeed, there can be doubt that he would, by approving Hunter's wild and illogical announcement, offend the sense of justice of the great majority which now sustains the Government against the rebellion.-Detroit Free Press.
If Gen. Hunter has issued this proclamation without the sanction of the Presidents, as we presume is the case, it is a stretch of authority which is to be deprecated. It is certainly to be regretted that the Administration has had no definite policy upon the subject of slavery within the jurisdiction of the army, but has left the question to be dealt with entirely by the commanding generals in the field. While Halleck at the West keeps all slaves without his lines, not even giving those of the rebels a chance to free themselves, Gen. Hunter declares the freedom of slaves who are beyond his actual jurisdiction. Thus there are two extreme ideas prevailing in the treatment of slavery, which might be harmonized by the promulgation of some simple, well-defined plan for guidance of the Union forces-Boston Journal.
Mr. Lincoln's last proclamation has one good feature; it effectually kills off this rotten business of military proclamations, many of which have proved weak and ridiculous. We employ these men to do our fighting, and pay them for it; when they have done that, their business ceases. we no more want their officious impolitical-of which they may know less than some of the privates in the ranks-than we should want the opinion of the shoe-maker we  employ upon our hats the advice of our baker upon gardens, or the talk of our minister on politics. Each man to his trade-Newburyport Herald.
<c03>
Selections.
SURRENDER OF SLAVES BY THE ARMY.
SPEECH OF HON.CHARLES SUMNER.
Delivered in the United States Senate of Thursday, May 1, 1862.
On motion of Mr. WILSON, of Massachusetts, the Senate resumed the consideration of the following resolution, submitted by him on the 3rd of April:-
"Resolved, That the Committee on Military Affairs and the Militia be directed to consider and report whether any further legislation is necessary to prevent person employed in the military service of the United States from aiding in the return or control over person claimed as fugitive slaves, and to punish them therefor."
The pending question being on the amendment of MR. GRIMES, to add to the resolution:-
"And to report what reorganization of the Army, in its personnel or otherwise, may be necessary to promote the public welfare, and bring the rebellion to a speedy and triumphant end."
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. SUMNER. Some tunes has elapsed since we listened to the persuasive speech of the Senator from Iowa,[MR.GRIMES,] but the subject is fresh still. The character, if not the efficiency, of our armies is concerned in the complete enforcement of the legislation with regard to slaves. If this legislation be set at defiance or evaded, I think that our military strength will be impaired, and I am sure that our good name will suffer.
I am grateful to the Senator from Iowa for the frankness with which he exposed and condemned the recent of several of our Generals.
One of these officers, though recently of California, was originally of Massachusetts. He served honorably in the Mexican war, and, I believe, is an excellent soldier. His present position as a General is due partly to my exertions. I pressed his appointment. But had I for a moment imagined he could do what he has just perpetrated, lie would never have had my support. When an officer falls bravely in defence of his country, there is an honest pride which mingles with the regret that we feel. But when an officer falls as General Hooker has now fallen, there is nothing but regret. He has fallen, although not dead. I say this with pain; but I cannot say less."
The order of <illegible> the senator from Iowa [MR.GRIMES.] I ask leave to read part of a letter which I have received from this camp:-
"I take the liberty of forwarding to you enclosed order of General Hooker, with a report of its results, thinking that you will be interested to know how the late act of Congress forbidding the rendition of slaves by Army officers is violated; and hoping that some effort may be made to prevent such unjust and outrageous measures on the part of superior officers.
Our moral and humane feeling have been violated by having been compelled to witness the attempts of slaveholders, know to be of secession proclivities, coming into our camps and searching our private quarter for their slaves, under the cover of a protecting order from General who exceeds his authority.
If such unjust orders are to be issued, and such oppressive measures enforced, all order and discipline in our ranks will be lost.
It is exceedingly difficult to restrain the indignation of our soldiers, who are learning more and more to sympathize with poor slave, as an oppressed laborer, and who feel a righteous antipathy toward the slave master whose loyalty they have every reason to question.
Is there to be no end of such offences against the moral sense and the patriotic feelings of our officers and soldiers? Are we still to be made the protectors and defenders of slave-hunters, who surround and infest our camps, by authority, with deadly weapons to employ in their fugitive slaves?"
This letter expresses feelings that are natural to every humane bosom. In contrast to the conduct of General Hooker, I desire to call attention to the course of General Doubleday, whose headquarters are here in Washington. I read this order:-
"HEADQUARTERS, MILITARY DEFENCES NORTH OF THE POTOMAC, Washington, April 6, 1862.
SIR,-I am directed by General Doubleday to say, in answer to your letter of the 2d instant, that all negroes coming into the lines of any of the camps or forts under his command are to be treated as persons and not as chattels.
Under the circumstances has the commander of the for or camp the power of surrendering person claimed as fugitive slaves, as it cannot to done without determining their character.
The additional article of war recently passed by Congress positively prohibits this.
The question has been asked, whether it would not be better to exclude negroes altogether from the lines. The General is of the opinion that they bring much valuable information, which cannot be obtained from any other source. They are acquainted with all the roads, paths, fords, and other natural features of the country, and they make excellent guides. They also know and frequently have exposed the haunts of secession spies and traitors, and the existence of rebel organizations. They will not, therefore, be excluded.
The General also directs me to say that civil process cannot be served directly in the camps or forts of this command, without full authority be obtained from the commanding officer for that purpose.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.P.HALSTED, Assistant Adjutant, General.
Lieutenant Colonel JOHN D. SHAUL, commanding Seventh-Sixth Regiment New York Volunteers."
General Doubleday acted bravely at Fort Sumter; but he did not render a truer service to his country on the occasion than he has now done in issuing this order. If this example were followed everywhere in our camps, we should at least save ourselves from shame even if we did not secure victory.
There are other Generals at the West who think they do their duty best when they serve slavery. There is General McCook, of whom we have the following sad report, on the authority of a paper at Nashville, which recounts the visit of a slave-hunter to his camp:-
"He visited the camp of General McCook, in Maury county, in quest of fugitive, and that officer, instead of throwing obstacles in the way, afforded him every facility for the successful prosecution of his search. That General treated him in the most courteous and gentlemanly manner, as also did General Johnson and Captain Blake, the brigade provost marshal. Their conduct toward him was in all respects that of high toned gentleman, desirous of discharging their duties promptly and honorably. It is impossible for the army to prevent slaves from following them; but whenever the fugitives come into the lines of General McCook, they are secured, and a record made of their names and the names of their owners. All the owner has to do is to apply either in person through so agent examine the record, or look at this slaves, and if he finds any that belong to him, taken them away."
<c04>
Can we listen to such a statement, and not feel indignant at the levity with which human freedom is treated?
But similar cases multiply. There is the provost marshal of Louisville, who seems to be disgrace to our Army, if we may believe the following report:
"Louisville has been noted as being one of the best Southern cities for privileges forward our people, but it has undergone many changes for several years-for the worst. When the rebellion broke out, we were worshipping every Sabbath and once through the week, in our churches, and when the legions of the North mad Louisville their headquarters, it seemed that a new region was instituted, and we worshipped in our splendid churches almost ad libitum, and nothing said to the contrary not withstanding.
But, lo! a sad change has taken place, the Northern army has proceed southward, forcing its passage into the 'land of Dixie.’ Kentucky has been redeemed; her ‘white people are free' and her 'free blacks are enslaved,' and they have no more 'rights that white men are bound to respect.' Our condition so far is worse than before the war. Our churches are closed, and a free man cannot walk after dark, though he his free papers, with the great seal of the State and county, and owns thousands of dollars' worth of property (which some do,) and pay taxes, and support the war, and be also loyal to the Government. All this has been brought about by a slaveholder and a negro hater, the provost marshal, whose name is Dent, he having control of the city since the removal of the headquarters of Gen. Buell to Nashville; and instead of hunting rebels, as there are thousands in the city, he has made the colored people his subjects of oppression and inhuman treatment. He commenced his cruel operations by ordering his provost guards, the cavalry men, to flog all colored persons out after dark, free or slave; so we were then pounced upon with the cowhide and cat-o’-nine-tails in old plantation style' without hinderance, for his order was supreme. He had many visitors the next day to inquire into his order: he replied, it was 'military' order, and must be respected.
MR. Editor, these are some of the ordeals we are passing through in the 'neutral State of Kentucky' and we have yet to see the first remonstrance raised against it by the press. Our daily editors are dumb: they open not their months. From their silence, I judge it is approved by them. I think that if the Government has any loyal people in her midst, it is the colored people, and they have done good service even in their city towards detecting smugglers and traitors: and the marshal has at times been suspected of secession proclivities. I judge that he is now being revenged on the colored people for their faithfulness to the Union cause, as his guards have dispensed with fire-arms and formed into 'patrols' and instituted the cowhide and cat-o'-nine-galls, which seem to please them well, for they are very nimble and dexterous in chasing the blacks after dark through the streets, on the payments, down lanes and alleys as though these were<illegible> and when caught their cries and screams are heart-rending, but no one dare interfere, for the patrol are dressed in 'Uncle Sam's livery.' Some have been whipped unmercifully. 
Our churches have suffered much since this barbarous treatment. He has told them to open on Sunday; but some had the flogging meted out to them after benediction; so many have concluded to stay at home, since old Satan has been loosed, but we trust 'only for a little season.' Now you see the effect of the war in this direction. This is considerably worse than the old status, and if it is to continue, I think of all men we will be most miserable."
Mr. DAVIS. Will the Senator from Massachusetts favor me with his authority of that Statement?
Mr. SUMNER. It is a statement from a religious newspaper published in New York.
Mr. DAVIS. I have no doubt it is false.
Mr. WILSON, of Massachusetts, I have no doubt it is substantially true.
Mr. DAVIS. You do not know anything about it, sir,
Mr. WILSON, of Massachusetts, Quite as much as you do.
Mr. DAVIS. No sir.
Mr. SUMNER. My colleague say he has no doubt it is true. It was put in my hands by a trust-worthy person, who assured me it could be relied upon as true; but, of course, I cannot pretend to vouch for it  myself form any personal knowledge.
Mr. WILSON, of Massachusetts. If my colleague will allow me, I will simply say that I have other testimony, not so full, not so complete as this, going to show that the grossest oppressions exist there. That is all I mean to say about it. I do not mean t say that this in all its details is correct; but that under our Army the grossest abuses exist there, I have no doubt, for I have the best testimony to that effect.
Mr. SUMNER. But sir, there is an incident which has occurred under Buell's command, which cannot be read without a blush. Here it is, as described in the letter of a soldier, who was more than a witness, even a party to it. I find this letter in a newspaper; but I have also had it furnished to me in manuscript by the person to whom it is addressed:-
"CAMP ANDY JOHNSON, near NASHVILLE, Tennessee, MARCH 8, 1862.
MY DEAR PARENTS: A great outrage was perpetrated in our camp yesterday, as follows:
A black boy, named Henry, has been at work for the Colonel for some days. His owner came after him while we were camped on the other side of the river, but the boys hooted, him out of camp. The negro said he would sooner be killed on the sport than go back with his master, even if he knew he would not be punished. His master, he said, was a Secessionist and had kept some.(the boy) on some fortifications down the river at work for four months.
Nothing more transpired concerning his return until yesterday. While the greater part of the regiment were out on pocket, the boy's owner came with two sentinels of the provost guard from the city, and after chasing the poor frightened boy through the camp several times-drawing a knife once, and the sentinel knocking him down with him musket-they captured and delivered him to his owner, who stood waiting outside the lines. The latter paid the catching sentries fifteen dollars each, and led 'Henry' away with him unmolested, flourishing a pistol at his head as he went. They had no order-at least showed none-for the boy from headquarters, and the Lieutenant Colonel of our regiment, who was in command, need not have delivered him up without such an order, yet allowed him to be caught and the Major forbade our boys from giving him any assistance. One of the sentinels was from a Kentucky and one from an Indiana regiment.
The former master of our boy will not get him without an order, and an imperative one, I believe; and if one is given for him, his master having been a strong and active Secessionist-a quartermaster for the Southern army, in fact-I have about concluded to follow it by immediate resignation, and this, whether the order be for him or any other negro. The order would make it an official act. What do you think my duty would be in the premises?"
Of General Buell I know nothing personally; but such an incident must fill us with distrust. He may be a thunderbolt of war; but it is clear that he wants that just comprehension of the times and that sympathy with humanity without which no officer can do his complete duty.
But General Buell may perhaps shelter himself behind the instructions of his superior officer-and this brings me to the famous order No.3 of Major
<c05>
General Halleck, I have it in my hands, and quote these words:-
"We will prove to them that we come to restore, not to violate, the Constitution and the laws. The orders heretofore issued from this department in regard to pillaging, marauding, and the destruction of private property, and stealing and the concealment of slaves, must be strictly enforced It does not belong to military to decide upon the relation of master and slave. Such questions must be settled by the civil courts. No fugitive slave will therefore be admitted within the lines or camps, except when specially ordered by the general commanding."
In this order, so strangely inconsistent, absurd, unconstitutional, and inhuman, the General has perversely persevered. In every aspect, it is bad. It wants common sense as well as common humanity. It is unworthy a man of honor and a soldier.
It is inconsistent with itself, inasmuch as the General proclaims that he "comes to restore, not to violate, the Constitution and laws," and then proceeds to a direct violation of them. In the same order, he says: "It does not belong to the military to decide upon relation of master and slave. Such questions must be settled by the civil courts. "And then, in the face of this declaration, he proceeds to say that no fugitive slaves are to be admitted in our lines or camps. But pray, sir, how can such persons be excluded from lines or camps without deciding that they are fugitive slaves? Here is flat and discreditable inconsistency.
But worse than its inconsistency is its absurdity. This watchful, prudent General proposes to exclude all fugitive slaves from his camps. In other words he shuts out from hi camps all those opportunities of information with regard to the condition of the enemy which be afforded by this of deserters. They may come charged with knowledge of the movements and plans of the enemy, but the General will not receive them, because they are slaves. They may be able to disclose the secret of a campaign, but the General will not have it, because they are slaves. If we have failed thus far in knowledge of the designs of the enemy, it has been because this absurd policy has prevailed.
General Halleck may be instructed by General McDowell, whose opposite conduct appears in a dispatch published in the papers:-
"CATLETTESVILLE STATION, VIRGINIA, FIFTEEN MILES SOUTH OF MANASSAS JUNCTION., April 13.
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
An intelligent negro has just come in from Stafford county, and say his master returned this morning from Fredericksburg to his home, and told his wife, in this negro's presence, that all the enemy's troops had last of them leaving on Saturday morning. This last has just been confirmed by another negro.
IRWIN McDOWELL Major General."
Here are two negroes who have come into the camp with important information, both the whom General Halleck's order would repel and drive back to bondage. And he may be instructed by the dispatch of General Wool, just received, announcing our success at New Orleans, the news of which came by a "fugitive black "General Wool adds, "the negro bringing the above, reports that the rebels have two iron-clad steamers nearly completed, and that it is believed that the Merrimac will be out tomorrow. "But all this information would be shut out by General Halleck. Can absurdity be more complete?
But worse than its inconsistency or absurdity is its positive unconstitutionality. What right, under the Constitution, has this General to set himself up as the judge in cases of human freedom? Where does he find his power? By whom has he been invested with this attribute? It is the boast of the Constitution of the United States that all are "person" The Constitution so regards everybody, and surrounds everybody with the safeguards of "persons." even to the extent of declaring that "no person shall be deprived of liberty without due process of law;" and yet the Army is gravely told to treat certain persons as slaves. Of course, this cannot be done without sitting in judgment most summarily on human freedom. How does the General know that they are slaves? On what evidence? Because they are black? Why may they not be free blacks? General Halleck would reverse the true presumption. He assumes slavery when he ought to assume freedom. In the eye of the Constitution all are freemen until proved to be slaves, no matter of what color or race. The only question to be asked is as to loyalty. Are you loyal or rebel? If loyal, then welcome to the hospitality and protection of our camps. If, rebel, then surrender to our arms. Let these be the inquiries and let this be the rule, and the Union which we seek to restore will not be indefinitely postponed.
But worse than its unconstitutionality is the inhumanity of this order, so shocking to the moral sense. This General, who professes to fight the battle of the Constitution with the commission of the Republic, speaks of the "concealment of slaves" in the same class with "pillaging, marauding, and stealing, "I complain of this confusion of language, showing an insensibility to human rights. It is like those shameful advertisements which garnish Southern newspapers, where "the boy Tom" and "the girl Sally" are to be sold in the same lot with "horses, mules, cattle and swine." That such an order should be put forth in the name of the United States may justly excite our indignation.
On these various grounds. I object to this order In my criticism which I make with sincere sorrow, I do not travel out of the order. General Halleck is said to be an able officer, and I think also an able lawyer. I do not intend to question his talents. But I do protest against his perverse violation of the Constitution in order to carry out a miserable and disgraceful pro-slavery policy; and I protest against this being allowed to degrade the character of our country. Sir, we are making history now. Every victory adds something to that history; but such an order is worse for us than a defeat. More than any defeat, it will discredit us with posterity, and with the friends of liberal institutions in foreign nations. I have said that General Halleck is reputed to be an able officer: but most perversely he undoes with one hand what he does with the other. He undoes by his orders the good he does as a General. While professing to make war upon the rebellion, he sustains its chief and most active power, and degrades his gallant army to be the constables of slavery.
Slavery is the constant rebel and universal enemy. It is traitor and belligerent together, and is always to be treated accordingly. Tenderness to slavery now is practical disloyalty and practical alliance with the enemy.
Against these officers to whom I have referred today I have no personal unkindness. I should much prefer to speak in their praise; but sir, I am in earnest. While I have the honor of a seat in the Senate, no success, no victory, shall be any apology or any shield to general who undertakes to insult, human nature. From the midst of his triumphs I will drag him forward to receive then condemnation which conduct deserves.
<c06>
PROCLAMATION OF GEN. HUNTER
The proclamation of General Hunter is a move in the right direction. The emancipation of the slaves in the military district over which his authority extends is the necessary and natural result of the efforts mad by slaveholders to dissolve the Union. The war has reached that state when military necessity can no longer hesitate to strike the blow that shall end it. The necessity of the measure-of which the military authorities are the proper judges-makes the act of emancipation perfectly justifiable and valid. No act of Congress defines the limits of military necessity, and martial law asserts its supremacy overall restraints.
Some timorous persons have made up their minds that President Lincoln will repudiate the proclamation of Gen. Hunter. President Lincoln will do no such thing. Those who argue from the case for Fremont, that Hunter will be overruled, do not bear in mind the altered circumstances and the new facts under which the question is now to be decided. The President does not by too much haste permit himself to be mastered by events: he calmly awaits their development, and then, by adapting himself to the emergencies which they create, shows himself at all times equal to the occasion. He did not sustain Fremont; neither did he condemn him; for he gave him another important command. He had the sagacity to foresee that a measure, at first deemed perilous and injudicious, might, at another time in the progress of events, be the best that could be adopted. The war, since Fremont dealt his first appalling blow at slavery, has made great progress and the views of the people as to the best means of putting an end to it have made great progress also. When the ideal of freeing the slaves or rebels through the instrumentality of the war power was first acted upon, the true character of the rebels was not fully understood; they were not then supposed to be capable of committing crimes, form the atrocity of which a Sepoy would shrink: and it was still hoped that they were not beyond the reach of conciliation and pardon. The revelations of the last three months have made the civilized world better acquainted with these people. They must, be put down at all hazards-and the least hazard, in the quarter in question, is that of substituting freedom for-slavery!
In the case of Fremont, there was this embarrassment-there were many loyal slaveholders in hi district. In the case of Gen. Hunter, there is no drawback of that nature. His military department is composed of the States of South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. There are some loyal men in the latter two States <illegible> and hence will not be injured by the decree of emancipation. South Carolina is an unbroken waste of disunionism. "There is individual in the State, said the rebel officers at Port Royal, to Com. Rogers, when he handed them General Sherman's proclamation "whom you would call loyal." When Gen. Hunter, therefore, says, as he virtually does say in his proclamation that he can only suppress the rebellion within the limits of his department by suppressing slavery, we believe him, and hope that the Administration and the people will sustain him in the course he has taken.
P.S. Since our paper was put to press we learn that the President has revoked the order of General Hunter. Notwithstanding, we print our comments on the order as a matter for record as the rebellion progresses.-Norristown Free Press.

THE PRESIDENT’S PROCLAMATION.
Closely upon the heels of Gen. Hunter's Order proclaiming liberty to slaves and to the three enslaved States, within his military department; and closely upon the heels of the instantaneously manifested good effects of that act, comes the President's Proclamation for annulling it, and rendering it of no value!
Deeply do we deplore the deleterious influences that have prevailed with the President on this occasion. He has grieved and weakened his best friends. He has gladdened and strengthened his worst enemies-the worst enemies of the country. His proclamation is directly calculated to reduce the spirit of liberty, which is the life-blood of loyalty, of devotion to the Union, of fidelity to our free Constitution. It is equally calculated to encourage and stimulate the spirit of slavery, which is the spirit and animus of the rebellion. Considering the President's surroundings, and the appliances brought to bear upon him from men, who, either in or out of Congress, are in the daily habit of uttering ill-concealed or unconcealed threats of joining the rebellion, unless their policy of conducting the war and treating the rebels can be carried out by the Government, the Presidential compliance, after two or three days "hesitancy and suspense, carries too much the appearance of that servile submission to the Slave Power that resigned supreme in the Executive Mansion during several successive Administrations, previous to the present. We fear it will be so understood and interpreted, by friends and enemies, at home and abroad.
We do not overlook that feature of the Proclamation which apparently anticipates the possibility of future action by the President in the same direction with the Order of General Hunter, on a wider scale, should the rebel States fail to respond to the President’s beseeching appeal. The effects of that appeal, coupled, as it seems to be, with an acknowledgement of the high and sacred claims of slavery, that must not, except in the extremity of national necessity, be touched, will not be likely to be such an the President desires. Submissions, on the part of President Lincoln, to the Wickliffes and Crittendens and Davises of the Capital, with whose presence the White House is daily infested, are not, in our judgment, the precursors of submission from the Davises and Stephensons and Johnsons of the Confederacy to President Lincoln. The portents to our vision, are precisely the reverse.
But, be it so that at some future period, the President may be driven, by stress of weather, to attempt running the ship of State into the harbor abolition rather than founder. Is it quite certain that the tides and pilotage will be as safe them as now? Can the nation afford to remain to sea, adrift, without chart, rudder, or compass, at the expense of three millions of dollars a day?
If the President intends that Abraham Lincoln, rather than another, shall have the honor of liberating the nation North and South, he has no time to lose. The day of deliverance will have passed, or will have been improved by another, if much longer he hesitates and delays -The Principia

GEN.HUNTER'S ORDER
Gen. Hunter's order is one of the most important of any issued since war began. Nor is its importance lost because it has been annulled. Gen Hunter has always been one of the "conservatives”-always opposed by "abolition" and anti-slavery men-and was very general who superseded Fre-
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as this law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST and that, under that sate of things, so far from the being tree that the States where slavery exist have the exclusive management of the subject not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER of the ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of war, CIVIL, Servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY In WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFEARED with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed to the occasion of states, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power .It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually to war, whether it be war of invasion or a war insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, and invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKEN THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are not in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
mont last year, in Missouri. Fremont's order was simply to free the slaves of rebels active against the governments. Now General Hunter has been practising this same kind of emancipation in his department for some time, without ”modification" from any quarter, and with but very little opposition even in the Border States. And not this conservative general, free from the taint of ”abolition," having been placed in command of a department in which existed the very quintessence of slavery-this general, for reasons at least satisfactory to himself, finds it necessary to free all the slaves within his district. In South Carolina, the slaves are over one hundred thousand in the majority. Gen. Sherman, when he went there, gave the whites all the nice and tender assurances which any ”conservative" General could dish up; and yet there is not a loyal white to be found there that we have heard of. Of the loyalty of the blacks there can be no doubt, as witness a host of instances, and especially the case of Robert Small, a colored seaman, who has just taken a rich prize from Charleston to Port Royal. We think it strange tat such a man as Gen. Hunter should have issued such an order, without something solid on which to found it. What was ”modified” in Fremont last year, is not sanctioned by all the departments of the government. It took less than a year to educate the country up to that point. It will take even less time to bring it up to Gen. Hunter. We can well afford to want and abide the time.-Bellows Falls (Vt.) Times.
HUNTER.
The greatest act of this war has been performed with the pen, and the General from whom it has proceeded has, to our knowledge, but one had a chance to spill blood, and that at Bull Run. The theatre of his action was the writing-room; and yet he has exhibited a courage, from which all masters of bloodshed have hitherto shrunk with trembling. The heto of whom we speak is General Hunter, Commander of the chief slaveholding department, stationed at Port Royal; and his deed, a proclamation in which he decrees martial law in his department, comprising South Carolina, Georgia and Florida: and under this right of war he declares forever free the entire slave population.
Gen. Hunter thus goes still farther than Fremont. He does not confine himself, in accordance with the well-known law of Congress, to those slaves who have served the rebels in war, and whom he has hitherto declared free by special order in every single case; not like Fremont, to those slaves who ”belong" to rebels; but he makes at once the most extensive use of the war power, cuts out the cancer from its roots, and cleanses the augean stalls at a stroke and for ever. And in order that practical measures may straightway attend his proclamation, he begins to exercise the freed negroes in the use of arms, and under white officers, to from them into regiments.
From the past of Gen. Hunter whom all know as a West-Pointer, and not fro any anti-slavery sentiments, it cannot be inferred that a long-cherished “abolition" idea has led him to this bold step. We must suppose that he has recently learnt from a purely military stand-point the necessity of suppressing the rebellion by freeing the blacks, and the impossibility without these auxiliaries of carrying on the war down there with Northern troops during the summer. On this theory it would be not the ”sun of liberty" but simply the sun in heaven, that has ripened the seed of emancipation in the very nest of slavery. However, let us render to General Hunter the highest acknowledgments, because he had the moral courage to attempt a measure by which he knew he would inflame with hatred against him not merely all his former friends, but the whole ”conservative" fraternity of the North as of the South. Yes, he must have expected to be condemned and removed from his command by the man who once ”corrected" the proclamation of Fremont. All this did not deter him from taking a step which in his conviction, was necessary, and in which no other General dared to anticipate him. He has had the daring-he has with a bold hand broken the way and for that let him be honored. H has shown what a soldier can do who possesses a loftier courage than that of bullets; he has raised himself to that level on which the might of ideas overtops the might of cannon, and has ennobled the rude war power by its employment for moral ends.
it is said that Mr. Lincoln is in the highest degree incensed at this courageous procedure, of which he knew and suspected nothing in advance; others as sort that he will not interfere, because he has confidence that the Commanding <illigeble> best what is necessary for the place and the occasion. The majority of the Cabinet are reported in favor of the measure. But should the President and the Cabinet too condemn it, we are persuaded that it cannot be reversed, but that it will and must be carried out.
The consequences cannot be too highly estimated. According to the latest intelligence, they were expecting a negro insurrection at Charleston. Yet that is not the main point, which is, that Gen. Hunter cannot be left unsupported, that elsewhere he must be imitated, and that slavery in the whole Union is destroyed, if it be thoroughly swept from South Carolina and Georgia, the ancient foci of slaveholding and rebellion.
Now may the friends of freedom again the take courage. The fulfilment of their desires has at length become a necessity and the ”logic of events,” not premeditated resolution and moral motives, have given the impulse the way has once been broken, the denouement presses after uncontrollably, and the regulating Idea shall conquer the now disposable Matter.
In conclusion, one pious ejaculation: O that General Hunter were a German Major-General!
POSTSCRIPT. Abraham Lincoln has nullified the proclamation of General Hunter, so far as it abolishes slavery. At the same time, he announces that he reserves to himself, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army, the right to free the slaves, and has not entrusted it to any General. In concluding, he exhorts the slave States to avail themselves of his proposition, sanctioned by Congress, for the buying out of slavery, and giving them to understand that some day they will encounter a ”too late."
Mr. Lincoln may declare what he pleases. For his wisdom, that ”too late" has long since appeared; and the sun's heat, and the finances, and the pest, and the opposition of the rebels, and the perils from abroad, will drive him to the road from which he has crowded first Fremont, and then Hunter. We might await this moment with tranquillity, if the delay which Mr. Lincoln needs for the acquirement of sagacity resolution and pluck were not costing us daily three million dollars and a hundred human lives.
The proclamation of Gen. Hunter is nullified by Abraham Lincoln; that of Abraham Lincoln in nullified by events. Vice Hunter!-Translated for the Liberator from the Boston (German)”pionier."

THE PRESIDENT AND GEN, HUNTER.
We, suppose all our readers have seen the experiment, so astonishing to the juveniles, of blowing out a candle, and then rekindling it by placing a light in the ascending current of gas from the smoking wick. The President has performed this experiment, and has rekindled the candle of slavery blown out by Gen. Hunter, declaring the proclamation issued by him to have been issued without his consent, and to be void.
We are not surprised at this action of the President. We know too well the strength of slavery in this country. It exists. not so much in the President's own mind, as in the public opinion, as evinced by the general outbreak of disapproval by the press of Gen. Hunter's course. The North has submitted with almost unanimous assent to the abrogation of its constitutional rights for the purpose of saving the unity of the nation, to the suspension of the freedom of the press, to the arbitrary arresting of individuals, to the refusal of the writ of habeas corpus, to the appointment of military governors over independent States, and other acts; but that opinion which resents or fears direct interference with slavery is still strong, and the President is still under its influence, still hesitates, still withholds his approbation from acts which experienced generals declare to be necessary. We regret it. We think the proclamation of General Hunter ought to have been sustained, or that the President ought, without further delay, to exercise the right which prefers to retain exclusively to himself, instead of entrusting it to subordinates.
Yet the tone of the President's proclamation shows that he is almost at the turning point. He indicates plainly that the necessity may arrive for proclaiming the freedom of the slaves, and again appeals earnestly to the people of the slave States to accept the proposition solemnly adopted by Congress to co-op-
<c02>
erate with them in abolishing slavery, and warns them of the probable effects of neglecting to do so.
The anxiety of the president on this subject does him the highest honor. It is indeed most ardently to be desired that emancipation shall be voluntary. By remove the only ground of sectional difference between them, and would facilitate the great change from slavery to freedom so as to alleviate in a great degree the necessary embarrassments of that change.
But we have not the slightest idea, there appears not the slightest probability, that the people of the Gulf States will pay the least attention to this proposition. They are wedded to their idol. They are determined to rule or ruin. They are determined to rule or ruin. They care not what they bring upon themselves, if so be they can involve other in the crash of their own fall. They would enjoy with fiendish malignity the suffering occasioned both in this country and Europe by their course. There is not hope of them, and no hope for the nation, except in the entire reconstruction of Southern society, and no prospect that this reconstruction will be undertaken voluntarily, except perhaps in the case of three or four of the border States.
Mean while the war is dragging on far into its second year, and into the heats of a Southern summer, one month of which is more fatal than a dozen battle-fields. We have made some progress but are still in a critical position. Our advance is slow, and this is the policy of the enemy to bring about. They seek only to delay the invasion of the Gulf States a month longer, when they will have the yellow fever and the malaria. Our troops occupy only the exterior and the most unhealthy portion of the Confederacy, just the portion that is most fatal to them. The mass of our forces ought to spend the summer in the elevated and more salubrious regions of the South, and to enable it to do this, it ought to have the black population on its side. The recent gallant exploit of the black pilot who recently ran away form Charleston shows what this population can do for us, and it is folly to reject it.
We believe Gen. Hunter was fully aware of the emergencies of his position, and acted with wisdom in view of all the circumstances. He aimed a striking blow at the rebellion, and such his proclamation gave it. We believe that blow will seal the fate of secession, and that it will not be long before the President himself will be convinced of it. We only fear that the delay will be at the expense of more millions of money and more thousands of the lives of our Northern soldiers, thus sacrificed out of a misplaced tenderness for an institution which has already brought so much suffering to the nation.-New Bedford Republican Standard.

THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION.
We see nothing in the President's Proclamation to justify the obloquy and condemnation that have been heaped upon Gen. Hunter. Those who have abused that loyal and able officer will look in vain for the passage in this latter proclamation, that seconds their unjust and unwarranted attack. Gen. Hunter is in the very midst of the horrors of slaver, and he acted upon the necessities and requirements of his own position. It is easy for a man here at home, in his slippers and dressing-gown, perhaps, to sit and write epithets and expletives of abuse of Gen. Hunter for taking the hydra-headed iniquity by one of its throats, and giving it a twist that was felt through all its ramifications, although he had not the power to strangle it entirely. But we would like to see these same writers-so sensitive on the subject of slavery that they cannot hear it spoken of too harshly without a homily-in the field themselves, and feeling some of the horrors of this war. We presume they would soon learn, as many others have, to be less tender of the accursed institution. They would come to the conclusion, as many others have, to be less tender of the accursed institution. They would come to the conclusion, as many others have, that there are other interests that need protection besides those of slavery and slaveholder.-kenosha Telegraph.

EMANCIPATION IN THE SOUTH.
A great step has been taken in the march of liberty within a few days, which has astonished and delighted the friends of freedom, while it has surprised and chagrined the hunkers, and alarmed the timid. The Cahawba, from Port Royal, brought new of the publication by Gen. HUNTER, now in command of the Southern Department, of a proclamation, emancipating under martial law, and as a military necessity, all the slaves in Georgia, Florida and South Carolina.
<illigeble> and its very boldness is brilliant and dazzling to friends and foes. Its right none can deny; though its policy is made the gravest of questions among the politicians. The Miss Nancies and Mrs. Grundies at Washington are totally nonplussed; and the telegraph reports all kinds of rumors-all colored by the wishes and fears of the reporters and gossips.
The great question is, whether it will be countermanded or sustained. It is said the President disavows it, and says Hunter acts without authority. On the other hand, it is said the Cabinet, or a majority of them, will stand by Hunter. For our part, we rejoice, hope and fear. We rejoice, because it is the beginning of a work that must progress, though it may meet with many backsets, and because many slaves have been already freed under it, and another blow has been given to the institution. We hope, because there is a probability that Hunter will be sustained, and the Government cannot well recede from this step. We fear, because the pro-slavery party and the half-hearted, time-serving politicians at Washington will bring to bear on the President the most powerful pressure they can exert. A combined effort will be made that it will be almost impossible to resist. Still, the administration may withstand the clamor of the southern sympathizers, We look with great interest and anxiety to the action of the government, and wait with impatience before we shout forth the full joy we feel in contemplating this greatest act of the war.-Ashtabula Sentinel.

THE SUPPORT OF SLAVERY TREASON.
To labor in behalf of slavery, now it has made itself an outlaw, and become the enemy of our constitutional nationality, is to help the dark work of treason. We care not under what plea cabinet ministers and legislators may shelter themselves, every man that now takes the part of the nation's great enemy SLAVERY, is a traitor, and should be unmasked. We have no other enemy than slavery; the pretence that slavery is not the foundation of this war is disgraceful subterfuge. We have seen the march of that enemy, open and undisguised, through, every step in the career of rebellion, and know well that the procuring cause of all our troubles is the one solitary, gigantic Crime. We know, too that if this enemy is now scotched but not killed, it will again raise its crest and expand its hood, to strike the hand that has spared it. Its very essence is lawless violence; the spirit that animates it is a spirit of treason. Carlile and Crittenden, Holt and the rest of the Kentucky dictators to the president, are every one of them fostering treason, aiding and abetting the enemy, and striking more effectively in behalf of slavery than Jefferson Davis himself. Shall we say that the men who organized this rebellion are our enemies, but not the system which made them what they are? Away with such miserable sophistry! If it is treason to serve Davis and Beauregard, much more is it treason to serve the king to whom they owe their allegiance. Slavery has arrayed itself against the Constitution, and, as a consequence, the Constitution has driven our rulers into war with slavery. These two grand combatants, slavery on the one side, and the Constitution on the other, are now in the open field, waging a contest that can only end with the death of one or the other. Such being the nature of the strife, let us first ascertain who among us are the traitors, the go-betweens, that would hold off our hands from the enemy, and give pledges that slavery shall come out of this war safe and intact as when it went in. Such men should be expelled from camp and cabinet, and placed on the other side of Mason and Dixon's line. It has been a boast of the rebels that there are enough of the old officers, that sympathize with the South, still left in our army to prevent us from ever gaining the victory; and the doings of some of our generals go far to prove it.-American Baptist.
We are happy to find, and the conservative men of the country will rejoice to know that the President maintains a firm and unwavering position-Trenton True American.
President Lincoln's proclamation, overruling the late ambitious edict of Gen. Hunter, fulfils the expectations and will command the hearty approval of the loyal masses of our country.-Boston Journal.
For illustrations, see ”Refuge of Oppression."
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1862.
THE CALL UPON MASSACHUSETTS FOR MORE TROOPS.
Gov. ANDREW'S REPLY TO THE WAR DEPARTMENT.
The New York Tribune, of Friday last, prints the following letter form Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, which has been received at the War Department.
BOSTON, May 19, 1862.
To Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
SIR,-I have this moment received a telegram in these words, viz:-
"The Secretary of War desires to know how soon yon can raise and organize three or four more Infantry Regiments, and have them ready to be forwarded here, to be armed and equipped. Please answer immediately, and state the number you can raise.
[Signed]  L. THOMAS, Adjutant General."
A call so sudden and unexpected finds me without material for an intelligent reply. Our young men are preoccupied with other view; still, if a real call for three regiments is made, I believe we can raise them in forty days. The arms and equipments would need to be furnished here. Our people have never marched without them. They go into camp while forming into regiments, and are drilled and practised with arms and muskets as soldiers.
To attempt the other course would dampen the enthusiasm, and make the men feel that they were not soldiers, but a mob. Again, if our people feel that they are going into the South to help fight the rebels, who will kill and destroy them by all the means known to savage, as well as civilized war, will deceive them by fraudulent flags of truce and lying pretences, as they did the Massachusetts boys at Williamsburg, will use their negro slave against them, both as laborers and fighting men, white they themselves must never fire at the enemy's magazine. I think they will feel the draft is heavy on their patriotism. But if the President will sustain Gen. Hunter, and recognize all men, even black men. as legally capable of that loyalty the blacks are waiting to manifest, and let them fight with God and human nature on their side, the road will swarm, if need be, with multitudes, whom New England would pour out to obey your call.
Always ready to do utmost, I remain, most faithfully, your obedient servant.
JOHN A. ANDREW.
Nothing could be better conceived or better expressed than this letter of Gov. Andrew; and it is as timely as it is touchingly admonitory and truly patriotic. As a matter of course, ”the satanic press" denounces it in the bitterest terms; and the pseudo Republican Boston Journal perverts its meaning in a manner contemptibly base. They would have it altered to real thus:-”If our people feel that they are going into the South to help fight the rebels, who will kill and destroy them by all the means known to savage, as well as civilized war, will deceive them by false flags of truce and lying pretences, as they did the Massachusetts boys at Williamsburg, will use their negro slaves against them, both as laborers and fighting men, while they themselves must never fire at the enemy' magazine. I think they will volunteer with all the more alacrity, and stand by the government in pursuing such a murderous policy all the more firmly and joyfully"! Rather than have the foul and brutal slave system overturned, they prefer to subject the brave soldiers of the North to be shot down, assassinated, poisoned, mutilated white living, and their dead bodies dishonored and outraged in the most revolting manner-the war indefinitely prolonged-the national debt needlessly and enormously increased-and tens of thousands of Northern lives destroyed by malaria and disease in their multitudinous forms on the Southern soil! Will the people longer countenance such journals? Or will not their indignation burn like fire against them?
The following startling Proclamation calling for more volunteers from this State was issued by Governor Andrew on Sunday evening:-
A PROCLAMATION,
BY THE GOVERNOR AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
The wily and barbarous horde of traitors to the people, to the government, to our country and to liberty, menace again the National Capital. They have attacked and routed Major-General Banks, are advancing on Harper's Ferry and marching on Washington.
The <illegible> calls on Massachusetts to rise once more for its rescue and defence. The whole active militia will be summoned by a General Order issued from the office of the Adjutant-General, to report on Boston Common to-morrow. They will march to relieve and avenge their brethren and friends, to oppose with fiery zeal and courageous patriotism the progress of the foe.
May God encourage their hearts and strengthen their arms, and may He inspire the Government and all the people!
Given at Headquarters in Boston, at 11 o'clock of this Sunday evening, May 25th, in the year of our Lord 1862. JOHN A. ANDREW.
The following General Orders have been issued:
HEADQUARTERS, Boston, May 26, 1862.
General Order, No. 13.
The Battalion at Fort Warren will be raised immediately to a Regiment, and placed under command of Major Francis J. Parker as Colonel. All who are desirous of embarking forthwith in the volunteer service, with a view to departing at once for Washington, are invited to report themselves to-day for enlistment.
Lieut. Col. T.L.D. Perkins is authorized to act as Recruiting Agent, his Headquarters at Hancock House, Court Square.
All who would join this corps must enlist without delay.
The enemy has repulsed Major-General Banks, and are marching in force on Washington.
Massachusetts will repeat the patriotism, enthusiasm and glory of April, 1861.
By command of His Excellency,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor and Commander-in-chief.
WILLIAM BROWN, Assistant Adjutant-General.
In obedience to the patriotic summons of Gov. Andrew, troops and volunteers, from every quarter, came pouring into Boston, and were forthwith on their way to Washington. But it has turned out ”a big scare."
REV. SAMUEL J. MAY. We hoped to see this true man and genuine Christian minister-"ever faithful among the faithless found"-at the New England Convention this week; but a philanthropic mission Southward prevented his affording his many cordial friends this pleasure. The women of Syracuse and vicinity-among them the noble women of his own Society-have lately prepared and collected, in addition to previous donations, six large boxes and two barrels full of clothes, and other comforts, for the sick and wounded soldiers of the Union army; and the has been selected to accompany them, and see that they are judiciously distributed. He will visit Baltimore, Washington, Fortress Monroe. Yorktown, Williamsburg, and, probably, Richmond; and, where-ever he goes, his presence will be real benediction to the suffering and sorrowing; especially to those of them from Central New York and his own immediate vicinity. His countenance itself, as his friend Theodore Parkers used to say, ”is a perpetual May"; and the blessings of hundreds that have been ready to perish are upon him, in return for his great benevolence-a benevolence proverbial throughout the region in which he lives, and as refreshing as proverbial.
We are gland, then, that Mr. May has gone on such a mission at such a time, though we so much regret that he could not be with us at our various anniversary meetings. The journey, we trust, will do him good-if his humanely sensitive spirit be not too much pained by what he will see-and much good, we doubt not, will result from it in various ways. We understand he purposes being absent at least two weeks; and if his health will justify. We hope he will be absent still longer, both for the sake of the suffering, and for the general cause of freedom and humanity. We are gland that such a man has such a Society to sustain him in his many good works- a Society able and willing-willing to a considerable extent, at least. And long may the union and co-operation between them continue! It will be a good while, we fear, before Syracuse will have another such minister; and so we pray God to preserve him, both and at home! We hope to see a report of his mission after his return
<c04>
CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The anniversary of this Society was held at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday evening, May 27th.
Rev. J.C. WEBSTER, of Hopkinton, President of the Society, presided, and the exercises were commenced by reading of Scriptures, and a prayer by Rec. Mr. Thurston, of Litchfield, Me. The President then read a few letters from gentlemen, regretting their necessary absence, among whom were Prof. Calvin E. Stowe, of Andover, and Rev. Mr. Wolcott, of Cleveland, Ohio. He continued in a brief address, stating the objects of the Society, and remarking that President Lincoln, in this opinion, really desired to liberate the slaves if he was confident of being sustained by the people.
The following resolutions, offered by Rev. Henry T. Cheever, of Jewett City, Conn., were than read, and finally adopted:-
I. Resolved, That in common, we believe, with the great body of true Christians throughout this country, (and the same, we are satisfied, will be found to hold throughout all Christendom,) this Society regard with inexpressible grief the late repudiation, by President Lincoln, of the wise and necessary Army Order No. 11 of Major General Hunter, in the Department of the South. And we cannot withhold the conviction, that if the President's repudiation of said Emancipation Order prevails, history will hold him mainly responsible for the protraction of this unparalleled war; and not the anti-slavery Governors of loyal States, like Massachusetts, whose ”roads swarm with men" eager to fight ”with God and human nature on their side," and to fire the hitherto tabooed ”MAGAZINE" of the Rebel Enemy.
II. Resolved, That, in the judgment of this Society-while the manifest advance of anti-slavery sentiment in the country, during the last year, is matter of devout thanksgiving; and while the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, for which we both congratulate the nation, and praise God, is worth to the country all the cost such a dreadful war, seeing that it was not to be had peacefully, there is, at the present time, more need then ever in the nation of through Christian principle and activity, to counter act the influence of a timid and temporizing expediency, which has so long been acted upon in Church and State that it has become the habit, both of the national politics and the national religion.
III. Resolved, That, in our view, National Emancipation of the enslaved, because such National Emancipation is both just and constitutional, is the only evidence of national repentance of the iniquity of slaveholding which a righteous God can accept, and there upon life His scourge from the suffering nation; and, therefore,
IV. Resolved, That it is now more than ever the duty of the Church and of the Ministry to urge such immediate repentance upon the Nation and the Government, as being both right in itself, and necessary for the successful closing up of the war-independently of any proposition of expatriation or of colonization, which are only to be resorted to at the request of the emancipated themselves, and in conformity with a wise plan of Christian benevolence and justice, that shall acknowedge the nation's debt to the entire body of its freedmen.
V. Resolved, that for teachers of religion and mortality to argue, as some are at this time arguing, that ”what territory slavery now has, slavery may keep and curse if it will, but it shall snatch no more," is essentially anti-christian, and incompatible with loyalty to the Great Head of the Church and King of nations; and if the same principle were acted upon with reference to other evils and crimes in the world than slavery, there would be an end to all progress and reform whatever.
VI. Resolved, That unanimity among Christians, in regard to the policy to be now pursued by the National Government toward the still enslaved and recently emancipated, is so important, that a National Convention of American Christians, irrespective of school or sect, at Washington or elsewhere, is to be greatly desired, in order to lay before the Government <illegible> Christianity in reference to unconditional emancipation, and in order also to give expression to our well-matured convictions concerning the position which the Church should occupy in the present glorious hour of opportunity offered by God to a guilty nation.
VII, Resolved, finally, That there is no propriety in discussing the question, what shall we do with emancipated slaves or the nations' freedmen, since it is clear that God and their own brawny arms of industry, under the stimulus of wages, and the need which the country has of their labor, are satisfactorily settling that. But, as justly put by an eloquent advocate of the rights of man, and a broad Christian statesman, the question is, ”Is there virtue, intelligence, purpose, enough in the North to absorb the barbarism of fifteen States, neutralize, it and survive a united, free, Christian Republic?"
Rev. Mr. TRASK, of Fitchburg, seconded the resolutions, and was for prosecuting the war to the overthrow of slavery. He liked Hunter’s proclamation.
Rev. Mr. MANNING, who next followed, also spoke of it in high terms, and thought the Hunter stock was rapidly rising.
Hon, AMASA WALKER, of West Brookfield, the next speaker, said we could never whip the South until slavery was abolished, and he hoped we would, not and did not believe God would let us.
AARON M. POWELL, of Ghent, N.Y., arose after Mr. Walker's speech, and denounced an address delivered by Hon. Robert C. Winthrop before the New England branch of the American Tract Society, at New York, in this building, as infamous and traitorous.
At the close of his remarks, the Secretary, Rev. Henry T. Cheever, offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That we congratulate the country upon the discovery made by the Managers of the New York American Tract Society during the last year, that the publication of tracts and books on slavery is ”not inconsistent with the catholic basis of said Society." Such a discovery, though made only by the lurid light of the flames of waged in the interests of slaver, warrants the expectation that it will soon be found out also that publications on the duty of immediate emancipation ”are calculated to receive the approbation of all evangelical Christians."
The resolution was laid over for discussion at the Business Meeting of the Society in the Meionaon, on Wednesday morning, May 28th, when it was unanimously adopted.
The following resolution was then submitted by the Secretary, seconded in a vigorous and eloquent speech by Dr. WEST, of Boston, and adopted:-
Resolved, That this Society hereby offers its warm sympathy to Rev. George Gordon, of Iberia College, Ohio, unjustly sentenced for alleged violation of the Fugitive Slave Law to six month's imprisonment in Cleveland Jail; and we commend his refusal to accept a reprieve from President Lincoln in terms that implied him to have been guilty of a crime in doing to a brother man as the would be done by;-and this Society fervently prays that, in the annals of the United States, the name of Mr. Gordon may be written as the last of the martyrs under the most unjust statute that has ever disgraced a Christian States.
A resolution was also passed, instructing the Committee of award, for the best tract on the question, How shall Northern Christians absolve themselves from all responsible connection with Slavery? to offer the same for publication to the Publishing Committe of the Boston American Tract Socity.
After a vote of thanks to the choir of Rev. Mr. Grimes's (colored Baptist) Church, for their very acceptable singing, and the reelection of the officers of last year, the Society adjourned.
A very forcible and highly satisfactory discourse on the state of the country was delivered in Music Hall, on Sunday last, by THEODORE TILTON, Esq. of the New York Independent.
<c05>
PROPOSED CONSTITUTION IN ILLINOIS.
EARLVILLE, (La Salle Co.,) III, May 15, 1862.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Several letters from friends in Massachusetts have recently been addressed to me, inquiring about the new Constitution of this State, and the probability of its being adopted by the people. Thinking that, perhaps, and answer to this inquiries, through the columns of the Liberator, would not be uninteresting to readers, I address this letter to you, for publication therein, if you think it will pay.
At the last regular session of our legislature, and act was passed, and approved by the Governor, January 1st, 1861, providing that ”a convention to alter or amend the Constitution of the State of Illinois" be called to meet at the State House in Springfield, on the first Tuesday in January, A.D., 1862. The Legislature was Republican by a small majority, and this was a Republican measure, necessary and desirable; for the States was sadly in need of a new organic law, adapted to its present stage of development, her population having more than doubled since 1850, and nearly trebled since the adoption of her Constitution 1848. In 1850, the population in Illinois was 851, 470. In 1860, 1,711,753. Doubtless, our population to-day is three times as great as in 1848. The increase in wealth and public improvements, and the development of the natural resource of the State, have been coextensive with the increase of population. It is not necessary to specify wherein our present Constitution is unsuited to our present wants; but it is about as well suited to the body politic of to-day as the short jacket and trowsers of the boy of ten years are to the full grown man who measures six feet in his stockings.
The Republican Legislature, aiming in good faith to legislate for the interests of the people, provided for the amendment of the Constitution, never for a moment anticipating that events were soon to happen, which would, by means of such legislation, place the State in the hand of a bloated and reckless party, rebels themselves. Yet this in part has already taken place, and will be finally consummated at the election to take place in June.
The election of delegates to the Constitutional Convention was held in June last-(when Abolitionists held their breath in agony of suspense, fearing that the last hope and vestige of liberty was to perish-and Republicans struck down party lines, hoping thereby to win disloyal Democrats to the support of the Union, and oppose a united North to the gathering hosts of rebellion)-and the result was, the Republications were treacherously cheated in the Republication were treacherously cheated in the Republication counties, and a convention to frame the new Constitution elected; a large majority in which were Democrats and traitors. The Convention met and passed resolutions of sympathy with the South, and proposed to elect a Senator to fill the seat of their great leader Douglas, notwithstanding the Governor had appointed Mr. Browning to fill the vacancy. An elaborate eulogy upon Douglas was pronounced before the Convention by John Wentworth, only a few months before the boldest antislavery editor in the State (as Mr. Douglas said of Lincoln, ”he wanted my place.") It proposed to assume general legislative powers, and acted or proposed to act upon almost every matter which it had no right to meddle with, and for a long time neglected to act at all upon the only subject which it had a right to act upon, to wit, ”to alter or amend the Constitution of the State of Illinois." The Convention even proposed to usurp the powers the Executive of the State, to assume the care and control of Illinois volunteers, and appointed, and report. It called authoritatively upon the Treasure of the State, to report to the Convention how the had disbursed the funds of the State, and the condition of the treasury. It proposed when it should have finished its labors in preparing a Constitution, and calling an election for the people to vote upon, it to adjourn until after the election, and then reassemble to see what might be done to place its members permanently in power in the State. But I need not enumerate its traitorous scheming further. Suffice it to say, that a more thoroughly disloyal body of men have not assembled in any Southern State since the rebellion was inaugurated, than this Rump Constitutional Convention of Illinois. While seventy thousand of our brave volunteers were fighting against the traitors of the South, the seventy-five members of this Convention were plotting treason and discord at home. Finally, one the 28th March, the Convention adjourned; and now we have pamphlet form, (a copy of which I forward to you with this,) not the proceeding of the Convention,-it took good care not to publish these,-but the result of its doings-to wit, a new Constitution, with a sugar coating in the shape of an Address to the People attached thereto.
In all offences less than felony, the grand jury is dispensed with; thus making prosecutions and persecutions, to the party in power, easy and effectual; and a country judge, without the presentment of a grand jury, is to try all cases not extending to death or imprisonment in the penitentiary. Country judges were elected when the delegates to the Constitutional Convention were and are almost to a man Democratic, in consequence of the cheat practised upon the unsuspecting Republication, before referred to.
The Convention of traitors, in order to tie up the hands and feet of the Republican and administration party effectually for all time to come, usurped the power belonging to the Legislature alone, and hitherto, never in this State or elsewhere, it is presumed, exercised by a Constitutional Convention, of incorporating into the proposed Constitution a State Senatorial and Representative, as well as Congressional apportionment, by which, if the Constitution shall be adopted by the people, a large Democratic majority is secured in both branches of the Legislature, until at least light shall break forth in ”Egypt."
As an example:-in ten Democratic counties, with a population of 71,515, five representatives are allowed. In eight Republication counties, with an aggregate population of 225, 362, only twelve representatives are allowed. The eight Republican counties have more than 10,800 more than three times the population of the ten Democratic counties; yet the eight Republican counties have three representative less than three times the number allowed to the Democratic counties. Which is equal to about four representatives filched from the Republican party in eight counties!
Again:-Sangamon county is Democratic, with a population of 32, 22, and gets two representatives; while La Salle county is Republican, with a population of 48, 332, and gets only two representatives. These are samples of the way the Republication party has been or is to be bound and delivered over to its enemies in this State.
But the way this Rump Convention fixed things, to secure the adoption of their infamous scheme by the people, beats all the ticks of all the jugglers of India, and of all the traitors of the South. It is provided ”that the President of the Convention shall appoint three commissioners, to proceed within twenty day from the adjournment of the Convention, to visit the various camps, barracks, hospitals, and localities of the volunteers from this State, in the service of the United States, and beyond the limits of this State, for the purpose of receiving the votes of said volunteers for or against this Constitution."
The act, calling the Convention, provides that ”each voter shall vote only in the election district in which he shall at the time reside and be entitled to vote, and not else where."-[Laws of 1861, page 84, sec.5.
It will be seen that not only is this scheme of the Convention, in going into a half dozen States to poll votes, unheard of and unconstitutional, but expressly violative of the act of the Legislature calling the Convention. To induce this flagrant and illegal act, there must have been a very strong motive on the part of the Convention; and this motive is apparent upon the face of the facts. The President of the Convention is a notorious half ”secesh" Democrat, and, of course, he would and did appoint commissioners of like feather, who are not sworn in any manner. The volunteers, it is true, are, by a large majority, Republican;
<c06>
but they, knowing that the movement to amend the Constitution was initiated by Republication, and not having had the opportunity of knowing anything about the action of the Convention, never having seen the Constitution to be voted for, would be likely, if they voted at all, to vote for it; and as the method of taking the vote of the soldiers is not presented, these unscrupulous Democratic commissioners, not setting under oath at all, can do it viva race, by companies or regiments, and return the vote unanimous for the Constitution, although half having no opportunity of voting in the negative might not vote at all. Thus, with 70,000 votes to be placed for the Constitution at the option of the leaders in this mischief, it will not be strange it if is adopted, in spite of the efforts of honest men against it. Thus having secured the Constitution of their own manufacture, with the infamous apportionment as a part of the organic law of the State, they will control the Legislature for a generation! And by the terms of this new instrument, two-thirds of the Legislature, in joint ballot, is requisite to call another Constitutional Convention. The Republicans cannot hope to get that number under the apportionment; therefore, if the Constitution shall be adopted by the people, the Republication party is forever powerless in the State.
The Convention, not satisfied with ”damning the Abolitionists," (these slave hounds call all Republicans Abolitionists,) have, of course, to the full extent of their desires, ”d-d the niggers." Only white males can exercise the right of suffrage, ”Negroes mulattoes and Indians are excluded from the militia," as well as from the State. The following is Article XVIII. entire:-
"SECTION 1, No negro or mulatto shall migrate to or settle in this State, after the adoption of this Constitution.
SEC. 2. No negro or mulatto shall have the right of suffrage, or hold any office in this State.
SEC. 3. The General Assembly shall pass all laws necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this article."
After the adoption of this article by the Convention, a Republican member proposed that ”No negro a mulatto shall hereafter be brought into this State, to be held or used in labor, either temporarily or permanently." This proposition was voted down-40 to 21!
Thus it is proven by the record left by these <illegible>, that they are opposed to negroes only as free men. They must not ”migrate to or settle in, ”but may be ”brought into, and held, and used in labor,"  this State. How black the negroes are! how they smell! how woolly their heads! what a degradation to the whites! what horrible amalgamation, when they ”migrate" into the State! But how inoffensive indeed, and sweet smelling, when they are “brought” into the State!
Here we have in a nut-shell a key to the character of the Convention, and its work. This is Democracy in Illinois. Such an exhibition of unblushing scoundrelism can scarcely be found in all history. Yet it is greatly to be feared that the iniquity will be foisted upon the people against their will, and that we shall be obliged to submit to it for a long period of time to come.
What can be done is being done by those who are not bribed to silence by the promise of office, or the hope of reward. John Wentworth is said t have sold out to the enemy, in consideration of being elected in the Senate. The Democrats, it will be seen, are to get the consideration on their part before John can get his,-as the Legislature elected under the new Constitution, if adopted, are to elect him, in consideration of his having helped to secure a majority for the Constitution. John is very foxy, but he is surely <illegible> to be caught in this trap, if reports are true.
The Democrats here are making a desperate <illegible> to crush out Abolitionists, and to poison the <illegible> mind against the President and Secretary of <illegible> They are determined, cost what it may, to seize the Government at the next election, restore slavery in the District of Columbia, compromise with the South enslave or expatriate all free negroes, prohibit in speech and a free press, and welcome Slidell, Mesa, Davis and Wigfall back to Congress and the cabinet They are desperately opposed to any and all continuation bills, or any and every measure of the army Congress, calculated to injure their ”dear brethren" of the South. Such is their desire, and such their programme. But they will be ignominiously defeated, as a national party. It cannot be possible that the people of the Free States are soon again to permit the traitors, who have well nigh destroyed the Government, to try their hand at the elm of States. No! These desperate efforts of the Democratic party <illegible> but the spasmodic contortions of a dying maniac, was will soon struggle and gasp for the last time.
J.GROVER

LETTER FROM MRS. H. M. T. CUTLER
EL PASO, (III.) May 20, 1862.
After writing to you last week, I pursued my way, hoping to find appointments made through parties whom I had written. In only one instance did I find this to be the case; and I concluded that henceforth I should find it wisest to attend in person to my own announcements.
At Eureka, a town on the Peoria and Logansport railroad, I found an appointment made, and Prof. Johnson, of the College located there was ready to receive me. This College is under the care of the Christian or Disciple Church, and I was gratified to learn thus at least three-fourths of their ministering brethren were becoming decidedly anti-slavery in sentiments. After the lecture, a petition was placed in the hand of a committee, praying the Government to use all in legitimate power to abolish slavery.
At Washington, I met a most kind reception from the Rev. Mr. Andrews of the New School Presbyterian Church. He assisted me to get the church, and to make arrangements, and though aged and inform, he honored me with his attendance, and provided the a kind reception in the most estimable family of one of the Elders of the church.
The town was in mourning for one of its much-lowed citizens, (Col. Mills,) slain at Pittsburg Landing is recent reconnoisance. The remains were brought home for interment, and as I left the place for my appointment here, a vast concourse of people were gathering together to pay the last tribute of respect to the hero who had so recently gone forth in the pride of his manhood to sustain the Government, He had been a strong supporter of Douglas but had seen enough to convince him of the desperate nature of the rebellion to be willing to sacrifice even his <illegible> idol, slavery. Such testimonies do good to the masses, who have not thought profoundly on this subject. At this place, the evening was unfavorable and the attendance was small, so I arranged for a meeting this evening, and went on to Bloomington, where the Ref C. G. Ames had kingly offered me the use of his desk for the Sabbath evening, and with his usual generosity, had seen to all the necessary preliminaries.
The room, a hall hired by Mr. A's congregative was filled at an early hour with intelligent and enthusiastic listeners, whose earnest interest in the cause made ample amends for any short-comings of the speaker. At the close of the address, Mr. Ames added a few words of burning eloquence and zeal, and a committee was appointed to make arrangements for a citizens' meeting, to express their approval of the order of Gen. Hunter in South Carolina, and urged takes similar measures be advised in all the military departments of the governments. This is a movement in the right direction. The President needs to have the voice of the people, commending every good and true movement. In his character, there is a deep feeling of loyalty to the will of the majority, and though anxious to advance, he waits to know that his positions will all be sustained. Though we may be impatient of all such delays as grow out of this difference to the people, yet in the end it will doubtless be productive of great good, for it compels the peoples to do the work that belongs to them by Divine Rights I trust that the example of the people of Bloomington may be followed throughout the land, and that speedily.
H. M. TRACY CUTLER.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
"IT HAS HAD SOME OF THE BACON."
A MYSTERY SOLVED.
MR. EDITOR,-Why it is, when it is so palpable that SLAVERY has been the cause of the terrible war which is now scourging us, that the Government should adopt its present temporizing policy in its treatment of those who have plunged us into it, is more than many can divine. why it should measure with such care every word it utters in favor of human freedom, and against a system which has caused us more trouble, and done more to demoralize us as a nation, than all other crimes, and which now threatens to whelm us in a "red sea" of divine wrath, comparatively few are able to understand. Please allow me, therefore, to throw into the thick darkness which envelopes this subject a ray of light, by introducing an incident which will help to clear away the fog, so that any one, who is not willfully blind, can easily comprehend who it is that the President and his advisers are unwilling to obey the voice of God, by "Proclaiming liberty throughout the land, to all the inhabitants there of." This incident so clearly illustrates the present policy of this Christian (?) Government, that we hope all who are in sympathy with it will ponder it, till, in its light, they shall see themselves as God and all good men see them. But to the incident:
A certain man, who was supposed to have a strong predilection for ham, once stole a leg of bacon. He was at length detected, and his guilt made clear. He was seized by the arm of the law, brought before one of the courts, and, after the hearing of witnesses, his case was given to the jury as one of guilt, and a verdict in keeping with the facts was expected. But, to the great surprise of many, the jury, after a brief consultation, rendered a verdict of acquittal, upon the ground of insufficient evidence to warrant his conviction.
Several, among the disappointed, gathered around the culprit, and inquired-"How, sir, is this? How could the jury acquit you when the proof of your guilt was so clear?" The rogue, with a easily explained. Eleven of the jurymen have had some of the bacon." [just about the same proportion (eleven-twelfths) of the American people have been in complicity with the sin of slavery, and they constitute the jury which is now sitting upon the they constitute the jury which is now sitting upon the case of the "rebels."] The mystery in which the action of the jury had been involved was thus satisfactorily solved. In the same manner can the action of the Government, in relation to the crime of slaveholding, which it has always taken special pains to foster and encourage, be accounted for. How can it be expected, when its own hands are red with the blood of 4,000,000 of its subjects, who are equally with others the children of God, to bring in a righteous verdict against a class of sinners who are less culpable, because less intelligent, than itself? It is not easy for a man who has been guilty of murder to pass sentence of death upon one who has been guilty of murder in a less degree. How can a man say to the thief it is wicked to steal, when he is in the daily habit of stealing himself? He ever hears a voice thundering in his ears-"Thou that sayest, A man should not steal, dost thou steal?" Never can this Government rebuke the sin of slaveholding, or consistently require its abettors to release their hold upon their victims, till it shall, itself, cease all connection with that vile system which has made it "a stench in the nostrils of god," and of all good men throughout the civilized world. 
JUSTITIA.
BOSTON, May 24, 1862.
OUR WORK NOT YET DONE.
ROCHESTER, (N.Y.) May 20, 1862.
W.L. GARRISON-In a private letter to the Standard, Mr. Mckim says-
"Iconoclasm has had its day. *** We have passed through the pulling down stage of our movement; the building up-the constructive part-remains to be accomplished. *** There is one of our old appliances in which my interest has rather increased than abated. I means The Standard. That is, at present, the instrumentality of our movement-literally our sine qua non."
While "slavery still exists," every means and all vigilance are needed. The work of the Abolitionists is to educate the public mind and heart up to the light and love of the Divine Law of Liberty; and, hopeful as are the signs of the times, I can see no power in the stern lessons of war to work a miracle of instant regeneration, albeit they may and do rouse the indifferent, and stir the hard of heart.
The end of slavery may be near, but the great question of to-day is, shall it drag us down to death and blood in its dacay; or shall its death be so ordered that the nation may rise to new safety and power, to a higher life and a nobler future above its grave?
Surely, the Abolitionists, with tongue and pen, can help to the right answer, Never were their words so earnestly and widely heard as now. I have just closed a three months' lecturing tour in Michigan, with excellent hearing, and manifest increase of hearty sympathy. Why seal our lips when, more than ever, the people hear and ponder our words?
"Iconoclasm" was ever more apparent than real:
"'Twas but the ruin of the bad,
The wasting of the wrong and ill;
Whate'er of good the old time had,
Is with us still."
And, granting that, in the fiery zeal of young reformers, in years gone by, the destructive work was too much pressed to the neglect of the constructive that should ever go with it, experience should have given, ere this, a finer temper to our zeal, a wider breadth to our vision.
But, it is said, "We have passed the pulling down stage of our movement; the building up remains." "I thank thee for that word," so applicable now. The problem before this nation is, the building up of a shattered and dismembered state. Shall it be based on LIBERTY, as on a rock, or founded on the shifting quicksands of compromise, to be sunk in ruin at the first storm of a new rebellion? Here is "the constructive " work of the Abolitionists, and the lecturing agent, with this larger circle of earnest hearers, has a part in it of growing importance.
The Standard and the travelling lecturers help each other. Is not their work the same? Personal presence and communion with distant friends is an important means of keeping up a living interest. Has the Standard's list of readers largely increased in the last year, that it should be the "sine qua non"? I hope so, really, and I know that the hearing gained by the speakers in the field has. The same argument that adds to the importance of the pen does to that of the living voice. So far as possible, then, it is of highest moment that all means should be used, all instrumentalities at work. Events are preaching, but they need wise interpreters as ever. When the harvest is at hand, all are busy, lest the ripened grain waste, and the year's labor be lost. Now is the golden hour for work. Yours, truly, G.B. STEBBINS.
LECTURE OF WM. WELLS BROWN
EAST PEPPERELL, May 24, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON-Our highly esteemed friend, Wm. Wells Brown, visited Pepperell, and gave his lecture on the subject, "What shall we do with the slave, if liberated?" A large and intelligent audience was gathered in the vestry of the Rev. Mr. Smith's (Orthodox) meeting-house, on Sunday evening, 18th inst. Mr. Brown answered the question, by alluding to the fact that a great many slaves purchased their time of their masters, and in this way not only earned enough to pay their masters the stipulated sum, but laid up enough over plus to purchase their own, and in some instances the freedom of their families. He also referred to large free population of the Southern States. Who with all the odious and unjust laws operating against them, were enabled to overcome and rise above those obstacles to affluence and respectability. Allusion was made to the fact, that a late candidate for the Presidency died indebted to a colored man twelve thousand Dollars, which was secured by mortgage of his house in Washington. From the 
<c02>
above facts, and many more that might be mentioned, Mr. Brown argued that the slaves, when secured their inalienable right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness, would show to the world their ability to take care of themselves. All that he asked for his people was that this nation should take its heel from their necks, repeal all unjust and unequal laws, and leave them to find their equality under the laws which govern the Anglo Saxon race.
The Rev. Mr. Buckingham of Cambridge, now supplying the pulpit for the Unitarian church, (formerly occupied by the Rev. Mr. Babbage,) came to the platform at the close of the lecture, and, taking Mr. Brown by the hand, sincerely thanked him for his able and interesting lecture, saying that he had answered to his perfect satisfaction several points that, to his mind, had never before been fully met and answered.
Suffice it to say, should friend Brown ever visit us again, he will receive a hearty welcome by the best portion of this community. 
Yours, for freedom to all,
J.W. SPAULDING.
INTERESTING LETTER.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:-Please make room in the Liberator for Mr. Quint's correction of his language upon which I commented in the Libertor of April 25th. His testimony seems to me highly valuable, both in regard to his own new views of slavery, the views of it gaining ground in the army, his anticipations of the approaching downfall of that wickedness, and his clear understanding of the folly and danger of any compromise between slavery and freedom.-C.K.W.
HARRISONBURG, (Va.) May 4, 1862.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Esq.:
DEAR SIR-In the Liberator of April 25th, (the paper is sent me regularly by a friend,) I find some allusions to a paragraph of mine over your well-known initials. I see your object, of course,-to talk to the Tract Society with my words as a text. The Tract Society can take care of itself without my help, and I feel no concern there. But I want to correct a very careless sentence of mine, and thereby knock the underpinning out of some of your allusions as to my views. The sentence," I would deal tenderly with those thus perverted," should be eliminated of the "thus." Writing in haste, in camp, often with paper on one's knee, mistakes may be pardoned, I hope. I had no reference to the Republican voters, but to defenders of slavery; but wrote very inaccurately, as is evident. I see better than you judged.
As to the position to be taken in regard to publications on slavery, I would deal tenderly with the slaveholders, but none the less decidedly. I think that all sinners should be dealt with in a spirit of kindness. But slaveholding seems to be an undeniable sin, and to be treated as such. As a crime against fellow-men, it should be prevented wherever we have the rightful power.
I am satisfied that the only true ground to take is that of uncompromising hostility to the existence of slavery. No half-way measures will do any good. You cannot reform the institution, if you try; you ought not, if you could.
That the policy of contenting ourselves with publishing on the "moral duties which grow out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils which it is known to promote," would be wrong, I agree with you. It would be at least a tacit acknowledgment that slaveholding may be right, which is not to be allowed, even by inference. The Tract Society made a great advance in going so far as to publicly declare what it did. Doubtless the policy is practically not limited in any such way as a strict construction of the vote might allow. But I am not in its secrets; I am only a member, not an officer. I know it is doing a vast work for our gallant soldiers, and I rejoice at it. If I were to vote in it, I should vote for a declaration that the Society assumes slaveholding to be sinful. But I am engaged far off, in trying to be a true friend to our brave fellows of the Second; and the allusions to slavery which have appeared in my letters were incidental matters <illegible>upon my attention,-especially as I see that the government and slavery cannot co-exist for any great length of time. 
People in this valley are very extensively discharging their slaves. They might as well; otherwise, the slaves will discharge their masters. The blacks are all Union. I pity the masters; for, really, I do not see how they can take care of themselves; they are lazy and shiftless, most of them.
If you think, for a moment, that the work of reform is becoming needless, you are mistaken. The greatest danger is approaching now: it is that of compromise. Conciliate a wild boar as the Slave Oligarchy. Proud, presumptuous, tyrannical, full of hate, half-civilized,-that is its character.
I have seen, however, a great change in public management. Once-that is, last summer-rebel armies were allowed to reclaim from our camps their "chattels." Now, blacks go were and when they will. Once, a large part of our forces were "conservative." Now, the bulk of them detest and loathe the system of slavery. Very truly yours,
A.H.QUINT.
From the Atlantic Monthly for June
ASTREA AT THE CAPITOL.
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUCBIA. 1862.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
When first I saw our banner wave 
Above the nation's council-hall,
I heard beneath its marble wall
The clanking fetters of the slave!
In the foul market-place I stood,
And saw the Christian mother sold,
And childhood with its locks of gold,
Blue-eyed and fair with Saxon blood.
I shut my eyes, I held my breath,
And, smothering down the wrath and shame
That set my Northern blood aflame,
Stood silent-where to speak was death.
Beside me gloomed the prison-cell
Where wasted one in slow decline
For uttering simple words of mine,
And loving freedom all too well.
The flag that floated from the dome
Flapped menace in the morning air;
I stood, a perilled stranger, where
The human broken made his home.
For crime was virtue: Gown and Sword
And Law their threefold sanction gave,
And to the quarry of the slave
Went hawking with our symbol-bird.
On the oppressor's side was power;
And yet I knew that every wrong,
However old, however strong.
But waited God's avenging hour.
I knew that truth would crush the lie,-
Somehow, sometime, the end would be;
Yet scarcely dared I hope to see
The triumph with my mortal eye.
But now I see it! In the sun
A free flag floats from yonder dome,
And at the nation's hearth and home
The justice long delayed is done.
Not as we hoped, in calm of prayer,
The message of deliverance comes,
But heralded by roll of drums
On waves of battle-troubled air!-
Midst sounds that madden and appal,
The song that Bethlehem's shepherds knew:-
The harp of David melting through
The demon agonies of Saul!
Not as we hoped; but what are we?
Above our broken dreams and plans
God lays, with wiser hand than man's
<illegible> corner-stones of liberty.
<c03>
I cavil not with Him: the voice
That freedom's blessed gospel tells
Is sweet to me as silver bells,
Rejoicing!—yea, I will rejoice!
Dear friends still toiling in the sun,-
Ye dearer ones-who, gone before,
Are watching from th' eternal shore
The slow work by your hands begun,—
Rejoice with me! The chastening rod 
Blossoms with love; the furnace heat 
Grows cool beneath His blessed feet
Whose form is as the Son of God!
Rejoice! Our Marah's bitter springs 
Are sweetened; on our ground of grief 
Rise, day by day, in strong relief,
The prophecies of better things.
Rejoice in hope! The day and night
Are one with God, and one with them
Who see by faith the cloudy hem 
Of Judgment fringed with Mercy's light.

DETAILS OF RECENT EVENTS AT NEW ORLEANS.
The correspondent of the New York Times says as the fleet went up to New Orleans, above the forts, judging from the demonstrations which were made as we approached the scattered plantation houses, or passed by a group of laborers hoeing in the fields, we were looked upon as welcome visitors. The negroes stopped their work, and watched our progress with more than curiosity. Hats and aprons were jerked off, and waved frantically; little children, streaming like ants out of the orange groves, toddled comically to the river bank to see the big ship filled with men, and the steamer so different from those to which they were accustomed; old women, with the demonstrativeness of their race, knelt upon the ground and extended their hands as they prayed God's blessing on us; old men, worn with age and infirmity, tottered from ther cabins upon crutches, to hail our advent.
But these constant expressions of gladness were not entirely confined to the negroes. Occasionally a white man, dressed in loose garments, and wearing the conventional broad-brimmed hat of a Southern planter, came down to wave his greetings, and his wife and daughters, standing on the verandah or in the garden path, seemed none the less rejoiced. All the way from the forts to the city there was an air of pastoral quietness—of the husbandman laboring, undisturbed by the discordant elements of war—that it was difficult to realize where we were, and the object of our coming.
On reaching the city, a different spirit was found to be in the ascendant.
I saw several instances of the bitter spirit of the rabble, and even of people whom one might have taken from their appearance to be respectable. The levee, for the whole length of the river front of the city, was constantly crowded by a turbulent throng, and whenever a boat belonging to the fleet passed them, its occupants were jeered at and hooted. It was impossible to get any other impression than that this wall of human beings stood there as enemies to bar our entry to the city, but restraining open expressions of their hatred by the knowledge of their helplessness. In the afternoon, a number of transports came up and landed seven thousand troops. While the soldiers were debarking, the crowd increased immensely, and it had to be driven back at the point of the bayonet.
It is certain that there are many Union people in New Orleans, and when the newspapers, which have done so much to keep the public mind excited, have been suppressed, under the protection of bayonets, this dormant sentiment will have a chance of developing itself.
They have on board the Richmond, an old gentleman named Somers, who had been Recorder of New Orleans two terms. He had always been a persistent advocate of the Union, and was under surveillance. When some of our officers went on shore, he extended courtesies to them, at which the mob was enraged, and threatened him with violence. He therefore appealed to our officers for protection, and was taken on board.
While the Mississippi was opposite the city, she put her bows into the levee at Algiers, the tide having • swung her ashore as she was turning in the river. A large and boisterous crowd collected, and sought to provoke the officers and men by their remarks. The captain, to drown their noise, called the band and bade them strike up Hail Columbia. Involuntary, as it were, the rabble ceased howling, and instinctively some of the old men in the throng raised their hats in acknowledgment of the strains which from their youth had inspirited them.
APPEARANCE OF THE CITY
I was impressed with the remarkably desolate appearance of the city. All the warehouses were shut, <illegible> to be seen anywhere. As soon as the fleet, in its victorious advance, swept away the defences at La Chalmette, a few miles below, and appeared before the city, the deluded people burned all the shipping, and quantities of sugar, tobacco and cotton. The work of destruction was complete. More than forty! vessels — steamers, schooners, ships — and immense piles of cotton, were fired at the same time, and the levee was a line of flame.
DESCRIPTION OF THE UNFINISHED REBEL STEAM FRIGATE MISSISSIPPI.
Among the things destroyed was a formidable ironclad steam frigate, the Mississippi, upon which the rebels had founded high hopes of success to their cause. She had been seven months in course of construction, employing five hundred men the whole time, and would have been finished in three weeks. Her length was 270 feet, and her width 60, and her armament was to have been 20 rifled guns. The frame of the hull was made of Georgia pine, nine inches thick, and over the wood were placed three plates of rolled iron, making the thickness of the armor alone four inches and a half. She was 5000 tons burden, and her motive power consisted of three propellers, which were calculated to give her a speed of 11 knots an hour. Two millions of dollars are said to have been expended in building her. We have heard from some of the prisoners, taken in the gunboats, that she was intended to break up the blockade, and then cruise in the Gulf and near Havana for prizes.
COLLECTION OF BELLS AT THE CUSTOM HOUSE.
The marines, who were stationed at the Custom House to guard the flag, found in the building at least.$50,000 worth of bells of all descriptions, from the ponderous cathedral bell to the smallest size of handbells. These had been contributed in response to the proclamation of Beauregard for gun metal, and were to have been worked up in the Algiers foundries.
REGIMENTS NOW AT NEW ORLEANS.
31st, 30th and 26th Massachusetts,12th Maine, 9th, 13th and 12th Connecticut, 6th Michigan, 4th Wisconsin, 21st Indiana, 8th Vermont, Captain S. Tyler Reid's Cavalry, and Durivage's Cavalry.
RETREAT OF GEN. BANKS ACROSS THE POTOMAC.
LARGE REBEL ARMY IN HIS REAR.
Strasburg, Va., May 24. Col. Kenley's command of infantry and cavalry have been driven back from Front Royal with considerable loss in killed, wounded and in prisoners. The rebel force is estimated at 5,000 or 6,000, and is reported to have fallen back on Front Royal, which they probably occupied this morning.
N. P. Banks, Major General.
Washington, May 25. The enemy under Generals Ewell and Johnson with a superior force gave battle to Gen. Banks, this morning, at daylight, at Winchester. Gen. Banks fought them six hours, and then retired in the direction of Martinsburg, with what loss is not known. The enemy are, it is understood, advancing from Winchester upon Harper's Ferry. Our troops are being rapidly reinforced.
GENERAL BANKS'S OFFICIAL REPORT.
HEADQUARTERS, Martinsburg, May 25—2.40 P. M.}
HON. E.M. STATON:—The rebels attacked us this morning at daybreak in great force. Their force was estimated at 15,000, consisting of Ewell's and Jackson's divisions.
The fire of the pickets began with the right, and was prolonged by the artillery until the lines were fully under fire on both sides. The left wing stood firmly, holding its ground well, and the right did the same for a time, when two regiments broke their lines under the fire of the enemy.
The right wing fell back, and were ordered to withdraw, and the troops passed through the town in considerable confusion. They were quickly reformed on the other side, and continued their march in good order to Martinsburg, where they arrived at 2.40 P.M., a distance of twenty-two miles.
Our trains are in advance, and will cross the river in safety. Our entire force engaged was less than 4,000, consisting of Donnelly's Brigade with two regiments of cavalry under Gen. Hatch, and two batteries of artillery. Our loss was considerable as was that of the enemy, but cannot now be stated.-We were reinforced by the 15th Maine regiment, which did good service, and a regiment of cavalry. N.P.BANKS,
Maj. Gen. Commanding.
Headquarters, beyond Martinsburg, May 25—5.45 P.M.}
A rebel prisoner captured this morning says the rebel force in our rear is to be strengthened; that their purpose is to enter Maryland at two points, Harper's Ferry and Williamsport. He confirms all we have
<c04>
heard in regard to the rebel force here. We all passed the Potomac safe—men, trains and all. I think of making a march of 35 miles. N.P. BANKS, 
Maj. Gen. Commanding.
WASHINGTON, May 26. The following was received at the War Department at 11 P.M.
WILLIAMSPORT, May 26—4 P.M.
To the President: I have the honor to report the safe arrival of my command at this place last evening at 10 o'clock, and the passage of the 5th corps across the river to-day with comparatively but little loss.
The loss of men in killed, wounded and missing in the different combats in which my command has participated since the march from Strasburg on the morning of the 24th instant, I am unable now to report; but I have great satisfaction in being able to represent that, although serious, it is much less than might have been anticipated, considering the very great disparity of the forces engaged and the long-matured plans of the enemy, which aimed at nothing leas than the capture of our force.
A detailed statement will be forwarded as soon as possible.
My command encountered the enemy in a constant succession of attacks, and in well contested engagements, at Strasburg Middletown, Newton, at a point also between these places and at Winchester.
The force of the enemy was estimated at from 15,000 to 20,000 men, with very strong artillery and cavalry supports., My own force consisted of two brigades, less than 4,000 strong all told, 1500 cavalry, 10 Parrott guns and six smooth bores.
The substantial preservation of the entire supply train is a source of gratification. It numbered about 500 wagons, on a forced march of fifty-three miles, thirty-five miles of which were performed in one day. subject to constant attack in front and rear and flank, according to its position, by the enemy in full force, the trains of teamsters and the mischances of a river passage of more than 300 yards, with slender preparations for ford and ferry.
I lost not many more than fifty wagons. A full statement of this loss will be forwarded forthwith. Very great commendation is due to Capt. S.B. Haiti-bird, Assistant Quartermaster, and Capt. E.G. Breck-with, for the safety of the train.
Our troops are in good spirits, and occupy both sides of the river.
N.P. BANKS,
Major General Commanding.
HARRISBURG, Pa., May 26. Governor Curtin has received the following from reliable authority:—
"CHARBERSBURG , May 26. I have examined a dozen stragglers from the Maryland First Regiment in Gen. Banks's column to-day. Their testimony is concurrent as to the brutal treatment of our sick and prisoners. A number of sick Pennsylvanians, who were in Winchester, are hid in wheat fields. On Gen. Banks's route of retreat many were mercilessly butchered. I have no direct word from General Banks's wounded."
THE BATTLE AT FRONT ROYAL. Capt. George Smith, who escaped from Front Royal, says they were first informed of the approach of the enemy by a mounted negro man, who was laughed at.
Col. Kenley at length became convinced of the truth of his story, and the long roll was beaten, the men springing hastily to arms, formed in lines by companies. The rebels appeared, and, strange to say, not a gun was fired by the pickets of the 1st Maryland regiment. They may have been surprised, owing to a sudden turn in the road. One company was deployed as skirmishers and to support the section of Knapp's Battery. The Lieut. Colonel of the Penn. 29th, with a small detachment of his men, who had been acting as a pioneer corps, also formed.
The battery discharged shot and shell for nearly-two hours, until nearly all its ammunition was expended. There is no doubt of its efficiency, but it was unable to withstand such an overwhelming force.
An order was given to retire, and the entire column moved over the Shenandoah river, its retreat being covered by a company of the New York 5th Cavalry.
The rebel force consisted of eight companies of cavalry and five regiments of infantry, of which two regiments of infantry and two squadrons of cavalry were fording a stream, the water being very low.
The order "double quick" was given, and the Federals took to the pike, where another stand was made, the Colonel urging the men to fight to the last.
The rebel cavalry displayed a black flag. Many shots were exchanged, when the New York cavalry, still in the rear, broke and retreated, riding pell mell through the ranks of the infantry. Part of the latter retreated to a wheat field, and there made another stand, firing rapidly and with precision. Presently on came the rebel cavalry, cutting right and left and yelling like Indians. In some instances neither the dying nor wounded was spared, and in two instances a captain save them shot in the head while lying by the roadside. He told them they had better return to the pike, and escape as they best could.
RIOTOUS PROCEEDINGS AT BALTIMORE.
BALTIMORE , May25 The city state of intense excitement throughout the day. The news of the disaster to Col. Kenley's 1st Maryland Regiment at Front Royal occasioned intense feeling, and when the secessionists began to congregate this morning with radiant faces and words of rejoicing, they were attacked and beaten.
During the day, at least one hundred have been knocked down in different parts of the city, though the police interfered and prevented any fatal results.
In one or two cases, ropes were brought and preparations made for hanging persons to lamp posts. Two men were stabbed, but not dangerously. Among those attacked was Robert McLane, late Minister to Mexico, who was saved by the police.
BALTIMORE, May 26. Baltimore street, from Calvert to Holliday, is crowded. There is considerable excitement, the crowd chasing obnoxious people and occasionally beating some one. The people are demanding the display of flags from all the newspaper offices and public buildings. All have complied except the News sheet, which office is closed and abandoned. The excitement is fearful, and prominent secessionists have disappeared from the streets. The military have taken no part in these movements. A recruiting office has just been opened on Baltimore street, displaying a flag bearing the inscription, " Recruiting Office of the First Maryland Avengers."
BALTIMORE, May 27. We learn that there was some popular commotion in Hagerstown on Saturday night and Sunday, as in this city. A rebel newspaper office was destroyed, and prominent secessionists punished very severely in all parts of the town.
A report from Williamsport says that as our troops retreated from Winchester, the women fired upon hem with pistols from doors and windows, and that he sick left in the hospitals were most brutally treated, and some of them wounded.
All is now quiet in Baltimore. The vigorous exertions of the Police Commissioners have resulted in restoring order. There is a feeling of entire security. 
In view of the active movements in progress, it is thought the rebels will stand a chance of being caught in a trap.
GALLANTRY OF THE ELEVENTH MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT. 
The army correspondent of the New York Times speaks in the highest terms of the Massachusetts 11th Regiment. In his account of the battle of Williamsburg he says:
Our victory before Williamsburg has been by far too lightly estimated. It was no ordinary achievement, and the record to be made will prove that it was a daring, desperate and sanguinary struggle. The enemy were found to be in heavy numbers against us in the woods—probably four to one—and when the Massachusetts 11th, under Col. Blaisdell, engaged them in the centre, they found themselves subjected to a galling fire from every bush and tree, but with unbroken ranks his brave men followed him, loading, firing and charging with a cool and deliberate calmness. On, on, step by step, this seemingly invincible regiment pressed its way in unshattered phalanx, through ditch and swamp and mire, mounting the enemy's vast barricades, and driving before them the skulking foe, with a force which completely overcame all opposition. It was the first of a like series of exploits consummated by this regiment during the day, and the General commanding took occasion to applaud it on the battle-field.
Suddenly a regiment filed out in front of the advancing Eleventh, bearing a flag of truce. All firing instantly ceased, and the enemy was allowed to approach within speaking distance, when the inquiry was made by them, "What regiment are you?" Without answering the inquiry, the same requisition was made upon the enemy, who replied, "We're the Alabama Eighth." "And we're the Massachusetts Eleventh," was the rejoinder. "Then you're the d——d sons of-we want!" and the white flag was instantly thrown down, and a volley of musketry poured into them along the whole line, killing and wounding several of our men. The Eleventh, with renewed impulse, immediately charged upon the treacherous horde and sent them flying into the woods, where they were shot down and bayonetted at our mercy. The Eleventh were soon relieved, and at 91/2 o’clock the cheering and shouting of the men in the rear told us our artillery were coming up."
DEVASTATION IN TENNESSEE. A Letter dated Nashville, 11th inst., says:
"Predatory bands roam the country not protected, by Union troops, and waste the wealth of the State as remorselessly as if it belonged to alien enemies. A French or British army marching from New Orleans to Richmond would not commit the savage outrages and destruction which are now blackening the record of the Confederacy, and driving the State to the verge of bankruptcy and ruin."
<c05>
REBEL STEAMER CAPTURED. The following interesting report from Commander Parrott has been received at the Navy department, having been forwarded by Commander Dupont:—
U S. STEAMSHIP ACGESTA, OFF CHARLESTON, May 13, 1862.
SIR:—I have the honor to inform you that the rebel armed steamer Planter was brought out to us this morning from Charleston by eight contrabands, and delivered up to the squadron. Five colored women and three children are also on board. She carried one 32-pounder and one 24 pounder howitzer, and has also on board four large guns, which she was engaged in transporting. I send her to Port Royal at once in order to take advantage of the present good weather. I send Charleston papers of the 12th, and the very intelligent contraband who was in charge will give you the information which he has brought off. I have the honor to request that you will send back as soon as convenient the officer and crew sent on board.
Commander Dupont, in forwarding the despatch, says in relation to the steamer Planter:—" She was the armed despatch and transportation steamer attached to the Engineer department at Charleston, under Brig. General Ripley, whose bark, a short time since, was brought to the blockading fleet by several contrabands. The bringing out of this steamer, under all the circumstances, would have done credit to any one; at 4 in the morning, in the absence of the Captain, who was on shore, she left her wharf close to the government office and headquarters, with the Palmetto and " Confederate " flags flying, passed the successive forts, saluting as usual by blowing the steam whistle. After getting beyond the range of the last gun, they hauled down the rebel flags, and hoisted a white one. The Onward was the inside ship of the blockading squadron in the main channel, and was preparing to fire when her Commander made out the white flag. The armament of the steamer is a 62-pounder or pivot, and a fine 24-pound howitzer. She has beside, on her deck, four other guns, one seven inch rifled, which were to be taken on the morning of the escape to the new fort on the middle ground. One of the four belonged to FortSumter, and had been struck in the rebel attack on the muzzle. Robert Small, the intelligent slave and pilot of the boat, who performed this bold feat so skilfully, informed me of this fact, presuming it would be a matter of interest to us to hare possession of this gun. This man, Robert Small, is superior to any who have come into our lines, intelligent as many of them have been. His information has been most interesting, and portions of it of the utmost importance. The steamer is a quite valuable acquisition to the squadron by her good machinery and very light draft The officer in charge brought her through St. Helena Sound, and by the inland passage down Beaufort River, arriving here at 10 last night On board the steamer, when she left Charleston, were eight men, five women and three children. I shall continue to employ Small as pilot on board the Planter, for inland waters, with which he appears to be very familiar.
I do not know whether in the view of the Government the vessel will be considered a prize, but if so, I respectfully submit to the Department the claims of the man Small and his associates.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.F. DUPONT, 
Flag Officer, Commanding, &c.
Robert Small, the negro pilot, who delivered up the steamer Planter into our hands, has, with his associates, we are glad to see, been rewarded for his skill, bravery and loyalty by Congress. Half the value of the property they delivered up has been allowed to them. Indeed, all the "negro property" they brought out is theirs now, we suppose. But what a painful instance we have here of the negro's inability to take care of himself! Clearly enough, if Small only had a suitable white overseer, as he ought according to the Southern interpretation of scripture, he would never have done this foolish and thoughtless thing. Such fellows need a supervisor who is familiar with the intentions of Divine Providence, and could tell them where they were meant to stay. For the lack of such oversight, see what has come; to piss. A steamer, cannons, ammunition, &c, worth $30,000, are furnished to Dupont, nine chattels, losing all regard for the curse pronounced against Ham, are set free, and we know not what other divine arrangements are interfered with. Things must be at a sorry pass, when all this is allowed, and even Northern pro-slavery papers don't complain.—Providence Journal.
THE LATEST CASE OF REBEL TREACHERY—FIRING ON A FLAG OF TRUCK. The following particulars are given by the Fortress Monroe correspondent of the Baltimore American:—
"On Monday morning, (May 19th,) an application was sent to the Wachusett to allow a physician to come on shore to visit a woman said to be dangerously ill. Believing the application to be a genuine appeal that humanity required should be promptly attended to, Capt. Smith gave permission for the surgeon or the ship to go on shore on a visit of mercy. The Wachusett laid some distance below City Point at the <illegible> and the surgeon, accompanied by the chief engineer, the signal officer, and one of the master's mates and twelve men—the latter unarmed, and the officers carrying only their swords—proceeded up to the vicinity of the town. The party landed without any interruption and proceeded to the town, leaving six of the unarmed sailors in the boat.
The men left in the boat heard nothing more of the party that landed, but in about half an hour a sharp fire was opened upon them from the woods. At the first fire, two of the six fell dead, when the balance, being unharmed, cried out for 'quarter.' The answer of their inhuman assailants was, ' We'll quarter you, you----,' when a second volley was fired, and three more fell into the bottom of the boat wounded. The only remaining man pushed the boat off with his dead and wounded comrades, and taking to the water, the painter of the. boat in his mouth, swam out of range of the weapons of the assassins. He then took the ensign and waved it over his head; a boat from the' Wachusett immediately started to his assistance, and towed the boat back to the ship. It presented a most terrible sight, the dead and dying lying together. One of the wounded soon after died, and the other two were brought to Old Point this morning on the steamer Baltimore.
The balance of the party who landed, including the surgeon, chief engineer Baker and the signal officer, with six of the crew and one petty officer, whose names I could not learn, were all surrounded on reaching the town, and taken prisoners by an armed guerilla band. A letter was received from them announcing the fact, as well as that they were about being sent as prisoners to Raleigh.
A DRUMMER BOY MURDERED. It is hardly necessary to say that officers and men are very much exasperated by the barbarous conduct of the rebels— bayonettlng the dead, cutting the throats of the wounded, and in one instance beating with the butt of a musket the skull of a drummer-boy who had received a I wound which might well be-presumed to be mortal. "This war ought to have been one of extermination from the first," was read recently, either in a rebel newspaper or in some of the choice specimens of literature left in the camps.— West Point (Va.) Letter to the Boston Journal.
A TEAMSTER TERRIBLY MUTILATED. The two notorious bushwhacker, Koehl and Weimer, were hung at Sutton on last Friday, having been convicted of murder. These barbarous wretches, during the latter part of last summer, caught a poor boy who had been driving a government team alone on the road. They inhumanly cut off his head with a scythe and disembowelled him; and in their fiendish joy, boasted that they had killed one Yankee. They were captured, convicted of the murder and executed.—Clarks-burg ( Va.) Letter to the Pittsburg Chronicle.
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer says contrabands report a rebel force of 15,000 infantry and 1200 cavalry, under General Fields, encamped eight miles from Fredericksburg. Two men belonging to the 14th New York were shot in the outskirts of Fredericksburg by rebels who approached them disguised as farmers, and their comrades were greatly incensed. The letter says:—
"Our troops have lost all respect whatever for the rebels. They exhibit flags of truce, and then shoot our men, who trust the rules of honorable warfare; they cut the throats of stragglers and sick soldiers; they poison, in many cases, the very cup of water solicited by the tired and thirsty soldier, and shoot him down at the post where his duty calls him to stand."
A party consisting of two companies of North Carolina cavalry and one company of infantry, visited Swift Creek, 12 miles from Newbern, where a Union meeting had recently been held, and arrested several Union men, taking them away with them. One of the men, who was very loud in his expression of Union sentiments, was taken into the woods by the enemy where his throat was cut, and where he was afterwards found by our troops.
"THE RUINS OF RICHMOND." The next few days may decide the fate of Richmond. It is either to remain in the capital of the Confederacy, or to be turned over to the Federal Government as a Yankee conquest. The capital is either to be secured or lost—it may be feared not temporarily—and with it Virginia. Then if there is Wood to be shed, let it be shed here; no soil of the Confederacy could drink it up more acceptably, and none would hold it more gratefully. Wife, family and friends are nothing. Leave them all for one glorious hour, to be devoted to the republic. Life, death and wounds are nothing, if we only be saved from the fate of a captured capital and a humiliated Confederacy. Let the Government act—let the people act. There is time yet. If fate comes to its worst, let the ruins of Richmond be its most lasting monument. Richmond Dispatch, May 16th.
<c06>
DEATH OF MR. JOHN WIGHAM. We regret having to record this morning the death of one of the most estimable of our citizens— John Wigham of Salisbury Road. He has, through the course of his long life, been identified with every movement having for its object the welfare of the people. In his earlier years he was a faithful visitor for the Destitute Sick Society, which naturally led him to examine the affairs of the Royal Infirmary; and some will remember the energy and zeal with which he exposed the then existing abuses of that institution. He also, while connected with its management, placed the affairs of the West Kirk Workhouse on such a basis as ensured an administration of strict economy, coupled with wise liberality. In the abolition of slavery and the promotion of peace, he took hearty and continuous interest. He was one of the earliest to see the important political and philanthropic bearing of the abolition of the Corn-laws, and. we believe, made the first motion on the subject submitted to a British audience; it was proposed in the Chamber of Commerce, of which he was then chairman. One of his roost cherished projects was the establishment of Reformatories for juvenile delinquents, instead of the demoralizing consignment to jail which was previously adopted. He lived to see the scheme carried out by Government, and patronized by statesmen and congresses of social and political science. Perhaps he was best known to the present generation as one of the Queen's Commissioners on the Prison Board for Scotland, in which he took a lively and efficient interest. The Maternity Hospital and the educational institutions of Edinburgh also claimed his active support. This is not the place to refer to his private benevolence and kindness to the poor; but in those facts we have given a life of unusual value and beauty is summed up—a life full of quiet activity and practical goodness. In the death of Mr.Wigham, the Society of Friends has lost one of its brightest ornaments, and this city one of its greatest ant most enlightened benefactors.-Edinburgh (Scottish) Mercury, April 30th.
WASHINGTON, May 28. Gen. McClellan telegraphs to the Secretary of War that the battle of Hanover Court House resulted in a completed rout of the enemy. It is stated that we have taken 500 prisoners, and more are coming in. The loss of the enemy is set down at 1000. Our men buried 100 of their dead. Our loss is 379 in killed, wounded and missing, of which 53 were killed.
New Orleans papers of the 13th announce the death of Captain Huger of the rebel navy.
PHILADELPHIA, May 25. Governor Curtin has ordered all the State Militia organizations to proceed to Washington without delay.
FUGITIVE SLAVE CASES IN WASHINGTON. The Washington Republican says that the examinations of fugitive slave cases before the U.S. Commissioners of that city are carried on in the midst of a crowded and excited Court room.
Hon. John Dean, of Brooklyn, New York, has been employed by a Committee of wealthy and respectable citizens to defend the fugitives and to test the application of the fugitive slave act to the District.
WASHINGTON, May 20. A telegraph cable was successfully laid yesterday across Chesapeake Bay from Cherry Stone to Back River, Va., and the War Department is now in telegraphic communication with Fortress Monroe and Gen. McClellan's headquarters. The cable is of immense strength, the covering of the wire alone being equal to a ship's cable. It was laid in four hours.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for June has appeared. The following is a list of its contents:—
1.Walking. 2. War and Literature. 3. An Order for a Picture. 4. The South Breaker, 5. The Sam Adams Regiments in the Town of Boston. 6. Out of the Body to God. 7. The Health of our Girls. 8. Sonnet. 9. The Horrors of San Domingo. 10. Methods of Study in Natural History. 11. The Author of 'Charles Auchester.' 12. Astraea at the Capitol. 13. Pere Antoine's Date-Palm. 14 'Solid Operations in Virginia.' 15. Sunthin' in the Pastoral Line.
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY. 
Receipts into the Treasury, from March 1, to May 21, 1862.
Collections by E. H. Heywood., $31.00
Henrietta Sargent, Boston, to redeem pledge, 20.00
Mr. Hickok, for pledge, 1.00
R.W. Henshaw, Boston, 5.00
Isaac Austin, Nantucket, 2.50
Elizabeth Preston, N. Ipswich, N. H., 1.00
Rev. A. Battles, Bangor, Me. l.00
Wendell Phillips, for balance of pledge, 50.00
H. L. Sherman, Lawrence, for pledge, 3.00
Katherine b. rarnum, Blackstone, for pledge, 5.00
James K. Comstock, " " 1.00
A little girl, 0.10
Carollue K. Putnam, Salem, to redeem pledge, 10.00
Wilson S. Thorn, Young3town, Ohio, 6.25
F. Poole, East Abington, for pledge, 1.00
Mrs. Lucretia X. Reed, to redeem pledge, 3.00
A friend, 4.00
Reading Anti-Slavery Society, by Mrs. E.H. Porter, 8.35
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, May 22, 1862.
PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OP PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS—The tenth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on FIFTH DAY, (Thursday,) the fifth of Sixth month, (June,) 1862.
To all persons who cherish the spirit and principles above set forth, we extend a cordial invitation to meet and cooperate with the Society.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON AND THEODORE TILTON have engaged to be present, with other speakers.
Oliver Johnson, 
Joseph A. Dugdale, 
Elizabeth Jackson, 
Sumner Stebbins, 
William Barnard, 
Hannah Cox, 
Dinah Mendenhall, 
Josiah Wilson,
Ruth Dugdale, 
Annie M. Stambeach,
Mary P. Wilson,
Isaac Mendenhall,
Sarah Marsh Barnard,
Lydia Irish,
Jennie k.Smith,
Ellen Angier,
Aaron Mendenhall,
Sallie Howell,
Samuel B. Underhill,
Philena Heald,
Ellie H. Mendenhall,
Eusebius Barnard.
GARDNER, MASS.—An Anti-Slavery Meeting will be held in Gardner and South Gardner, on 8unday, June 8th, to commence at half-past 10 o'clock, A.M. Friends of liberty and of their country are, one and all, invited to attend.
SAMUEL May, Jr., PABKER PILLSBURY and other speakers are expected to be present.
WORCESTER COUNTY NORTH—The Annual Meeting of the Worcester County North Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held on Sunday next, Juno 1st, in the Town Hall, FITCHBURG, commencing at 1 o'clock, P.M.
Members of the Society are particularly requested to attend, and all true friends of freedom and of their county are invited.
PARKER PILLBURY, AARON M. POWELL, and other speakers will attend the meeting.
JOSHUA T. EVERETT, President.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.— Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D.Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
REMOVAL.— DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN.— MARGARET B.BROWN, M. D., and WX. SYMINGTON BROWN, M.D., have removed to No. 23, Chauncy Street, Boston, where they may be consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A.M., to 4 o'clock, P.M. 3m March 28.
A GOOD CHANCE
TO LEASE A SMALL FARM FOR ONE, OR A TERM OF YEARS.
A MIDDLE aged or young man, with, a small family with no other capital than a pair of willing hands frugal and industrious habits, intelligent mind, a good moral character, somewhat acquainted with agricultural pursuits, will find a rare chance to lease—on the most favorable terms—a small farm, with all the stock and tools, and household furniture, situated in Pepperell, 3-4 mile from the district school, nearly three miles from the post-office, stores, churches, and a flourishing academy, under the management of an accomplished preceptor, four miles from the railway station, and two hours' ride, by rail, from the city of Boston,—by making immediate application to the subscriber, on the premises. For particulars, inquire of WM. SPARRELL, Architect, No.9 State Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, where ambrotype views of the buildings may be seen.
No person need apply, who cannot furnish satisfactory references as to all the above qualifications, or who use intoxicating drinks, moderately or immoderately, or is passionately fond of dogs, since the lesser is desirous of making his home with the <illegible>, and could not tolerate such nuisances. A.H.WOOD.
Oak Hall, Pepperell, Mass., May 12.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE GENIUS OF LIBERTY TO AMERICA.
I.
I sought thy soil with pious care,
To plant and nurture Freedom there;
It soon took root, and grew apace,
A blessing to the human race.
II.
Ere long men slept, when, unawares,
Base avarice sowed it thick with tares,
Which now so high their heads have reared,
Freedom has almost disappeared.
III.
Land of the Pilgrim Fathers' pride!
For which their sons hare bled and died!
I weep to see thee prostrate lie 
Before the storm now passing by.
IV.
If all men thou alike hadst loved,
A home for the oppressed hadst proved,
Thy "stars" would not so dimly shine,
And men would own thou art divine.
V.
America! I love thee still!
Thy name my heart with joy doth thrill;
I lift my heart for thee in prayer,
That God may in his mercy spare.
VI.
When from thy slaves the chains are riven,
Then—not till then—shall peace be given;
Then shall thy States be truly one,
The fairest land beneath the sun.
Boston, May 20, 1862.
JUSTITIA.

For the Liberator.
THE LADY MAJOR.
"Gov. Yates, of Illinois, has made Mrs. Reynolds a Major in the State militia, as recognition of her courageous services in taking care of the wounded at the battle of Shiloh, where she was present on the field throughout the fight."
Who, with firm step and flashing eye,
Passes undaunted, though the cannons' roar,
And thick and fast the bullets fly.
And the red earth is soaked with gore,
Gurgling from hearts that beat no more?
The soldier's wife, our beautiful Belle.
The battle rages fierce and high,
And a cloud of dust and fiery smoke
Hangs o'er the place where the wounded lie,
With gaping wounds, waiting to die;
But she turns not aside for the sabre's stroke,
She does not quail, she does not fly—
The soldier's wife, our beautiful Belle.
We have won the day! who rides in the van,
With her dewey lip and shining hair?
While from the heart of each stalwart man
There comes a deep but voiceless prayer,
As his eye fondly turns to the lady fair,
God bless our Major, beautiful Belle!
A. F. D. R.

MAY.
BY JOHS G. WHITTIER.
Beyond the bursting greenness of the woods,
Unto the misty, mountain solitudes,
Has April breathed her sweet and changeful moods.
But in the folded buds and leaves, and higher,
Where nest the small birds in the fir-tree's spire,
Through all the world there breathes a soft desire.
A mystic influence broods o'er hidden things;
The caterpillar, in his drowsy rings,
Dreams purple pictures of his future wings.
A sweet presentment fills the intense, 
Clear air. The brooks hang in suspense
Among the rocks. The small grass feels a sense
Prophetic of a joy most strange and dear;
For, lo! May lifts the door-latch of the year!
Deep out of sight, where earth's great mystery lies,
Shut up within her heart forever, flies
A thrill along the unseen arteries.
Within the tangled roots of beach and lime,
The sweat saps pulsate as they blindly climb,
And sprout their tasseled greenness ere its time.
Along the stream the whispering rushes say
To one another, how the gentle May
Brings in the sunshine of a dearer day,
And to the sweet-breathed violets that blow 
An azure margin to their silver flow,
The garrulous ripples tattle as they go.
Sick with desire, the lily bells turn pale;
The wondering cow-slips peep from every dale;
And daisies stand on tiptoe through the vale.
The amorous boughs bend toward her, far and near,
While May stands in the door-way of the year.
At her charmed coming, at the far South, where
It lingered for her bidding, calm and fair,
The sunshine flows through all the happy air.
Aerial arches of the sunset dyes
O’er the enchantment of her presence rise,
And span the glory of the bending skies.
Now roll the minutes of the golden hour,
And now the bud fulfills the perfect flower;
Now Earth puts on her beauty's crown and power.
From the low casement of the cottage room,
To the far distance where the dim hills loom,
The lengths of meadow-land burst into bloom.
A hundred brooks, down-leaping whence they hung,
And seeming mad, with many a silver tongue,
Sing sweeter songs than ever yet were sung.
The birds all pipe her welcome, blithe and clear,
While May comes through the door-way of the year.

THE TRUE LITE.
Have we not all, amid life's petty strife,
Some pure ideal of a nobler life
That once seemed possible? Did we not hear
The flutter of its wings, and feel it near,
And just within our reach? It was! and yet
We lost it in this daily jar and fret,
And now lire idle in a vague regret;
But still our place is kept, and it will wait,
Ready for us to fill it, soon or late.
No star is ever lost we once have seen;
We always may be what we might have been.
The good, though only thought, has life and breath;
God's life <illegible> always be redeemed from death;
And evil, in its nature, is decay,
And any hour can blot it all away:
The hopes that lost in some far distance seem,
May be the truer life, and this the dream.

From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
FLOYD AND THE DEMON.
[AFTER LEIGH HUNT.]
Floyd, the fleet-footed—may his legs hold out—
Awoke one night from a wild dream of gout,
And saw within the shadows of his tent,
Making it blue, and like a match in scent,
A Demon, writhing at n rate untold.
Exceeding brass had made the miscreant bold,
And to the Presence in the tent he said:
"What wriest thou? " The vision raised its head,
And, in a tone made of all discords drear,
Answered: "Those names to Southern men most dear."
"And is mine one?" said Floyd. "Nay, nay, not so,"
Replied the imp. Floyd spake a shade more low,
But warily still, and said: "I pray thee, then,
Write me as one who hates those Northern men."
The Demon wrote, and vanished. The next night
He came again with a great lurid light,
And showed the names to North and South a pest.
And, lo! Floyd's dastard name led all the rest!
Sure, to the couch where Childhood lies,
A pure, unmingled trance is given,
Lit up by rays from seraph eyes,
And glimpses of remembered, heaven!
<c02>
The Liberator.
REVOLUTION AND PROPHECY.
Extract from a Discourse, delivered in Music Hall, Boston, on Sunday, April 27,1862, by SAMUEL JOHNSON, Minister of the Free Church in Lynn.
"Art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my Holy One? We shall not die."—HABUKKUK I, 12.
The revolution, a year of which has closed, is, to a wider vision than ours, but an historical atom; yet it is quite enough to absorb us utterly, and, by the infinite complexity of its movement, to paralyze all power of definite prediction, by genius, experience or faith. What detail of its process was ever foreseen? There was no lack of data, during these last twenty years,—more than our poor brains could hold,—no lack of observers and calculators; for every eye was fastened upon this Slave Question with a fearful fascination, and every problem merged straightway in this. It was the dream of our nights, the toil of our days. For it the scholar must leave his books, the artist his pencil, the logician his abstractions, the theologian his creed. To every material and political interest, this Sphynx had long ago said, sternly, "Answer my questions, or perish." Who needed more light? We had seen every Constitutional guarantee of freedom, one by one, cut down. We had seen barbarism supplanting a government of liberty and law,—the State with head downwards, feet uppermost. We had seen the rule of the bludgeon in the capitol, of the bowie knife on the border, of the mob in public meetings; the pulpit hollow, the press a refuge of lies, the political oracles with no answer to our needs, but the hideous quackery of "Peace, when there is no peace." "Our sins were ripe: God could no longer be just, if we were prosperous." Was not the plain sense of it all, Revolution or Death? And yet, how few read that sense at all,—no man the manner, nor the hour!
Then, behold another set of signs! The annihilation of all parties based on compromise; the annihilation of all compromises, even of those slavery had made in its own behalf; the death of every political loader whose name stood for compromise, or sustained the policy thereof. We looked around, and were startled. The Nation was without a leader! North and South,—thirty millions of people, after thirty years of unprincipled, brutifying politics, left—bewildered and unpiloted—to work their way as they might out of the coil of moral retribution! The war in Kansas told us free and slave labor could not meet without mortal battle. The history of trade told us that they could not barter their shoes and cotton, steam-engines and sugar, without financial ruin. The chills of death were seizing the very social fabric our fathers left us. Was it possible to believe this could last? Steadily Slavery had brought us down to its own methods of settling disputes. Faithless steward of her divine powers of persuasion and command, Freedom found that these were paralyzed. What could come of this but civil war? Not because peace principles were impracticable, but because we had refused to use the methods of Peace; and now the night was at hand "when no man could work" for them. How plain it was to thoughtful men at last! We were approaching the precipice. Would Freedom survive the plunge? The hopeful believed, and called their neighbors to be true in the coming struggle—but who of them all comprehended how the North was undermined, and riddled through and through, with diabolic conspiracy? With what hopes of a peaceful solution marched that mighty party to victory at the polls! One grey-haired man accepted the facts of the hour, and answered its questions with his blood. A generation that had forgotten how to recognize manhood left him to be slain for our transgressions, and bruised for our sins. Into what ears was it whispered then—The mantle of this martyr shall fall upon the people who reject him: the party that denies him, in that hour when it shall have become the nation, shall follow his soul to battle for the nation's existence: that soul shall lead her armies where the McClellans and the Hallecks fail? In the silence that followed that <illegible> when did not prophesy? The wizards peeped and the soothsayers muttered; but who counted for true prophets the men who drew from this sign only their old warning of thirty years, "Proclaim liberty, every man to his brother, or I will proclaim liberty for you, to sword and to pestilence"? And even of these right interpreters of the times, not one foresaw the moment nor the method—not one, in his deepest trust, fathomed the coming wonders of providential care.
As in the English Revolution, "when the moment arrived for drawing the sword, all England, leaders and people, stood amazed," so with us. North and South, all predictions failed—all plans had miscarried. Was North or South the most astounded and flung aback when that gulf burst open at our feet, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, as by the touch of One whom no man knew? If the kingdom of God could ever come by observation, here were watchers enough to have told the hour. If the cry, "Lo here, lo there," could ever point out the lines it is to draw through communities and on the face of the earth, surely we should not in this case have gone so far astray in our hopes and fears. What man in the nation imagined that the forces, of freedom would be drawn to one side, and the forces of slavery to the other, with just enough of exception in those Border States to make it both possible and necessary to reinstate Union in a nobler form—and that the field of civil war would be those barbarian plantations where the wrath of Eternal Justice been defied, and not the cities and hill-sides of New England or the free prairies of the West? Republican New England was blind enough to the nature of the crisis to believe William H. Seward the man to carry us through it. To-day, you tremble to think from what the Providence of God has saved us, by placing this most short-sighted and nerveless of statesmen in a post where he can only defeat and neutralize himself. And if the Chicago Convention had foreseen the radical convulsion at hand, would they have selected as their candidate a man whose moderate views on the slave question unfitted him at that time to deal with one single question before the country, and who began with saying to the South, in the name of the North, " Only let us live, that we may show you we mean no harm"? They knew enough of the future only to be sure they would have need of an honest man—of one who, as Plato says of the true public guardian, should have "something in him besides the politician." That bit of wise philosophy saw none of the coming facts; and yet it hag saved us. Abraham Lincoln has blundered away opportunity after opportunity, but the honesty and patriotism of the man have made him get wisdom from every blunder,—and today, by one brave step, he has planted himself in advance of what the boldest dreamer of one year ago would have ventured to predict.
There were a thousand slight ways in which the explosion might come about; but who imagined Sumter and the echo of that falling flag? A thousand mobocratic outbreaks were probable; but who foresaw what a Baltimore rabble would do on the anniversary of Lexington fight? These "coincidences," we call them—John Brown wielding the sword of Washington and LaFayette; the 19th of April, 1775, and the 19th of April, 1861; the capital of the nation freed from slavery just one year, to a day, after the coup d' etal of slavery, which was meant to secure it forever; those Potomac banks, first fruits of iniquity, become first fruits of retribution; Charlestown prison ringing with the John Brown song; Bunker Hill calling the roll, not of slaves, but of rebel prisoners; the heroic arm that planted the stars and stripes on the highest peak of the continent, the first to plant them on the summit of political justice. Port Royal and the mouth of the James river, first seed grounds of negro slavery, become first seed grounds of negro education—of the two experiments, 250 years apart! Of all the possible combinations of events and times, who would hare predicted these?—The first volunteers who rushed to Washington, last April, thought the mob would be pat down
<c03>
in a few days or weeks. A year has passed, and who will tell us when we shall see the end? A year ago, no man could look one day's length into the coming state of the nation. Are we any wiser now? De Tocqueville, that wonderful historical observer, says, "I learn from history that not one of the great men who witnessed the downfall of religious and social organizations in past times was able to guess, or even to imagine, what would ensue." How true that is—of Voltaire and Rousseau, of Luther and Huss, of Charles Stuart and Oliver Cromwell, of Mahomet, of Suetonius, and Tacitus, of the Alexandrian Platonists—yes, of John the Baptist, Jesus and Paul! And then De Tocqueville unconsciously illustrates the law in his own case, where, speaking of Louis Napoleon in 1851, he says, "We shall get rid of him in a few years, perhaps in a few months, though there is no saying how much mischief he may do in that time to his neighbors." Where was the American statesman whose democratic education made him any wiser prophet than the soothsayer of the London Times has shown himself, with his aristocratic education,—a prophet who, finding he cannot get the dust out of his eyes, has resolved at last to shake it off his feet, and return, made no wiser by knowledge of his ignorance? Jefferson indeed trembled for his country. Webster saw in vision dismembered States. American eloquence has shuddered with panic terrors, when it seriously touched the question of the Constitution and the Union, instinctively conscious that they bore in their bosom a canker and a curse. But who of them all beheld, through the awful vision, these golden opportunities, these pillars of fire and cloud that lead on through our desert to the promised land? Or who, in his loudest Fourth of July declamations on the imperishableness of the Union, ever believed that God loved and guarded it as we know He does this day, for Humanity's sake? And yet, are we able now to make De Tocqueville's rule obsolete? Wendell Phillips goes so far as to tell us that the slave question is settled; that the question is now whether slavery and free institutions shall go down together. And I believe he is as good a prophet as we have. He knows slavery must die. How, he does not know. But these awful problems! Is a South-side Democratic reaction to sweep the country when the taxes come upon us? Is Republican zeal for liberty to grow cool, and suffer its brave leaders to fall, under the odium of their generous ventures, or under I know not what private malignities or misjudgments, or that Athenian envy which smote down Aristides, because his manhood stood so high that it made the politicians dwarfs? Is our Christianity to prove unequal to the tasks of atonement which, for a whole generation, the negro will demand of us? Are the military profession and the standing army and a strong government to breed political corruption and degeneracy, even greater than the past? Are the arts of civilization to go down before this rough field-work? Are we to drift rudderless through stormy seas of political change? In what new phase shall we emerge from this strife? These he cannot solve; and can only strive to rouse the people to that faith in God which lives by eternal vigilance. And if our anti-slavery leaders, the most far-seeing of our prophets, veil their faces before the inscrutableness of this process of atonement, and can only predict the final supremacy of right—if warning and pleading divide between them the eloquence of a Carl Schurz—if the statesmanship of Sumner and Wilson wisely avoiding augury, is concentred upon a noble and perfect use of present opportunity—what shall we think of such powers of divination as are exhibited by those special pleaders, some of them Massachusetts representatives I am sorry to say, who, in their vain dream of reconstructing the old basis of the Union, have attempted to defeat with Constitutional technicalities and forms the holiest step of national justice for which God has ever made smooth our way? It is lamentable that there should yet be found public men so blind to the lessons of the hour, still seeking out refuges in the law for an institution which has overturned law, and is the essential negation of law. How much more becoming to seize the magnificent opportunity to efface from the name of lawyer the brand of <illegible> it, and take up the mantle of those few great jurists who have recognized law as indeed the harmony of the universe, the bosom of God! "In civilized communities," it was well said, "by the side of a despot who governs, there is always a lawyer who invests with the semblance of loyalty his most arbitrary decrees. When the two are united, the result is a tyranny which scarcely allows a breathing place to human nature." Never was aphorism more true. The Roman jurists conveyed over the rights of the people to the <illegible>. Guizot shows how, in the middle ages, the lawyers and judges concentrated absolute power in the hands of kings. English history tells the same story, from the Star Chamber Courts of Henry VIII. to Scroggs and Wright and Jeffries and Saunders, the bloodhounds of the last Stuarts. Selden said there could be no mischief in a commonwealth without a judge. John Randolph said, "I cannot forget that in the Holy Bible the Book of Kings succeeds the Book of Judges." Jeffries received from his master a seal ring as the price of his atrocities. The people called it his blood-stone. Posterity will stand aghast at numbering the blood-stones which slavery has given to American lawyers as the price of American liberties. I cannot believe legal technicalism is much longer to make this American Constitution, which God is so awfully purging of tyranny, a mesh to entangle and suffocate freedom. But as it has been with all legal retainers of despotism in Rome and France and England, so must it speedily be with ours, and their divining-rods of reconstruction, if God be true. Of such it was said of old: "Your wall is no more, nor they who daubed it. And for you who have made sad the hearts of the righteous, whom I have not made sad, and strengthened the hands of the wicked that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life—ye shall teach falsehood no more, nor divine divinations; and I will make them free whom ye will ensnare, and I will deliver my people out of your hands, and ye shall learn that I am God."
But there is something in the popular heart before which all these shibboleths of the wizards and diviners are called to judgment. In all revolutionary times, the people have been found expecting in some sense a Messiah. In the absence of power to see what a day may bring, all their hopes concentrate on the faith that God has prepared some interpreter of his judgments and his wrath. The choice may be better or worse—Judas Macabaeus, Caesar, Munzer, Cromwell, Louis Napoleon—or quite another, and a greater than any of these. But as one after another is tried and found wanting, yet the faith of the people holds out till the true leader comes. This is a wonderful thing, for it is the lever by which judgment works and reformation moves. Every step is marked by some such full outflow of confidence and childlike trust. And as the man proves worthy or unworthy, the people have justified or judged themselves. "That is of all loves the strongest and divinest," said a wise Greek, "which is of states and cities borne unto a man for his virtue." Do you consider why Abraham Lincoln has at this moment so absolutely the confidence of this nation, that if he should declare that, in his solemn judgment, the salvation of the country required the immediate emancipation of every slave, substantially the whole people would say, Amen!—nay, thunder it so, that the world would tremble as if a new Christ had come? It is not his good name for honesty only, nor for slow, sure judgment, though that is much. It is because, when old things are passing away, and the new not revealed to any, a people must find some one to trust, or it must lose its reason and die.
And if the people live by faith, and not by sight, is he on whom all men, from Congress to town-meeting, from Cabinet to hearthstone, east all responsibility, to whom all look up expectant, any wiser than they? Knowing himself weak, unconscious of his power over the masses, distracted by diverse counsels, the centre of hostile tactics, burdened with the
<c04>
whole weight of the crisis, carefully feeling the pulse of the people, and at every step awaiting their response, himself as blind as they are as to what tomorrow will bring—is this he for whom we long—this our Deliverer! May God indeed strengthen and guide him, and lead his feet straight forward in the path of His purpose! But is he great enough to master that horde of unprincipled officials, eager to play upon the sacred loyalty of the people, and to take their turn at leadership, the Border State politicians, the schemers for reaction, the generals who still lore better to hunt down the slave than to strike down his rebel master? Thoughtful men confer together, asking, who is he that is to come—the statesman, the hero, the saint, sufficient for these temptations, for these duties, for these opportunities, able to speak and fulfil that great word which shall make the century sublime? None can answer his neighbor, though all expect and watch. Consider how little even this popular instinct, on which our future is so staked, is able to predict concerning that future and its own path therein. This only we find, that every day's events are stern instructors in the needs of the time and the characters of men.
And now, what is the sum of all that has been said but this?—The past and present teach us just enough of the future to forbid indolence on the one hand, and doubt upon the other: or positively, to assure us that the end of this struggle is the triumph of Right, but that the price of success depends on ourselves. It is Eternal Justice that hurls the slave fetters from the step of our Capitol into the Potomac to-day—but the bloody graves at Manassas and Shiloh are natural fruits of our disobedience and delays. Another year, and the slave will be nearer freedom—and justice nearer its throne upon earth; but how many broken hearts and bloody graves, how much discord and confusion and unnatural convulsion through the land,—depends on what response we make to this brave step of the President, and how we appreciate and sustain our Sum, ner, our Wilson and our Fremont, what we do with our plotting reconstructions of parties, and our poison-reeking papers, and what we say about the purposes and duties of this war to our generals in the field. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. He means Peace, Liberty, Union. But he does not mean any of these things for us till moral cowardice, and compromise, arid selfish inertness, and inhuman contempt of the weak, and prejudice of race, and preference of Mammon to Man, are winnowed out of us like chaff.
Looking at the turn speculation has taken during these past years of a somewhat materialistic and ignoble life in this country, one may say that we have come to need, most of all, some practical demonstration of the Being of God, and of His Immanent Life. Surely, this, of all wants, is now likely to be met. The disparity between what men purpose and what is done through them, the mystery of dilation that is in human action, and yet not explicable from it, makes all history divine. But there are times when it is the precise contrary of what men purpose that is done through their actions. That which all resist is the one thing that comes to pass as the resultant of their doings. What a mystery that is! All the lines of will pressing one way, all their influence the other! A hundred contending instincts precipitated by mutual conflict on the one point abhorrent to all, and that point the most serviceable to the race! I said nobody planned the state of things we are in—as nobody planned the "not peace but a sword" of early Christianity—the landing of the Pilgrims on Plymouth Rock. But that is not all. When a truth is to be born, every hand is against it, and yet the sum of all hands passes it on. Here are weights piled into a scale, all pressing downwards; yet the more they weigh, and the more you throw in, the heavier grows the empty scale, and the higher they rise. Here were parties—Democratic, Republican, Union, Secession, Northern, Southern,—in what one thing agreed, but in their unwillingness to take in hand this matter of justice to the slave? Which loves slavery best? "Let it stay with us," says one side—" it is safest so." "Not so," says the other, "we can keep it best alone." And in the shock of opposing supporters, down goes the gilded curse they clutched at. The nation planned that the slave should not go free; but the one sure thing is, he shall go free. The nation denied agitation, and discountenanced interference, as Peter denied and discountenanced his Master; and agitation and interference are to-day, we need not say what? War, commenced to restore the old state of things, has made that state impossible. Rebellion, concocted to secure the social organization of the South, is dissolving it. What is this bewitchment that turns every purpose against itself? All the faces of a great people set stiffly one way, and yet every awful hour of their history sweeping them on the opposite way, and slowly turning the most stiffnecked round upon himself, so that he heads with the current, while he struggles against it,—what does it mean? The nation of compromisers paying ovation at its Capitol to the Apostle of Absolute Right! The nation of negrophobists compelled to turn idealiser of the negro, and fit him for the status of citizen! What does it mean? Who hath done it? You or I? Republican, slaveholder, millions of wills against it,—whose was for it?
Ah! friends, no new thing this. It is the order of things. You shall find no birth-agony of a great truth in all this world's history, in which it was not so. It is a law which loving souls may rest on assured—Humanity is more than the totality of individual wills. History is not a sum in arithmetic. It is spiritual, yea, celestial dynamics, incomprehensible to the believer in masses, in addition and subtraction of quantities alone. When you have got at the programmes, the policies and the material forces, men at tongue and men at arms, you have not begun to get the data for the result. The question is not what these are going to do with the nation, but what some deeper sovereignty, which next to no one recognizes, is going to do with them. You are to ask yourself, have I the moral insight to know what this nation does, at this moment, most profoundly need? That is the key to the future. For Humanity is radically sound, and a certain profounder and more vital health subordinates all conscious intellects and wills to its inspired necessity of growth. It is a heart whose organism of free pulsation is beyond permanent lesion from an evil thought or deed.
And the lesson is not Fatality, but Liberty. God works in man, not from the outside, upon dead material, but through the constitution of Human Nature; and His "overruling" is but the revelation of its substantially inalienable health. And so the present says to us as it did to Plutarch, two thousand years ago, "Fate is altogether according to Providence, not Providence according to Fate." Is it not so?
Our Easter Sunday saw the slain and buried nation arisen from its tomb; the rock rolled from its sepulchre; the keepers smitten with dismay. It saw the final closing of our Old Testament of "everlasting legislation for the interests of property—not one solitary enactment for truth, humanity and justice "—and the first year of our atoning sacrifice ends with the thanksgivings of God's ransomed poor. You cannot measure the meaning of that word—"the nation committed to Liberty, her shame before the world effaced." The Lexington fight proved monarchy a fiction—the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia proved democracy a fact. I hear of few salvos of cannon; they are needless. It is a bloodless victory, though paid for in advance with blood. But East, West, North, South, and borne by exultant winds across that blue ocean to the skeptic nations, how its trumpet of a new beatitude will drown the thunders of this avenging war! What stately civilizations begin their march from that historic day! We will not boast. The outer door of the prison-house is broken down; but look at the trembling, naked, bleeding hosts within! We will not boast; for the next step, also, it seems almost certain, must be paid for in advance, ah, in what agonizing drops! The bitter cup may be coming to many dear lips soon!
"Fate is according to Providence." "When we think what nightmares, that made the shrewd Anglo-American a scared child, bare fled this year, forever,
<c05>
we feel like one who wakes late with the dazzling sun in his face. "What are we to do with the negro? "The question answers itself now. What are you to do without him, in peace or war, in those rebel States? Yea, even Cotton shall fight Colonization in this day of the Lord! How shall we pay the masters? The question is resolving itself rapidly into another, "How shall we get rid of them?"—to be answered, it may be, by the wrath of the nation, when it is tired of wasting money and blood. "How could the negro take care of himself?" Answer—he has supported himself, his masters and us. "How shall we pay for the war?" Answer—trade is reviving—the States feel richer every day. It is impossible to make America poor. There is the rebel property, and war is confiscation of it; here is the enterprise waiting to buy and use it. "How shall we save our armies from melting away before the summer pestilence? " Answer—we shall garrison our forts with slaves turned into free soldiers of the Union.-But what shall we call this self-solution of problems—this smoothing of the way before a faithless generation? Irresistible grace, is it not? God's Americans would fain hare perished, but He would not suffer it. How He comes back again and again with these rejected Sibylline Books of Opportunity—nine, then six, then three of them, but no fraction of that first price abated—LIBERTY—LIBERTY TO ALL. At last, one only is left. That you shall not refuse—and that contains the whole prophecy. And what are the chapters of it? Tasks of Christian love and political justice; to build a new Massachusetts in every howling wilderness of slavery; yea, more, to realize Milton's dream of a Christian State. Before the thunder of events, leading on these triumphs and these tasks, all one can say seems but babble. I hardly know what special thing to ask for, amidst this rising and falling of providential veils. The arguments for liberty scorn my lips. I see them flying in cannon balls through the ranks of the people, and flashing in lightnings round the white walls of the Capitol. The one word of the hour is—GOD! What a promise is here! Nationality is coming to us in that awful Name. "Nationalities," says Michelet, "are the life of the world. But the day when France shall summon her children around her, and teach them France as a Faith and a Religion, she will start into living energy, and be solid as the globe." France has not done that yet, but how can America escape it?
But the assurances—they, as, ever, must come by work. Not in past nor future, but in the duty to be done, the doubt to be mastered, the loss to be endured, the faith to be kept with justice, the suffering to be relieved, the testimony to be borne, the nation to be loved for Humanity's sake, in these shall be our "Sursum Corda"—confessing that God's way is wiser than our hopes or fears—that "as a beast goeth down into the valley at twilight, so the Spirit of the Lord shall give us rest."
"Ask and receive; tis sweetly said:—
But what to plead for know I not;
For wish is worsted, hope o’ersped,
And aye to thanks returns my thought.
If I would pray, 
I've nought to say
But this, that God may be God still:
With Him to live
Is still to give,
And sweeter than my wish His will."
Though whatsoever desolation may yet come, this year that is past shall be our guarantee for trusting in the Presence of One, riding as in Raffaelle's picture of the Prophet's Vision, upon the clouds and winds, His arms upheld by radiant children, "whose faces are as the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain"; while those four living types of revolution that go straight forward, and turn not back, those terrible brute creatures that form the chariot of His seeming wrath gaze upward into His countenance, with the intelligence that divines His meaning, and the perfect obedience whose only power is to justify His Law.

REJOINDER OF WM. CARLOS MARTYN.
NEW HAVEN, MAY 12, 1862.
DEAR MR. GARRISON.—I am glad to see that my assailants unmask in the Liberator of 2d May. It is much more pleasant to talk to them in the daylight.
I have but a word for Mr. Allen. His name was not mentioned in my first letter; consequently, I cannot choose but think the coat fitted so snugly, that he was obliged to put it on. Or was my former position correct, that the three blanks, over which the attack on me appeared, so exactly described him, that instinctively he recognized the likeness? He says my attempt at his portraiture was not a success. In what way, then, does he justify his note to you? It was certainly most uncalled for. Though his letter teems with falsehood, easily proved, I do not care, to-day, to explode them; for my quarrel is not with him. You recollect the story of old Dr. Beecher, who, when once virulently attacked, on being urged by friends to pen a reply, said, "No, it would be ' love's labor lost.' I once hurled an entire encyclopedia at a skunk, and then, as my clothes long testified, got the worst of it."
But let us see what Mr. Chamberlain has to say. He restates his canard of the "Boston gentleman and South Centre." I can only repeat, with fresh emphasis, my first denial. The circumstances are truly and freely narrated in my other letter, to which I would refer all interested. Mr. Chamberlain's assertions are a melancholy instance of how persistent hostility, unbridled malignity, can twist the most intrinsically honest story into seeming falsehood or evasion. Was it not Sheridan, who once said in debate in the House of Commons, that a gentleman who had made certain statements was "indebted to his imagination for his facts, and to his memory for his argument"?
Mr. Chamberlain next travels to Le Roy: what does he find there? He says—" It is certain Mr. Martyn lectured in Le Roy, under the assumed character of a Yale student." The only thing certain about it, sir, is, that it is false. Although I had handbills, as I stated before freely, announcing me as connected with Yale,—(and here let me say, parenthetically, that no one can regret, more than I now do, that they were ever circulated: the trouble they have created would seem to show that, however much circumstances may seem to palliate or justify the smallest departure from the strictest, most absolute right, to go astray a hair's-breadth is certain to be inexpedient and unsafe,) these bills bore Mr. Clark's name as well as my own. Now, as my friend was, on the evening of my address, in a neighboring village, attending a temperance convention, of course I could not, nor did I, circulate one of them in Le Roy. Notice was given of my lecture by Mr. Clark, orally, the night before, at a great temperance meeting at the Presbyterian church. So that it; seems in Le Roy, the only place cited, I did not assume publicly to be a student of Yale College. I deny most emphatically that I ever sailed under those colors in private. But, allowing for a moment that I did, what concern is it of Mr. Chamberlain if, in a private circle, I assume to be a Fejee islander, a Norwegian, a professor, a student, or what not, provided I did not publicly burden the anti-slavery cause with such assumption? Indeed, this quondam "friend " admits that " it was no concern of his, while Mr. Martyn imposed on private individuals." Does not this prove that he was pushed to attack me by what the lawyers call "malice prepense"?
While in the West, I made no pretensions to Garrisonian, or any other technical abolitionism, but, as John Brown would have said, sailed under the auspices of Wm. Carlos Martyn. Is it alleged that my lectures did no good? Is it alleged that I failed in my duty as an anti-slavery lecturer—made no converts? Is it alleged that I pretended to be an abolitionist, when I was not? Is it alleged that I was dishonest or a swindler? No! The whole charge may be locked up in the allegation, that I assumed the character of a Yale student! The monstrousness of the charge is only equalled by the malignity with which it is pressed.
But Mr. Chamberlain thinks I should have remembered, when I said I "did not value a reputation of being college-bred sufficiently to lie myself in," a let-
<c06>
ter which I wrote just after leaving Le Roy in which I used those words: "owing to my increasedly weak eyes, I have been obliged to disconnect myself with college"; and Mr. C. asks what I have to say in reply to what the gentleman, to whom the first letter was written, said, that " it would not pay for me to Le Roy again until I had made it clear that I was not an impostor." As regards the first sentence quoted above, I never wrote any such letter. I append the statement of a friend in Buffalo, which will explain it. And for the second—my answer is brief: I never received any such word from Le Roy. I do not think any gentleman in that village would charge me with being an impostor. I was there to speak on the war, which I did. Did that prove me an impostor? If I had privately professed to be Chinese, yet if I was not there to talk about China, but<illegible> there to talk about what I actually did speak on surely I could hardly be charged with being an impostor. Here, sir, is a notice of my lecture in Le Roy, which appeared in the Rochester Democrat, but was written by a gentleman of the former place, to whom statement of my being a student could hardly have failed to be known; yet you will see such fact is not mentioned. Would not this seem to prove that publicly at least, I did not assume such a character?
WAR MEETING IN LE ROY.
LE ROY, Nov. 7th, 1861.
MESSRS. EDITORS,—A war meeting of rare interest was held in the Congregational church in this village, last Tuesday night. Rev. Dr. Samuel H. Cox presided, and Wm. Carlos Martyn, of New Haven Ct., delivered a speech of great power and eloquence Mr. Martyn took the ground that slavery was the cause of this atrocious rebellion, tracing its influence upon our moral, social, intellectual and political life, and conclusively, showing that the rebellion is slavery, and slavery is the rebellion, and that we can only gain peace by its abolition. The address of Mr. M. was regarded by many as the ablest our citizens have heard since the commencement of the war. He is a model speaker clear as a crystal, and his elocution is almost faultless. He speaks very calmly, rising, however, at times, to rare eloquence.
The remarks of Dr. Cox, at the close of Mr. Martyn's speech, were in his best vein. He fully endorsed what that gentleman said, and paid him an exceedingly graceful compliment. Years bear very lightly upon the Dr., and he has lost none of his youthful vigor and fire.
Altogether, the meeting was a complete success, and cannot fail to do great good.
Yours, truly,
J. P.A.
Now, sir, what is the character of the person who assuming such lofty virtue, constitutes himself a modern star-chamber, and summons me to judgment, finding so readily the "mote" in his brother's eye, but seeing not the "beam" in his own? 
With respect,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—My attention has been called to an attack on Mr. Wm. C. MARTYN, of New Haven, Ct., in late numbers of the Liberator, by a Mr. D.H. Chamberlain. As I do not statedly read your journal, the attack was for a time unseen by me.
Now, sir, I know Mr. Martyn no very well, value him so very highly, that I gladly add a word of commendation and support, since I owe him that word-myself being the author of the letter to which Mr. Chamberlain evidently refers in his letter as being written by Mr. Martyn to a gentleman in Le Roy.
Although my residence is in this city, I chanced to be stopping for a little while in Rochester shortly after Mr. M's return from L. He was in haste, and I saw him but a few moments. During our little talk, he asked me if I would do for him what he was too pressed for time to do himself, write half a dozen letters to different friends in various neighboring towns, inquiring whether a literary lecture would pay. Mr. Martyn had been speaking all winter, and at his own expense, on the war, and hoped in this way to make enough to enable him to keep the field still. Of course, I told him I should be happy to do so; and after he left me, I went immediately to my room, and wrote to eight or ten gentlemen in four or five towns,—Le Roy among the number. At Mr. M's request, I wrote in the first person, and signed his name to the letters. Just what I wrote, I do not now remember, but I presume Mr. Chamberlain rightly quoted what I said. I knew that while Mr. M. had intended to enter college, he had been compelled to desist, through the poorness of his sight; therefore, if I said "he had been compelled to disconnect himself with college," I wrote hastily and inaccurately. I should have said he had been obliged to disconnect himself with all the appliances and expectations of college, to devote himself wholly to liberty and reform.
I can truly say, sir, that the tour of Mr. Martyn, through this section, was one of the most eminently useful and successful within my memory, His copious, brilliant, and most persuasive eloquence drew and held the largest audiences wherever he went. I got, and forwarded to Washington, the names of thousands of anti-slavery petitioners. He made numerous converts, and created hosts f friends by his suavity of manner and unfailing kindness; and the friends his intellect created, his warmth of heart and culture kept. 
There are some men so well-known by us, so thoroughly appreciated, whom we have summered and wintered so long, with whose every side we are familiar, that, when detraction spits its venom on them, we scarcely care to wipe it off.
With kindness,
JAMES M. FULLER
BUFFALO, May 5, 1862.

AN OLD SLAVE EXPERIENCES A SENSATION.
A correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette, writing from Fort Pillow, on the Mississippi River, tells the following story of an old slave woman, who, apparently, had a mortal fear of "de rebels:"
Before closing this letter, I must not forget to relate a little incident in which an old negress, formerly a slave but now the chambermaid of one a our transports, figures most prominently. Strange as it may appear to the admirers of slavery, her experiences in the land of chivalry and cotton were not such as to endear it to her, and she never experiences any of those longings to return to the old plantation, which are said to take such violent possession of runaway negroes, that is, if we are to believe the assertions of the admirers of the institution which John Wesley pronounced "the sum of all iniquities." But to ray story.
When Assistant Secretary of War, Scott, was here, an exhibition of mortar-firing at night was given for his benefit. The bombardment was quite vigorous for a short time, more so than usual, and led some persons to suppose that the rebel gunboats had steamed round the point and were engaging our own. The Secretary had gone down to the vicinity of the mortar-boats in a steamer, in order that he might have a better view of the shells as they went streaming through the "blanket of night." After observing them for some time, his vessel turned around, displayed a large red light, and returned to the flag-ship." Julia, the chambermaid. who had been interested in the heavy discharges now thought the rebel flotilla was coming, and thereupon commenced series of gymnastics around the steamer that were highly amusing.
"Cap'n," said she, "ain't you gwine to shove disboat out?"
"I guess not, Julia; why?"
"Kase de rebels is comin', sure."
"Oh, no; don't be alarmed," responded the Captain.
"Yes dey is, I tell you: don't von see dat big red light? " said the badly frightened old woman.
"That's from one of our own boats," said the Captain consolingly. "But you needn't be afraid, Julia, if the rebels do come."
"Don't know 'bout dat, Cap'n: you folk 'll be lookin' out for yourselves, and dere'll be nobody to take care ob de old nigger. I doesn't want to go Souf agin."
It was some time before Julia's nerves could be quieted, and now she has come to the conclusion that she is too near the rebels, of whom she has horrid dreams o' nights, and has determined to make her way further north. Queer, is it not. that this poor creature is unable to appreciate the inestimable blessings that never fail to flow from the relation of master and slave?"

THE PROGRESSIVE AGE.
Devoted to all Reforms.
This is a monthly Journal, of eight Pages, edited by Bryan J. Butts and Harriet N. Greene, his wife, Hopedale, Mass. It commences its fourth volume in May, 1861; and the friends of an unqualifiedly free paper are invited duly to consider its claims on their patronage. specimen opies sent to any address.
TERMS.—Single copies, 50 cents a year; clubs of twenty name, $5.00.
Address B. J. BUTTS & H. N. GREENE.
Hopedale, April 16. 2w
