THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 6 BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1573.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
Hon.(!) LUCIUS SLADE ON THE CRISIS.
AN INFAMOUS LETTER.
We find the following letter in the Georgia Literary and Temperance Crusader of January 3, published at Atlanta, Ga. We give it in full, in connection with the introductory remarks of the editor:
‘THE NORTH AROUSING. The following letter, written from Boston by a prominent member of the Massachusetts Legislature to our fellow-citizen, Dr. N. L. Angier, is full of solicitude in regard to the action of the Southern States, and if he reflects the feeling in that State, the people are truly becoming aroused. The letter was not intended by its author for publication:
You would be astonished to see what a change is coming ‘over the spirit of their dreams.' The great mass of the people are beginning to ask themselves, ‘What have we done, and what are we doing?’ I tell you. Neadom, the people are aroused, and asking themselves where now is the remedy. We in Massachusetts are a laboring class of people, and a community of mechanics, manufacturers, operatives, &c. Now our mechanics and operatives are being thrown out of employment. Thousands upon thousands have allowed miserable, selfish and designing men to do their talking and their thinking, until the country has been brought to this (I need not tell you) distracted state. South Carolina, as you know, has gone through with the initiatory steps of secession. Will any other States follow? Ah! there is the rub. Now is the time to pause, and ask the serious questions; for our future happy existence depends upon how these questions are answered. God grant that the last step toward disunion has been taken, and that we may stop where we are, and reflect! The first drop of blood spilled will be the sounding note for a horrid, dreaded civil war, and the Union is dissolved for then and forever.
“I have been thinking, to-day, to whom in the South I could speak; for, by heaven, I must speak to somebody! I want to speak a word of encouragement, and receive an encouraging word in reply. Whither are we drifting, and what are we coming to? You may know that I am serious and solicitous, when I tell you that of the two solitary Democrats in the Massachusetts Senate, I am one; and you know me well enough to know that there is not a drop of blood in my body that would not be spilled for the preservation of this glorious and once happy Union. I live in a part of the district that has this year elected William Appleton, and defeated that miserable abortion, Anson Burlingame, in a vote of about 4300. I received 739 majority over my black opponent. The work begun now is not going to end here. The people are being aroused from their long slumbers, and are beginning to acknowledge their errors.
I think much depends upon the action of conservative Georgia. If Georgia holds out, the Union is saved. I wish to heaven I could speak as I feel, to every man in Georgia. Listen to me, when I tell you that there is now a conservative element all through the North-an element large enough and powerful enough to see that the South shall be sustained in every right guaranteed by the Constitution. We have got on our statute books the miserable Personal Liberty bills; but to-day a fugitive slave would be returned from this State, if it cost the blood of thousands. You of the South need have no fears on that score; we will take care of that at our own cost. We have got our fanatics; they have had their day, and I assure you they are powerless. A John Brown meeting cannot be held in Boston now. no more than it could in Atlanta. We have got a most powerful organization here, that will be heard from in due time.
I tell you, again, that the North is arousing, and the South will not suffer at our hands: every constitutional right will be guaranteed, and justice will be done. Tell the people of Georgia not to be rash. Tell them to bear with us a little longer, and all will be well. I speak what I believe to be the fact. If you could come among us, you would be convinced, and bear me out in all I have thus hastily written. We are for Union-for guaranteeing the right of every State-for our whole country, however bounded.
I would be most happy, at this time, to hear a word from you at your earliest convenience. Be encouraged, and not disheartened.
Hoping that these few lines will find you and yours in good health,
I remain, very respectfully and fraternally yours,
LUCIUS SLADE."

MAYOR WIGHTMAN AND THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Those pestiferous fanatics, the Abolitionists, have already twice put our new Mayor upon his metal. On Saturday, the 20th ult., they notified him that Wendell Phillips, the most eloquent and irrational of their monomaniacs, would deliver an address at the Music Hall on the following day (Sunday, 20th.) At the same time. They, requested the Mayor to provide policemen in and about the hall to prevent any interruption of the proceedings. The Mayor replied that, if they undertook to hold a meeting calculated to give offence in the present excited condition of the public mind, they must protect themselves from the disorder which they might provoke by their own disturbing action; but, if the public peace should be broken, he would suppress the disturbance. The Mayor’s action was clearly right. 
The meeting of the 20th not having been broken up, notwithstanding the exasperating language uttered and traitorous sentiments avowed by Phillips, the managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society decided to try another experiment upon the forbearance of the people of Boston. They advertised the annual meeting of their Society to commence in the Tremont Temple, on Thursday, the 24th ult. The Mayor was again applied to for protection in advance, and again refused. The meeting was opened but the outrageous remarks made by Phillips on the Sunday previous had settled the question of a peaceable meeting. Soon the hall was a scene of uproar, and the opposition showed their temper by beginning to throw the cushions from the gallery seats down into the body of the hall. The managers now sent the Mayor notice that a riot was taking place in the hall, and he re-paired there, and reduced the opposition to order, and then withdrew, leaving some policemen outside to prevent breaches of the peace. After the meeting had adjourned to assemble again in the evening, the Mayor obtained possession of the key of the hall, and refused to allow the hall to be opened. By this act, justified by the disorderly proceedings which occurred in the day time, he saved the building, and undoubtedly prevented bloodshed; for there are many men desperately hard up for want of em-
<c02>
ployment, which misfortune they lay at the doors of the Abolitionists, who would have rushed in to abate the nuisance, at any cost of life or property. The vote for Mayor Wightman proved Boston to be decidedly a Union city, and that any attempt to spread, disunion or exult over it would be at once crushed out, if a fair opportunity was offered.
On Friday, the managers applied to the House of Representatives, then in session, for the use of their hall in the evening, and no less than 69 members voted to grant it, to 136 who voted nay. Had the meeting been held, the State House would have been dismantled, as no sufficient force in Boston could have been raised to repel the rioters, who had determined to grant no more quarter to disunionists in Boston than is granted to Unionists in some of the slave States. We are not surprised at this. There can be no doubt that the secession movement has had a serious effect upon business operations in Massachusetts, and this, taken in connection with the usual falling off in winter, has created some distress among mechanics, laborers, and clerks, who have families to support. We are satisfied that none of them will ever combine to do acts of pillage or robbery: but, they will no longer tolerate that tolerate that class of meetings which have been the main instrumentality in bringing about the present deplorable condition of things. In short, we doubt whether any Southern community ever had so much justification for expelling abolitionists from their midst, as the business and working men of Massachusetts have for expelling Phillips, Garrison, Pillsbury, Wright, Foster, and other abolition leaders, with whom the Republicans are always in alliance, in election seasons. There is no use in mincing matters now. It will not do to have mob-law prevail in Boston. Our halls must not be pulled down, and our streets cannot be deluged with blood, in order that a set of scoundrels who are too lazy to work, too proud to beg, and too cowardly to steal, may get an easy living by free speech against our noble and equitable political institutions.-Boston Pilot.

THE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
It was fortunate for the reputation of Massachusetts, that the House of Representatives, Friday, rejected the resolution tendering its hall for the use of the Anti-Slavery Society, and it was unfortunate that so many as sixty-nine members should be found willing to vote for such a proposition. The House early in the session “ordered that the use of the hall should be restricted to such societies and the discussion of such subjects as have a direct and immediate bearing upon legislation." It was not pretended that the Anti-Slavery Society, or the range of subjects likely to be discussed at its meeting, had any such bearing. The proposition was offered ostensibly because the Society, being deprived of its legal right, had been unable to transact its business,-an allegation not proved, and we believe not true. It was defended, however, mainly as a testimony of sympathy for an association which it is claimed has been denied the legal right of free speech. And, being advocated upon such grounds, we rejoice that it was rejected.
When the Legislature is asked to go out of its way, and voluntarily offer a compliment of this sort,-for such an offer is a high compliment,-the question whether it sympathizes with the purposes and conduct of the party in question is fairly opened. So long as it was a mere question whether the protection of the law should shield this Society in the enjoyment of its legal rights, the matter of sympathy by could be set aside. But when it is proposed, not to give that Society the protection which it can legally claim in a hall which it has hired for its meeting, but to invite it to hold its meeting in a hall belonging to the State, it is impossible to avoid the question whether the Society has any claim upon the sympathy of the Legislature, or whether it can ask anything more than the letter of the law gives it.
It is very plain to our view that the speakers of this Society can claim no sympathy whatever. Having a certain legal right, they use that right to the injury of the community, to the disturbance of the public peace, and to the scandal of all who wish to see either public interests or private character secure from indecent attack. If they have a legal right to such extreme and injurious license, let them be protected in it,-not for their own sakes, but because the law and the security of common rights demand it. But as they use this legal right in defiance of all moral obligation, let them have no more than the strict right which they can claim. Let them have protection from the police and redress from the courts, but no countenance in the abuse of their high privileges, and no sympathy for what they have themselves invited.
Especially is it desirable that nothing should be done which should, in any way, seem to join the State in sympathy with these frantic extremists, who are exulting over our national misfortunes. Let the State give them the protection which all citizens have, but let it beware of any appearance of sympathy with their movements. At this moment, when we are declaring our devotion to the Constitution, let us not seem to sympathize with those who curse the Constitution, who curse the Union, and who have publicly cursed even Massachusetts herself. Let no foolish bravado, and no heat of indignation, blind us to the duty of keeping the record of Massachusetts clear of any apparent countenance or sympathy for the mischievous objects of those to whom it was yesterday proposed to offer her very Hall of legislation.-Boston Daily Advertiser. 

ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING.
The Anti-Slavery Society (of the Garrison stamp) held their annual meeting in Tremont Temple, last week. They were disturbed by a lot of rowdies, and fearing a riot, the Mayor closed the house. Application was made for the Representatives' Hall in the State House. This was refused. We regret that any notice was taken of their meeting. Nothing pleases them better than to be persecuted. It gives them the very notoriety that they seek. If they had been permitted to come, undisturbed, and utter their annual railings, they would have discharged their ill will, and gone home relieved. Nobody would have heard anything of them until the year came round again. This is the way that they have done these thirty years past. Our counsel is, refrain from these men, and let them alone. This is the part of duty, and the part of wisdom.-Boston Recorder.-Rev. Parsons Cooke. 

ANTI-SLAVERY "POW-WOW.”
We observe, by the last evening's Standard, that the annual Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Convention Hall in this city, on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, the 29th and 30th inst. The parties who are to figure in it as speakers and “fuglemen," are the same precious mad-caps and insane abolition ranters that have recently got up similar meetings in the cities of Rochester, Buffalo,
<c03>
Utica, Rome and Auburn, in each of which places the public sentiment was strongly against the fanaticism they enunciated. The speakers announced are Susan B. Anthony, Rev. Beriah Green, Stephen S. Foster, A. M. Powell, and of course some of our own fiery-tongued and frothy citizens of the abolition stripe. It is to be regretted and deplored that, in the present excited state of our country, when civil war is daily imminent, caused by the foolish slavery excitement, fostered and kept alive by these fanatics, that they should insist in adding fresh fuel to the flame by the holding of meetings in different parts of the country, in order to discuss and proclaim their rabid, unconstitutional doctrines, at the very time when the only result it can have will be to excite new jealousies in the minds of the Southern people against the North, and hasten the day of doom to the Union. Common sense should teach these nervous, restless aspirants for public notoriety, that it was their bounden duty to remain quietly at home in their congenial occupation of spinning strong-minded yarns, and out of the public gaze, until some more favorable time for the belching forth of their unsavory doctrines might come to their relief-when the state of the public mind would be better prepared to stomach it. However, that they seem intent upon their annual outpouring of abolition twaddle, let them be left alone severely, and let them rant and prate, and howl and belch forth fire and cotton to wooden benches, with not a voice to applaud and hiss but the groaning of their own dying echoes as they resound through an empty hall, and become lost to the ear of a community long since disgusted by abolition ranting and the everlasting African question, by which means they will be rendered impotent for evil. Their only real aim is public notoriety: and if our citizens will stay away from their gatherings, they will be shorn of their interest, and thus be entirely and effectually discountenanced.-Syracuse Courier and Union.

Selections.
AN ORTHODOX MOB. 
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, an institution that for twenty-eight years has held its anniversary meetings in Boston, last Thursday made arrangements for holding their annual meeting as usual. It will be remembered that, last month, a meeting at Tremont Temple was called to consider the best means to abolish American slavery, but was broken up by a broadcloth mob assisted by the Boston city government. On the occasion of the breaking up of this former meeting, Mr. Fay and other rowdies who shared in the disgrace of the same, passed resolutions to the effect that all future meetings of a similar character should also be broken up in like manner. Acting upon the supposition that these rowdies meant to carry out their threats, the Superintendent of the Temple waited upon Mayor Wightman to crave of him that protection, which, as the Chief Magistrate of Boston, he was bound to afford. The Mayor made him an insulting reply, to the effect that if the roughs and rowdies of Boston didn't wish to have the meeting held, and were determined that it should not be held, the Abolitionists had no business to hold it, saying he “cared nothing about the legality of the meeting," and if it was held under such circumstances, he “should arrest those who called and conducted the meeting as disturbers of the peace."
This was not the Mayor who aided the mob in breaking up the meeting before referred to, but was chosen since that occasion. He was the candidate of the party whose rallying-cry was “the Constitution, the Union, and the enforcement of the laws." It was understood that he prided himself much on his own efficiency. His friends claimed for him the appellation of a "model Mayor." It was under considerations like these, that the officers of the Society and Superintendent of the Temple felt emboldened to call upon his honor, and solicit his protection of a lawful meeting from a lawless mob. As we have already seen, this model Mayor gave them to understand that the wishes of the mob should be respected, and that if they presumed to act in defiance of the mob, and hold their meeting, he should arrest them as the aggressors and disturbers of the peace.
Be it then recorded that in this nineteenth century, in the year of our Lord 1861, the city government of Boston upheld and assisted a mob in the execution of their nefarious purposes against a meeting of peaceable citizens, assembled for peaceable purposes; and refused its protection to a respectable and long established religious society in public worship on the Sabbath day, against the menaced encroachments of the mob, giving the friends of such society to understand that they had no business to hold any meeting, religious or otherwise, in defiance of the wishes of the mob. 
The religious society referred to above, is that known as the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston. With the circumstances of this refusal of the Mayor to protect this religious society in their public worship from the tender mercies of a mob, most of our readers are already familiar, and we will not recapitulate them.
Until very recently, it was supposed that governments were instituted to protect the weak from the violence of the strong, and that it was the duty of a municipal police to quell all public disturbances, especially those of a mobocratic nature. But the old patriotic city of Boston has the honor-or shame-of establishing a contrary precedent, making a discrimination in the character of mobs, distinguishing between those which are orthodox and those which are not. An orthodox mob is a mob with whose opinions the authorities are themselves in sympathy; such mobs should be sustained; and if those who are made the objects of their violence evince a determination to assert the rights which the constitution of the country allows them, it is the duty of those in authority to assist these orthodox mobs to drive assemblies of persons from their places of meeting and places of worship, and to teach them never to presume to utter their opinions in defiance of the wishes of an orthodox mob.
The officers of the Anti-Slavery Society, despairing of obtaining anything but further insult and abuse from the city authorities, determined to hold their meeting as usual, take all the risks, and let the responsibility rest where it belonged. The meeting assembled, and the mob assembled with it; and in consequence of the disturbance which ensued, the speakers were nearly all day in giving utterance to their sentiments, for which, two hours, under ordinary circumstances, would have more than sufficed. Acting under the determination that the speakers should not be heard, the mob hooted, yelled, uttered “cat-calls,” sung negro songs, cheered their friend the Mayor, flourished long poles with hats on them, threw the cushions from the gallery to the floor below, broke the seats and furniture, doing four or five hundred dollars damage to the building alone, and acting generally like a horde of demons let loose from Pandemonium. Once more the officers of the
<c04>
meeting solicited the protection of the city government, and dispatched a note to the Mayor signed by Messrs. W. I. Bowditch and Joseph K. Rogers, two of the trustees of the Temple, requesting that a police force be detailed to clear the rear gallery of “thirty rioters." Now the virtues of the "model Mayor" shone forth in all their resplendent glory. To the Temple he marched forthwith, with the Chief of the Police, and forty policemen at his heels. What did he do when he arrived at his destination? Arrested the rioters, of course! Mayor Wightman did no such thing. It was not what he said he would do; it was not what he went there for. He had before distinctly given the officers of the meeting to understand that if any disturbance followed, he should side with the mob, and "arrest those who called and conducted the meeting as the aggressors upon the public peace.” Mayor Wightman accordingly marched into the Temple, told the audience that he had received a request from the trustees of the building to disperse the meeting, and told them to leave forthwith. Mr. Hayes, the Superintendent of the Temple, presuming to know the sentiments of the trustees as well as the Mayor, asserted his disbelief that they had made any such request, and asked him to produce and read his written order. The order was accordingly read, the only request contained therein being the "arrest of thirty rioters in the rear gallery." Is it wrong for Mayors to lie? No; not to tell orthodox lies-no more than to support orthodox mobs; and a Mayor who is good enough to do the last, is none too good to do the first. Before going further, it may perhaps be proper to demonstrate what an orthodox lie is. It is a lie that is told for some benevolent purpose; to demonstrate some cardinal principle of a party in power, and receives the stamp of orthodoxy when uttered by a people's magistrate, and ratified by the popular acquiescence. We do not by this lay ourself open to the charge of accusing the Boston model Mayor of lying, for we are. now talking about orthodox lies; and how can an orthodox lie, uttered by no less a dignitary than Mayor Wightman of Boston, and acquiesced in by the popular majority, be wrong? If any of our readers are unable to discriminate between the distinction and the difference, the responsibility of the accusation rests with them, and not with us.
The duplicity of Mayor Wightman being thus exposed, he had no alternative left but to make at least the show of a demonstration, and the police were dispatched to clear the rear gallery, which they promptly did, and the meeting passed off with comparative quiet. But revenge is as sweet to Mayors as to any body else, and Mayor Wightman had his. At about half past six, previous to the commencement of the evening session of the meeting, the Chief of Police, with six or eight assistants, entered the hall, and read an order from the Mayor, directing him to clear the hall of all persons therein, and to take such measures as to prevent any meeting being held there that night. About fifty persons were in the hall, mostly females. Most of them obeyed the tyrannous edict, and retired. A few, determined that Boston should reap the full ignominy of its disgrace, refused to move, and compelled the police to put them out by force, and a few of both sexes were thus forcibly ejected.
And thus mob violence triumphed, and freedom of speech was suppressed and trampled upon. In ten minutes the Mayor accomplished for the mob what they had vainly endeavored to do all day; nor were the latter ungrateful for the services thus rendered to them by their friend, the Mayor. The air was rent with shouts and cheers for Mayor Wightman.
“’Tis thus the world rewards the fools
Who live upon her treacherous smiles."
Yes; but let Dr. Watts complete his stanza:-
"She leads them blindfold by her rules,
And ruins all whom she beguiles."
We wish no greater ruin to fall upon Joseph M. Wightman than the infamous disgrace he has already achieved for himself in the eyes of the civilized world. 
It is not necessary for us again to disclaim our sympathy with Abolition doctrines. We never defended them in any manner. We have, however, certain opinions of our own, for which we demand perfect freedom of expression, and we ask for ourself no more than we would concede to any one else; and a blow administered to one person in this respect, is a blow administered to all. When freedom of speech is suppressed in any quarter, and especially by the arm and authority of law, it behooves the people to be on their guard, lest the foundation of their liberties be undermined. If one can be denied the freedom of speech, so can another. If religious worship can be disturbed in one place with impunity, so can it in another-as well in Park Street Church or even our own churches, as in Music Hall. If Boston has not the power or the disposition to guard the rights of her citizens, then let the State of Massachusetts do it for her. “The price of liberty is eternal vigilance."-South Reading Gazette.

PRESERVATION OF LAW AND ORDER IN BOSTON.
On Monday, in the Senate, Mr. Whiting, of Plymouth county, introduced an order of inquiry with reference to the propriety of taking the control of the police of the city of Boston out of the hands of the city authorities, and vesting the power in commissioners to be appointed by the State. The order was unanimously adopted in the Senate, and was passed in the House, after some opposition, by a very large majority.
This is a move in the right direction. If the citizens of Boston are content, not only to sit in passive obedience to the dictation of a mob like that which broke up the John Brown meeting, and attempted to mob Wendell Phillips in the streets of his native city, but to elect as their Chief Magistrate an apologist for, and an abettor of the mob spirit, the people of Massachusetts, who have a deep interest in everything that pertains to the good name of the capital of the State, and who still hold to the good old Revolutionary doctrine of free speech, owe it to themselves and the fair fame of the Old Bay State, not only to frown indignantly upon any infraction of the rights of any body of men, of whatever sect or party, but also to adopt such measures as shall place the preservation of the peace upon some more secure footing than the mere whim or caprice of a mayor, who is indebted for his majority to the votes of the very men who compose the mobs that have, within a few months, inflicted indelible disgrace upon Boston. If a tame and truckling spirit infests our so-called high places, what can we expect from the low? Let us see such a police system adopted as shall deal even handed justice to the haughty burghers of Beacon street, as well as to the humble denizens of North street.
Another reason for the change suggested in the order adopted by the Legislature, and one that is worthy of serious consideration by every American citizen of Boston and Massachusetts, is the change
<c05>
in the character of the actual residents of Boston. which is fast being effected. In consequence of the encroachments of trade, many of the principal streets in the eastern section of the city have been entirely given up for stores, and many of the former residents have been driven out of town. At the same time, whole streets, which, twenty years ago, were among the best in the city as places of residence, are now occupied by the Irish, who, when once in possession, seldom, if ever, yield an inch. In three of the wards in Boston, already, the foreign vote has the control, and in several others that vote has largely increased. So formidable has this element become, that it openly boasts that it can control the election of Mayor, and at the last election it did so control it. And further, no sooner was the new Mayor in his seat than a demand was made for a recognition of this service by the appointment of foreigners upon the police force. Are the people of Massachusetts, who have a direct connection with the trade of Boston, and whose material prosperity is deeply involved with her, to have no power to interpose any check upon this threatened abuse of authority? Millions upon millions of the property, both real and personal, in the city of Boston, are owned by those who, residing out of the city limits, have neither voice nor vote in the administration of its municipal affairs, but who have a deep and vital interest in the preservation of law and order.
In this two-fold aspect of the case, it behooves those who are jealous of the fair fame of the State and its capital, to see to it that the citizens of Boston are spared the disgrace of sharing in the reputation acquired by New York, in which city the condition of things became so bad that at last a Metropolitan Police Bill was passed by the State Legislature, by which the control of the police department was taken out of the hands of the Mayor, and placed under the direction of Commissioners appointed by the State. The result has been an entire change in the condition of things. Elections are now conducted with decency and decorum, and some regard is had to life and property. Since the adoption of the new system, not a single public assemblage has been disturbed, and we believe that, save and except the despairing lamentation of the almost totally depraved Mayor Wood, the people of New York are thoroughly satisfied with the change.
Would it not be an act of sagacious and prudent forethought to nip in the bud the tendency to unlawful violence which is fast developing itself in Boston, by a judicious distribution of power in proper hands, and by withdrawing from the municipal elections one of the most potent and mischievous elements which can enter into them? The subject is deserving of the earnest consideration of every member of the Legislature, whether from the city or the country.
P. S. Since this article was written, fresh evidence of the necessity of the passage of some law, which shall maintain the right of free speech, has been afforded by the almost successful attempt of a mob of boys and men, to the number of four or five hundred, to break up the meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on Thursday morning. The character and animus of the mob may be judged by their rallying cry of “All up,” and their cheers for “Edward Everett," “Mayor Wightman," and “The Union.” Mr. Phillips finally triumphed, but the city of Boston and the State of Massachusetts were only saved from burning disgrace by the coolness and determination of his friends, unaided and unsupported by His Honor (!) Mayor Wightman.-Dedham Gazette, Jan. 26.

THE COURIER ON FREE SPEECH.
The Boston Courier denies the right of free speech, as commonly understood in this country, and evidently favors the policy of censorship and suppression which despots find so needful to their security. Its whole meaning is not given in plain words, but is clearly shown. The Courier actually means that Wendell Phillips and the Abolitionists have no right to hire a room in Boston, go into it peaceably, and there utter their views of slavery to each other and to whomsoever may choose to assemble with them. It has previously said as much without equivocation, and added thereto, in substance, that the free speech of Mr. Phillips and the Abolitionists will be suppressed by mob violence, if necessary. There was also a menace against “Sumner and Wilson." At present, that journal is more subdued in tone on this topic, and more ambiguous in expression, but the same bad disposition remains, and comes out in such expressions as this:-“If license of speech is unrestrained, then, as in all cases where the law does not give protection, we must expect the people to assume the prerogative of punishment.”
If it be admitted that people have a right to suppress and punish every man whose speech does not suit them, it will fare hard with the belligerent editor of the Courier, and we, with our more peaceable and tolerant notions, may find it necessary to defend him against such lawless violence as he himself has invoked for the suppression of Mr. Phillips and others. Most of the people of Massachusetts would fail to be suited with the talk on the slavery question in which he takes most delight. They would, in fact, regard much of it as abominable, and the general judgment would be this:-“If the right of free speech must be suppressed at all in Massachusetts, let us begin at the office of the Boston Courier." Such a judgment would not be satisfactory to the more Southern editor of that paper, although it would be nothing more than a practical application of the doctrine he has preached against the Abolitionists, but which they have not preached against him.
The right of free speech is guaranteed by the State and Federal Constitutions, and it must be left where it has been placed by these guarantees, and by-laws framed in accordance with them. Whoever assails it, and, like the Boston Courier, encourages mobs to trample it under foot, is an enemy of free principles, and a disturber of social order. He is mischievous and dangerous to the extent of his influence. There is no valid excuse for what he does, for it is not the wise and judicious man only who has a right to free speech, but the injudicious and foolish also. We may use all our skill and influence to induce the injudicious man to make a wise use of his gift of speech; but we may not undertake to raise a mob against him, nor seek to crush him out by any means that violate the law or disregard his rights. The meetings of Mr. Phillips in Boston, and the anti-slavery meetings held there last week, have been watched by the whole country, because the attempts to suppress them by mob violence have given them unwonted importance. If they had not been so violently persecuted, the matter would not have engaged so much attention and feeling; and if they had been let alone, their movements might not have been heard of very far away from the rooms engaged for their meetings. If that mob makes its appearance again, as on the third of December, we hope it will be crushed out so summarily and so completely as to make the occasion memorable in the history of the city. 
<c06>
The gentlemen in Boston who suppose they can use such mobs with impurity, may as understand at once that the slave despotism of South Carolina cannot be domesticated in Massachusetts. The right of free speech cannot be crushed out in this Commonwealth by lawless rowdies in broadcloth, nor by any of their unscrupulous instruments. What they have done already has roused a feeling through out the State which shows very plainly that here, at least, law and order, and the protection of personal rights, will be maintained against any attempt to destroy them.-Worcester Spy, Jan. 30.

OUR MAYOR'S HIGHER LAW. 
The Mayor of Boston is one of a class that have been exceedingly intolerant of the idea that we ought to regard any law as superior in its claims to the law of the land. The Higher Law has been another name for lawlessness and fanaticism. But the doctrine now held at our municipal head-quarters recognizes a standard of civil rights entirely aside from any enacted by the Legislature, or established by the Constitution. We are understood to hold the freedom of speech subject only to the will and pleasure of any set of violent men who choose to interfere with its exercise.
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society proposed to observe its anniversary, last week, as it had done for the last quarter of a century, by a series of public meetings. But a set of rowdies have resolved that no anti-slavery meetings shall be held in Boston. They have publicly announced their intention to abate every such meeting summarily, as a nuisance. One of their number has boasted that it is no safer to hold one here than it would be in Georgia. Under these circumstances, the officers of the Society thought it prudent to ascertain whether they were to enjoy the protection of the law. The Mayor refused to promise them protection, unless they would pledge themselves not to "disturb the peace," by their speeches. Observe, his honor did not say, break the peace. What he demanded was, that they should not provoke other persons to break the peace by speeches, which such persons might choose to regard as offensive.
The Mayor's performance was agreeable to his promise. For a time, he made demonstrations to suppress the mob; but half a day's perseverance was all that he could bring himself to. Intimidated (it is said) by a rumor of an attack on the Tremont Temple, he turned the meeting out of doors, when the mob, having seen all done that they desired, dispersed. We think, in view of his own previous declarations, it is not uncharitable to believe that the Mayor was glad of an excuse to gratify the rioters, and the Southern traitors with whom they are in league. Afraid of an attack on Tremont Temple! Let those believe it who will. Did he doubt that the Governor would have sustained him against the mob by the whole weight of the Executive arm? Is it an open question whether we have freedom of speech in Boston?
It may be understood, once for all, that Massachusetts will permit but one answer to this question. If the Mayor will not keep the peace, the control of the police will be taken from him, and given to others.
When the subject of a State police, for Boston, was introduced into the Legislature, it was protested that the city ought not to be condemned without a trial of her fidelity to the law. No one will ask this. But these high-handed and successful acts of violence have followed. The very first experiment demonstrates that the city is under mob law, and that the Mayor is either confederate with the mob, or afraid of it. In either case, he is unfit to have control of the police. It seems to us that the Legislature cannot dismiss the subject without some action. If it is not thought expedient to move decisively at the present session, it might be well, at least, to refer the subject to the next General Court, as a significant intimation that it is not and will not and will not be lost sight of.-Christian Watchman and Reflector.

SHALL WE HAVE A METROPOLITAN POLICE?
The disgraceful occurrences of yesterday, at the Tremont Temple, are pregnant with instruction and with argument. If there is not sufficient power within the city of Boston to preserve the peace, some means should be provided by which the peace may be preserved. If a crazy, brutal, drunken, insurrectionary mob, from the slums of North street, defy the police and a pusillanimous Mayor, it is time for the city to look to the Commonwealth for support. Mob law dominates and triumphs in the Puritan City! A band of rowdies, who made the air of the Temple foul with their pestilent breaths, and the cushions and panels foul by the expectorations of tobacco juice, silence the Chief Magistrate of Boston by their cat-calls and bawdy repartees, and by turns make him bow his head responsive to their compliments and astound him by their derisive jokes. These things are too much. Boston, to its shame, must go under the tutelage of the Commonwealth.
This peninsula, which has been praying ground since John Cotton and Cotton Mather and Bishop Cheverus, is no longer on praying ground. Nobody can hereafter burn incense without consulting the olfactories of North street, or utter prayers which Mayor Wightman considers subversive of public order. A mob has become the censor of speech, and it is but a step to all the tyranny of brute force.
The infamous occurrences at the Temple, yesterday, are totally indefensible. They are without apology. We do not assert nor discuss the correctness of the sentiments which might have been uttered at the meeting, had it been undisturbed. We will not assert the propriety of holding such a meeting at all. We waive that matter entirely. But one thing is certain-positively and absolutely incontrovertible-to wit, that the meeting was perfectly lawful, that nothing was said or to be said which would render its actors, individually or in the mass, liable under the Constitution or any statute or any ordinance. But the sentiments of the speakers would have been objectionable to a great majority of the people of Boston. What then? Was that a reason for breaking up the assemblage? If that is so, we respectfully suggest that when John B. Gough next speaks in the Temple on temperance, his meeting be broken up also. What business has Gough to denounce rum-sellers, rum-drinkers, gamblers, or anything of that sort, if a mob doesn’t happen to like it? Possibly the followers of Satan in this city are sufficiently numerous to get up a mob, even if they are not more numerous than the followers of Christ.
If a census were taken, perhaps the sinners would be found in a plurality. The next time the Rev. Dr. Adams, or the pastor of Park Street, <illegible> against Satan and his numerous followers, why shall not a mob tread, with unsatisfied foot, upon the clean carpets, and his at every period of the <illegible> We are not all so fortunate as to agree with
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.”
“What order of men under the meet most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was over invested with such odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of House; in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession.-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Edward Everett, or even with Caleb Cushing, when he denounces Gov. Banks, Gov. Andrew, and other leading Republicans as a ï¿½band of drunken mutineers.ï¿½ Shall we therefore have a mob in Faneuil Hall when they speak? In short, every time a meeting is to be held in Boston, with which any considerable number of men dissent, is Mayor Wight-man to go on the stand, with his face suffused with blushes at his reception, make a speech chiefly emphatic of the personal pronoun, and then close the doors? If this is the rule, let us know it.
Now, it is a waste of words to say thus much. No dispassionate man can have but one opinion as to the acts of yesterday. They were infamous. They disgrace this ancient and order-loving city. Their repetition cannot be tolerated. We enounce alike the instigators and the perpetrators of the brutal outrage, and in the name of an insulted city demand redress and protection.-Atlas and Bee.

THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
ARGUMENT OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
BEFORE THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE,
In the Hall of the House of Representatives, Jan. 29, 1861.
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W. YEERINTON.
Mr. Chairman, and Gentlemen of the Committee:
What are we here to consider? It is the claim, or request, of some citizens of the Commonwealth, and some influences outside of it, that one of our statutes should be repealed. What is the cause of that request, and what is the statute? It is a statute to secure-so it is named-the personal liberty of individuals within the Commonwealth. Why do any persons ask its repeal? Because it is supposed to conflict with a statute of the United States, termed the Fugitive Slave Bill. What is that bill? It is a bill to carryout a clause of the Constitution of the United States, which says that persons bound to service or labor in one State, shall not be freed from that bond by escaping to another State, but shall be delivered up upon claim.
What is the objection to this Fugitive Slave Bill, that men are so anxious to have it countervailed, resisted, curbed, by the laws of Massachusetts? It seems to me, there is where our investigation commences.
What is this Fugitive Slave Bill, and why do we hate it? For I am willing to allow, Mr. Chairman, at the outset, that I value this Personal Liberty Bill not only for the protection that it gives to the free natives of Massachusetts, but for the measure of protection that it gives to fugitive slaves within the Common wealth. I claim that, with one limitation-that of the Constitution of the United States-Massachusetts has a right to protect every human being within her borders, slave whether he may have been previously, or not. I wish it, therefore, understood, at the outset, that it is no objection, in my mind, that this Personal Liberty Bill does cover certain liabilities and dangers of fugitive slaves. And again, Mr. Chairman, I wish to speak to you, to-day, as under the Constitution, as I would address persons sworn to support the Constitution of the United States. I repudiate that Constitution; but I come to address a Legislature which stands under that law, and, of course, I wish to offer them such arguments as they are authorized to consider. What is, then, the Fugitive Slave Bill? It is a bill, as you know, that puts a man on trial for something more valuable than life, not before a judge, but before an officer whom a judge appoints, and may remove to-morrow.
It says that his liberty may be sacrificed, on the affidavit of nobody knows whom, taken nobody knows where, before nobody knows what. No opportunity to cross examine that witness, no opportunity, even, to know whether the apparent judge who signs the affidavit is a judge, whether the person who makes it is a living being, no means of cross-examination or scrutiny whatever. And on the faith of such a witness, and, if the Commissioner pleases, without any further proof, even of identity, a man is to be taken from a place where he has lived twenty years-for aught you know, where he was born-and carried away a thousand miles, or three thousand. Then he will have a trial somewhere, perhaps, if somebody permits.
It is not necessary to refer here to such a time-honored principle, for which we have fought for centuries, for which the Constitution of the United States contains a guarantee, as that a man on trial shall be confronted with his witnesses; that he shall be tried by due process of law, which every legal authority, from Coke down to Story, says means a jury. Beside that, witness Hancock and Adams, witness all the arguments of the Revolution, that he shall be tried in the vicinage where he is found, other things being equal. I say, this statute violates all these provisions. I need not go into argument upon this point. It is a statute that made the blood of the Christian world run cold.
Massachusetts having, in 1855, affirmed by the unanimous voice of her Legislature, that the Fugitive Slave Bill was unconstitutional-reasonably alarmed at the peril to which it exposed her citizens, puts on her statute book a law to curb it as for as possible. Now timid men say to the Commonwealth. ï¿½Take that law off.ï¿½ Well, gentlemen, do you know what you are curbing? We have had Simms cases and Burns cases, where men, without, I might almost say, even the form of a trial, without a tittle of what the common law calls evidence, have been carried down our most public streets, in express and contemptuous defiance of the wish of Massachusetts-of the spirit of her institutions, of all her history.
But that is not all, gentlemen. The slave Commissioner sits omnipotent, and his certificate is final. Nobody can overlook it. It admits no appeal. What does it mean? It means that the slave-hunter may take his slave man or woman, and do what with them? Do you know what he may do, Mr. Chairman? The slave-hunter left the city of Boston, in those cases, in three hours, ï¿½because he feared the peopleï¿½; but it is not necessary he should leave in three hours-he may stay a reasonable time-twelve hours-twenty-four-the time necessary for the usual arrangements to quit a State. What may he do in that time, sir? Let me tell you what he may do. The Prigg case says-and that is the foundation case, on this question-the Prigg case says, this Fugitive Slave clause ï¿½puts the right to service or labor on the same ground and to the same extentï¿½-(please mark the phrase)ï¿½-on the same ground and to the same extentï¿½-in every other State, as in the State from which the slave escapes.ï¿½ That is, a Virginian comes to Boston, and when he puts his hand on the shoulder of his slave in this city, he has, identically, unqualifiedly, the same right to him that he has in Virginia. This is what Judge Story says-ï¿½ON THE SAME GROUND AND TO THE SAME EXTENT.ï¿½
Again, the Judge, speaking for the Supreme Court, asserts-ï¿½That any State law which interrupts, limits, delays, postpones the right of the owner to the immediate possession of the slave, and the immediate command of his service, operating, pro tanto, as a discharge, is unconstitutional.ï¿½
Observe, therefore, when Mr. Suttle takes Anthony Burns, or when Ira Taylor puts his hand on the shoulder of Ellen Craft, he will have the same right for those twelve hours in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to the same extent that he had in Georgia or in Richmond. Any law that ï¿½limits or postpones that rightï¿½ is void. Suppose he had said to Ellen Craft, ï¿½This is my chamber, come and occupy it with me!ï¿½ will you say that no law in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts can limit or postpone, that Georgian right? And yet yon do say so when you submit to the ruling of the Court in the Prigg case, and to the Fugitive Slave Bill.
Suppose he had taken Anthony Barns in front of the Revere House, and publicly whipped him,-so that it be moderate correction, and not endangering his life, which the law of Virginia allows, and which, according to the Prigg case, no law of Massachusetts has a right to limit or postpone,-do you submit to that! May be put his hand on man for punishment,
<c02>
and on woman for degradation, and is the Common wealth of Massachusetts bound to stand by a fettered and silent witness? If so, then of such a group the slave is the only one who is not forever and unutterably degraded.
Do you say the Court will never sanction such acts, though their language does cover them? I reply, the whole history of this slave clause shows the contrary. The Courts have pushed it far beyond its original, meaning, and allowed the slaveholder under it rights of which the fathers never dreamed. They have never showed any reluctance to put into relentless practice the harshest provisions of the Fugitive Slave Bill itself. Do you ay the slave-hunter will never dare so to insult Boston? Why not? Has our city manifested any such persevering opposition to any demand of the Slave Power, however degrading to ourselves?
The Daily Advertiser said, in 1850, in two or three successive articles, that the Fugitive Slave Bill could not be passed; and to-day that Daily Advertiser warns you to repeal every statute in opposition to it. The whole Commonwealth of Massachusetts scouted the idea that that bill could ever become a law. To-day, with one or two exceptions, the whole press of Boston warns you, implores you, not to touch a tittle iota of that very statute! I tell you, if the slave-hunter chooses to use his slave, in the city of Boston, to the extent of his rights under the Prigg case, there is no police in Boston that will prevent it; nothing but a rebellion of Christian hearts can prevent it.
This, then, is the law, as the Supreme Court affirms it. I do not know, gentlemen, that the Commonwealth can curb or restrain it-can save herself from such dishonor; but she can try. This Personal Liberty Bill is, in one view, such an effort. In another view, it is an effort to save our free men from being enslaved under the heedless and cruel provisions of the Fugitive Slave Bill. I wish the Committee and the Commonwealth to understand, if we take from our statute-book this curb on the Fugitive Slave Bill, and Fugitive Slave Bill decisions, what we submit to, and how far we get down on our knees before the Slave Power. The Fugitive Slave Bill is, in fact, nothing less than making the slave law of the South the law of Massachusetts-that is its exact purpose and effect.
Massachusetts has placed this Personal Liberty Law on her statute-book. For what purpose? To hold and cover all the ground she possibly can, under the Constitution, against the ruthless demands of this last Fugitive Slave Bill. Ever since 1791, our history is full of protests by State Legislatures and State Courts against the slave clause, and the laws Congress has made under it. This last Bill exacts more than has ever been asked before. Laws, however carefully worded at first, have their operation qualified and limited by subsequent legislation and the construction of courts, as events require. This Bill has been recognized as law and held constitutional by the Supreme Court in one case. But courts often change their minds, and reverse their decisions. At any rate, perhaps the Court will, on more mature consideration, see reason to limit and restrain some of the broad provisions of this Bill. To afford means for this revision of the Court's opinion, to try whether some exceptions may not be allowed to the provisions of the Bill, and to prevent the possibility of a free man being confounded, by its carelessness, with the slave, Massachusetts enacts this Personal Liberty Law. It claims only what the common law has allowed her for centuries towards the protection of her free citizens. She will not without a struggle relinquish one tittle of such rights. If any provision conflicts with United States law, the proper courts will set it aside. But the very question of such conflict affords a fresh opportunity of re-arguing the validity of the Fugitive Slave Bill, or of obtaining some qualification of its harshest features.
What is this Personal Liberty Bill? Its provisions are simply these: that in case a man is arrested under the Fugitive Slave Law, the Supreme Court may grant a habeas corpus. What is that? It is a command, substantially, that whoever holds a man in custody shall come before the court, and tell it why he holds him. If the court think the arrest illegal, on the face of it, they order the man to be discharged. If the court find facts stated, about which there is some dispute, they may summon a jury to decide such facts. This, gentlemen, is the substance of the whole Personal Liberty Law, and specially of the 19th, 20th and 21st sections, which are the only ones relied on to show that the law conflicts with the Fugitive Slave Bill.
Why, then, should such a statute be repealed?
In the first place, who asks us to repeal it? It is said South Carolina asks us; but she does not,-she has not asked any thing of the kind. Who does ask us to repeal it? Why, the Mayor and Aldermen of Boston,-a body which keeps every law, except those which protect liberty and hinder intemperance! I do not think their voices ought to be very potent in changing laws until they learn to obey them.
Other influences have been sent to Washington. Compromise fills the air. I desire to be respectful to every man, before the Commonwealth. One Slave Commissioner urges the Legislature, before another Committee, to compromise. He did so yesterday. I do not think he is to be taken as an indication of the moral sense of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I remember, gentlemen, that when Robespierre was pleading for his life against the National Convention, a voice cried, ï¿½The blood of Danton chokes you!ï¿½ When George T. Curtis asks the Legislature of Massachusetts to compromise, the blood of Thomas Simms chokes his utterance. These, and others like them, are the counsellors of repeal.
Why do they ask us, in fact, to repeal? Our Personal Liberty Law is no new law, gentlemen. My esteemed friend, Mr. Sewall, referred to it as subsequent to 1850. So it is, technically; but Massachusetts has never been without a statute of this kind-never! Pardon me a moment, Mr. Chairman, while I look back to the history. We had this slave clause in ï¿½89. in ï¿½91; and certain men kidnapping a colored person in Pennsylvania, Governor Mifflin and George Washington had a correspondence together on the subject, which led to the enactment of the law of 1793. What did the States immediately begin to do? The States, by their courts and by their statutes, immediately begin the effort to curb that power within the narrowest constitutional limits. If you trace the doctrine down through Sargeant and Rawle, through Wendell and the whole of the New York Reports, through the statute-books of New Jersey and this State, you will find that every Commonwealth instantly indicated its purpose to uphold the Constitution, but not one iota more, not one. When, in 1836, our revisers dropped the personal replevin out of the statute-book, one of your Committee recollects, as well as I do, that the as best lawyer of-his age in the State, James C. Alvord, in an argument which has never been answered, replaced that statute, for the express and avowed purpose of curbing that law of 1793. That was in 1837. We come to '43. Then came the Latimer Bill; in 1850, the Joint Resolves of the Legislature; then the statutes of 1852, 1855 and 1858. It is an unbroken, line of statutes. The evident intention of this Commonwealth, like her sisters, was to grasp every thing she could consistently with her loyalty to the Constitution.
Now, all we ask you to do to-day, gentlemen, is to follow in those same footsteps-not to turn back upon the course of sixty or seventy years. You talk of erasing this statute, but in fact you change the legislation of Massachusetts for sixty years; for that has been the essence of it-that a slave should have the protection of the common law. Our Constitution says that the Executive, Judicial and Legislative functions shall be kept separate. If your predecessors in these legislative halls have passed unconstitutional acts, it is the duty of the Judiciary, not yours, to set them aside. Who calls on you to sit in judgment on the constitutionality of the doings of sixty preceding Legislatures?
Again, gentlemen, before I proceed to give you some reasons why I think this statute should stand, let me refer to another consideration. It is said this
<c03>
Fugitive Slave Bill is constitutional. The Supreme Court of our State and of the United States say so. It is very true that our Supreme Court did say so, in the Simms case; but it said so, as my friends have shown, not on reason, but simply on precedent Chief Justice Shaw said, the law of ï¿½98 has been held constitutional; this law is very like it; therefore, this is constitutional. He assigned no reasons. As a precedent, therefore, this decision has that force, and no more. In 1858, the Supreme Court of the United States (in Ableman vs. Booth) decided this Fugitive Slave Law to be constitutional. Granted. How much shall we yield to a precedent? How far are we bound to yield to it? I do not go to the extreme length of the Democratic doctrine, and say that we shall yield nothing. You know our Democratic party have claimed almost the French law, that precedents are of no weight whatever. But I do claim this, that judicial decisions, on a new point, but once argued, made in troubled times, under grave suspicion of being influenced by political considerations, are not final and conclusive. What does James Buchanan say-and certainly he may be considered some authority, southernwise, on such a question as this-speaking of the banks-in 1841?
ï¿½Even if the judiciary had settled the question, I should never hold myself bound by their decision while acting in a legislative character. Unlike the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. Bates), I shall never consent to place the liberties of the people in the hands of any judicial tribunal.ï¿½
ï¿½No man holds in higher esteem than I do the memory of Chief Justice Marshall; but I should never have consented to make even him the final arbiter between the government and the people of this country on questions of constitutional liberty.ï¿½
Sitting here as legislators, you are not bound by an unbroken line of precedents from the judicial bench. But here is only a single precedent-a late one-only two or three years old.
How does South Carolina herself behave in such a case? She is the State that is making the trouble on this occasion. Let me tell you a piece of her history. In 1820, she passed an act providing that any colored cooks or stewards of vessels coming into the State should be imprisoned during their-stay, that the captain should pay their jail fees, and that if he did not, he should be liable to a thousand dollars fine, and the negro men, if they remained there, should be sold into slavery. Mr. Justice Johnson, of the Supreme Court, in 1823, ruled the law unconstitutional. Mr. John Quincy Adams, at the request of the British government, brought the unconstitutionality of the law to the notice of South Carolina. Did she repeal it? Not a bit of it. Massachusetts sent Hon. Samuel Hoar there, later down, to test the constitutionality of that law, and try the case; she mobbed him out of Charleston, and passed a law that if Massachusetts sent any body else to do the same thing, she would put him in the State Prison. And then she waited, with that law, a little modified, but unrepealed, essentially, on the statute-book, until 1856, when the Dred Scott decision is supposed to have made it constitutional. South Carolina kept an unconstitutional law which she valued for thirty years, until she brought the Supreme Court round to her opinion. In spite of foreign governments, in spite of sister States, in spite of the Supreme Court, she kept the statute there. She said, ï¿½I believe it constitutional; it is necessary for the safety and the police regulations of my State. I will wait, until the Supreme Court has opportunity, on argument, to revise or substantiate its position.ï¿½ And she has conquered. Now, what do we ask? All we ask is-suppose the whole statute is held to be constitutional by the present Supreme Court-all we ask is, wait a year or two, and give us an opportunity for re-argument, and see if the Supreme Court mean maturely to adhere. That would he no offence. Even then we should be only following the course which the Southern States have universally followed in regard to the Supreme Court. 
But they say ï¿½our law is not constitutional.ï¿½ The lawyers doubt; some are on one side, and some on another. Governor Andrew says it is not unconstitutional; Mr. Charles G. Loring, perhaps the highest authority, says it is not unconstitutional. With a single-and perhaps not even one-exception, Judge Thomas thinks it is not unconstitutional; and his decision is the more weighty, because on political grounds he thinks it should be repealed. Again, no lawyer believes it to be unconstitutional, except on the ground that the Fugitive Slave Law is constitutional. No man says it conflicts with the Constitution. All over the free States, this talk of unconstitutionality means that it conflicts with the Fugitive Slave Bill, and not with the clause of the Constitution. 
That is the only point of Mr. Joel Parker. He is another person who asks us to repeal it-a person who said, in the Journal, day before yesterday, speaking of the Simms case,-in which a man was arrested by a lie, by a policeman of Boston, for theft, and when he was got into custody was turned over to the fugitive slave claimant-a falsehood that in any decent court would have vitiated the arrest,-and then tried, as you know, behind bayonets, and our Supreme Court crawling under a chain to its own room-Mr. Joel Parker says of that week, of the efforts of Charles G. Loring to make the Supreme Court issue its habeas corpus, of the unanswered and unanswerable argument of Robert Rantoul for the same purpose, he says ï¿½it was an amusing week.ï¿½ It is the only phrase he has for that black week-it was an amusing week!
But even he, in all his argument, has no basis for his objection to the Personal Liberty Law, except the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Bill. Now, on that should I say too much when I stand in front of Charles Sumner and Horace Mann and Robert Rantoul and Charles G. Loring, and Franklin Dexter,-the glories of the Suffolk Bar,-and two-thirds of the profession throughout the Free States-should I say too much if I said that no man whose voice was not angered by disappointment, corrupted by politics, or choked by bribes, ever held it constitutional?
But, putting that aside, gentlemen, look at the provision itself. Here it is. The man who is arrested as a fugitive slave shall have a right to trial by jury. How can a man be arrested as a fugitive slave? He can be arrested in three ways; first, the slave-hunter can come to the streets of Boston, and take him, as he would a stray horse, without warrant or officer, or asking leave or aid of any court. The Prigg case, and all the decisions say he may come, and take him where he can find him, put him in a carriage, and drive him out of the Commonwealth, and need not apply to anybody. That is the first method of arrest, undenied on all sides.
Now, as Mr. Charles G. Loring says, (I am using his argument, as well as that of others,) if a man does that, of course the Supreme Court of Massachusetts has a right to issue its habeas corpus. There is no lawyer, anywhere, that denies it. This right of manucaption, as it is called, seizing fugitive slaves as one does stray cattle, comes from the common law, and is wholly independent of statutes. Whoever avails himself of it is liable to the writ of habeas corpus; and the slave so arrested may have trial by jury. About this there is no dispute. So far our Personal Liberty Bill is undoubtedly and unquestionably constitutional. But do slave-hunters often avail themselves of this right? In two-thirds of the cases. It is the existence of such a right that makes the kidnapping of negroes so easy and common.
This, then, is one case in which the law is undoubtedly constitutional,-if a man comes, puts his hand upon a slave, and, without appealing to anybody, tries to take him out of the State. It has been done in our harbor, four times, to my knowledge. It was done in the harbor of Cape Cod-you know it-the man carried the supposed slave away; and the parties indicted for assisting him were acquitted for want of jurisdiction. I know a case where the captain of a schooner from North Carolina, at our South Boston wharf, was keeping a black man in the hold of his vessel until he could get word to Boston, where there was a power of attorney for him (which had been sent on by mail) to act as the agent of the master; and had we not heard of it, and got on board the schooner, and taken him off, the man would never have touched
<c04>
Massachusetts soil, though he floated in Massachusetts water. Suppose the captain of that vessel had stood at the gangway and refused us entrance, would there have been no use in having Judge Bigelow's writ allowing us to go on board, and see who this captain was, and who was the man whom he was taking the responsibility of carrying back to North Carolina? We have had several of these cases in the harbor of Boston, and I regret to say that, in a majority of them, the black man has been carried back without the possibility of interference. 
Then there is the second method of arrest. Suppose man seizes his slave, with intent to carry him before a Commissioner. In another case, where a black man was rescued, I rejoice to say, by the interference of friends, the captain had got him in the hold of his vessel, and had sent to Mr. Hallett, for the purpose of having the papers prepared, for carring him away. But Mr. Hallett could not be found, and he was obliged to wait some twenty-four hours. Suppose that, during that time, or while the man was being carried up from the wharf, while there was neither warrant nor other process under the Fugitive Slave Bill, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court had issued this writ, would he not have had a right to do so? Perfectly legal. Our statute, therefore, is undoubtedly and unquestionably constitutional in these two cases-and they apply largely. 
A man cannot always get his papers before he finds his slave. He finds the man first, and gets him into safe custody. Usually, he bribes a policeman to arrest the fugitive as a thief, and hold him on that charge until the papers are properly certified; and I am glad to say that we have made this infamy of acting under the Fugitive Slave Bill so intolerable, that in some cases the master has to run from one Commissioner to another, for a long time, before he finds one ready to serve. During that long interval, (I hope the growing indignation of the community will make it longer and longer,) the provisions of our (Liberty Law apply, and are in no conflict with the Constitution or the Fugitive Slave Bill.
We come now to still another case-the third method of getting fugitives back. The master has got the slave into the hands of Commissioner Curtis, and has obtained a certificate. You say. ï¿½Well, it is all done; there is the man, and there is the certificate.ï¿½ How do you know it is finished? Are you sure the certificate is regular? It is a hideous statute. It will take its place above the code of Draco. It makes Jeffries a decent man in comparison. It says this certificate-of course, meaning this certificate, if regular-is unappealable; you cannot touch it; it is conclusive and final. But His Excellency has told you, in his address, that he knows of one case in Boston, in which the person claimed was sent back where the warrant against him did not purport to be issued by the proper officer. Suppose the Supreme Court had issued its habeas, and the Marshal had laid his papers on the desk of the Judges, and they had said-ï¿½Mr. Marshal, you meant to get a certificate, but you have not got one; let that man goï¿½-is not that legal? Such cases are not rare. One of the first cases before the infamous Judge Grier in Philadelphia was so blunderingly conducted, that even Grier had to send the claimant out of court, and took the opportunity of instructing such hounds how to proceed in future. In Cincinnati, a Marshal persevered in arresting a fugitive on a warrant which a State Judge had just declared illegal; and in Buffalo, Judge Conk-ling, of the United States Court, discharged a man whom a Commissioner had surrendered, probably on this ground.
Again, gentlemen, there are many cases where we need to construe a law. And here I come to a point to which I ask the particular attention of the Committee. How do we ever curb statutes? By getting them construed. Under our doctrine of precedents, that is the only sheet-anchor of justice. When there comes a bad judicial precedent, as Gibbon says in his history, ï¿½the ingenuity of humane men is employed beneficially in undermining wicked laws.ï¿½ The whole history of the English government is a history of that undermining, if they could not directly contest, decisions. Here sits the man [SAMUEL E. SEWALL, Esq.] whose fame as a lawyer I would rather have than that of ten Chief Justices, for one single fact, and that is this. For fifty years in this Commonwealth, we so carelessly scrutinized the Constitution and that fugitive-slave clause, that whether a man had escaped or was brought to Boston, it did not matter; the District Court returned him all the same. Nobody put on his spectacles of humanity, and proved that the law said ï¿½escaped,ï¿½ not ï¿½being brought into.ï¿½ My friend Mr. Sewall, in opposition to the whole bar of Suffolk, started the point that the word ï¿½escapingï¿½ had a loophole large enough to save every slave that was brought into the Commonwealth. In the first case, I believe, the Court refused to sanction his distinction. But the Med case came very soon. By Mr. SEWALL'S side there stood ELLIS GRAY LORING, who almost at the same moment had adopted the idea, and sustained it with rare ability. And in defiance of the profession, and the first impression of the Bench itself, they carried their point, and established the Somerset case of Massachusetts-the Med case-Commonwealth vs. Aves. Who does not generously envy a man the look back upon such a life! That is one instance of an attempt to scrutinize laws, and oblige Courts to construe them.
To the same legal sagacity and sleepless vigilance, we owe another humane decision. Slaveholders were wont to bring here young slaves to wait on them, and in such cases the holders claimed that as quasi guardians they could carry the slaves back, the children themselves being too young to make their election between staying here and returning South. But, on argument, our Court held that Massachusetts, considering such children too young to make so momentous a choice, would keep them here under guardianship until, full-grown, they were fit to decide so great a question. Here is another instance of beneficent construction.
Let me mention yet another. My friend, (I am proud to call him so,) JAMES C. ALVORD, in the report to which I have referred, in 1837, makes an argument to show that no State officer has a right, or is bound, at any rate, to act under the statute of 1793. New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania had held the same argument. It remained in that unsettled state,-every body saying, ï¿½You can never change the statute of '93; Congress will not act; the Courts will not act; Do you know, gentlemen, that statute never got a judicial construction until the Prigg case, in 1842? It floated carelessly, and never went up to the Bench until fifty years after its enactment. The moment we got a case before the Supreme Court, they endorsed the argument of Mr. ALVORD. They held, a State officer is not bound to act; and some of the judges said he cannot act. We had conquered our point; the gain was great. You see there would sometimes be only two judges authorized to act in the whole State, and the slave-hunter could not find them. His slave might be in Newburyport, and he must go a hundred miles to get an officer to help him. It was an immense gain. The Supreme Court cut off all the facilities that the master had in calling upon State officers to assist him; and when Judge Story came home with that decision,-I called it infamous then, as I call it now,-infamous enough to dim a reputation ten times as bright as that of Judge Story,-when he came here, he called it on this account ï¿½the safeguard of the fugitive slave.ï¿½
Now, just what the Abolitionists did with that statute of 93, just what my friend [Mr. SEWALL] did with the careless legislation of Massachusetts, which returned slaves brought here, as escaping fugitives, we want to do now. We want the opportunity of carrying up to the Supreme Court of the United States these doubtful questions. We want the opportunity of making the Supreme Court define itself; of appealing from the ignorant, hasty, heedless decisions of a slave Commissioner to the judicial Bench. Such an opportunity these sections of our Liberty Law give us. Without such a law, no matter how clear a law point may be-no matter how universal the opinion of lawyers that a fit judge would give relief in the case supposed, the Commissionerï¿½s certificate is final, and admits
<c05>
no appeal. Let me illustrate my meaning, gentlemen. In doing so, I will suppose first a case which brings to my mind the saddest feature of the Prigg case. The saddest feature,-and that is saying a great deal, for no man who loved Judge Story, or wished to respect our Supreme Bench, could ever read that case without tears,-the saddest feature is one I noticed publicly years ago, and, so far as I know, RICHARD HILDRETH is the only one who has touched on it beside. By a decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the 2d of Sargeant and Rawle, 305, it was held that any child born of a fugitive slave in Pennsylvania, more than a year after the coming of the mother into the State, was free;-that if a fugitive slave was permitted,, by the laches, by the indifference of the master, to remain in the State, and a child was born to her after the lapse of a year, that child was a native of Pennsylvania; it never escaped from slavery, and therefore could not be returned. This Mr. Prigg took back Margaret Morgan, and two or three children, one of whom, it appeared by the statement of facts in the case, was born over a year after the escape of the mother into Pennsylvania; but you may read through the decisions of those seven judges-each one giving an opinion-and you will not find one word that alludes to that child! She is given up as though she were a piece of waste paper, not worth considering. No judge referred enough to the decisions of Pennsylvania to even detect or set aside this principle. They never thought it worth while to try to see if the child could not be saved, nor even to notice it. She was given up unregarded like her mother's shawl or shoes. Not one of the judges of the United States Court, through the whole of these lengthened decisions, deemed the principle worth a line-not worth a word! 
Now, gentlemen, I have here, among the very few cases I have collected, one where the slave had been a fugitive twenty-two years; another nineteen years; another sixteen years; another fourteen years; and another ten. In one case, the slave had two children; another had six. Now, suppose such a case in Massachusetts. Suppose a master lets his slave woman come here and live twenty years, and she has a family of children. Then Mr. George T. Curtis signs his certificate, and the mother and all her children are given up-as was done in a case tried before Judge Kane, in Philadelphia-with no line of the Supreme Court to authorize their being surrendered-do you mean to say that our Supreme Court may not issue the habeas corpus, and say to the Supreme Court of the United States, ï¿½This point is worth arguing; we want to know whether you really hold to that.ï¿½ There is this overlooked point of the children born in a free State by the laches of the master. Is not that worth arguing? We claim of you, the Legislature of Massachusetts, that you give us the means of carrying up that point. Ought you not to give it to us? Probably there are hundreds of such children of fugitive slave women in New England. Are they not worth an effort to save them, natives of New England?
Again, as my friend Mr. Bart has said, there is the Med case. That case, which decided that a slave brought here was free, places Shaw's name by the side of Mansfield. So legislate that we may still further use it to curb the Fugitive Slave Bill, and its worth shall dazzle us blind to that slave-chain under which Judge Shaw once stooped to enter his own Court. That girl resides in this Commonwealth. Suppose George T. Curtis should receive an affidavit from Alabama or Mississippi of ownership; an affidavit of escape-with their view of the law that can be made technically; proof of identity-that is easy; and he issues his certificate authorizing the claimant to take her from the city of Boston. ï¿½She was mine in 1834,ï¿½ says the certificate; ï¿½she left Mississippi; I can show you that she is the identical person.ï¿½ ï¿½Yes; take her,ï¿½ says the slave-hound Commissioner. Med takes the certificate, carries it before the Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and says, ï¿½On your record, it is shown that I was brought here; I did not escape. That certificate, formal as it is, is a lie, according to Massachusetts.ï¿½ Has not Massachusetts a right to say-ï¿½This is a hard statute; and, in 1858, the Supreme Court have said, generally, that it is constitutional; but here is a new point; we would like to know whether they mean to carry it to this extent; perhaps they do not; it is worth arguing.ï¿½
What did Massachusetts do when grass grew in State street, under the embargo? The Supreme Court deemed it constitutional. She sent Sam Dexter to argue it. He argued it, was defeated, and we sat down to become bankrupt. But we were not going to be bankrupt until we had argued the question. Neither are we going to surrender Med until we have a chance to argue the point.
Do not say I am supposing impossible, or even improbable cases. Slaves free by law, in consequence of being brought into free States, have been claimed and surrendered in several instances-once in Cincinnati, twice in Pennsylvania. 
Again, when Anson Burlingame was in this Legislature, four of your citizens were taken but of a vessel in one of the ports of Texas, and sold as slaves, to pay their jail fees. You will find the case stated in the Resolves of 1852; but I have no knowledge that anything was ever done for them; certainly, the men were not redeemed. Suppose that one of them should escape, and could show that he was born free, and under a law that nobody can say is constitutional, was sold in Texas. Do not say, now, I am supposing a case. I can cite you this very case in Delaware. It is a very striking one. The first that was known of him, he was heard calling for help from the guards of the steamboat, on which he had made his escape from Savannah. On looking over the bows, he was seen, and drawn on board. He had been holding on to the ropes for several days, the water frequently sweeping over him. The provisions in his pocket were saturated with salt water, and dissolved to a pulp. This was in Delaware Bay. The captain ordered the vessel to be put into Newcastle, where the man was lodged in jail. He claimed to be a freeman, born in Philadelphia; and, brought even before a Delaware Judge, his claim was established, his freedom fully proved, and he was set free. That very man was rearrested, under the Fugitive Slave Law, and surrendered by Commissioner Guthrie, and is now in the slave States. It appears he went from Philadelphia to Maryland to reside, contrary to the law of that State, was fined for the offence, and being unable to pay the fine, was sold as a slave for life! and on this showing the Commissioner sent him to Georgia, where he had been sold. Now, suppose that very case occurred in regard to one of our stewards from Texas-will you say that you do not want to keep in your statute-book the means of framing a question to be carried up to the Supreme Court, for its decision?
Then there is the case of a mistake of form. I referred, a moment ago, to one case of that character, mentioned by His Excellency in his Address. Suppose a certificate is not regular; and that is a case that has actually occurred, not only in the case cited by Gov. Andrew, as occurring in this Commonwealth, but in another case, in Ohio. A U. S. Marshal actually produced a certificate that was not regular; a State Judge set it aside as irregular. The Marshal arrested the man a second time on the same certificate, in defiance of the State authority; and I am ashamed to say that Judge McLean, when the Marshal was brought before him, on a claim for damages by the State authority, for defying the State, set him free. He actually defied the Judge on the bench who had noticed the mistake of form. Now, sir, in a case of that kind, is not the Supreme Court to issue its writ, and look into the papers, and see if they are correct? That is all. The habeas corpus should be kept alive for that purpose, if for no other.
Another case. When Anthony Burns was here, he was under a lease for a year. The year had not expired. The question was, whether his master or the temporary lessee had the right of claim. This is a nice question, I admit, but we want it settled. It is a nice question; but in that finest specimen of judicial eloquence, when Mortimer claimed his peerage, the Judge said, ï¿½In a case like this, of ancestral honors,
<c06>
I will take hold of a twig or a twine thread to uphold it.ï¿½ Will you not take hold even of the slightest twig for God's immortal soul? I know it is a difficult, a nice question, but it is one that was raised; and if Edward Greeley Loring had been a Judge, and not a Commissioner, he would have allowed us to argue it.
Again: the United States Constitution says, ï¿½Any person held to service or labor in any State, under the laws thereof.ï¿½ Mark you, ï¿½in any STATE.ï¿½ The Supreme Court of the United States has ruled that the District of Columbia is not a State.
Now, as the District is not a State, if a slave escapes from the District, he does not escape from a State, and, consequently, he cannot be recovered. The Fugitive Slave Bill, in spite of this decision, says, ï¿½Any person held to service or labor in any State or Territory, or in the District,ï¿½ &c. Is that constitutional? It has never yet been so decided. Shall we of the free States surrender so large and base a privilege without argument? Hold on to your Liberty Bill, which alone affords us the chance.
I am not dealing in technicalities, Mr. Chairman. When Judge Story came home from giving that decision in the Prigg case, in Charles Sumnerï¿½s office, Mr. Sumner (he told me the anecdote the next week) said to him, ï¿½How could you rule the act of 93 constitutional, when it does not give us the jury trial!ï¿½ Said the Judge, ï¿½That point was not raised in the argument; or, if it was, it was not treated at any length. I should like to hear argument on that point. If another case arises, I hope it will be elaborately presented.ï¿½ Mr. Sumner made that statement to me the week after, as I have said; and you will find it preserved in Judge Storyï¿½s Life, by his son. In the same spirit, we say that this decision in the case of Ableman vs. Booth, is a general decision. We want to preserve the mere power of narrowing that decision. It is the honorable policy of the State. Every atom of the bond, but not a hairï¿½s breadth beyond it!
Take another point. I have in this book cases of slaves who have escaped twenty two years, nineteen, sixteen, fourteen, ten years. Why, gentlemen, if you let a piece of land in the city of Boston alone twenty years, you lose your title. If you let a note of hand alone six years, you lose your title. How long does slavery hold on to a man? Does time never bar it! Is there a principle of law which holds that titles are quiet for land after twenty years, and for a note of hand after six years, and no principle that quiets the title to a man? Are all the principle of the law to be sacrificed? We will not believe it till after further struggles.
In 1428, that law of Edward the Confessor, which made all fugitive slaves free who had resided one year and one day in London, unclaimed by their masters, was solemnly confirmed and extended to all cities, walled boroughs and castles in the realm. From that privilege, long enjoyed, London took the name of the ï¿½Free Chamber of the King.ï¿½ Shall we, in the nineteenth century, admit no such principle as the Confessor established? Let a slave stay, unclaimed, twenty years, and still retain your merciless rights over him! This is a serious question of what the law calls laches-neglect. The law holds to the quieting of titles. Let us claim that element of it now.
Do not say, gentlemen, they are merely technical points. Suppose a man resides in Billerica twenty years, marries, and has children. He is a day laborer, and earns his six dollars a week. Of course, he does not lay up anything. Slavery swoops him up, and his children come upon the town. Has not Billerica something to say against the right of a master to let his slave live in the town twenty years, burden it with a family, and still have the right to come and take him?
Here is a man who escaped sixteen years ago. Suppose I have employed him as a mechanic. There is such a man in this very hall, a carpenter-a master workman. Suppose I have employed him; he is in my debt; he has insured his life; I know if he lives he will pay me. I do not know he is a fugitive. I am not bound to know it. He has lived in my street ten years. Slavery comes and takes him, and my debt with him. Have I no claim for laches? He has been mixed up with the affairs of a town many years, and become possessed of the knowledge of facts vital to some suit of mine. On his testimony may turn some claim of mine to thousands of dollars. I found him an intelligent and faithful neighbor. I was not bound to know, could not know he was a fugitive. His master, whose neglect has brought me into this position of trusting him, carries him away. Have we no right to claim that this neglect of years, perilling thus our interests, forfeits the masterï¿½s rights? May not the point be raised? He has married. Having established a good character by years of diligence, he marries. Has the slaveholder such an unlimited right that he may make this wife-guilty of no neglect or imprudence in forming the relation-a widow? The slaveholder has been neglectful; she has not. Suppose we grant so horrid a supposition-absurdity-as that, legally, their rights, wifeï¿½s and slaveholderï¿½s are equal-which shall give way? Of course, he who has been guilty of laches. May we not raise the question? There are a thousand questions that can be raised. He has committed crime; he murdered my brother, or set fire to my house. He is in the State Prison. Can the master take him out, or can Massachusetts hold him? Shall George T. Curtis override the criminal law of Massachusetts, or shall he not? We want to put the question to Mr. Chief Justice Taney. You know, gentlemen, there was never a statute drawn that you could not drive the Worcester rail-train through it. How do we curb a statute? Why, by putting somebody forward who is able to raise these questions.
You may say, this is claiming a great deal. We mean to claim a great deal-every thing that can possibly be gotten. I need not go further. I might cover half a dozen other points. I know slaves who have fled here, and then bought themselves. Some, meaning never to venture within a slave State, do not trouble themselves to comply with slave laws, and have their free papers certified and recorded in their county courts. Of such a man an unprincipled slave-holder might bring all the evidence of ownership, escape and identity before a Commissioner-there is no evidence existing which he is bound, which indeed he is authorized to notice-and such a man must be taken back.
Another case. I am telling you cases that have actually occurred-here is another. George, a negro man, was arrested in Washington, Indiana, and claimed by a Mr. Rice, of Kentucky, as his slave. Judge Clemens ordered his surrender under the Fugitive Slave Act. It was done, and Mr. Rice took him to Louisville, and there sold him to a slave-trader, who took him to Memphis, Tennessee. Here a man from Mississippi saw him, and said, ï¿½This is my slave; he is not Mr. Riceï¿½sï¿½; brought the case before a court, and got him. Now, suppose before Mr. Rice left Washington, Indiana, with the certificate of the Judge, George had escaped and come to Massachusetts, and his claimant had followed and recaptured him, and the Mississippi man had seen him here, and said, ï¿½This is not your slave; he is mine.ï¿½ Mr. George T. Curtis might say, ï¿½He is not; you cannot prove title to him.ï¿½ He says, ï¿½He is; I owned him in Mississippi, and he escaped from me there.ï¿½ If a negro is to be enslaved, he may much prefer one master to another. Why hurry him to Texas at a dayï¿½s notice, when he really belongs to Maryland? Let him have chance to get to his real home, if it must be a slave one. In the conflict he may save his liberty. I know it is very improbable; but Judge Taney will die sometime, his Court will be reorganized, and we may get a decision that would do honor to Lord Holt or Lord Mansfield. My friend has alluded to the Sumerset case, in England. Granville Sharpe worked ten years, in opposition to the whole bench and bar of England, before he subdued Lord Mansfield; but finally he came over to the opinion of the war-office clerk, Granville Sharpe, and immortalized himself by a decision that Granville Sharpe taught him.
I know slavery owns a great deal, but she does not own the State House; she cannot absolutely clean out the Commonwealth. There must
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
be a pause somewhere-we only want to find out where it is. Therefore, I propose, in regard to this habeas corpus, even in regard to the man who has got George T. Curtis’s certificate, that with it the Supreme Court shall have the right to raise questions that cannot be raised otherwise. We waited until 1842 before we could get the question properly before the Supreme Court on that law of '93. This is the machinery to do it. Massachusetts has pledged herself for sixty years to just this class of legislation. You may think this is interfering with constitutional rights; but seeking to know and define one’s legal rights is not disloyalty to the Constitution. To try suits on doubtful points is not unconstitutional. It is what the profession exists for. It is the only thing that justifies such a nuisance.
Whence came the famous Dred Scott case, gentlemen? The South made it up to settle the question of slavery in the Territories. What is the history of the well-known Lemmon case now pending? Mr. Lemmon, of Virginia, brought his slaves into the free State of New York. Judge Paine held them emancipated. Now the State of Virginia retains Mr. O'Conor, the head of the New York Bar, to contest the point, and is carrying it up through all its stages to the last appeal. Has not Massachusetts the same right? May she not do for liberty what Virginia does for slavery? Mr. Chairman, this is all we are asking you to do. What we want is, to save the opportunity of testing such questions as I have specified. If the arrest is made without a warrant, the habeas corpus is clearly constitutional. If with a warrant, even after a certificate, I have suggested a dozen cases where Massachusetts might legally and loyally bring a case before the Supreme Court, and have them construe the law. It is a new law as yet; and if we are going to compromise-if, as Mr. George T. Curtis would have us, we are to yield up every thing to South Carolina, and to exist hereafter as a dependency of that slaveholding dynasty and despotism-let us at least provide the materials to know how heavy the chains are, and how they hang.
Who asks us to repeal this law? They say South Carolina asks it. If she does, I can only say, it used to be a principle, "When you ask equity, you must do equity. You must come into Court with clean hands." At this very moment, South Carolina has her statute-book covered with unconstitutional laws about our seamen. South Carolina complain of our Personal Liberty Bill! I undertake to say that the merchants of Boston have paid, in the harbor of Charleston, more unconstitutional jail fees than would buy all the slaves that ever escaped from South Carolina. South Carolina ask YOU to change your statute-book! I would like to see one member of this Legislature trust his person in the State of South Carolina to-day-one of them! Vote even for the repeal of this statute, take a certificate from Governor Andrew that you voted for it, with the broad seal of the State on it, go down there, and you will never come back-never-if they only know that you come from Massachusetts! And such is the State that comes into our High Court of Judicature, and asks you to repeal this Personal Liberty Bill!
After all, the objections to this Personal Liberty Bill as unconstitutional are based on the idea that you hold the Fugitive Slave Bill constitutional. If you do not, there is no need of a word of answer. If you do not, it is a hideous monster, which you are bound to have every possible weapon in your armory ready to resists. This machinery you are bound to provide for the protection of the fugitive on your soil. You must not say, Possibly the United States may interpose. We do not want possibilities; we are not bound to wait for the U. S. Government; Massachusetts, our own State, is bound herself to furnish means adequate to the protection of all on her soil. She may not trust that some other government will do it, and so herself omit it.
Then, gentlemen, who says the Fugitive Slave Bill is constitutional? Massachusetts solemnly says it is not. Who says it is? Well, the forefront of the argument is borne by a Professor at Cambridge. It seems a former Legislature refused to pay a large bill of his, and, in consequence, he took that side of the argument. By his side stand who? Nobody who could have an office in Massachusetts to-day;-no, not one. Who stands on the other side? Every great name of which we are proud. You may repeal this law, but unless you shovel Massachusetts into the ocean, you cannot keep it repealed. It has been on the statute-book ever since 1784; it will go back there when you leave these halls. It cannot be hindered. It is not a momentary spasm. It is the inbred and imbedded purpose of the Commonwealth.
Who says that this law should be repealed? Republicans? How do you sit here, gentlemen? You sit here under an oath to the Constitution of the United States. Does one of you mean to obey that Fugitive Slave Bill? You are going to change that statute-book at the bidding of the Fugitive Slave Bill. Do you mean to obey it yourselves? Mr. Joel Parker, who thought the Simms case "amusing"-says, after he has finished his argument on the constitutionality of that Bill, if a man should ask him to aid in enforcing it,-what? He won’t do it! Every man in this Legislature, Mr. Chairman, will say the same-you know it. Why will you say the same? Because you think the law good? You will say the same for one of two reasons: either because, like Charles Sumner, you do not believe there is a fugitive slave clause in the Constitution-some of you take that position-and if there is no fugitive slave clause, there is no Fugitive Slave Bill; or because, though admitting that the Courts declare it constitutional, personally you will never obey it. Those of you who take the first position, who say, "We came up here and swore to support the Constitution, believing that there is no fugitive slave clause"-by what right do you repeal that law-our only barrier against infamous usurpation? One half of you say that. The other half say-"The Courts say it is constitutional, and we cannot actually wipe it out, but personally we will never obey it." Then we claim of you, if personally you are ashamed to obey it, that, legislating, you shall give every kind of machinery possible under the Constitution to curb it, to make it as inoffensive as possible, to test it again and again, to carry it up again and again. What did the South do on the question of banks? They carried it up again and again, until they got the Supreme Court on their side.
One word more. The only other section of our Personal Liberty Law which is objected to is that which provides that if the party arrested as a fugitive slave is found not to be a slave, the person or persons arresting him shall be punished. Judge Thomas says that, perhaps, ought to be qualified, so as to read that if done dishonestly, it is criminal-still he does not think the clause unconstitutional. Mr. Loring does not think any change necessary; the word "pretence" is sufficient, to meet Judge Thomas’s objection. But look at it, Mr. Chairman. Men in our harbor are not bound to assist a master in arresting his fugitive; they do it for money. He usually bribes a policeman to take off his star, or a constable to drop his special character, and get possession of the man somehow, and then bribes the rowdies of North street to come up and guard him. Or he goes down the harbor, and bribes a captain not to tell that a slave is on board his ship, and to carry him back without letting any one know. Within the sound of my voice lives a ship-owner (John H. Pearson) who kept an alleged fugitive in his ship several days, and sent him back without letting any one inquire whether he was a fugitive slave or not. Now, the law says-what? "Mr. Pearson, if you take that responsibility, you do it at your peril. If you defy the law of the Commonwealth, and hide a man in the hold of your ship, and undertake to settle whether he is a slave or not, you do it at your peril. If it turns out, by any providential good fortune, that it can be proved that the negro was not a slave, you shall suffer for it. You were not bound to keep him there. You might have set him in the streets of Boston, and let the law deal with him." Massachusetts says to those ship-owners who volunteer to become kidnappers, "If you choose to keep a black man, by violence, in the hold of your ship, you take the responsibility. If it turns out h
<c02>
was not a slave, you shall be punished. Nobody asks you to take the responsibility." Is not this fair? It is a horrible thing. It is taking a man whom Massachusetts holds to be free, and dooming him to slavery. That is worse than death. Whoever volunteers, with indecent haste, to make a man a slave, surely Massachusetts may say to him, "Sir, do it! take the responsibility! But if you do it, recollect this, that in 1784, seventy-five years ago, Massachusetts said, whoever assists in kidnapping a man from Massachusetts goes to the State Prison! She had a right to say it. Three of her citizens had just been kidnapped. She marked it then a crime. The only exception to that crime is the single isolated limit of the Fugitive Slave Bill. Mind you, that you get your feet on to it. It is on your own responsibility. Put your feet on that 'marl' of hell, for if you do not, Massachusetts sends you to the State Prison." Has she not a right to say it? Is she not bound to say it? Nobody asks him to help-nothing but money. When a deed except in one single case is crime, when a man is not called or bound to do it, and when without due inquiry he hurries forward to volunteer it, the law may infer malice. More especially when the act is one in its nature base, one which every honorable, right-minded man spurns, one that inflicts endless woe on its victim. To go forward to such an act without absolute knowledge, is proof of that crassa negligentia which proves malice. 
That is why I would keep that provision in the Law. It is to warn men whose hearts are cankered with gold, who would do anything for a dollar, that if they undertake to send a man into slavery, they must walk on the line-like the silken thread that, in Mahomet's fable, carries the believer safe over hell-they must walk on the line of the Fugitive Slave Bill; if they lose their foothold on that single thread, Massachusetts bids them beware of the State Prison.
I am sorry, Mr. Chairman, to have taken so much of your time; but we spent weeks and months to put that law of '43 on the statute-book. Forty thousand petitioners, if I remember right, asked for it. You are asked to repeal what has been the avowed purpose of the State for seventeen years, and its policy for seventy-five years. We have spent hours, years, life, in making Massachusetts stereotype that intention on her statute-book; at least, we have a right to remonstrate; at least, we have a right to say to our Legislature, Consider, before you undo what seventeen Legislatures have said was legal, and that they wished it done! You may repeal it, gentlemen; you may offer that holocaust to South Carolina; but, as Pascal said, when Louis XIV. thundered at the gates of their monastery, and his comrades offered to compromise their principles-"You may compromise your principles; you will never save the Port Royal." So I say to you, gentlemen, you may disgrace Massachusetts by repealing this bill, but you will never save South Carolina.
[At the commencement of Mr. Phillips's argument, the Chairman of the Committee requested that there should be no demonstrations by the audience; but the feeling of sympathy could not be entirely repressed, and occasionally broke forth in applause, which was at once checked by the Chair. At its conclusion, however, a simultaneous and enthusiastic outburst of applause rang through the hall, testifying to the hearty appreciation of the large audience.]

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1861.
THE LEGISLATURE AND FREE SPEECH.
We had no space, in our last number, to make any comments upon the discussion which took place, on the 25th ult., in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on the resolution so very properly presented to that body by Mr. Fiske, of Shelburne, "That the use of the Representatives' Hall be tendered to the officers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for the purpose of holding a session therein," in consequence of the suppression of their meetings by "a mob of lawless men" and the Mayor of Boston. Though sorely pressed for room, we cannot let that discussion pass, without a word of comment.
The fact in regard to the suppression of the regular anniversary of one of the oldest Societies in this Commonwealth, by Mayor Wightman and the mob, was known to every member of the House, and denied by no one. A fundamental, sacred and constitutional right, without which either despotism or anarchy must be in power, and which is essential to the existence of a republican form of government, was effectually cloven down by official usurpation and a riotous outbreak, thus subjecting the city to the control of a brutal mob. Under these circumstances, the representatives of the people of Massachusetts being fortunately in session in Boston, owed it to their constituents, to themselves, and to those whose rights had been thus trampled in the dust, to offer the use of their hall in the manner proposed by Mr. Fiske. In what spirit was his resolution met? Sixteen members participated in its discussion. Of these, only four spoke in support of it-Messrs. Fiske of Shelburne, Tirrell of Burlington, Brownell of Westport, and Branning of Lee. Mr. Branning said he was not afraid of meeting his constituents, after voting for the order; and, assuredly, he need not be. But even he must sully the nobleness of his act by making the following uncalled-for fling:-"Wendell Phillips and his associates are the only friends Carolina has here to-day. (Laughter and applause.)" The meaning of this is, that the Abolitionists applaud the course pursued by Carolina, and are one with her in spirit and purpose. Nothing can be farther from the truth. While we rejoice, and give thanks to God, at the growing anti-slavery spirit of the North, before which the Slave Power shrinks in terror and wrath, we are at no point in agreement with the conduct or design of any of the seceding States. They have behaved in a most perfidious and treasonable manner, for a most tyrannical and devilish end. The secessionists have proved themselves a band of outlaws and buccaniers, laying their piratical hands upon every fort, arsenal, magazine, revenue cutter, and other U. S. property within their grasp, and halting at the commission of no crime, however abhorrent or incredible. If any men ever deserved to be arraigned and executed for high treason, they are the men. To represent "Mr. Phillips and his associates" as being in affiliation with such traitors is to exhibit consummate ignorance, or the loss of the faculty of moral discrimination. The Abolitionists are animated by the highest religious considerations, as a body, and acting in accordance with the examples of prophets, apostles, and the "martyrs and confessors" of every age. They are the only class in America who are true to the principles they profess, and cannot be induced to compromise them to avoid danger on the one hand, or gain applause on the other. But, to the discussion:-
Mr. Parker, of Worcester, appears to have been greatly exercised in his mind,-that is, for a moment,-in view of the mobocratic treatment of the Anti-Slavery meeting. He exclaimed—
"God save the mark! The Athens of America-as it is called-this capital of the Commonwealth in which the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence had their birth, has refused protection to the citizens of the State, and of the city, when they demanded protection in the exercise of the right of discussing those questions which agitate the country at the present time."
And having made this "rhetorical flourish," the aforesaid Mr. Parker, of Worcester, proceeded to vote down the resolve of Mr. Fisk, as his method of vindicating free speech!-first sagaciously saying of those outraged and unprotected "citizens of the State and of the city,"-"I have not the least sympathy [not the least!] with them. I think the TREASON they preach is as reprehensible as the treason of Toombs and Yancey, with this exception, [!] that their treason is for the sake of freedom, while the treason of Toombs is for the sake of slavery"! Treason for the sake of free-
<c03>
dom is what Hancock and Adams, Washington and Patrick Henry, were guilty of; but with that kind of treason, Mr. Parker has "not the least sympathy"! It is "as reprehensible as the treason of Toombs and Yancey, except-"! How, then, does he read and interpret the first Article of the Constitution of Massachusetts, which he has solemnly sworn to maintain? That contains all the abolition "treason" to be found in the United States. Mr. P. is a whiffler, and a-Republican! 
Mr. Smith, of Boston, instead of meeting the simple issue presented as to the right of free discussion in Massachusetts, with owl-like gravity and most lugubrious tone said-"The question now is"-it was not the question at all!-"whether this flag of our country shall wave over our heads as citizens of America, or whether we shall become a broken and dissevered nation! It is a serious question! It is a solemn question!" Very serious and very solemn, Mr. Smith! But it is a question needing no answer, as yet, in Massachusetts; for she unfurls no other flag as the ensign of her loyalty to the Union. Go to South Carolina, Mr. Smith, and there propound your "serious" and "solemn" question, if you dare! Take the star-spangled banner for your protection; and the chivalric Carolinians will smother you in its folds, or hang you to the first lamp-post! For, to-day, no man in that State-slaveholder or non-slaveholder, native or foreign-can raise that banner to the breeze, and vow allegiance to it, except at the peril of his life. Carolina has put that banner beneath her feet-has fired upon it as though it were a piratical signal, and driven it with impunity from her waters-and grows frantic with rage every glance she bestows upon Fort Sumter, where it still mocks her treasonable prowess, and for the conquest of which she is "moving hell from beneath." What have you said of such conduct, Mr. Smith, either as citizen or representative? You, too, are a-Republican! Great excitement, you tell us, exists throughout the South; and, in view of it, you "submit to the candid judgment of the House whether we shall invite this Society to occupy our hall." It will give offence to the South! When was it ever asked in any Southern legislature, whether Massachusetts was excited? When did the South ever care to inquire how its action would be regarded by the North? Read the following compliment from the Charleston Mercury:-"Eighty short years have converted THE PEOPLE OF THE NORTH into one vast mob-a ranting, reckless, lawless mob-shrieking for liberty amidst blood, and freedom in plunder." Considerate-is it not? You cower under the lash of the Southern overseers, Mr. Smith, and are better qualified to be a plantation slave than a Massachusetts legislator. You "believe it is the right of every man in this country-the right of every slave-that the Union shall be kept together." It is not for you to speak for the slave. Please ask the South to allow her slave population to decide that question for themselves! Your belief is equally foolish and impertinent. Forty thousand fugitive slaves in Canada prove this. Every slave feels the pressure of the Union upon him like an avalanche. What sense, then, is there in your declaration that he has "a right to it"? A right to be involuntarily and hopelessly crushed! 
Mr. Calhoun, of Springfield, "upon his conscience believed they should do wrong if they granted the hall." A very remarkable conscience this! "They should do nothing to put in jeopardy their honor and consistency"! That is to say, it would be most inconsistent and dishonorable for the State, in its legislative capacity, to protect or vindicate the rights of its citizens, after they had been brutally violated in the metropolis! The constituents of Mr. Calhoun, and the whole western portion of the Commonwealth, will please make a note of this. 
Mr. Sears, of Boston, saw terrible consequences involved in granting the hall. "To pass an order like this," he said, "in the present crisis of affairs, would be certain to settle at once and forever all attempts to adjust our national affairs"! What a derisive cachination would break forth in all the seceding States on hearing such a ridiculous declaration! "It is proposed," he continued, "to open this hall to men who proclaim doctrines that are treasonable-who proclaim their sympathy with disunion-who sanction invasions of other States." Three falsehoods in one breath! Our doctrines are the self-evident truths of the Declaration of Independence, and the Bill of Rights of Massachusetts-nothing more. We have no sympathy with Southern disunionists. We have never sanctioned the invasion of other States. Again:-"The passage of such a resolve," he said, “would make civil war sure, (!) and upon the members of the Legislature would rest a fearful responsibility!" The poor man is beside himself with terror of his owners and overseers at the South. So, free speech must lie still under the heels of Boston mobocrats! 
Mr. George T. Davis, of Greenfield, moved the indefinite postponement of the resolve! Mr. Davis has been particularly anxious, at the present session, on various occasions, to show his downward tendency, and degeneracy in relation to the cause of freedom. Formerly a Vice President of this same Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, year after year, he can now sec it deprived of all legal protection in Boston, without a word of censure or sympathy. 
Mr. Wightman, of Chelmsford, (a relative of Mayor W., we presume-at least, evidently of the same stripe,) said that "until Boston asked for the assistance of the State, he was willing to believe she could get along without it." What had the resolution to do with offering assistance to Boston? It simply proposed to offer the Representatives' Hall, for one evening, to a Society unlawfully denied a meeting in the city-a Society, moreover, that for a series of years held its anniversary in the same Hall by vote of the House, whether Whig or Democratic! Mr. W. was in favor of free speech, to be sure, but "there are limits to freedom"-and those terminate just where the sentiments of others, who are quite as enlightened, conscientious and patriotic as himself, are in conflict with his own! Out of such notions of freedom proceed all forms of despotism; and so Mr. W. readily concludes that "it is the duty (!) of the chief magistrate of the city to prevent such a meeting." What better is he in spirit, in this particular, than the rowdies who led to the suppression of the meeting alluded to? "Did the Speaker of the House," he asked, "desire that a man should stand in his place to say that the Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell?" A very silly question indeed-as if the "desire" of the Speaker was to determine what might or might not be properly said by others, or could justly measure the limit of freedom of discussion! As if the House ever regarded itself as responsible for any of the sentiments expressed at any of the multitudinous meetings held in that hall by its permission! As if it is not the moral and legal right of every citizen to examine, criticise, and condemn to any extent, whether on the ground of principle or policy, the Constitutions both of the State and nation! As if believing-and not only believing, but demonstrating-that a certain instrument contains wicked and oppressive stipulations, it becomes a crime to pronounce it "a covenant with death"! Not to do so is criminal.
Mr. Parker, of Worcester, again took the floor to say, with palpitating heart, that he believed the mob which had assailed the Tremont Temple would not be afraid to attack the State House!! "His sympathies were strongly in favor of the order, but he feared in case of its adoption"!! In this he was sustained by Mr. Tyler, of Boston, who said, if the hall should be granted, "he would advise the talented artist whose busts were exhibited below, not to leave them for the inspection of the crowd who would come"!! What, are personal rights compared with plaster busts? And so the Commonwealth must succumb to a Boston mob as well as the city! Both are at this moment under the feet of lawless ruffians! It was this apprehension that really closed the hall-they feared the State House would be torn down! And these are paid and sworn protectors of the rights and liberties of the people! Is there no guilt of perjury here? Cowards
<c04>
better that the State House be left in ruins, with not one stone upon another, than that the supremacy of a mob should be acknowledged and obeyed by the chosen representatives of the people of Massachusetts! 
The vote stood-Yeas, 69; Nays, 136. All honor to the 69, who have won for themselves a good historic reputation! Shame upon the 136, for their recreancy to the cause of freedom in the trial-hour! 

VERY TERRIBLE.
Alas for the administration of President Lincoln! It was known, long since, that the Slave Power, in seceding from the United States, had determined to make treaties with all the great European courts, which should at once advance their own interests and damage ours. We knew that they had determined, with inexorable rigor, to build up a commerce from their ports which should supersede and destroy ours; and that, as soon as they had completed the trifling preliminary work of shaking off the free States, and establishing a government fit for gentlemen slaveholders to live under, they would proceed utterly to deprive us of that staff of life, cotton, and to look on with smiling superiority while we pined and dwindled away. 
We knew that they were determined to do these things. That, considering the importance of the present crisis, they had decided to set aside these old, timid maxims of conservatism-"it takes two to make a bargain," and "it is bad to reckon without your host,"-and that they had decided what these treaties and these commercial advantages were to be, without troubling the other parties to express an opinion. 
This was bad enough for us of the North. But worse was to come upon us. And now-it has come! 
They are going to use their influence against us, not merely at the European courts, but at the court of Heaven! The President, and Congress, are no longer to be prayed for by the slaveholders! The Right Reverend Stephen Elliot, Bishop of the Diocese of Georgia, has determined to withdraw all the influence which he has heretofore exercised with the Creator in favor of the President and Congress of the United States, and to transfer the whole preponderance of that weight to the scale of Georgia. These are his words, calm but inexorable, published in the Savannah News:— 
ATLANTA, Georgia, Jan. 14, 1861.
To the Clergy in the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of Georgia:
DEAR BRETHREN,-During the session of the Convention of the State of Georgia, you will use the enclosed form of prayer, to follow immediately after the prayer for Congress:
PRAYER.
Almighty and Eternal God, the Supreme Governor of all things, who sitteth on the Throne judging right, and whose power no creature is able to resist; be present, we humbly beseech the, with the Supreme Council of our State, now assembled in thy fear and presence. Save them from all error, ignorance, pride and prejudice; endue them with wisdom, moderation and justice; direct and prosper all their consultations, and overrule all their decrees to thy glory, and the best interests of this Commonwealth. Let nothing be done of strife or vain-glory, but all things in thy fear, and under thy guidance. These supplications we present unto thee, not for our righteousness, but for thy great mercies, in Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. 
In the event of the secession of the State of Georgia from the Union, the clergy will suspend the use of the prayer entitled "A Prayer for Congress;" and in the prayer entitled "A Prayer for the President of the United States and all in Civil Authority," will omit the words, "thy servant, the President of the United States," and substitute in their places the words, "thy servant, the Governor of the State of Georgia." 
In the event of the secession of the State of Georgia from the Union, the clergy will, upon the reassembling of the Legislature of the State, resume the prayer entitled "A Prayer for Congress," altering it so as to read, "most gracious God, we humbly beseech thee, as for the people of this State in general, so especially for their Senate and Representatives in Legislature assembled." 
In the event of war, which God avert! the clergy will introduce into the service a prayer, entitled "A Prayer in time of War and Tumults." 
Given under my hand, this 14th day of January, in the year of our Lord, 1861. 
STEPHEN ELLIOT, Bishop of the Diocese of Georgia.
The conscious power of the Bishop is shown in the greatness of the things that he asks. It is no small thing to request, even of omnipotence, that the powers which now rule in Georgia may be saved "from all error, ignorance, pride and prejudice"! That they, having been, up to this time, such as we have seen, may now be endued "with wisdom, moderation, and justice"! If we give the Bishop credit for sincerity, his faith is certainly of the kind which expects to remove mountains.-C. K. W.

THE HONORABLE [!] LUCIUS SLADE.
Our last week's record (made up from the daily papers) of the proceedings of the anti-abolition mob of Thursday, Jan. 24th, relates that when they were shut out from the Tremont Temple in the evening, the more turbulent portion of them took refuge in the Tremont House bar-room, where various inflammatory speeches were made. The second of these speakers proposed three cheers for "Hon. Lucius Slade and his letter."
If any readers of the Liberator have hitherto failed to sec this letter, it is to be hoped that they will carefully peruse it now, in its appropriate place on the first page. If any have failed to understand the close intimacy, and the directly pernicious results, of our connection with Southern slavery, they will do well to "read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest" this proof of it.
A Senator of Massachusetts, who is also a citizen of Boston, boasts his knowledge of an organization, "a most powerful organization, here," for the purpose of committing unlawful violence. Shortly after the accidental publication of this letter, which appeared in the Journal of Jan. 11th, copied by it from the Georgia paper in which Mr. Slade's correspondent had printed it, a brutal mob in Boston, acting in a manner which indicated pre-arrangement and organization, did the very thing at the Tremont Temple which Mr. Slade's letter had boasted would soon be done, and then gave three cheers for him and his letter!
Is Mr. Slade a member of this conspiracy, as well as cognizant of it? Is not this a suitable case for examination by the Grand Jury? It is bad enough for our Judges to recommend the repeal of laws which have been found needful for the protection of the liberty of our citizens; but if, in addition to this, a member of the higher branch of our legislature can cooperate with "a most powerful organization," secretly established for violent interference with our most precious rights, it is quite time for two things to be done; first, to require this shameless Senator to testify, under oath, respecting the members, and plans, and acts of this organization; and next, if his apparent complicity is proved real, to purge the Senate from his presence by action as prompt and thorough as if he were proved a burglar or a pickpocket-C. K. W.

PRO-SLAVERY MOB AT ANN ARBOR.
Extract of a letter from PARKER PILLSBURY, dated Ann Arbor, (Mich.,) Jan. 30, 1861. 
We had a terrible mob here, on Saturday night-one of the fiercest I ever encountered. Enclosed is one newspaper article upon it. The city authorities acted worthy of Boston, and we were left to the tender mercies of a mob, also worthy of Boston. Our faithful friend, Richard Glazier, was most severely kicked and beaten in the face, as were also a number of others. The college students here are a power not easily resisted-numbering, as they do, nearly eight hundred, in the three departments of literature, law and medicine. It is due the young men, however, to say that only a minority countenanced the outrages.
The threats of violence were such, that every suitable public building was closed, and we were driven to the small but neat house, recently erected by the Progressive Friends, of whom our late inestimable friend, Mr. Richard Glazier, was, while he lived, the chief corner stone. To that last sanctuary were we pursued by a most ferocious and savage throng, composed of collegians, clerks, drunken Irish hoys, lawyers, and plug-uglies of every hue, all mingled in a disgusting, irresponsible mass, sweeping all before it The house was nearly disemboweled of its seats, and most of the windows were demolished, sash as well as glass. O, it was a sad spectacle to behold!
<c05>
CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. 
The Standard informs us that a Convention, held under the auspices of the " Church Anti-Slavery Society," met in New York city on the 23d ult., holding its day sessions in the Lecture-room of the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) and its evening session in the Third Reformed Presbyterian Church, (Mr. Sloane's.) 
The New York Observer, of Jan. 31st, thus reports, and rejoices over, the utter disregard of this movement by the churches:— 
"ABOLITION CONVENTION. The Anti-Slavery Convention, called to meet at Dr. Cheever's church, in this city, last week, was an entire failure, so far as any general notice or interest was concerned. Two or three hundred people, it is said, attended, but no outside or inside excitement was produced. It was severely let alone." 
The Standard copies the resolutions adopted, with a portion of the address of Rev. Henry T. Cheever, Secretary of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, states that the discussions were spirited and interesting, and names among the speakers Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, a hearty anti-slavery worker in the small denomination of " Reformed Presbyterians," Rev. Nathan Brown, (editor of the American Baptist, and representative of a very small minority of abolitionists in the Baptist church,) and Rev. H. Mattison, one of the most energetic laborers for reform in the Methodist Episcopal church. 
The Church Anti-Slavery Society has now had nearly two years' experience of the fact, that ninety-nine in a hundred of the churches of every one of the great and preponderant religious sects in this country are either utterly indifferent, or hostile, to its principles and purposes. In view of this fact, the Standard appropriately alludes to the erroneous character of an assumption very commonly made, that the "evangelical" church and ministry of this country are hostile to the American Anti-Slavery Society, not for its abolitionism, but for its alleged "infidelity." Examination shows both parts of this popular assumption to be false. It shows, first, that the ascription of infidelity to this Society is utterly erroneous; that its principles and its acts are alike Christian; and that its work comes nearer to a "following of Christ" than the lives of those who make formal "profession" of being his followers; and it shows, next, that these churches and ministers evince no more sympathy with a distinctively orthodox abolitionism, presented to them by the Church Anti-Slavery Society, than with the appeals of Mr. Garrison himself. 
The founders of the Church Anti-Slavery Society wished to purify the church at least as much as to help the slave. Finding that the church felt sore under the "harsh language" which the elder abolitionists had addressed to it, they took the opposite policy, and used none but tender and fraternal expressions; in their haste and zeal addressing even pro-slavery churches and ministers as " Christians." For two years they have patiently tried these efforts. What is the result? The Independent and the Congregationalist take no notice of their Convention whatever; and the Observer rejoices that it was "severely let alone."-C. K. W. 

ANOTHER MOBOCRATIC OUTRAGE.
Extract of a letter from Miss Susan B. Anthony, dated Rome, (N. Y.) Jan. 18.
"Yesterday, S. S. Foster, A. M. Powell and I came on from Utica, to commence the Rome Convention. We had a quiet afternoon meeting of thirty or forty men, and three women. All appearances were, that we were destined to a "terrible letting alone." 
At the evening session, I placed myself at the foot of the first flight of stairs, to take the door fee. Some thirty passed up quietly, when there came, with heavy tramp, a compact gang of forty or fifty rowdies. The leader, with head bent forward, was in the act of passing me, without paying his ten cents, when I reached out my hand, with "Admission, ten cents, sir." He pushed me aside, ruthlessly, and hallood, "Come on, boys! don't stop for her"-and rushed on up to the hall, with hideous hootings and yellings. There they 1 stamped, and howled, and whistled, and sang "the star-spangled banner"-marched on to the platform, seated themselves at the table, pulled out a pack of cards, and then took the table and threw it to the floor with a crash. Under the circumstances, we made no attempt to speak, and soon left the hall. Meantime, I had kept at bay some two hundred of the less desperate of the rioters, who had not quite the villany to rush over me without paying, nor the manhood to pay and go up like men.
After we had returned to the Stanwix Hotel, a gang made desperate efforts to force their way through the hotel entrance and halls, but were repulsed by the landlord and others. The landlord says a hundred quiet meetings, such as we had here four years ago, would not do a tithe as much to make us converts, as will this mob."
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER-No. 223-for January, 1861, contains the following papers:-1. Alger's History of the Doctrine of a Future Life. 2. The Place of "Modern Painters" in Art-Literature 3. Origin of the Gospels. 4. Ary Scheffer. 5. The Church of Holland. 6. Garibaldi. 7. Review of Current Literature. New Publications received. The Examiner, always interesting and able, is unusually so, we think, in the present number.
In the article on the Memoir of the life of Ary Scheffer, the admirable and meritorious French artist, by Mrs. Grote, the reviewer says:— 
"In a note in her Appendix, Mrs. Grote alludes to the engraving of " Le Christ Consolateur,” which was published in the United States, [as frontispiece to an edition of the book of 'Common Prayer' used by the Episcopal Church,] where the slave was erased from the print! It is indeed a pitiable satire, that a society calling itself 'Christian,' in a republic that was based upon principles of freedom, should find it necessary to mutilate the work of an artist whose life was devoted to liberal principles, in a subject intended to portray the broad, unfettered love of Christianity. A childish attempt, too, to think with a few strokes upon a steel plate, to remove a fettered slave, whether white or black, from beneath the hands of 'Christ the Consoler,' or in this way to get rid of glances that still appeal to humanity. Its childishness might excite to ridicule, but the laughter must be as sad as it is bitter."
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for February, is a very interesting number-among the writers being Harriet Martineau, Miss Prescott, Edwin P. Whipple, John G. Whittier, James Russell Lowell, Paul Akers, and Oliver Wendell Holmes. The following are the contents:-1. Our Artists in Italy. 2. Knitting Sale-Socks. 3. Scuppaug. 4. Cobbler Keezar's Vision. 5. The First Atlantic Telegraph. 6. Lady Byron. 7. Getting Home Again. 8. A Dry-Goods Jobber in 1861. 9. The Old Homestead. 11. The Professor's Story. 11. The Great Lakes. 12. E. Pluribus Unum. Reviews and Literary Notices. 
The article on Lady Byron, by Miss Martineau, is a felicitous tribute to the memory of one who deserves to be held in lasting remembrance for her clustering virtues, and beneficent and reformatory spirit, embracing all forms of suffering humanity at home and abroad, including the enslaved millions in our own most guilty land. 
The article, "E. Pluribus Unum," by Prof. Lowell, is a timely and valuable expression of sentiment in regard to the present state of the country, and will help to stiffen the Northern back-bone, which is still exceedingly weak, though by this time it ought to be more inflexible than steel.
The Anti-Slavery Convention at Syracuse, N. Y., on the 30th ult., was broken up by an organized band of ruffians,-as in Buffalo, Rochester, Rome, Auburn, Boston, and other places,-who made the night hideous by their riotous demonstrations, which, on the score of indecency, have not yet been equalled. Effigies of Rev. Samuel J. May and Miss Susan B. Anthony were paraded through the streets, "with shouts, hootings and screechings, mingled with disgusting profanity and ribaldry." So says the Syracuse Journal. Such are the allies of Mr. George Lunt, Mr. George S. Hillard, and the Courier clique collectively. Further particulars next week.
<c06>
REMONSTRANCE AGAINST THE REPEAL OF THE PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
The following remonstrance against the repeal of the Personal Liberty Law of this State was presented to the Legislature on the 29th ult., with the names of James Scott and 406 others, Leonard A. Grimes and 168 others, Wm. H. Logan and 148 others. In all, 722. Many more signatures could easily have been obtained, had not the friends supposed the time to be limited.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The colored citizens of Boston, feeling the danger to which the Fugitive Slave Bill exposes them, though free and citizens of Massachusetts, and bound by ties closer, in many instances, than those of race alone, to fugitives from slavery, earnestly remonstrate against the repeal of the Personal Liberty Law.
On Tuesday forenoon and evening last, Faneuil Hall was crowded with the allies of the South, to propose terms of capitulation to the traitors who have left the Union. The meeting no more represented the sentiments of the people of Massachusetts than did the mobs in Boston-composed of the same elements-on the 3d of December and 24th of January. The depths of corrupt concession into which William H. Seward and Charles Francis Adams have descended, may be understood by the cheers which were given for those gentlemen by the Union-saving hunkers of Boston, both in the morning and evening meetings. Lucius Slade was one of the Vice Presidents!! [See his letter on the outside.]
No ROOM! We are perplexed, beyond all power of description, from week to week, to find room for a thousandth part of the immense amount of interesting and important matter, both original and selected, which is daily accumulating upon our hands. It is impossible to keep our readers posted as to the doings of the nation, especially of the treasonable South, with a weekly issue, and at the same time carry on the general anti-slavery discussion. Hence, correspondents must specially be patient; relying on our desire to give them as early a hearing as practicable.
"Truth not to be Overthrown nor Silenced," is the title of a most timely and eloquent Sermon preached at Dorchester, Sunday, January 27th, 1861, by Rev. Nathaniel Hall, and published by the request of a number of highly respectable citizens of that town. It was drawn out by the recent mobocratic outbreak in Boston. We shall try to find room for it entire, crowded as our columns are.
Mayor Wightman and his associates may learn in what estimation their conduct is held abroad, with reference to the Anti-Slavery meeting in this city, by consulting the first page of the Liberator. More hereafter.
The excellent speech of Charles C. Burleigh at the meeting at Tremont Temple will be given soon.

SENATOR SUMNER'S INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT.
Our Washington correspondent sends us the following full and authentic account of the interview between Senator Sumner and the President:-
WASHINGTON, February 4.
Much interest is manifested in the interview between President Buchanan and Senator Sumner. Mr. Sumner visited the President, at the request of Gov. Andrew, to learn his answer to the Massachusetts offer of military aid; that done, Mr. Sumner said: "What else can Massachusetts do for the good of the country."
Mr. Buchanan. A great deal. No State more.
Mr. Sumner. I should like to know what.
Mr. Buchanan—(after pause.) Adopt the Crittenden proposition.
Mr. Sumner. Is that necessary.
Mr. Buchanan. It is.
Mr. Sumner. Massachusetts has not acted directly on these propositions, which seek to give slavery a constitutional protection in territories, and disfranchise large numbers of her citizens; but I believe such are the convictions of the Massachusetts people that they would never consent to any such proposition.
Mr. Sumner repeated his assurance in the strongest language.
The President said he felt discouraged by the reply.
Mr. Sumner spoke of the common ground where all who truly loved the country could stand. It was the Constitution as administered by Washington. The verdict of the people, last November, should be recognized without price or condition.
The President said he and Mr. Sumner must differ, politically.
Mr. Sumner assured the President that the people of Massachusetts were attached to the Union; that the real disunionists there might all be put in an omnibus, but Massachusetts could not be brought to sacrifice or abandon her principles, and in that he (Sumner) sincerely joined.-Traveller.
The Charleston correspondent of the Baltimore American writes,-"Major Anderson, it is believed here, is adding greatly to the strength of his position. He has dug a mine under the cause way leading to the gate of his ‘donjon,’ and will blow up the first company that attempts an escalade. This he can easily do without injuring himself or his fortification. At the points, however, that bear upon Sumter, South Carolina still continues to concentrate her forces, and when the struggle does come, it will be terrible."
THE UNITED STATES SENATE. The following Senators have withdrawn from this body: Messrs. Davis and Brown, of Mississippi; Yulee and Mallory, of Florida; Clay and Fitzpatrick, of Alabama; Toombs and Iverson, of Georgia; Hammond and Chestnut, of South Carolina.
ABOLITIONISTS MOBBED AT AUBURN. We learn that the Anti-Slavery Convention at Auburn was disturbed and prevented pretty much in the same manner as in this city. A person connected with the railroad shops, in that place, was chosen chairman, and the outsiders had things pretty much all their own way. The meeting was disturbed by the ringing of bells, and other noises.-Syracuse Standard.
WORCESTER SOUTH A. S. SOCIETY.-The annual meeting of this Society will be held in Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Feb. 10.
A. T. Foss, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., S. S. FOSTER, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and others, will be present. The public are cordially invited. JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
H. FORD DOUGLASS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at North Berwick, Maine, Monday evening, Feb. 11.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture at
Westport, Tuesday, Feb. 12.
Fall River, Wednesday, Feb. 13.
Uxbridge, Thursday, Feb. 14.
Uxbridge, Friday, Feb. 15.
DR. J. S. ROCK will speak at the Free Church in Milford, Sunday, Feb. 10.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8 tf 221 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much admired F8 tf 

WEST NEWTON 
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, February 13, 1861. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN,
Feb. 1. West Newton Mass.

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes’ walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Jan.11. S. NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE DISLOYAL SOUTH.
Brothers! your scenic lightning-dart
Shows seas uptossing with the fates
Of church and trade, of wealth and art,
The treasures of the drifting State.
We hear your angry tropic-swell
Chafe roughly up our eastern bays-
We think it but the wrath of hell
God turns to freedom and to praise!
Of old, with wind and wave at fight,
Strove a small band with firm accord,
When on the billow’s frothing height
There stood the world-rejected Lord.
We doubt not Him who walks the surge;
“We dare not cry, “It is a wraith!”
Behold the Master, who shall purge
Our land from sin-the Christ of faith!
Men of the hot Palmetto State,
Just Winthrop and our godly Vane
Bequeathed us strength that will not bate
Through all the wrenching of your strain.
Mark, Sirs! our Commonwealth is calm,
Firm on foundation Pilgrims dug;
The crackling of your foolish palm
But thaws our churches’ icy shrug!
Be yours the player's stamp and start,
The bluster of the dress parade;
This beating of our freer heart
Is worth a century of trade.
We rise from sickness; purer health
Through manly discipline to win-
Perish your silver troughs of wealth,
That held New England’s husks of sin!
Come, Poet, thrill the word divine
Through feeble prate of art and taste!
What prophet was inspired by wine,
What martyr's crown begemmed with paste?
Cease, Preacher, wailing for the land!
No longer are we sin-enticed:
Break bonds! Away with eye and hand!
But, bleeding, let us live to Christ! V.

For the Liberator.
WHERE IS CHRIST P
BY REV. J. T. POWERS.
“Inasmuch as ye have done it unto others, ye have done it unto me.”-JESUS CHRIST.
Christ stands within the market-place,
A scarred and bleeding slave;
The Son of God and Son of Man
Doomed to a bloody grave!
Christ lifts his toiling hands to heaven,
Beseeching to be free
From bonds and groans and tears and death,
From curse of slavery!
Christ flees before the Southern hound;
He hides him from his foe;-
Is tracked and hunted by his race,
And doomed to human woe!
Christ, as the Crucified,
Behold in Afric’s race!
His martyr crown upon its brow,
His blood upon its face!
Christ, as the suffering Slave;
Christ, as the scourged and bound;
Christ, as the flying Fugitive;
In every Slave is found.
CARLISLE, MASS.

From the Boston Journal.
“NEW ENGLAND LEFT OUT IN THE COLD.”
BY LYDIA M. TENNEY.
Left out in the cold! be it so, if you will-
New England will shrink not, she’s used to the chill;
The snow on her mountains, the fierce sleeting rain,
But furnish the life of her heart and her brain-
Heart and brain ever busy new plans to unfold
For learning and progress, out here in the cold.
Left out in the cold! yes, indeed, let her be
By the rough granite boulders-the solemn-voiced sea;
With her hammers’ sharp click, and her mills’ steady whirr,
With her hamlet’s dear quiet, her city’s brisk stir,
And her heavenly charities, pouring out gold
To give bread to the hungry, out here in the cold.
Left out in the cold! that is where she’ll remain,
Unawed by the menace of lash or of chain;
With a heart ever open to pity’s soft thrill,
But with nerves kin to those which achieved Bunker Hill-
Nerves that hardened to iron, when ruthlessly told
To compromise honor, out here in the cold.
Left out in the cold! aye, she likes the refrain,
Her poets will set it to music again,
‘T will be rung as an anthem where loyal hearts beat,
And trilled as a cradle song, holy and sweet,
By mothers, when infant hands rev’rently fold
In a prayer to “Our Father,” out here in the cold.
Left out in the cold!-where she’ll calmly await
The Future’s just verdict-the unrolling of fate;
Neither threatening nor trembling, in peace or in war
Her honor and courage unmoved as a star;-
Esteeming her liberties dearer than gold-
With Freedom and God, leave her out in the cold.

From the Salem Gazette.
A CLOUD UPON OUR COUNTRY.
A cloud upon our country! and it lies
Because our country held so foul a wrong!
A wrong that burdened every breeze with sighs,
Looked up unpitied with its weeping eyes,
And formed the minor strain in Freedom’s song.
A cloud upon our country! While God gave
Blessings of plenty with a bounteous hand,
We saw His image not in the poor slave,
Sick and in prison, and we did not save,
Scourged, hunted, burned within our native land!
A cloud upon our country, not more dark
Than that veiling her face so many years!
Through the wide world was heard her bloodhound’s bark,
Making her name an ignominious mark;-
Not all unheeded fell her bondmen’s tears.
We may do wrong until we think it right;
Familiarized with crime, the crime defend;
But down-crushed manhood hath resistless might
When it arouses from Oppression’s night;
And pent-up fires volcanic streams will send.
L. L. A.V.

A WORD FOR THE HOUR.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
The firmament breaks up. In black <illegible>
Light after light goes out. One evil star,
Luridly glaring through the smoke of war,
As in the dream of the Apocalypse,
Drags others down. Let us not weakly weep,
Nor rashly threaten. Give us grace to keep
Our faith and patience: wherefore should we leap,
On one hand, into fratricidal fight,
Or, on the other, yield eternal right,
Frame lies of law, and good and ill confound?
What fear we? Safe on Freedom’s vantage ground 
Our feet are planted: let us there remain
In unrevengeful calm, no means untried
Which truth can sanction: no just claim denied,
The sad spectators of a suicide!
They break the links of Union: shall we light
The fires of hell to weld anew the chain?
Draw we not even now a freer breath
As from our shoulders falls a load of death
Loathsome as that the doomed Mczentius bore?
Why take we up th’ accursed thing again?
Pity, forgive, but urge them back no more,
Who, drunk with passion, hoist Disunion’s rag
With its vile reptile blazon. Let us press
The golden cluster on our brave old flag
In closer union, and, if numbering less,
Brighter shall shine the stars which still remain!
Amesbury, 16th day of 1st month.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE PRESIDENTS FAST AND A PRO-SLAVERY RELIGION.
TOPSHAM, (Vermont,) Jan. 15, 1861.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-The spirit of Slavery is the same every where, whether in Charleston, Boston, Buffalo, or in the villages among the Green Mountains. The Abolitionists, like the Apostles, are regarded, as you well know, as “turners of the world upside down.” The President’s Fast, which we here did not keep, has been the occasion of the most intense excitement, and this community is in a state of perfect ebullition. The worshippers of the existing higher powers, civil and ecclesiastical, are loud and long in their cries of “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!”
On Buchanan’s fast day, in which Gov. Fairbanks also wished us to pray for the Union, we held a large and spirited Anti-Slavery meeting, at which, among others, the following resolutions were passed, after protracted discussion and bitter opposition:-
1. Resolved, That though we believe nations and civil rulers, under extraordinary circumstances, may authoritatively proclaim a fast, yet we do not and cannot regard the official call of the President of the United States to observe this as a day of fasting as at all binding upon us: First, because the United States Government, of which he is the chief executive, is not the moral ordinance of God, and hence may not be voluntarily supported by the Christian. Second, because James Buchanan is not our President. We do not acknowledge him as our agent to execute law, or our ruler to whom we owe any conscientious obedience. Third, because he does not call the nation to fasting on account of the real causes of God’s displeasure, viz., national sins, such as Atheism, Infidelity, rejection of the Mediator as King of nations, and most cruel oppression. Fourth, because those very things which the President deprecates as evils, we rather rejoice in; and those very things for whose preservation he asks us to pray, we would rather see destroyed.
2. Whereas, President Buchanan, in his recent message, advises to amend the Constitution, so that it may recognize the right of property in slaves in those States where it now exists or may hereafter exist, and so as to more effectually pledge and secure the surrender of fugitive slaves, as well as to make all Personal Liberty laws of the Northern States null and void:
Whereas, he believes that these proposed amendments are necessary to the preservation of the Union, and in his proclamation asks the people to pray for the preservation of the Constitution and the Union, thereby asking prayer that such infamous amendments may be made so as to save the Union:
Whereas, the President, having laid the blame of the present troubles in the country to “the violent agitation of the slavery question at the North,” now proclaims a fast that we, Abolitionists, may confess our faults to God:
And, whereas, the Governor of Vermont unites with the President in proclaiming a fast: therefore,
Resolved, That we cannot comply with the call of Gov. Fairbanks, but hereby testify against his conduct in the premises as unworthy of the chief executive of a State that has declared that “every person that has been held as a slave, who shall come into this State, shall be free.”
3. Resolved, That the Constitution and the Union are at war with God and his law, and are hostile to human freedom, being among the strongest fortifications of the slave system; and hence we reject the Constitution as it is, and seek the destruction of the Union as it is, and, therefore, we cannot obey the call of either the President or the Governor, who ask us to fast and pray for the preservation of the Union as it is.
4. Resolved, That the fast which God has chosen is “to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke;” therefore, for such a fast we will labor and pray.
After the passage of these resolutions, the three which I give you below were laid on the table for fuller discussion at a subsequent meeting. This being the mind of the audience, intimation was given that, at that meeting, it would be shown that the Methodist Episcopal Church is very guilty, and is a “bulwark of American slavery.” Whereupon a committee was appointed to invite speakers to address the next meeting on the resolutions, the intention being to obtain Methodist ministers to defend the church against the charge of pro-slavery. Accordingly, afterwards four of their ablest clergymen in this part of the State were formally invited, and special efforts made by their friends to have them come. At the appointed time-last Friday evening-the house being full of anxious or excited auditors, the committee reported that they had failed to obtain any speakers from abroad. Whereupon the resolutions, laid on the table at the previous meeting, were taken up for discussion. They are as follows:-
1. Resolved, That as God requires us to “remember them that are in bonds as bound with them”; and as there is now a great struggle between God and Freedom on the one hand, and Satan and Slavery on the other; and as we can neither be allies of slaveholders nor neutral in this struggle, we are under the highest moral obligations to be at war with all systems, institutions and organizations that are sustaining the slaveholder against the slave.
2. Resolved, That as the American Church, composed of the large and popular denominations, most of which are slaveholding or in fellowship with slaveholders, has vast power in the formation of the institutions and laws of the country, and in the moulding of public opinion, it follows that the “American Church is the bulwark of Slavery,” and that such a slaveholding religion is not the Christian religion, or such a church the Church of Jesus Christ.
3. Resolved, That we may never do evil that good may come; that it is always safe to do right; and that four millions of immortal beings are of infinitely more value than the Union, the Constitution, the government, or than even church organizations; therefore we should spare no lawful effort to secure the emancipation of the enslaved, even though to effect this all pro-slavery sects, unions, constitutions and governments should be broken up. And in this struggle in the cause of justice and humanity, our war-cry should be-God speed the chariot of Freedom and Salvation, and let all opposers get out of the way, or perish!
In the discussion of these resolutions, and in a somewhat protracted address, the truth of the charge made at the previous meeting was fully established. No one attempted to deny the facts arrayed, nor the conclusion to which they led, though some of “the brethren” argued that we, by our refusal to vote good men into office, are guilty, and therefore (!) should not accuse them of pro-slavery. Under the leadership of a Democratic champion-a pro-slavery officer of the administration-an almost successful effort was made to break up the meeting. Tumult, abuse and threats frightened away a few, but the mass of the Abolitionists held their ground, and through the promptness and courage of our Chairman, a zealous John Brown man, the mob spirit was kept down. Amid bitter accusations that we, by our anti-slavery meetings, were endeavoring to break up the Methodist revival meetings being held here, and not without more cries of “Great is Diana of the Ephesians!” the meeting adjourned for two weeks, for continued discussion.
N. R. JOHNSTON.
Mr. Johnston is the pastor of a Covenanter church in Topsham, made up of those whose religious integrity is proof against the powerful temptations of the times to compromise the principles of everlasting righteousness. Would that every other church and pulpit occupant in Vermont were of the same spirit!-Ed. Lib.
<c03>
THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNION.
It is time slave-hunting on our soil was stopped. It is a disgrace to the civilization of the nineteenth century. Why is not the soil of the Old Bay State free! What hinders? The Constitution and the Union; where the Slave Power entrenched itself at the formation of the government, and which is its last stronghold. We must continue to attack it there.
Massachusetts Senators have voted that the petitioners for the prohibition of slave-hunting within our borders have leave to withdraw! Why? Because we have not yet eradicated from the hearts of the people the idolatrous love of the Constitution and the Union, and set up in its place, love of justice and obedience to liberty.
We ask our Senators and Representatives to hold the aegis of Massachusetts law over the fugitive from slavery. They cannot, because Massachusetts is, herself, a slave-manacled and tethered by Constitutional clauses-willing to be. Even now, her ex-Governors, ex-Judges, orators, ex-divines, and expounders of the law, (which they are trying to pummel into the service of the Slave Power,) are going up before the tyrant, begging that the tether may be shortened, and the handcuffs tightened!
Henry Wilson made an idle boast when he said, “The Republican party has got the Slave Power under its heel.” The Slave Power still sits enthroned in the Federal Constitution. With its grasping hands, it clutches Massachusetts by the throat, saying, “Pay me that thou owest.” From the State House the Republicans respond, “We will.” It says to them, “You shall not be just nor humane; your righteous laws we will annul; your people shall not be a Christian people; your soil shall be hunting-ground for those who make game of men; you and your children shall not say, nay.” And they answer, “Be it so; great is the Constitution and the Union.” We ask them, as men, to protect heroic manhood fleeing from oppression. They answer, “We are legislators; we are a part of the government; we are solemnly pledged to permit slave-hunting.” Alas! too true; they have signed away their manhood; they have made a league with the devil; they have sold their souls to the Slave Power: henceforth no more Honorable, let them say with Milton’s Beelzebub-
“-these titles now
Must we renounce, and, changing style, be call’d
Princes of Hull.”
The kidnapping of men and women is wicked. It is wicked in a Democrat, in a Belleverett. It is just as wicked in a Republican.
“Thou sly hypocrite, who now would’st seem
Patron of Liberty!”
Why cherish this idolatrous worship of an imperfect, sinful compact, made by erring, short-sighted men, under the pressure of circumstances which no longer exist? Ex-Governor Boutwell, in his address to the people of Charlestown, recently, justly remarked-“The cause of our present troubles is African Slavery, sanctioned by the U. S. Constitution.” Mr. Seward, in his recent speech in the Senate, said, “To-day all those (European) States are firmly set in hostility to the extension, and even to the practice of slavery. Opposition to it takes two forms: one European, which is simple, direct abolition, effected, if need be, by compulsion; the other American, which seeks to arrest the African slave trade, and resist the entrance of domestic slavery into Territories where it is yet unknown, while it leaves the disposition of existing slavery to the considerate action of the States by which it is retained.” Take notice, in passing, how unfavorably American opposition to slavery contrasts with European; yet Mr. Seward, in the same speech, said, “How thankfully would any nation in Europe cast aside all their own systems of government, and accept this Republic of ours, with all its short-comings and disappointments, maintain it with their arms, and cherish it in their hearts!” The people of Europe would spew this Republic out of their mouth, if they understood the workings of the Slave Power as well as Mr. Seward does.
But, to the point:-Mr. Seward goes on to say, in relation to the two forms of opposition to slavery, “It is the Union that restricts the opposition to slavery in this country within these limits. If dissolution prevail, what guaranty shall there be against the full development here of the fearful and uncompromising hostility to slavery which elsewhere pervades the world?”
Then let dissolution prevail-“let the Union slide.” Let every lover of liberty cling to it no longer. Let us aspire to European civilization, and cherish that spirit which to-day makes Italy famous, and Garibaldi a hero, and Hungary hopeful, and the Czar of Russia a philanthropist; and which, twenty-five years ago, enacted the most memorable chapter in England’s history which, shame for us, sees America, under Republican rule, debating whether or not to admit a new slave State!
We appeal from the Senator to the man; from the cold heart of the citizen to the warm pulse of humanity. We call the attention of the people of this State who love Liberty, or even the remembrance of it at Lexington and Bunker Hill, to consider the matter. We ask them to take notice why their Representatives cannot enact a Personal Liberty Law that shall make Massachusetts soil as free as England’s. We ask them to be true men and Christians, and tear every pro-slavery compromise out of the Constitution, though the Union burst. But the Union is now dissolved, thank God! Where are those precious “divines,” who for the last twenty years have been listlessly praying, “In thine own good time, O Lord!” and preaching-“God will abolish slavery in his own way”? Now that the drum-beat of God’s retributive justice is mustering all the forces for the decisive battle; now that His judgments are poured out upon the land, and His hand is clearly seen hurling, as thunderbolts, the very wrath of the tyrants against the Constitutional tyranny, scorching the idolized parchment to a crisp, and splitting the Union from end to end, where are these men who have been “biding God’s time”? I caught one yesterday signing a Crittenden Compromise petition. You will find them elsewhere, patting the little snow-ball of compromise the politicians at Washington have rounded, rolling it over and over among the people, whose hearts they have congealed, until it becomes a huge, cold, glittering boulder to block the chariot-wheels of the Almighty. They thrust it into the breach in the Union, plastering it with the excretions of their own deluded “divinity,” and fancy it will not melt before the beams of the risen Sun of Righteousness. “Hands off! If ye would not help the righteous law, ye shall not binder the just retribution.
The Union is dissolved. We have not really been a united people for many years. We never can be as long as slavery exists, and human nature remains unchanged. Let us not hope to build up the breach, except by the abolition of slavery. Let us not demoralize ourselves by endeavoring to do it by baser compromises and subserviency. Let us, with the Sermon on the Mount in one hand, and the Declaration of Independence in the other, establish justice in this ancient Commonwealth. H. O. S.

“STRIKE BUT HEAR.”
“A new article has just been added to the Russian code of censorship, in virtue of which the editors of all newspapers and periodical, will be compelled to insert, gratis, the replies of parties whom they have attacked in their columns.”
Such a rule, if enforced in the United States, would make the press a little more careful of attacking good men and good reforms. In this country, the “best abused men” have been the Abolitionists. Under the Russian regime, what a splendid hearing they would win for themselves!-Independent.
Let us hope that the above general confession of the Independent may prove to be not merely a matter of form, like the confessions of church people, that they and the congregation with whom they stand are “miserable sinners”-but that the editors of that paper may “look at home,” and begin, either to cease from slandering Abolitionists in its columns, or to let their replies appear there, unmutilated.-C. K. W.
<c04>
ADDRESS TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
A period in human affairs, not wholly unexpected to some discerning minds, has arrived, which must attract the attention of the ablest persons now living. The signs of the times indicate great and most important changes in the present social state. The nations of the earth are in commotion, and the foundations of society are being broken up. Yet the world moves, not only onward, but, on the whole, upward. The heavens above draw the things of earth to them.
In a great crisis, the human mind is awakened; new thoughts are expressed, and new hopes are kindled. When the Church becomes formal, cold, dead, the State feels it, and there is less and less unitary activity in the political world. Commerce ceases to be a grand humanitary interchanger. It dwarfs into mere trade-justice and truth fall in the street, and equity cannot enter. The statesman and the orator, writer and poet, all become powerless for good. Thus there is diffused abroad a general indifference to and a disregard of sacred things. When the righteous sleep, the wicked sow tares, and the people needing bread know not where it may be found. The vicious and profligate classes come forth from their dens of pollution and crime, and walk abroad unmolested at noon-day; the hand of the assassin and oppressor is strengthened, and the licentious give loose rein to their passions. All these things are but the precursors of national tribulations.
Looked at in one aspect, the American Government may be regarded as the best ever framed by the heart and hand of man; but, looked at in the light of eternal justice, it is seen to be a most wicked and unholy confederation. It is cemented by the blood of the slave. It must perish. There is but one cement that can hold a people permanently together, and that is, exact justice to all, even the meanest and most degraded. The hour has now come to make the following plain declarations:
I. The American Union is dissolved, and never more can the old confederated States act in concert.
II. This Union is dissolved because it has not regarded its own fundamental principles, as set forth in its Declaration of Independence.
III. The old must now give way to a new and higher confederation, and that confederation will avow the following sentiments:-
1st. Each man and woman has a right, not to be questioned, to all the privileges and immunities which they can earn and wisely use.
2d. In the sight of high Heaven, all peoples, nations, tongues and tribes are equal. The sun shines upon both the evil and the good; and,
3d. Man is wise or foolish, weak or strong, sinful or righteous, in the ratio that he makes a just use of the talents which are his; and,
4th. All legislation should look to the redemption of the human race, through a wise and beneficent education of the whole man; and,
5th. All governments should flow from the hearts of the highest and purest persons who may live in an age or nation.
6th. All laws framed for the government of a people should be so simple that all might know, comprehend and understand them.
7th. To have a wise and good administration, there must be a common interest to bind the people together.
The American interests are now diverse. One section holds property in man, and employs forced labor. Another is, to a large extent, an agricultural or grain-growing region; and the interest of yet a third is in manufactures. Although these interests are all essential, yet they now divide the people. Very soon, the American people will divide themselves into three factions, representing the three interests already named, and there will be an effort to organize three distinct, though somewhat conjoined, confederations. The uneasy South must begin this work. It is a negative and an inverse action. She moves the other sections to look after their respective interests, and hence general disunion; and for a time there must be strife for the supremacy. The South now takes possession of the national forts, arsenals, navy yards. Soon the American government that was will seek to make reprisals. Ships from those ports where the war has begun will be seized, and then the commercial interest will be roused to demand redress; but it will not at first be heeded. Hence there will be commercial stagnation and financial fluctuations.
Now, there will be calm, clear minds, who will take advantage of this distracted state of things, and they, seeking justice, and being out of the realm of contest, because of their principles, will be enabled so to act that material wealth and spiritual prosperity will be at their command. There will be signs in the heavens above as well as in the earth beneath, and these signs will help to united action on the part of the wise and good. All that is perishable will pass away. Not only will instisutions decay, but morals will be loose, negative; and fruits, though they may be abundant, will exhibit premature decay. It is well that the American people should be seasonably forewarned of all these things, that they who will may in wisdom meet them.
On the borders of the contesting and dissolving States, there must be plunder and war. Property will lose its value because of the internal commotions. Railways and other avenues will be destroyed, because it will be seen that otherwise they will aid the flight of those who might wish to escape to the mountains or to the Canadas for protection. But while these things are transpiring, and while the national capital and other important cities are reduced to ashes, there will be a just God, who will see that righteousness and justice are executed in the earth.
As a preparation for this state of things, the following counsel is now given:-
1st. Make but few purchases of any kind, at this present moment, and manage to have all transactions in cash, or let security be taken on real estate, especially in grain-growing districts, because bread must be had, let the price be what it may.
2d. Let all investments be at once taken from banks and from railways and shipping, which are dependant on Southern trade. Confiscations will become common, for the war has begun, and cannot be changed in its course, while certain planets are in certain positions.
3d. All contracts based on expectations of obtaining capital from the Old World will be so precarious, that it would be unwise to engage in them for the term of twelve months to come, at least.
4th. Capital will be more secure in New England stocks than in any other now in the American market. If there are to be investments, that is the place to make them. New England would be enriched by a seven years’ war in America.
5th. Attention should be immediately directed towards securing a temporary capital; and that capital should be in Ohio, and the best centre would be the city of Cleveland. Cincinnati would be less safe, during a border war.
6th. An address on the last-named subject might be made, at an early day, to the Legislature of the State of Ohio, asking its cooperation in that direction, and thus Ohio might have the honor of welcoming the President elect to her borders for inauguration and other national purposes.
7th. As the revolution reaches its culminating point, it will be seen that there will appear able, pacific, and broadly constructive minds, who will guide the voyagers home to the port of a higher justice than has heretofore obtained among men.
At the present time, the author of this address to the American people desires to be unknown to the public. Should this address be received with favor by the people, then further suggestion may be expected from the same source. S. M. J.
January 20,1861.
Rev. Dr. Tufts, of Bangor is reported as saying in Boston, that the only hope of perpetuating the Union lies in effecting a union of the Christian Church. If that is so, says the True American, the reading of history does not encourage us to hope that the remedy will soon be available.
<c05>
Selected Articles.
SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
In the Massachusetts Senate, January 24th, the report of the Committee on Federal Relations, on the petitions of L. Babcock and others for the prohibition of slave-hunting in the Commonwealth, was taken up.
Mr. WHITING desired to put himself right. He hoped it would not be considered that the report from the committee was an expression of the unanimous consent of the committee. For one, he was utterly opposed to the report. The people asking for a bill have not been heard.
There are some men on the committee who believe that cotton is not king, and that commerce is not pure. There are some who think that men are above all these things. They have come up here, and ask to be heard. Perhaps no such bill can pass. This subject has been discussed here in one form and another every year for many years. He had not seen such a snap judgment as has been sprung upon these petitioners. They have been granted leave to withdraw without being heard. He thought it would be fairer to all, and be likely to contribute much to the tranquility of the country, if such a course was adopted.
Mr. NORTHEND supposed that when a subject was presented to a committee, and they were instructed to consider a matter, that committee is to judge of the merits of the question before them, and how they are to treat it. He feared that granting the leave to be heard would be opening a dangerous precedent. The reason that the committee have taken the course they have, is because upon the face of the petition a law is asked for which is in direct contravention of the Constitution of the United States, and nothing else. He did not think it was the place of the Senate to dictate to a committee what course it shall take in considering the subject. Why does not the gentleman from Plymouth present a bill to prohibit the rendition of any fugitive by any officer of the State or the United States in the Commonwealth? Let the Senate then meet the direct question.
Mr. WHITING said he was not learned in the law as the gentleman from Essex; but there might be persons whose names are on these petitions who possess a share of common sense, and with honest reason think that such laws are not in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. He hoped the Senate would meet the question on its merits.
Mr. NORTHEND was in favor of meeting the question on its merits in the Senate Chamber, as the committee has done. The committee have given their reasons for their action. He did not believe any person possessed of common sense and intelligence, who is capable of understanding the Constitution of the United States, could believe such a law was constitutional.
Mr. WHITING had no bill to propose. He did not think that by voting to recommit, any person would commit himself upon the subject of a law complying with the petition.
Mr. BATTLES, of Worcester, said that he had one reason for favoring a recommittal that had not been mentioned. At an early part of the day, a report from parties desiring to be heard upon this subject had been laid on the table, because there was no paper upon the subject before the Committee on Federal Relations. To refuse to recommit would kill the petition that has been laid on the table. It would defeat the end of the former motion to lay the petition on the table. He had always supposed that committees who are created by the Legislature derived their powers from the power that creates them.
Mr. NORTHEND said that the committee had given in their report their opinion as to the constitutionality of such a law as the petitioners asked for.
The yeas and nays were called for, and they were ordered.
Mr. DAVIS understood that the majority of the committee had made the report, and the minority had not opposed it. Mr. WHITING was in the minority, and made no minority report. When a committee has decided that they did not wish to hear arguments, it would be a work of supererogation to force them to hear them. He should therefore vote against the recommitment.
Mr. STONE hoped the report would be adopted. He thought that the report of the committee met the requirements of the petition. He believed it was the duty of the Senate to obey the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution commands the observance and enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law. He considered the petitioners had no place in the Senate Chamber, on the face of the petition. He considered it an outrage for any body of men to come here, and ask the passage of a law directly in opposition to the Constitution. The Constitution itself settles the duty of the Senate. It leaves Senators no discretion-its requirements are peremptory.
Mr. WALKER, of Worcester, thought that all citizens have the right to petition, and to be heard on any subject. It would be very impolitic, at the present time, to deny this right now. It was a right that citizens have enjoyed for many years, and many times the free exercise of this right had been very annoying. He was in favor of hearing all subjects freely debated. It did not matter whether the subject was constitutional or not, the right was the same. It might be that these very petitioners are struggling at this moment for the exercise of free speech. They cannot freely speak anywhere else than in Boston, and it may be that they cannot speak here. If they are prohibited in the municipality, he hoped they would find a sanctuary here where they can be heard.
Mr. NORTHEND was as much in favor of free speech as anybody else, but there is a difference between debating in the city and country before a committee of the Legislature, and advocating treason against the Federal Government. The oaths taken by members to support the Constitution compel them to shut their ears to treason.
Mr. WHITING responded with much feeling.
Mr. STONE, of Bristol, desired to have it understood that he recognized the right of free speech. He argued that Massachusetts might prohibit her own officers making arrests of fugitives. He doubted whether any man who believed in the Constitution of the United States would deny that a slave master could recover his slave in Massachusetts. Taking the words of the Constitution, and giving them a fair construction, he believed this must be the reasonable deduction. He knew of no man who would deny this, unless it was one of that class who believe the Constitution is “an agreement with death and a covenant with hell,”-those who believe in disunion. With that exception, he knew of no other person who believed that the Federal officers may not take slaves in Massachusetts. He knew of no man whose opinion was worth anything who would doubt this right. The prayer of the petitioners is plain. It is clear and intelligible. How would it be possible for the committee to comply with the prayer of the petitioners, without conflicting with the Constitution? With his convictions upon the subject, he would declare such a petition an outrage. For men who claim to be citizens of Massachusetts to come and ask for such a measure, so plainly in conflict with the Constitution, he would repeat, it was an outrage. He asked how the gentleman from Plymouth could discriminate between such a position and secession. Secession is nullifying the whole Constitution; such a measure nullifies one provision which provides for the rendition of fugitive slaves. He called upon Senators to read the petition, and see if it was not unconstitutional in itself. It is due to the State, and due to the self-respect of the Senators, that the petition should be dismissed without delay.
Mr. DAVIS said he should vote against a recommittal, because it would be both unjust to the petitioners and contemptuous towards the committee. It would be contemptuous to the committee, because they had fully expressed their minds, and unfair to the petitioners, because it would send them before a committee who had declared their opinions to be fixed upon the subject.
A motion to adjourn was lost. The question recurring upon the motion to recommit, the yeas and says were ordered as follows:-
YEAS-Messrs. Babson, Battles, Cook, Fiske, Glazier, Nash, Walden, Walker, Whiting-9
NAYS-Messrs. Burt, Cheever, Clark, Davis, Day, Dillingham, Dresser, Hardy, Kinney, Northend, Norton, Rogers, Sanderson, Schouler, Shaw, Slade, Stone, Tompkins-18.
Mr. DAVIS thought the report rather summary, and moved that all be stricken from the report, except that portion which granted leave to the petitioners to withdraw.
The amendment was accepted, and, on the ques-
<c06>
tion of accepting the report as amended, the yeas and nays were ordered.
The vote was as follows:-
YEAS-Messrs. Babson, Battles, Burt, Cheever, Cook, Davis, Day, Dillingham, Dresser, Fiske, Glazier, Hardy, Kinney, Northend, Norton, Rogers, Sanderson, Schouler, Shaw, Slade, Southworth, Stone, Tompkins, Walden-23.
NAYS-Messrs. Walker, Whiting-2.

SOUTHERN OPINIONS OF NORTHERN UNION MEN.
From a letter from Macon, Georgia, to the New York Tribune, we extract the following:-
The more general expression concerning those pro-slavery demonstrations at the North is of undisguised and bitter contempt. Let me convey to you a more vivid idea of this state of feeling than I otherwise could, by reporting the remarks of a Georgia and South Carolina dssunionst, who were the other day talking together in the public room of the “Lanier House” in this place. I assure you, moreover, that the sentiments of so many people here are truthfully represented by the conversation referred to, that I am justified in declaring that, among those who deign to take any notice of the Northern Union action, utter scorn for such action is the ruling feeling.
But to my illustration: Both the South Carolinian and the Georgian were men in personal appearance and manners above the standard of Southern roughness and ignorance. They were talking, of course, on the great topic of the day, and seemed to agree in their views. They had been speaking of the impossibility of receiving any concessions from the North which would be abided by when the danger was overpast, though they seemed to believe that the free States were so badly frightened and bullied that they would probably offer almost everything the slave-drivers could ask. “The resolutions adopted by that meeting at Philadelphia, the other day, were pretty strong, anyhow,” remarked the gentleman from Georgia. Upon this, there burst from the South Carolinian a torrent of the most stinging words you can imagine, which I can only feebly reproduce. Said he-“There, now, by-! if I had needed anything to convince me that these damned Abolitionists were rotten cowards, the proceedings of that meeting would have finished me. I swear, it makes me sick to read the resolutions: you can hear the whining of their voices and the chattering of their teeth, when you read the stuff.” The Georgian assented to this proposition, and said the whole affair reminded him of a boy who hits another, and then, frightened at what he has done, hugs him and offers him his biggest apple not to tell of it. “Yes,” said the other, “or of the man who had a quarrel with his wife at the breakfast-table, and threw a fork at her; but the moment it had left his hand, he turned pale with fright, and yelled out, ‘Dodge it, my dear!’”
Some further remarks in this same strain of facetiousness followed, during which the worthy Philadelphia brethren were rudely handled. The South Carolinian presently grew warm again, however, and proceeded substantially thus: “You know well enough what my sentiments are about slavery; now, as ugly as I feel towards the damned Black Republicans, I like a rugged up and down fight. I do have some respect for a bold rascal; I have respect, of a sort, for a sincere man. Too, no matter what he believes. If, now, I was an Abolitionist, and believed that slavery was wrong, or if I didn’t care a damn whether slavery was wrong or not, and only meant to fight against it, and if I had made a strong fight, like what those Northern fellows have done, why, by the Lord, I’d cut off my hand and blister my tongue, before I’d take any part in one of them sniveling pow-wows they call Union meetings! Here, for years, the blasted fellows have been fighting, inch by inch, till they have got every free State with ’em; and now, just as they have got their first big victory, they are beginning to shake and shiver, and wish they hadn’t done it, and hope the South won’t be offended, and promise to give up all they’ve got, and a good deal more, and never do so again so long as they live, if we’ll only let 'em off this once. Long John Wentworth says the chivalry will back down, and they are always ready to eat dirt when the scratch comes; but I Should Like to see the Southern man who would crawl on his belly like those hounds at Philadelphia and Boston, and gobble dirt with such an appetite as they seem to have! I’d shoot him before I went out to hang an Abolitionist that was stealing my niggers. By thunder! I’m ashamed of my kind!”
You will observe that the gentleman from South Carolina was slightly heated: the other was hardly less so; and the remarks here imperfectly reported were listened to with eagerness by a crowd around, who nodded to each other in approval of the sentiment.
I say to you again, this is not an exceptional instance. I have heard similar comments on steamboats, in railway trains, in numerous taverns, among the groups at the street corners. Much the same feeling was more mildly expressed by Mr. Cobb, in his speech I reported for you the other day. Other orators have thus spoken in meetings of less note. If the Northern Union-savers think that their cause will gain ground among, or receive the respect of the Slavocracy through the agency of such meetings and such resolutions, let them come to Georgia, let them go to other Southern States, and their eyes will be opened.”
IMPORTANT SECESSION MOVEMENT:-A POOR HOUSE OUT OF THE UNION!! We learn, from a reliable source, that the inmates of one of the largest and most respectable County Infirmaries in the State, have held a meeting, and unanimously resolved to secede. Intense excitement prevailed, and all felt that they had been in a state of dependence as long as honor or self-respect would allow, and that they would sacrifice all their earthly goods rather than endure it longer. The speakers were vociferously applauded whenever they counselled defiance to the constituted authorities. Resolutions were adopted with entire unanimity and the wildest enthusiasm, declaring in substance that poor people are as good as rich ones, and of right sovereign and independent; that all laws which reduce them to a condition of inferiority should be resisted to the last extremity; that, while their neighbors had lived in affluence and luxury, they had been kept in a humiliating state of dependence on the public charity; and that the only remedy for the past, or security for the future, was in separate and immediate secession.
The Seceders are in quiet possession of the Infirmary building, and are determined to hold it until an equitable division shall be made of the County property. Commissioners have been appointed to negotiate for the liberal share of said property to which the Secedes are presumed to be entitled, and which will probably be given up with very little ceremony. It is confidently believed that no effort will be made to coerce them.-Jeffersonian Democrat.
A MAINE DOUGHFACE! We copy the following letter from the Kennebec Journal, which was sent from Brunswick, Maine, to Charleston, South Carolina. It had the effect aimed at, in preventing the John Curtis from obtaining a freight. The man who wrote it deserves to be a slave on a Carolina rice Plantation, with one of the hottest of fire-eaters for a taskmaster:-
Colector custom house Charleston:
Sir the Bark John Curtis has cleared from <illegible> for your poart she is owned by A stinking kind of Black Republickans Thomas Skoldfield is in the Legeslator at Augusta and I heard him say two days Ago that the fugite slave law should not be repealed this winter if he could prevented.
Now sir if you can prevent that Bark from Getting A freight at your poart for god sake do so as Thomas Skoldfield & Clement Skoldfield is the Bigest owners & have don more to elect Lincoln than any two men in the state of maine and both are office seakers after making there money from the south & are two retierd ship masters make hir Leave the poart of Charleston without A freight if possible & that will fetch them to thare senses & the only thing that will doet is to spot thare ships & give them no freight they both voted for this fugitive slave law <illegible> to have any thing to do with A runaway slave when Caught out of the slave holding states the Caps of the Bark is A good fellow & no black about him or any of his relation I remain yours truly
A trew friend to the South.
A SHIP MASTER.
The recent vote in New Orleans shows that 9000 voters refused to go to the polls. Out of 17,000 voters only 8000 voted, and yet the majority for secession was only 300.
