<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind. J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 41. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1865.
Selections.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
LETTER FROM HON. CHARLES 
The question, says the New York Independent, whether the affirmative action of the Legislatures of three-fourths of the loyal States amounts to a legal ratification of the amendment lately proposed by Congress to the Constitution of the United States-the loyal States so acting being less than three-fourths of all the States embraced in the Union before the rebellion-is certainly one of much interest in itself and, in a by no means impossible contingency, it may become of great practical importance. It is a question of law, worthy to tax the judicial intellect of the country. Without at present expressing any opinion ourselves, we think it only just to our readers to give a conspicuous place to the following letter from Mr. Sumner, commending his argument to their serious and attention:
To the Editors of the Evening 
As a faithful of the Evening Post for many years, I have perused your article insisting that all present effort for guaranties of national security and national faith must be postponed, in order to the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment by which slavery is abolished throughout the United States. If the Constitutional Amendment were not already ratified by the requisite number of States, I should doubt if even this most desirable object could be a sufficient excuse for leaving the national and the national creditor exposed to peril, when our exertions now can save them. But allow me to inquire if you do not forget that, according to the usage of the national government in analogous cases, this amendment has been already ratified by the requisite number of States, so that, at this moment, it is valid, to intents and purposes, as a part of the Constitution? There was a butcher once who looked everywhere for his knife, forgetting that that he held it then between his teeth. There also was So good "Doctor," who was in love without knowing it; and you have laughed, I am sure, at the story to illustrate this condition, where the traveller, asking how far it was to a place called "The Pan," was answered "You be in the Pan now." It seems to me that, like the traveller, the doctor, and the butcher, you already have what you desire; so that, even according to your programme, the way is clear for insisting upon those things embraced under"Security for the Future."
The Constitution of the United States decides that "the Congress, whenever two-thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments to the Constitution, which shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States." On these words the simple question arises, What constitutes the quorum?
But the usage of the national government in analogous cases has determined that the quorum is founded on the States actually participating in the government. This has been decided in both houses of Congress. The House of Representatives led the way in fixing its quorum according to actual representation, or, in other words, at a majority of the members elected and qualified. The Senate, after careful consideration and protracted debate, followed in establishing a similar rule. The Constitutional Amendment was originally adopted in both houses organized according to this rule. The national debt has been sanctioned by both houses thus organized. Treaties, also, with foreign powers, have been sanctioned in the Senate thus organized.
Applying this rule, the quorum of States requisite for the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment is plainly three-fourths of the States actually participating in the government; or, in other words, three-fourths of the States having "legislatures." Where a State has no "legislature," it may be still a State; but it cannot be practically counted in the organization of Congress; and I submit that the same rule must prevail in the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment. The reason of the rule is the same in each case. If you insist upon counting a rebel State having no "legislatures," you make a concession to rebellion. You concede to a mutinous State the power to arrest, it may be, the organization of Congress; or, it may be, amendments to the Constitution important to the general welfare. This is not reasonable. Therefore, on grounds of reason as well as usage, I prefer the accepted rule.
If this conclusion needed any support in authority, it would find it in the declared opinion of one of our best law-writers, who is cited with respect in all the courts of the country. I refer to Mr., who in the third edition of his Commentaries on the Criminal Law, (vol. I., p. 776.) published within a few days, discusses this question at length. In the course of his remarks uses the following language: "If the matter were one relating to any other subject than slavery, no legal person would ever doubt that, when there are States with legislatures and States without legislatures, and the Constitution submits a question to the determination of the legislature of three-fourths of the several States, meaning is, three-fourths of the States which have legislatures. In fact, it does not require either legal wisdom or legal acumen to see this, provided we look at the point disconnected from the peculiar subject of slavery." The learned author then proceeds to illustrate this statement in a manner to which I can see no answer.
To my mind, all this seems so plain that I am disposed to ask pardon for arguing it. Of course, there is no question whether a State is in the Union or out of the Union. It is enough that it is without a "legislature," and on this point there can be no question. Being without a legislature, it cannot be counted in determining the quorum.
Therefore, unless I greatly err, the Constitutional Amendment has been already ratified by the requisite number of States; so that slavery is now abolished in name-first, by the proclamation of President Lincoln; and, secondly, by Constitutional Amendment. It remains that we should provide supplementary safeguards, and complete the good work that has been begun, by taking care that slavery is abolished in fact as well as in name, and that the are protected by irreversible guaranties. Without this further provision, I see small prospect of that peace and reconciliation which is the object so near our hearts.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES SUMNER.
Boston, Sept. 28, 1865.
Governor Sharkey has given the opinion that unpardoned legislators will not be able to take seats. This will make Gen. Humphreys, the candidate for Governor, ineligible. President Johnson will probably pardon Gen. Humphreys.
<c02>1
A WORD TO THE SOLDIERS.
In view of the fact that some returned soldiers have permitted their names to be used as candidates for office by the so-called Democratic party, the presumption must be that these soldiers have forgotten the treasonable record of that party with reference to the late infamous rebellion.
An impartial review of the events of the past five years establishes the following propositions as facts beyond dispute in the mind of any man of ordinary intelligence:
That the leaders and controllers of that party, North and South, labored constantly and earnestly for years to" fire the Southern heart" for rebellion and war.
That they published the threat throughout the land, that the South would not remain in the Union if Mr. Lincoln were elected.
That they declared through political meetings and conventions in all sections of the country, that the General Government could not and should not "coerce" a State to obedience if it saw fit to break up the Union; thus inviting the South to light the torch of civil war.
That under the administration of the old traitor, Buchanan, they permitted no less than six States to withdraw from the Union, and set up and organize a new government under the name of "Confederate States of America" with that infamous villain, Jefferson Davis, as President.
That in this manner they brought about those acts of war upon the Government which resulted in that dreadful struggle, which for more than four years deluged our land in the blood of its best citizens.
That during this dark and bloody period in our nation's history, whatever influence they possessed as a party was given in favor of Treason, and against the Government of the Union.
They denounced and opposed the first call for troops as wrong and "unconstitutional."
In Baltimore they attacked the first troops that moved forward to defend our Capital.
They obstructed the operations of our forces against the rebels whenever and wherever they possibly could.
They encouraged the rebels to persevere by constantly declaring that we "could never conquer the South."
They spoke and wrote of the rebels as "our erring Southern brethren," and of the Union soldiers as "Lincoln's hirelings."
They discouraged volunteering, thus rendering drafts necessary to fill the ranks of the army.
They opposed the enforcement of the draft, and raised armed mobs which destroyed property and human life with fiendish barbarity.
They encouraged and aided thousands to desert from the Union armies, and when United States officers and soldiers attempted to arrest deserters, they were resisted by armed men-members of this so-called Democratic party.
They ambuscaded and murdered United States officers and soldiers in various parts of the Northern States.
They raised bodies of armed men in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and other States to resist the authority of the United States.
They openly advocated the formation of a "Northwestern Confederacy," to weaken and destroy the Union.
They instituted secret treasonable societies, with military organizations, and stealthily procured arms and munitions of war for their members. 
They were slow to believe reports of Union successes, but readily believed rebel reports of Union disasters.
They based all their hopes of political success on their confident belief that the rebellion must triumph.
They denounced our Generals-Grant, Sherman, Butler and others-as "butchers," "brutes" and" "beasts;" but spoke and wrote of Jeff. Davis, Lee, Johnston, and their co-traitors, as the highest types of Christian gentlemen!
They invariably denied the right of soldiers to vote in the field, and frequently adopted as their motto, "Not another man nor another dollar for this infernal war!"
Finally, they met in their National Convention at Chicago in August, 1864, and in the most solemn manner to the world that the war was a "failure" on our part, and of course a success on the part of the rebels.
The assassination of President Lincoln, by a Northern Democrat, was the natural result of the secret and public teachings of the so-called Democratic party.
That every intelligent American must ever hold the so-called Democratic party, North and South, responsible for the bloody war which has desolated our country-for the widows and orphans that fill the land with mourning-for the maimed and disabled heroes who are seen all around us-for the load of debt brought upon the nation-for the death of thousands of patriots who fell in the struggle, in battle, by disease, or by starvation at the hands of Southern Democrats in loathsome prisons-for all the evils growing out of the war-for prolonging and intensifying the struggle-for, in fact, doubling its duration and horrors by aiding, encouraging, sympathizing with and sustaining the late rebellion.
From these propositions we deduce the following:
That the soldier who accepts the political caresses of the so-called Democratic party must be either totally lost to every sentiment of honest patriotism, or totally ignorant of the political history of the past five years!
That every true soldier will reject with scorn the political favors of those who stabbed at his back when he was facing his country's enemies in the field.-Chicago Tribune.
WHO ARE THE COPPERHEADS?
The New York Evening Post has occasionally some very good articles. Here is a list of pro-slavery and copperhead contradictions, which hits the nail on the head, and may do some good. It was written in answer to articles which appeared in a rebel organ, the Daily News, and called out a reply from that paper very feeble as to be an actual confession of the truth of the Post's accusations:
First: That the free negro will not work at all, but
Second: That he will work so much better than the white laborer, that the latter will be injured by the "pressure of negro competition."
Third: That the country will be ruined by the idleness of the free blacks, but
Fourth: That the negroes are so eager for work as to leave none for white workmen.
Filth: That the negroes are a curse to the country, but
Sixth: That the slave system which made negro breeding a regular and profitable business, and thus increased their numbers at an abnormal rate, was a divine institution and blessing to the land.
<c03>
Seventh: That the negro is naturally an abject coward, but
Eighth: That he is a most dangerous creature, capable of rising and murdering a community double his numbers, and with a hundred times his strength in arms, and all preparations for defence.
Ninth: That the negro can only live in a warm climate, like that of the Southern States, but
Tenth: That now he is set free there, he will immediately rush North, and take the bread out of the mouths of the white workingmen here.
Eleventh: That white men cannot work in the Southern fields, which can be cultivated only by negroes, but
Twelfth: That the negroes ought all to be colonized in Africa, or driven off to some remote corner of this continent.
Thirteenth: That the freedmen are so stupid and ignorant as to be dangerous to the Republic, but
Fourteenth: That they ought not to be instructed or permitted to acquire knowledge.
Fifteenth: That it would be a curse to Northern workingmen to have the negroes flock into these States, but
Sixteenth: That Northern workingmen ought not to favor a policy which would make the negroes contented to remain in the South.
Seventeenth: That the workingmen of the Northern States are the most intelligent, the most capable, the most industrious, and the most virtuous in the world, but
Eighteenth: That they will inevitably be ruined and deprived of work by the competition of ignorant and idle negroes.
Nineteenth: That the presence of the blacks among us will always be a source of difficulty and trouble, but
Twentieth: That the emancipation act is wrong, chiefly because, under its operation, the negro race is likely to die out, like the Indians.

TRUE TO THEIR FRIENDS.
The Albany Argus, copperhead, indignantly scouts the imputation that the action of the New York State Convention was unfriendly or discourteous to the democrats of other States, and says:
"The proceedings of the Convention attest, what those present will confirm, that not one word or thought inimical to the Democracy of any part of the Union, North or South, was uttered by that body, or by any one of its members."
To this the Buffalo Express replies:
"Every body will acquit the New York Democracy of manifesting any other than the kindest, most cordial, friendly, fraternal, sympathetic, fellow-feeling towards either Jeff. Davis, Breckinridge, George Sanders, Vallandigham, Long, Bowles, Milligan, Dick Richardson, Isaac Toucey, or Chauncey C. Burr. Their present attitude and profession must not be construed by their brethren of the Confederacy and the Golden Circle as indicative of the slightest alteration in their former sympathies and feelings."
The New York like the Maine copperheads are true to their friends. It was declared by one of the speakers in the State Convention of the party in this city,-and the statement was received with vociferous cheers,-that when the confederates laid down their arms, and surrendered to Grant and Sherman, they back on democratic principles, and that the late revolted States were now reliable democratic States! In other words, rebellion was not inconsistent with Democracy, and a man might have been an armed rebel yesterday, and a friend of Democracy and the Constitution to-day! The cause of the Southern rebel and the Northern copperhead is one and indivisible, and it would be preposterous for them, after working together for four years, to quarrel now.-Maine State Press.

THE WARNING FROM ALABAMA.
The Alabama State Convention has adjourned. Better for President Johnson's plans had it never met! But, since it must needs meet, let loyal citizens rejoice that its measures were so satisfactorily bad! For, as at one time during the war, the of freedom depended more on the folly of the South than on the wisdom of the North, so now the hopes of reconstruction depend more on the blindness of the rebels than on the foresight of the Government. The South is outgeneraling the Administration-to the defeat of both tacticians. The President's policy gave the South an opportunity to demand too much. But the South abuses the too liberal privilege, and demands more than too much. We hope the consequence will be, that she will get, not only less than she grasps at, but less than the President's plan, strictly construed, contemplates. There is an apple of gold, whose core is ashes-a tempting fruit, to which ambitious hands often reach out in hope, to be drawn back in disappointment. The South is yet to learn, by the crushing of her remaining gilded illusions, that she is to win no victory over the Union, either through War or through Peace. So let her for a while be arrogant, defiant, disloyal, impertinent-the worse, the better! "Give more madness, Lord!"
Meanwhile, the Ship of State is temporarily aground on the shoals of Alabama. That State has decreed, through her Convention, by 59 to 16, that the negro shall not testify in courts of justice; and having passed this infamous measure, she has had the effrontery to demand of President Johnson a general amnesty, and pardon to all the Southern people, and his withdrawal of all the Federal troops from that State.
Such is the reconstruction which the Southern States, left to themselves, propose to make! Such is the farce of readjustment which the United States Government is idly permitting its late enemies to re-enact in State after State! Is it possible that the President approves this mockery? Or, if he disapprove it, does his own theory of State ism permit him to remedy what he deplores?
Look at it! During the last four years, the Government has had its eyes on two classes at the South-the whites and the blacks. The whites, with a few exceptions, have been traitors; the blacks, with no exceptions, have been loyal. The whites have been the enemies of the Union; the blacks, its friends. The whites have starved our prisoners; the blacks have often gone hungry that our soldiers might eat. The whites are still at heart the same enemies of liberty as during the rebellion; the blacks are still the only trustworthy basis of loyalty in seven States. These two classes are the constituent elements of the South. Now the South is to be reinstated in the Union, and what is the President's plan of reinstatement? He says to the States, "You are sovereign; make up your mind in your own way; suit your own will and pleasure." To which Alabama responds, "Our choice is made. Deny to the negro all right to testify that we persecute him; pardon every rebel, in order that his suppressed insolence may no longer dread a punishment for its open expression; recall all the Federal troops from our State, that no bayonets may be left to revenge the daily murders of Yankees; and then you may join us
<c04>
once more to the Union, that we may govern it in the future as we have governed it in the past." Such is the present juncture of reconstruction? Does it exhibit the Federal Government in an enviable light? Does the President's policy, considered as a text, with the Alabama convention, considered as a commentary, read like a history of foreordained success? If the President's plan of reconstruction, already amply tested, be not a failure, then there are no failures in politics. And we give warning in time, that, if this policy is to continue, unchecked and unchanged, the Government will yet see itself called to give answer to the people why the gathered fruits of four long years of war have been suffered during one short year of peace to rot and perish in its hands!
Deny the negro his oath in the courts? If any mouth is to be shut against swearing at the bar of justice, shall it not be the Southern white man's, who has heretofore broken his oaths, rather than the Southern black man's, who has heretofore kept them? Publish an amnesty to the whole South? Not till the South ceases to commit offences which cannot be amnestied. When the South shall have given a general amnesty to the negroes, we will ask the Government to consider a general amnesty to the South -never before! When the negroes shall announce to the President, saying, "We are safe; we fear no white man's face; we suffer no tyranny from our former masters; we have the self-protection of the ballot"-then the Federal Government may consider an amnesty, and withdraw the Union troops- but not till then.
The South seems ambitious to come off the field a victor in something. Beaten by the North, nothing remains for the vanquished chivalry except to conquer the negro. But the former slaves, if now left to the unrestricted will of their former masters, would suffer a tyranny and cruelty at which the world would shudder. Pity the free negro under the rod of the slaveholder who once whipped him as a slave!
The Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, when it declared the slaves free, made a covenant with every man and woman whom it liberated, pledging the and the navy to the maintenance of their freedom henceforth and forever. Moreover, the Government of the United States, in summoning the black man to be a citizen, morally bound itself thereby to see him possessed of whatever belongs to a citizen. Now, every citizen is entitled specially and supremely to protection. This is, therefore, the claim which 4,000,000 loyal citizens at the South make upon the successor of Abraham Lincoln. Meanwhile, Mr. Johnson stands in a doubtful attitude, at a juncture where doubt is danger. Justice at his right hand, and Humanity at his left, both cry into his ear, "Protect the negro against his master;" but, instead of heeding, the President appears, to have been all the while waiting to know what such States as Alabama would do-till at last Alabama proposes, as her plan, to exclude the only loyal citizen of the South from her courts of justice, and to banish the only trusty soldier of the Union from a place on her ramparts. Such is the bitter fruit that grows on the stalk of the President's policy!
We groan in spirit, and ask, When will Congress meet-N. Y. Independent.

MERCY TO THE MERCIFUL.
The late rebels plead for mercy. With constant importunity they solicit the pardon of Jeff. Davis. The effort in his behalf is made with especial vigor. The women in many States have sent petitions to the President, lauding the virtues of their beloved, and praying that he be released from imprisonment, to gladden their sorrowful hearts. In some States the conventions for the reorganization of State governments have, in an informal manner, uttered the same prayer. We suppose the President will be besieged by these petitions for their late leader, as well as for themselves, till their prayers be granted, or the great traitor be effectually disposed of in some other way than they wish.
The spirit of these pardon seekers is rather truculent for men who have no rights except those which are accorded to them by the magnanimity of the people whom they sue for mercy. They affect humility, but their real spirit crops out in their acts and speech. They poorly requite clemency which is shown them. Their spirit is exemplified in one of the incidents of the South Carolina Convention. Mr. William Wallace, one of the delegates, offered a resolution, declaring that since "our former noble and adored Chief Magistrate, Jefferson Davis," by the fortunes of war, is now languishing in prison, awaiting his trial for treason, and since "the fanatics of the North, not satisfied with the widespread ruin and desolation which they have caused, are shrieking for his blood, be it resolved that South Carolina, who led the way in our struggle for independence," ought to use every lawful means in her power to avert the doom which threatens him; be it also resolved, proposed Wallace, that a deputation be sent to the President from this body, to ask him "to show the same clemency towards the Hon. Jefferson Davis as he has shown to us, who are equally sharers of his guilt, if guilt there be." We admire this frankness. A one-legged rebel general had a suspicion that the proposal was almost too frank, and offered a substitute, proposing that a committee be appointed to draft a memorial to the President on this subject, to be addressed to him by the Convention. The Convention adopted the proposition, and a committee was appointed to draw up the memorial.
This incongruity in the acts and the solicitations of the recent rebels is glaringly apparent. They have far less inclination to show mercy than to be pardoned. They have not learned the practice of charity and lenity. "Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors," is not their daily petition. For the sake of harmony, public order and general welfare in the late insurgent States, it is needful that the white rebels manifest that spirit of forgiveness and charity towards a large class of their population which they plead for in respect to themselves. It is a question that men of forecast seriously ask themselves, whether clemency by the government has not gone far enough towards rebels, when their attitude and sentiments are such as we see exemplified in the acts of the pardoned in all the Southern States. If much is forgiven, shall not something be exacted? If the claims of justice remitted on one hand, shall they not be enforced on the other? If the nation pardons its foes, shall it not, at the same time, protect its friends and faithful allies? If the South says, "Pardon Jeff. Davis," shall it not be said to them, "Remove the political disabilities you have imposed upon the colored loyal men in your States. It requires nothing from you but the of your prejudices. Be magnanimous while plead for magnanimity. As you do, so shall it be done to you." This response to the solicitation would be in, the spirit of mercy and justice. If the aim of it were to be achieved, the result would be alike beneficent to white and colored people in the South.-Utica Herald.
<c05>
KID GLOVES FOR, THE REBELS.
The editor of the Washington Chronicle is a remarkably facile man. He can accommodate his opinions to almost any necessity-at least, while favors pour in upon him to swell his basket and store.
No man has said severer things of the rebels than Col. Forney; no one has done better service than he for the Union cause; but all of a sudden he seems smitten with a merciful spirit, so that he seems willing, to accommodate the men whose hands were but recently upon the nation's throat, to forgive all that is past, and to bend in the attitude of apology before the autocrats of the late whip and thumb-screw.
Noticing the recent message of Gov. Perry of South Carolina,-one of the most insulting documents to the loyal men of the North that has yet emanated from a reformed (!) rebel,-the Chronicle says:
"We accept what he offers, as not only a good beginning, but a first rate example to others. He comes up to the demands of the hour with a manly spirit, and suggests such reform in the old Constitution of South Carolina as will make the ghosts of her aristocracy shriek through their abodes."
How mild! How condescending! How decidedly object! "We accept what he offers!" The conquerors of a gigantic rebellion "accept" terms from a conquered rebel! Disgraceful servility to a spavined, wind-broken, yet insolent oligarchy! After drenching the land with loyal blood and spending thousands of millions of treasure to overcome and put down South Carolina treason, we are to "accept" what is offered to us by the authors of all our troubles! Out upon such abject servility to a false idea of right! The Government is strong enough and has reason enough to dictate terms to all rebels, and it should do it. Less than this is derogatory to its dignity.-Maine State Press.

WHAT THE REBELS MUST BE TAUGHT.
"The war," says the Boston Herald, "has not only broken the iron bands which bound the black man in chains, but it has scattered and destroyed the men who sought to fasten this foul stain more strongly upon the American people. It has impoverished its authors, and dragged them down to perdition. They are now outcasts from society, and will be despised in the future, and looked upon as a disgrace to the age in which they lived. We must regenerate Southern society, and drive out from it that barbarism which slavery has fostered, nurtured and created. Southerners must be taught to respect public opinion, and given to understand that they cannot practise cruelty with impunity, either upon the black or white race. They are in a way now to find out that they have certain duties to perform to society which cannot be avoided, and that they can no longer crack the whip over the slave or control public opinion. They must remodel their society to correspond with that existing in every land of freedom. They must cultivate the arts and sciences, and become refined themselves. They must cultivate the Christian graces, and study the attributes of Deity. This we believe they will do in time, and that a wonderful change will yet take place among those who have heretofore been in darkness and wickedness, disregarding the Divine injunction to do unto others as they would that others should do unto them. We must not expect this great change will take place in a day, or a year. It may take many years; yet, that it will be done, we have not the slightest doubt. God has so ordained it, and His will cannot be stayed by human power."

THE GREATEST OF ABSURDITIES. Of all the absurdities in which the human intellect has been involved, the greatest is that which opens the ballot to the free use of the late rebels, to help in settling the questions that have been at issue between the loyal and the disloyal during the past five years. To merely mention it should be enough to excite a feeling of disgust, modified somewhat by the ludicrous. Look at it. The Southern people, a majority of them, rebelled. The Northern people, a majority of them, took the responsibility of crushing the rebellion and saving the nation. A minority of the Northern people were opposed to the majority in this work, and hence the double task of holding the refractory at home in check, and of whipping the traitors, was imposed upon the loyal. We have been successful in the appeal to battle, and have succeeded to all the rights of conquerors, the chief of which is the right of dictating the terms of settlement.
And now what? It is proposed to permit the conquered rebels and these enemies in our midst to come together, and if, on the count, they should prove to be the majority, to dictate to us the terms of settlement! That is, the conquered may prescribe, adopt and carry into effect the terms for settling a dispute which existed before the war was brought to the of arms, and the decision given against them-Cincinnati Gazette.

CONNECTICUT AND FREE SUFFRAGE.
Connecticut, in her election yesterday, refused the right of suffrage to the colored people within her limits. The oldest of her citizens may live to regret that act of short-sightedness and injustice. She has committed wrong from pure love of it, for nobody will pretend that the decision would, either one way or the other, particularly affect the political character of the State, so far as votes are concerned. There are only, according to the last census, about 2,000 negroes in the State who would be entitled to the suffrage, and if they all voted with either party, it would not change the result, presuming parties to continue to the relative positions they have for a few years past. The Republicans could, if they had chosen, have given the right of suffrage to the blacks in spite of the whole Copperhead vote in the State. Not to do so was to add just so much moral strength to the Copperhead party, and to weaken their own. The act is simply one of gross injustice, which can only be accounted for by the fact that even four years of terrible war has not been enough to knead the dough out of the old pro-Slavery of Connecticut to their Southern slaveholding masters. They hated black men because Slavery whipped them into it, and they haven't acquired manhood enough, even from the last four years' teaching, to have got over it. The old marks of the slave-driver's whip are as plain on the back of Connecticut to-day as they are on the backs of the half-emancipated blacks of the South.
The act makes the road before us to complete peace and the restoration of the Union more difficult. That heretofore 1,000 men in a voting population of 75,000 were disfranchised in Connecticut, though a very base wrong and a signal outrage, was a matter of comparatively small practical importance. But that such an evil example should be followed and sustained by the moral in-
<c06>
citizens-not more than 2,000 in the whole State; whose only hope of justice, therefore, is not in their own strength, but altogether in the magnanimity of the overwhelming majority of their white countrymen-that this unmanly vote is like the act of a strong man striking a lame child. The disfranchised class, even if permitted to vote, would never change the result of an ordinary election in that State. This denial of their right to the ballot-box is not from any political reason, but a mere unpardonable indulgence in an unchristian prejudice- to the ungentlemanly spirit of caste-a half-victory of the defeated rebellion.
Nor is it the Democratic, but the Republican party, that must stand responsible for this injustice. Democrats were expected to vote against equal rights, but the intelligent Republicans of a New England State knew better than so to trifle away a just cause-affecting the rights not only of 2,000 black men, who asked to vote in Connecticut, but of 750,000 of their brethren, who ask to vote in the South. Moreover, we speak no more than the plain and sad truth when we say that the Republicans of Connecticut divide with the President of the nation the blame of this injury to a defenceless handful of humble men. If Mr. Johnson had said to the Republican party of that State, "Gentlemen, my policy of reconstruction will be aided by a vote for equal suffrage in Connecticut, "solemnly assert that Connecticut would have triumphantly given such a vote. No well-informed man can deny this fact. During the last four years, the great majority of the loyal people of the North have accustomed themselves to say, "We u the Government, and therefore, whatever policy the Government finds it expedient to adopt, that is the policy we vote for." Accordingly, if the administration had chosen a policy of justice, instead of injustice, and had asked from the people a verdict in favor of equal suffrage as a basis of permanent peace, the response would have been a sweeping approval throughout the North. On the contrary, the President virtually invited Connecticut to join with Alabama in denying the negro his rights. It is a lamentable sign of the times to see the alacrity with which the Republican and the Democratic parties in some of the States are trying to outvie each other in praises of Mr. Johnson's worthy policy. In view of this ill-boding coalition, it becomes more than ever the duty of the radicals-and of all men who love Justice more than Party, and Liberty more than the Administration-to take warning from the multiplying perils of the country, and to watch with renewed vigilance that the Republic receives no detriment.-N. Y. Independent.

AN EVIL DECISION.
Connecticut's decision against the extension of suffrage to persons of color, though it does not much surprise us, is annoying. It helps strengthen the cause of bigotry and intolerance everywhere, and it will be especially serviceable to those politicians whose principal object it is to prevent Southern freedmen from becoming citizens. To such men this exhibition of meanness on the part of a New England State will be of priceless value, it is so quotable in support of slavery, prejudice, and injustice, which form the sum of their political creed, and in their combination are known as Democracy. We cannot deny that the decision is a blow to the cause of equal rights, but that cause is accustomed to receive blows, and much heavier ones than Connecticut is competent to deliver, and yet it never falls under them. It "still lives," and it is destined to win many victories, until it shall have completed its triumph, which will include the recognition of the equality of races as well as of men. We regret that so respectable a State as Connecticut should have allowed herself to be ranged on the wrong side in the warfare between ignorance and truth, but we do not accept her decision as final, or as having any binding force on the liberal party, or as indicating the line of policy that should be pursued toward the colored people at the South. The political elevation of Southern freedmen is desirable for the nation's security as well as for the promotion of justice. As a nation meets its pecuniary obligations promptly as well because it is politic so to do as because it is the part of justice to keep its faith, so should it make citizens of freedmen, not only because justice demands that course, but for the lower reason that policy dictates it. We ought to be able to see, by this time, that we have but little to hope from white Southrons in the way of national reconstruction, and that a proper sense of safety requires that we should have in the conquered country a band of men upon whose attachment we shall be able to rely. If we should apply the Connecticut policy to the South, we must expect to lose most of the benefits we have derived from the war, and the conflict we had thought decided will have to be fought over again. The renewal of the alliance between the Democracy and the slaveocracy hardly can fail to restore that party to power which calmly brought civil war upon the nation as soon as it had been beaten at the polls; and another failure at the polls might cause it to renew the war. Then we are to consider how the colored population of the South would like the decision that they are to remain politically enslaved. Could it be expected of them to remain quiet under the insult, and to accept degradation forever by the deliberate action of the country which they had helped to save from destruction? Were they to accept in quiet the unrighteous sentence,-were they to make no effort to gain the enjoyment of their natural rights,- their conduct would go far to justify the decision that had been made adversely to their claim. But they would not remain quiet; they would become an agitating race, and would give us much trouble. They are too numerous to be safely oppressed. Four millions of people cannot be treated unjustly, and they be expected to accept injustice without
162 THE LIBERATOR OCOTBER 13.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
making an effort to get rid of it. Were they but four hundred thousand in number, we might treat ourselves to the luxury of oppression without the risk of exciting insurrections; but four millions are other figures, and indicate possession of that strength which causes the oppressed to rise. Our revolutionary ancestors were not three millions when they encountered the whole power of England, rather than allow their legal rights to be imperilled. Four millions of negroes would become as dangerous to this country as were about the same number of Irishmen to England; and as the Irish extorted Catholic emancipation from the English government, the blacks might be able to extort political freedom from us.  Would it not be the part of wisdom to treat them justly from the beginning, and to avoid humiliation hereafter?-Boston Traveller. 
THE VOTE OF CONNENTICUT.
Connecticut not only disgraced herself, but deeply injured the cause of the country, by her decision yesterday against negro suffrage. She solemnly, by the votes of a majority of her people, endorsed an unchristian and unrepublican prejudice, at a time when that prejudice threatens to render vain and useless all the sacrifices of the war. She has gone for the principle that” this is a white man's government," which really means that this is a country to be governed by Southern white men. She has entered her protest agains” nigger equality," which means that she goes heart and soul for Southern predominance. Her meanness will be historic: from the State of the regicides she has descended to be the State of the renegades; and it will never be forgotten that, in a great crisis of liberty, when it was expected that the communities of New England would at least remain united, 
“She alone broke from the van and the freemen, She alone sank to the rear and the slaves.” 
The moral effect of the defeat of the principle of impartial suffrage in Connecticut cannot be exaggerated, though probably the victory for exclusion has been obtained by the votes of those whom any rigorous principle of restricted suffrage would exclude. The decision will be quoted all over the country as a Puritan endorsement of a Pagan prejudice.” “How,” every Copperhead will exultingly exclaim, “can you expect negro suffrage at the South, when it will not be tolerated in New England?” From the stump speech to the congressional harangue, we shall have no end of variations on this tune; every low-minded demagogue that has the impudence to call himself a Democrat will scream with delight over this great triumph of the aristocracy of skin; and if the “nigger” is only down, there are many who will not care even if Davis is up. 
But the truth is, the prudent and selfish argument for impartial suffrage, the argument drawn from considerations of national safety, the argument which should influence the mind of every holder of the U. S. debt, whether he holds a hundred dollars or a hundred thousand, remains unaffected by the apostacy of Connecticut. The number of negroes in the free States is small; in the apportionment of representatives to Congress it is scarcely felt; but in the South the blacks constitute more than a third of the population, and represent a political power equal to thirty members of the House of Representatives, and thirty presidential electors. Now, a man may detest negroes as much as he pleases; but, if he has any stake in the country, if be does not desire to see the late rebels masters of the U. S. Government, and wielding all its military and naval resources, he will be opposed to putting this political power into the hands of persons who have proved their enmity to the country by drenching it in blood. 
The game of the Copperheads is plain. They count on so stimulating prejudices, that, to gratify them, men will sacrifice their interests; and they hope to restore the parricides and liberticides, the Sumter traitors and the Andersonville jailors, to political power, by getting up a hue and cry against the right of the negro to vote. If, after the experience of the war, the loyal people of the free States are such idiots as to be caught in such a palpable trap, they will richly deserve their fate. 
For how, in the simple matter of the national debt, does the question present itself to every rational man? The Southern people have lost, by the war, at least three thousand million of dollars. Their share in the U. S. debt, a debt incurred in putting down their insurrection, will be eight hundred millions of dollars. They hold none of the securities of this debt, and would lose nothing by its repudiation. They necessarily consider it not only as a yearly tax of some fifty millions on their industry, but as a sign of their humiliation and conquest. Can anybody who knows anything of human nature doubt that the South would repudiate this debt if it had the power? But give it representation in Congress according to its population, while over a third of its population is excluded from voting, and it only needs the alliance of a small portion of our Northern representatives to endow it with that power. The South will have a third of the House of Representatives; it requires only the addition of a sixth of the House, elected from Northern constituencies, to give it the control of the U. S. Government. And this it will obtain, if the Northern people are mad enough to sacrifice their interests and their honor to a foolish prejudice against color. 
TO THE REAR.
The proposed amendment to the Connecticut State Constitution has been rejected by a majority of not less than six thousand. To say that the State has disgraced itself by this action, is to express but a small part of the indignation which it has inspired among intelligent and high-minded men. There are two ways of viewing it: One as it affects the colored citizens of Connecticut, the other as it will affect national issues. In one respect it is supremely base, in the other an act of palpable folly, a sin against light, for which the State will yet repent in sorrow. There are said to be two thousand men in Connecticut every way qualified to vote, except in point of complexion. They shade on the wrong color. They have been resident in the State the required time. They have attained the required standard of intelligence. They have kept themselves out of the courts, and have lived at peace with their neighbors. They have paid their taxes without grumbling, and have had a larger proportion of representatives in the Union armies than their enfranchised white fellow-citizens. Yet this magnanimous white aristocracy, like a great bully whipping a cripple in the streets, decides that these two thousand men shall remain under the stigma of unjust laws, compelled to bear the burdens and responsibility of citizenship without a taste or a hope of its rewards. It was expected that the “democratic” party would meet this question with united opposition. That party in Connecticut has been reliable at least in this: that it has treated colored men with consistent and devoted hatred, varying in intensity with their intelligence, their patriotism, and their general claims to public respect. But it was not thought possible that five thousand republicans, who have lived through the experiences of the last five years, could be found, even in Connecticut, to join in this wicked and insensate cry. They at least had nothing to fear from the passage of this amendment. It could not have harmed them in their persons, nor in their social or political relations. They had it in their power to do a just and magnanimous thing, which would have benefited many, and harmed no human being or institution on the face of the earth. They refused. This defection of “conservative republicans" was utterly disgraceful, and the odium which will always attach to this act of baseness and folly belongs chiefly to them. Ordinarily, such a vote as this would have no special interest beyond the persons immediately affected by it. It would be judged simply as the work of men blind with party passion, or the bigotry of caste, and sure to correct itself in time. But at this time there are large public interests involved, which ought to have mitigated party hostility, and softened the prejudices of men who are not accustomed to withstand them. We are asking the white ruling class in South Carolina to extend the right of suffrage to their black fellow-citizens, who may be eligible in all other respects. The blacks are the only loyal people there, and there is no security for liberty or the Union, so far as the power of South Carolina extends, except in a uniform and impartial enfranchisement. But the white aristocracy there, calling itself the State, plants its foot anew upon the necks of its victims, and points to New England for its example and justification. The half-pardoned rebels of Alabama and Mississippi, with half the populations of their States entirely at their mercy, and boldly declaring 
<c02>
their intention to keep them so, appeal triumphantly to the starved republicanism of Connecticut for their apology and defence. And every State which has wronged the government by rebellion, and outraged humanity by oppression, will strengthen itself, not for good ends, by the example of the Philander Buttons, who upon this vital issue have placed Connecticut by their side.-Worcester Spy. 
“CONSERVATIVE” REPUBLICANS. 
The majority vote by which Connecticut placed herself in the position of the meanest of the States, 
was larger than the first accounts led us to imagine. It amounted to 6000; a result, says the telegraph,”
“which is largely owing to the Conservative Republicans."
We should suppose from this announcement that a Conservative Republican denotes in Connecticut, a politician so small in brain and spiteful in heart, that even the Copperheads would not admit him into their companionship. We learn that A. H. Stephens, now confined in Fort Warren, is in favor of the impartial suffrage which Connecticut repudiated,-that is, he is in favor of allowing negroes, qualified by an educational test, to vote. This, on the Connecticut definition, makes Stephens a “radical” Republican. We had a vague notion that there were some conservatives in Boston and its vicinity; we had the impression that such men as Jared Sparks, Judge Washburn, Judge Parsons, Charles G. Loring, John M. Forbes, Richard H. Dana, Jr.. Nathaniel Thayer, not to mention others, were not particularly famous for their “rampant radicalism;” but we suppose it is necessary to give in to the present confusion of tongues, and stigmatize the majority of our eminently respectable citizens as Yankee Marats and Robespierres, passionate for abstractions and thirsting for blood.
Indeed, a Connecticut “Conservative” or counterfeit Republican is somewhat of a puzzle, unless 
we suppose that business considerations determine the part he plays. It may be that he belongs to that class of Connecticut traders, half real, half mythical, and all cheat, who were in the custom of vending walnut nutmegs, wooden pumpkin seeds, and other ingenious “notions” at the South, in the 
old times of “the Union as it was." He perhaps sees a prospect of a rapid re-opening of this lucrative peddling in case reconstruction is conducted on what he calls conservative principles, and is willing to join in a crusade against “the niggers," provided thereby he can get that peculiar reputation of a “true friend to the South," which will enable him to palm off his bogus wares. In this proposed union of Sam Slick with Vallandighani, no “Radical” Republican will be inclined to forbid the banns.-Transcript.

CONNECTICUT AND IMPARTIAL SUFFRAGE.
Last Monday, the people of Connecticut voted upon the question of amending the State Constitution by striking out the word “white” as a qualification for exercising the right of suffrage. The negative prevailed by a few thousands. The result was not unexpected. There has always been more of the wicked, slavery-engendered prejudice against the negro in Connecticut, than in any other of the New England States. The Copperhead Democracy are a unit against dealing justly by the colored man, and in this are joined by such of the Republican party as specially affect what is called “Conservatism.” Connecticut has her full share, and more too, of “Copperheadism” and “Conservatism." One is almost inclined to think that her super-southern horror of black at the present day may be the reactive result of her devoted attachment to blue in the olden time. 
The result is not a surprise, but the friends of Liberty, Equality and Human Progress would have rejoiced could it have been different. The verdict of Connecticut, disgraceful in itself to her and to New England, will have a tendency to render the work of Reconstruction, upon the only safe basis of Justice, more difficult. It will encourage and stimulate that reactionary spirit which has already begun to manifest itself, and which threatens to fritter away all the advantages which have been gained by the valor and patriotism of the North, in the bloody struggle of tour long years. But we believe all will be well in the end. The friends of Freedom and Equality will not be disheartened by such untowardness to right as has just been witnessed in Connecticut, but will gird up their joins the more resolutely, and buckle on their armor the more securely, for the march, however tedious, and the battle, however fierce. Right and Justice shall yet triumph.-Concord (N. H.) Democrat. 

NEGRO SUFFRAGE IN CONNECTICUT. 
It appears from the telegraphic despatches that Connecticut, on Monday, rejected the proposed amendment to her Constitution extending the right of suffrage to the colored race, by a majority of several thousands. This result has all along been feared, though it was hoped the enlightened spirit 
of the age might have penetrated even Connecticut sufficiently to have induced an act of justice to the few colored freemen who reside within her limits. It only shows how seriously the virus of slavery and the doctrines of slavemongers have affected and poisoned even a portion of New England. We feel quite confident that the considerate Democrats, no less than the Republicans, of the other New England States, must feel mortified and ashamed at the exhibition of such a petty and contemptible prejudice against a helpless and down trodden portion of the community.
The probable effect of this rejection, beyond the limits of New England, is much to be deplored For, as the Daily Advertiser suggests, “it will not be so well known everywhere as it is here, that the State which thus holds back has, for several years, been saved only by a severe struggle from falling 
into the hands of the democracy; and that, as a general thing, ‘Connecticut democracy is narrow, illiberal and party-ridden to an extent almost exceeding the limit reached in New Jersey. It need be no discouragement to the advocates of a just and solid reorganization of national affairs, that a
party led by such men as Thomas H. Seymour should oppose their views, or in a closely-divided State win an occasional and temporary triumph."
But that even Connecticut, in this age, should either deliberately or by default, suffer such a decision in her name, is somewhat amazing; and it would not be the strangest of the strange things of the day should one or more of the slave States teach her a lesson in political liberty, by adopting some such measure of justice to the blacks, before she reverses her decision. In the earlier days of the republic, before the slavemongers had corrupted the public feeling to such an extent as they afterwards vitiated it, colored freemen were voters in several of the slave States. Judge Gaston, of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, in one of his reported decisions, says Slaves, manumitted here, became freemen, and therefore, if born within North Carolina, are citizens of North Carolina, and all free persons born within the State are born citizens of the State. The Constitution extended the elective franchise to every freeman who had arrived at the age of twenty-one, and paid a public tax; and it is a matter of universal notoriety, that, under it, free persons, without regard to color, claimed and exercised the franchise, until it was taken from free men of color a few years since by our amended Constitution.” In Tennessee, too, free colored men at one time voted; and it is within the recollection of many, that one of the prominent Democratic Congressmen of our time from that State was accustomed to declare that he owed his early elections to the votes of the colored men of his District. Even New Jersey, which in her degenerate days rejects the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery, once made no distinction in her suffrage on account of color.
But, mortifying as is the action of Connecticut to all lovers of equal and exact justice, and humiliating and disgraceful as it is to her people, her rejection of the measure does not in the least affect its inherent rightfulness. Even if," soundly argues the Boston Daily Advertiser “even if her decision precluded the rest of the Northern States from urging the principle of impartial suffrage as intrinsically just, and the present as a convenient opportunity for securing its adoption by a large class of States-and we deny that we are thus precluded -that does not exhaust the considerations upon which this principle is to be urged as a foundation of practical policy. The great argument as to public safety would remain intact, though every Northern State were to-day to refuse the measure as a feature of local government”-Salem Register. 
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1865. 
The Editor of the Liberator is again absent from his post, attending sundry meetings in Pennsylvania in advocacy of the Freedmen's Aid Movement. 
INAUGURATION OF DOUGLASS INSTITUTE. 
LECTURE OF FRED'K DOUGLASS, ESQ. 
Early last spring, an association was formed, composed of thirty or forty colored men of Baltimore, who purchased the building on Lexington street, near Davis, formerly occupied as the Newton University, for the sum of $16,000, and organized the “Douglass Institute,” the object of which is the intellectual advancement of the colored portion of the community. On Friday evening, the 1st inst., the Institute building was formally opened, for the purposes indicated above, by the delivery of a lecture by Frederick Douglass, whose reputation as an orator is well known. Immediately over the stand whereon the lecturer and the officers of the Institute were seated was a full-length portrait of the late lamented President Lincoln, while on either side was placed the national flag. After prayer by Bishop Wayman, of the African M. E. Church, Mr. Douglass was introduced, and delivered the following address: 
I have, during my public career, had the honor to address many assemblies, both at home and abroad, and in furtherance of various objects; but I do not remember ever to have appeared anywhere under a deeper sense of the importance of the occasion than I feel tonight. I know it is common to call all occasions, upon which we assemble in large numbers, great and important, and in some sense the characterization is just and proper; for the movement of large bodies of men in this or that direction, for any purpose, good or ill, is always important, and worthy of note. But the present occasion is one of no ordinary character. We come here to dedicate an institution which, in my opinion, is destined to play an important part in promoting the freedom and elevation of the colored people of this city and State, and I may say of the whole Union. 
Let me at the outset put myself at ease by expressing to the founders of this Institution my sincere and heartfelt thanks for assigning to me the high place I occupy on this occasion, and above all, for associating my name with the Institute here established. It is an honor. I look upon this proceeding on your part not merely as a compliment to me personally, but as an open avowal of the great principles of progress, liberty, justice and equality, which I have for years endeavored to advocate. When I left Maryland, twenty-seven years ago, I did so with the firm resolve never to forget my brothers and sisters in bondage, and to do whatever might be in my power to accomplish their emancipation; and I have to say to-night, that in whatever else I may have failed, in this at least I have not failed. No man can truthfully say I ever deserted the post of duty. 
The establishment of an Institute bearing my name by the colored people in the city of my boyhood, so soon after the act of emancipation in this State, looms before me us as a first grand indication of progress. I say it is a first, and first indications, whether observed in the silent, mysterious phenomena of physical nature, or in the moral or intellectual developments of human society, are always interesting to thoughtful men. Every age has its prophet or its Messiah. We are ever waiting and watching like good old Simeon for our babe of Bethlehem. John Brown used to say he had looked over our people as over a dark sea, in the hope of seeing a head rise up with a mind to plan and a hand to deliver. Any movement of the water arrested his attention. In all directions, we desire to catch the first sign. The first sign of clear weather on the ocean after a season of darkness and storm; the first sign of returning health after long and weary months of wasting fever; the first sign of rain after a famine, threatening drouth; the first indication of spring, silently releasing the knotty and congealed earth from the frosty fetters of winter; the first sign of peace after the ten thousand calamities, horrors, desolations and alarms of war, evermore bring joy and gladness to the human heart. 
The mind of man has a special attraction towards first objects. It delights in the dim and shadowy outlines of the coming fact. There is a calm and quiet satisfaction in the contemplation of present attainments; but the great future, and the yet unattained, awaken in the soul the deepest springs of poetry and enthusiasm. 
The occasion that brings us here this evening may be properly viewed in the spirit of these brief reflections. It is an indication of the rise of a people long oppressed, enslaved and bound in the chains of ignorance, to a freer and higher plane of life, manhood, usefulness and civilization. 
Peace, says the noble Sumner, has its triumphs no less than war. I avail myself of the aphorism, and claim the dedication of the Douglass Institute in this, the city of Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, dedicated as it will be to knowledge, virtue and liberty, as one such triumph. I think it quite difficult to over estimate the importance and significance of the first effort of the kind in the city of Baltimore. I confess that the establishment of such an Institution here and now was a source of apprehension as well as joy; joy in the thought of its success, apprehension lest the effort should fail. It seemed too much to expect. 
A people hitherto pronounced by American learning as incapable of any thing higher than the dull round of merely animal life-held to be originally and permanently inferior-fit only for the coarser and heavier labors of human society-shut out for ages from the arts, from science, and from all the more elevating forms of industry-deprived of the social incentives to excellence which everywhere act upon other men, dare here and now to establish an Institute, devoted to all the higher wants and aspirations of the human soul. It is a great fact. 
Your very enemies, looking upon this event, will admit that it speaks well for the colored people of Baltimore. It is in itself a powerful appeal from the popular judgment under which the colored people of this city and of this State, and of the whole country, have staggered during more than two hundred years. I would bestow no extravagant and indiscriminate praise upon the founders of the Douglass Institute. You are sensible men, and would not thank me if I did. The colored people of this country have as much reason to deprecate flattery as they have disparagement. What they want is the simple truth, and this renders honor where honor is due. I say to you, gentlemen, what you all know, that this institution, viewed in comparison with those established by our white fellow-citizens for similar objects, stands but as a dwarf to a giant; but regarded in the light of our history, in view of our numbers and opportunities, the Douglass Institute is the equal of any in credit, and far more significant than most of them. It is a beginning, and though like all beginnings it is small, it is, nevertheless, a prophecy of larger and better things. It represents something, and important as it is for itself, it is ten-fold more important for what it represents in the character of its founders. It implies something. It implies that the colored people of Baltimore not only have the higher qualities attributed to the white race, but that they are awakening to a healthy consciousness of those qualities in themselves, and that they are beginning to see, as the dark cloud of slavery rolls away, the necessity of bringing those qualities into vigorous exercise. It implies an increased knowledge of the requirements of a high civilization, and a determination to comply with them. This Institute, in character and design, in some measure represents the abilities and possibilities of our race. 
<c04>
My friends, the present is a critical moment for the colored people of this country; our fate for weal or for woe, it may be yet for many generations, trembles now in the balance. No man can tell which way the scale will turn. There is not a breeze that sweeps to us from the South, but comes laden with the wail of our suffering people. Heaven only knows what will be in store for our people in the South. But dismal as is the hour, troubled and convulsed as are the times, we may congratulate ourselves upon the establishment of this institution. It comes as a timely argument on the right side of the momentous questions which now agitate the nation. It comes at a time when the American people are once more being urged to do from necessity what they should have done from a sense of right, and of sound statesmanship. It is the same old posture of affairs, wherein our rulers do wrong from choice and right from necessity. They gave us the bullet to save themselves; they will yet give the ballot to save themselves. My hope of the future is founded just where it was during all the war. I always said that I  had much faith in the virtue of the great North, but that I had incomparably more in the villany of the South. The South is now on its good behavior, we are told. They have been invested with powers merely to see how they will use them. If they do certain things, we are told, it will be well, but if they do certain other things-well, somebody will interfere. Very well. I expect to see the rebels consistent; with their whole past. They are sworn now as at the beginning of the war, and with like results. They take the oath to support a Government they hate. They are sure to abuse the power given them, and I believe there will be virtue enough in the country, when it shall see that the loyal whites can only be saved by giving the ballot to the negro, to do the thing now called impossible. 
This Institute comes to our help. It comes at a time when hesitation to extend suffrage to the colored people finds its best apology in our alleged incapacity. I deem it fortunate that, at such a time as this, in such a city as this, so near the capital of the nation as this, there has arisen here an Institution in which we can confront ignorance and prejudice with the light and power of positive knowledge, and array against brazen falsehood the rightful influence of accomplished facts. 
The very existence of this Institution, established and sustained by colored men in this city, so recently a slaveholding city-in this State, so recently a slave-holding State-in this community, among whom freedom of speech was scarcely known by even the white citizens only a few months ago-is a most striking cheering and instructive fact. It attests the progressive spirit, the sagacity, the courage, the faith, the intelligence and manly ambition of the colored people of this city and State, and reflects credit upon the colored people of the country generally. Its effects upon those who disparage us will be good, but its effects upon ourselves will, I trust, be far better. While to them it will be a standing contradiction, to us it will be a happy concurrence with all our hopes, with all that is high, noble and desirable. 
The colored boy and girl now, as they walk your streets, will hold themselves in higher estimation and assume a prouder and a more elastic stop as they look up to the fine proportions of this ample and elegant building, and remember that from foundation to roof, from corner-stone to coping, in purpose and in value, in spirit and in aspiration, it is all the property of the colored citizens of Baltimore. 
The establishment of this Institution may be though by some a thing of doubtful expediency. There was a time when I should have thought it so myself. In my enthusiasm, perhaps it was my simplicity, it is not material which, I once flattered myself that the day had happily gone by when it could be necessary for colored people in this country to combine and act together as a separate class, and in any representative character whatever. I would have had them infuse themselves and their works into all the political, intellectual, artistical and mechanical activities and combinations of their white fellow-countrymen. It seemed to me that colored conventions, colored exhibitions, colored associations and institutions of all kinds and descriptions had answered the ends of their existence, and might properly be abandoned; that, in short, they were hindrances rather than helps in achieving a higher and better estimation in the public mind for ourselves as a race. 
I may say that I still hold this opinion in a modified degree. The latent contempt and prejudice towards our race, which recent political doctrines with reference to our future in this country have developed, the persistent determination of the present Executive of the nation, and also the apparent determination of a portion of the people to hold and treat us in a degraded relation, not only justify for the present such associate effort on our part, but make it eminently necessary. 
It is the misfortune of our class that it fails to derive due advantages from the achievements of its individual members, but never fails to suffer from the ignorance or crimes of a single individual with whom the class is identified. A Benjamin Franklin could redeem, in the eyes of scientific Europe, the mental mediocrity of our young white Republic, but the genius and learning of a Benjamin Banneker of your own State of Maryland, the wisdom and heroism of Toussaint, are not permitted to do the same service for the colored race to which they belong. Wealth, learning and ability made an Irishman an Englishman. The same metamorphosing power converts a negro into a white man in this country. When prejudice cannot deny the black man's ability, it denies his race, and claims him as a white man. It affirms that if he is not exactly white, he ought to be. If not what he ought to be in this particular, he owes whatever intelligence he possesses to the white race by contract or association. Great actions, as shown by Robert Small, the gallant captain of the Planter, and by William Tilghman, and other brave colored men, which by the war slavery has tossed to the surface, have not been sufficient to change the general estimate formed of the colored race. The eloquence and learning of Doctor Smith, Professors Vashon, Reason, Garnet, Remond, Martin, Rock, Crummell, and many others, have done us service; but they leave us yet under a cloud. The public, with the mass of ignorance-notwithstanding that ignorance has been enforced and compelled among our people, hitherto-has sternly denied the representative character of our distinguished men. They are treated as exceptions, individual cases, and the like. They contend that the race, as such, is destitute of the subjective original elemental condition of a high self-originating and self-sustaining civilization.
Such is the sweeping and damaging judgment pronounced in various high quarters against our race; and such is the current of opinion against which the colored people have to advance, if they advance at al. A few years ago, we met this unfavorable theory as best we could in three ways. We pointed our assailants and traducers to the ancient civilization of Northern Africa. We traced the entangled threads of history and of civilization back to their sources in Africa. We called attention to the somewhat disagreeable fact-agreeable to us, but not so to our Teutonic brethren-that the arts, appliances and blessings of civilization flourished in the very heart of Ethiopia, at a time when all Europe floundered in the depths of ignorance and barbarism. We dwelt on the grandeur, magnificence and stupendous dimensions of Egyptian architecture, and held up the fact, now generally admitted, that that race was master of mechanical forces of which the present generations of men are ignorant. 
We pointed to the nautical skill, commercial enterprise and military prowess of Carthage, and justly claimed relationship with those great nations of antiquity. We are a dark people-so were they. They stood between us and the Europeans in point of complexion, as well as in point of geography. We have contended-and not illogically-that if the fact of color was no barrier to civilization in their case, it cannot be in ours. 
Our second answer has been drawn from modern examples. These have not, I confess, been very 
<c05>
numerous or striking, but enough to demonstrate the presence of highly progressive and civilizing elements in the colored race. We find them in Africa-we find them written down in the interesting travels of Barth, Livingston and Wilson. We find them in Hayti, and we find them in our own country. Our third answer has been the unfavorable influences under which our race has been placed by Christendom during the last three centuries. Where under the whole heavens was there ever a race so blasted and withered, so shorn and bereft of all opportunities for development as ourselves? It would seem that the whole Christian world had combined for the destruction of our race, and had summoned heaven and hell, philosophy and revelation, to assist in the work. Our history has been but a track of blood. Gaunt and hungry sharks have followed us on slave ships by sea, and the hungrier and greedier slave-drivers have followed us during all these years with the bloody slave-whip on land. The question forced upon us at every moment of our generation has not been, as with other races of men, how shall we adorn, beautify, exalt and ennoble life, but how shall we retain life itself. The struggle with us was not to do, but to be. Mankind lost sight of our human nature in the idea of our being property, and the whole machinery of society was planned, directed and operated to the making us a stupid, spiritless, ignorant, besotted, brutified, and utterly degraded race of men. 
Thus far we have derived little advantage from any apologies we have made or from any explanations we have patiently given. Our relationship to the ancient Egyptians has been denied; the progress made by the emancipated people of the West Indies is not believed, and men still insist that the fault of our ignorance is not in slavery, but in ourselves. So stood the question concerning us up to the second year of the fierce and sanguinary rebellion now subsiding. Since then, the colored man has come before the country in a new light. He has illustrated the highest qualities of a patriot and a soldier. He has ranged himself on the side of Government and country, and maintained both against rebels and traitors on the perilous edge of battle. They are now, many of them, sleeping side by side in bloody graves with the bravest and best of all our loyal white soldiers, and many of those who remain alive are scarred and battered veterans-mere stumps of men; armless, legless, maimed and mutilated ones are met with in the streets of every city. The veriest enemies of our race must now admit that we have at least one element of civilization. It is settled that we have manly courage, that we love our country, and that we will fight for an Idea. Both Governments-the Rebel as well as the Federal-admitted the energy that slumbered in the black man's arm, and both, at the last, endeavored to render that energy useful. But the charge still remains. Now, what are those elemental and original powers of civilization about which men speak and write so earnestly, and which white men claim for themselves and deny to the negro? I answer that they are simply consciousness of wants and ability to gratify them. Here the whole machinery of civilization, whether moral, intellectual or physical, is set in motion. 
Man is distinguished from all other animals, but in nothing is he distinguished more than in this, namely, resistance, active and constant resistance, to the forces of physical nature. All other animals submit to the same conditions and limitations from generation to generation. The bear to-day is as he was a thousand years ago. Nature provides him with food, clothing and shelter, and he is neither wiser nor better because of the experience of his bearish ancestors. Not so with man. He learns from the past, improves upon the past, looks back upon the past, and hands down his knowledge of the past to after-coming generations of men, that they may carry their achievements to a still higher point. To lack this element of progress is to resemble the lower animals, and to possess it is to be men. 
The mission of this Institution and that of the colored race are identical. It is to develop manhood, to build up manly character among the colored people of this city and State. It is to teach them the true idea of manly independence and self-respect. It is to be a dispenser of knowledge, a radiator of light. In a word, we dedicate this Institution to virtue, temperance, knowledge, truth, liberty and justice: 
In this fair hall, to Truth and Freedom given, 
Pledged to the right before all earth and heaven-
A free arena for the strife of mind, 
No caste, or sect, or color are confined. 
We who have been long debarred the privileges of culture may assemble and have our souls thrilled, with heavenly music, lifted to the skies on the wings of poetry and song. Here we can assemble and have our minds enlightened upon the whole circle of social, moral, political and educational duties. Here we can come and learn true politeness and refinement. Here the loftiest and best eloquence which the country has produced, whether of Anglo-Saxon or of African descent, shall flow as a river, enriching, ennobling, strengthening and purifying all who will lave in its waters. Here may come all who have a new and unpopular truth to unfold and enforce, against which old and respectable bars and bolts are iron gates. Here, from this broad hall, shall go forth an influence which shall at last change the current of public contempt for the oppressed, and lift the race into the popular consideration which justly belongs to their manly character and achievements. 
On the conclusion of the address, a call was made for Rev. Mr. Lynch, who for a half hour spoke on subjects relating to the future state of the colored people. 
After Mr. Lynch had finished, Mr. Snethen was loudly called for; he came forward and made an excellent speech, taking the most ultra ground in favor of our rights as men. Mr. Stockbridge was also called for. Ho made a few remarks to the audience.  Mr. Douglass spoke a second  time, taking one of his profound glances at the condition of the nation, and demanding, as he has the ability to demand, the equality of all men before the law. The following letters were read by Mr. Wood, Secretary of the Douglass Institute: 
Letter from Bishop Payne. 
GENTLEMEN:-Your polite note of the 25th instant, inviting me to be present at the dedicatory services of the Douglass Institute, was received immediately after my arrival in town yesterday. But I regret that my official obligations at-Richmond, Va., compel me to leave this afternoon. I am glad that you have named your Institute after so eminent a man as FREDERICK DOUGLASS. His merits demand this honor. With the best wishes for your Institute, I remain, gentlemen, 
Your obedient servant, 
D. A. PAYNE. 
Baltimore, Md., Sept. 29th, 1865. 
Letter from Hon. Charles Sumner. 
GENTLEMEN:-I would be glad to be present at the dedication at the Douglass Institute, and to listen to the orator of the occasion, but other engagements will keep me away. I rejoice that you are to listen to Frederick Douglass, who always speaks well, and who knows how to portray the duties of the hour.  His presence-his voice-his example-each is a constant protest against injustice to the colored race.
Accept my best thanks, and believe me, gentlemen, faithfully yours, 
CHARLES SUMNER. 
To the Committee of the Douglass Institute. 
Boston, Sept. 28,1865. 
Letter from General Hancock. 
MR. WM. WOOD, Sec., Sir:-Your note of the 25th, inviting me to be present at the dedicatory exercises at Douglass Institute, was received to-day. I propose leaving the city to-morrow, and shall be absent at the time referred to, so that I shall not be able to accept your invitation.  The occasion is such that it would afford me pleasure to witness the ceremonies, were it practicable for me to do so. I am under obligations for the attention. 
I am, very truly, your obedient servant, 
W. S. HANCOCK, Maj.-Gen. U. S. A. 
Baltimore, Md., Sept. 26th, 1865. 
Every county in Connecticut but one gave majorities against colored suffrage. The exception was Windham, and that county should be honored accordingly. 
<c06>
THE CONGRESS AT BERNE.
The International Association for the advancement of Social Science held its fourth annual congress at Berne during six days, beginning on the 28th of August. Last year it convened at Amsterdam, and for 1866 it has to choose between Turin and Florence, which have both extended invitations-the one pressing its claim as the source of Italian unity, the other as the capital of the new realm. Wherever the association is received, there, one may be sure, freedom of thought and utterance is not wholly unknown. There were assembled at Berne representatives of France, England, Spain, Holland. Germany, Belgium, Italy and Russia, who not only spoke with frankness of their own countries, but criticised as freely the customs and institutions of their hostess Switzerland, and oftener elicited applause than disapprobation by this fidelity to conviction. Spite of the confusion of tongues, there was the greatest harmony in the proceedings, and many of the speakers, proved to be excellent linguists, while others availed themselves of interpreters. The plurality of languages which exists, in Switzerland probably renders the local public interest and comprehension more genunie than could happen in any other part of the continent. At all events, the attendance was constantly large, and embraced both sexes, and among the debaters, even, we notice the names of two women. We have searched the newspaper reports in vain for citations of our American example and experience in questions where we could be most competent advisers. The scanty allusions made were either erroneous or in disapprobation, and no member gave evidence of having studied our system, or of sufficient knowledge either to correct mistakes of excite an interest concerning us.
The association is permanently divided into five sections, which consider, namely: 1. Comparative Legislation; 2. Education and Instruction; 3. Art and Literature; 4. Hygiene and Benevolence; 5. Political Economy. In conveying a necessarily imperfect idea from imperfect data of the doings of the Congress, it will be best to follow the sections in turn, rather than heed the order of days. First of all we must premise that the association never votes on the subjects of its discussions: all it does is to ventilate them. Wisely so; for having no authority, it can gain nothing by being dogmatic, while it knows that its deliberations are productive of thought and judgment in others, which will appear some day in altered manners, statutes and governments all over the globe. On the other hand, the utmost liberality is encouraged in its immediate members of investigation, belief, and declaration. In this spirit and on these terms the session opened and was conducted to the end. Section First discussed the relation between the autonomy of communes and the unity of the state, and the means of securing each from being impaired by the other. Of course, illustrations were taken from the spot, but the United States was never referred to, though preeminently conspicuous and full of instruction. The English system, based on individual liberty, was portrayed very effectively by an unnamed native. Next the rights of languages were taken up. It was contended that a plurality of them in a country was favorable to its general development; but perfect liberty and equality were claimed for them, as in Switzerland, where, for example, the judges speak all the languages of their jurisdiction, and pronounce judgment in that of the parties to a suit. There was a strong Flemish protest against the substitution of French for the vernacular in the Belgian courts, legislature, schools and press. Decentralization-that is, the emancipation of the communes from the central government-was recommended as a remedy for this evil. But an argument was also offered in favor of centralization and a universal language. The section passed to consider the state of legislation in various leading countries in respect of hereditary transmission. Here reference was made to America, but only to couple her with England as clinging, unhappily, to the right of primogeniture! Some approved the Code Napoleon. Others favored absolute liberty of testamentation, and were told, c' est la barbarie, l’escalavage!” And the opinion seemed to prevail that there should be only a conditional liberty. Workingmen’s combinations furnished the concluding theme. They were opposed as useless and ineffective, diminishing capital by augmenting wages, and so restricting industry itself. They were deplored as part of the struggle between capital and labor, to unite which in the same hands and prevent a conflict is the problem of the century. 
Section Second was distinguished above all the rest by the intense earnestness of its discussions and the consideration paid to them; for which there was reason, apart from the character of its members. It first inquired the results of public libraries and lectures, and the best mode of organizing them. Turin and other cities of Italy were said to be imitating the mechanic associations of England, and establishing reading rooms. In France, remarked a speaker from that country, unless there were freedom of the press, free libraries would be in want of books. He was reproved by Jules Simon, who had in vain sought permission of Government to institute a public library. “Do not dwell,” he entreated his countrymen. “on the misfortunes of France. Everybody knows our case and pities us. Let us either discuss the means of shedding light, as if liberty existed everywhere. At home we will try to reconquer it.” Much more brilliant was the debate for which a prize of 300 francs had been offered by M. Vervoort, the President of the association, who was absent in Holland. This was on the propriety of separating moral from theological instruction, and of assigning to the clergy a place in the school. Though a few were found to advocate the conjunction and the assignment, and even to pronounce separation impossible, the tide argument ran powerfully counter. Morality is mainfest, while religion, vary. There is no single religion in the world upon which everybody would be willing to have morality hinge. There is such a thing as independent morality discoverable by the conscience alone, under liberty. Not otherwise can the human conscience obtain its due respect. Religion, which is a matter of sentiment, belongs to the family; morality, a matter of reason. to the school. Suppose the priest to enter the latter in the name of the divine authority, and then degrade himself in the eyes children; what happens to morality and religion both? Once religion determined morality; to-day morality sits in judgment on religion. This was brought about by the reformation and the eighteen century: the former left morality subjected to the book. the latter perfected its enfranchisement. “There are,” said Jules Simon, “three solution, of this question: a state religion, a concordat, and absolute separation.” Mile. Royer, from the knowledge of Swiss practice, took sides with separatists.  Mme. Storm, widow of a Protestant minister, defended the exclusion of the Bible from the common schools of Holland-an example which had been cited, together with that of America, as having been productive of evil results A letter from Edgar Quinet, of the Canton of Vaud, concluded in these terms:-
“Do not give as a foundation upon which to lay society and modern civilization, the authority that remorselessly declares war upon them. 
“Do not make the Encyclical the A, B, C of the school.
“Do not thrust the wrangling of creeds in to the cradle of the child.
“Let not his first spectacle be that of anathemas,
“On the contrary, select for his primary instruction ground on which all can understand one another and ground on which all can understand one another and unite in a common country.
“Let him not be born to social life amid the conflict of churches and of sects, but in peace and concord.
Mile. Clemence Royer has won for herself a distinguished place in scientific ranks, notably by her translation of Darwin on the origin of species, which she accompained with a commentary and with her personal adhesion. She is also the author of an essay on taxation which took the prize at Lausanne in Switzerland some three or four years ago, and of other lesser works and writings, which have been highly praised in many foreign countries.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
"Save him from our hatreds, our divisions, our implacable prejudices, and you will have saved all."
Section Third considered the decadence of art in these days, and reached a hopeful conclusion. Then it inquired how the influence of art, especially the dramatic art, might be extended as a means of civilization. Opinions were quite diversified. One would have theatres for the working-classes, to close at 10 o'clock. Another would facilitate their access to masterpieces of art. A third urged the importance of a public place in every great city, like that at u devoted exclusively to the fine arts, and open every day. A fourth would restore the classic virtues of the dance and the gymnasium. A fifth advocated a society for moralizing amusements in every department of France. A sixth cared less for a moral, than for a beautiful, play. A seventh abhorred dramatic censorship in any  And finally, historical dramas  discountenanced: what was wanted was an  modern, palpitating life." The question was subsequently asked, What is the importance  by different peoples to art in public instruction?  member went so far as to affirm that art was one despotism another and that the former may <illegible> perfection under the latter: a proposition which did not pass unchallenged. In all Dutch and Flemish towns, there are schools of design and great numbers of special associations for the  of the arts. Music also is liberally provided for.
Section Fourth listened to a paper on cleaning out  which is the nest of the Indian cholera. The proposed plan embraced a commission of competent men, and, upon their report, the financial cooperation of all nation concerned. The question of prohibitory liquor laws arose later, and was solved in the negative by men who still thought there ought to be some control of the manufacture and sale of intoxicating drinks. A valuable paper on consumption contained these statements: that the disease is unknown in Iceland, but is common in the basin of the Mediterranean, in the Antilles, at New Orleans; it is rare in the  district in Germany; warm countries are not the most favorable for its cure, but rather s it becomes infrequent as we ascend the Alps; at a height of 2000  and more it is never found, and may there be cared; what is needed is a cold and equable temperature. The section was chiefly engaged upon a study of penitentiary systems. In 1830, France studied those of Auburn and Pennsylvania, and preferred the latter, which kept the prisoner solitary in his confinement, his walks, and his labor, and allowed him to see  the chaplain. This was declared a failure in , and was unfavorably contrasted with the Irish system of gradations in confinement, society, punishment, and even prisons, mingled with instruction, and softened b conditional release. But it was suggested that this was a premium on hypocrisy; and one speaker found the system admirable mainly because it was not a system, but was eclectic. And while there were those who thus advocated no system,  others who proposed a mixture of Auburn and Pennsylvania, with improvements; others again who stood up for collective against , seeking moral through physical elevation, who desired agricultural and industrial labor for convicts. Prisons should be far from cities and close to railways, in the country. There should be societies for patronizing liberated prisoners, and normal schools for training superintendents and  foolishness is but a step. The criminal must be treated as a sick man." Government was besought, which is  solicitous about its prisons, to think first of all about its schools. There was considerable disagreement about the practicability of extending the sphere of certain voluntary relief associations, so that, when not absorbed in their peculiar work of coring for the wounded in time of war, they might assist the people amid the calamities of peace, such as inundations, epidemics, etc. Permanent committees against the cholera were proposed and opposed.
Section Fifth started with a report on associations of limited liability, which met with much acceptance. The responsibility of directors was strongly insisted on. The economical and moral bearing of luxury on the prosperity of States was next taken up. Mlle. Royer considered luxury an indispensable aid to industrial progress, after the supply of necessaries is ample. She was answered that this condition was never fulfilled. The ancient idea was, said another, the fewest needs; the modern, increase of needs, with the means of satisfying them. Economically speaking, extravagance is the only censurable luxury. The section then debated whether the public interest demanded that the construction and working of railroads, canals, and telegraphs should be monopolized by Government -or left to private enterprise. State intervention found supporters, on the ground that the Government would be more regardful than corporations of the public advantage; yet this intervention was more perilous despotism than in a Republic. In discussing military organization, it appeared, that a Swiss soldier furnishes in his whole life only 110 days of service in the infantry, and 160 to 170 in the artillery and corps of engineers. In Belgium, the minimum term is two years. Switzerland saves seven francs a head by her system; which would he for all Europe, sustaining <illegible> troops, a saving of two thousand millions of francs. The Swiss system is wholly defensive, and is a great school of equality and patriotic unity for the Cantons. A Belgian officer denounced conscription, which is decided by lot and may be avoided by money. He also opposed the exemption of ministers. As for standing armies, there was none so poor in the Congress to do them reverence. The president, M. Challet Vend, in the closing speech of the session, interred complete unanimity on the subject of a general disarmament. He made the suggestive remark, that the solution of the problem of female labor depended on the existence of standing armies, which take away from women their natural supporters.
We have already exceeded the limits we had allotted to this report. We can only add, briefly, that America ought to have been represented in this Congress, and should be eager to participate in the next. She is neither so unversed in social science that her words would be of little weight, nor so experienced that she cannot be instructed. The association formed in this city last week supplies a national want, and is full of encouragement. The wisest men from each lesser republic from Maine to Oregon/meeting once a year in one or other of them, may now accelerate vastly the development of our civilization, by comparing often the fruits of that invaluable competition which exists, under our Constitution, in legislation, manners, and customs. Ere long, we are pretended, the "American Association for the Promotion of Social Science" will experience an embarrass de chin, amid the rival invitations of cities anxious to be honored by its sessions. It will presently learn to sympathize its work, so that preparation may be made for its discussions a long time in advance. M. DU P.
The colored people of St. Louis had a very interesting meeting on Monday night, at which the questions of their general welfare and negro suffrage were discussed. Speeches were made by several colored men, and a series of resolutions adopted. An executive committee of seven was appointed to provide for a series of these meetings among their people in the State, with the view of securing the right of franchise. The. propriety of establishing a newspaper of their own was also discussed.
In denial of a report that Secretary Wells is against negro suffrage in Connecticut, he telegraphed to the editor of the Hartford Press:"I favor intelligence, not color, as the qualification for suffrage in Connecticut."
Work is very much delayed in the Baltimore ship yards, by the refusal of the white caulkers to do any work until the negro caulkers, who have been employed many years, are discharged.
<c02>
SOCIAL SCIEHCE MEETING.
A meeting of persons interested in the question of Social Science was held at the State House, in Boston, on Wednesday, 4th inst., at 10 o'clock, in accordance with a call published in the daily papers, as also by a circular issued from the office of the Board of State Charities. The object of the meeting, as stated by the circular referred to, "Is the establishment of some organization whose object shall be the discussion of those questions relating to the sanitary condition of the people, the relief, employment and education of the poor, the prevention of crime, the amelioration of the criminal law, the discipline of prisons, the remedial treatment of the insane, and those numerous matters of statistical and philanthropic interest which are included under the general term of Social Science."
The meeting was called to order by Rev. Dr. Chalmers, and, on motion, His Excellency Gov. John A. Andrew was called upon to preside.
Messrs. F. B. Sanborn and Dr. J. C. White were appointed Secretaries.
Gov. Andrew, entering the hall, was greeted with applause, and on taking the chair called upon the Rev. Dr. Miles to address the Throne of Grace in prayer.
Gov. Andrew addressed the assembly in words of thanks for the honor conferred in calling him to the chair, and asked the cooperation of all in the objects for which the meeting was called.
A report of a committee previously formed was then road, by which it appears that the society is to be founded for the investigation of questions under the four general heads: 1, Of Education; 2. The Public Health; 3, Social Economy; 4, Jurisprudence and the Amendment of the Laws. The report was adopted as the basis of a Society, on motion of Dr. Jarvis of Dorchester. A draft of a Constitution was read and accepted as a report. It was then taken up, article by article, for adoption. The first article, on motion of Mrs. Dall, was amended so as to read that the name of the Society shall be "The Association for the Promotion of Social Science."
A discussion ensued, in a general form, as to whether the Society should be called a National or Local Society.
Dr. Jarvis moved that the word "American" be prefixed to the name, which was followed by a motion by Judge Russell, to amend the motion by substituting the word "National," which latter motion was lost and the former carried, and the article was then adopted.
Article second was then taken up. It states that the objects of the Society shall be substantially as stated in the former part of this report. After some discussion on minor amendments, the article was adopted.
Article third makes four subdivisions, as before stated. A discussion ensued relative to the order in which they should stand, and Mr. Emerson, of the Stale Board of Education, proposed a fifth, which should be- for "the prevention of crime and the reformation of offenders-" Dr. Jarvis remarked that it was the supposition of the committee that this had already been provided for in the division relative to jurisprudence.
Mr. Palmer of Michigan, spoke of the importance of such a division, and renewed the motion, which had been withdrawn by the mover.
Mrs. Dall, Dr. Jarvis, and Dr. Hatch of Metiden, Conn., opposed the motion. The latter thought it hardly necessary to state everything which it was desirable to investigate.
Mr. Philbrick of Boston was willing to accept the Constitution ns proposed.
Mr. John A. Goodwin of Lowell, remarked that it was much with this Convention as it is with citizens of the State. They conceive an idea, and they say to themselves," Lo, I have thought me a thought, I will have it enacted into an act," and so each gets up a petition and sends it here to the Legislature, which sometimes sits all winter and into the spring, and when the members come home, we visit them with maledictions. Now, it didn't appear to him that it was necessary to provide explicitly for every subject. If it was to be done, he had a hobby that he wanted recognized-cheap postage. (Laughter.) He continued in a humorous strain that effectually settled the question, and the motion was withdrawn a second time and finally.
The remaining articles relative to the officering of the association, place of meeting, membership, publication of transactions, &c., were adopted. The discussion on the terms of membership was lengthy, but finally was settled by requiring the payment of three dollars and signing the Constitution.
The question was again raised whether the association should be regarded as a national or merely as a Massachusetts Society, and decided in favor of the national form, after some discussion.
On motion of Dr. Jarvis, a committee of thirteen was ordered, to be appointed by the chair, to nominate officers for the Association. The following persons were appointed: Dr. Edward Jarvis of Dorchester; Dr. J. H. Butler of Hartford; W. P. Atkinson, Esq., of Cambridge; Rev. C. F. Barnard of Boston; Rev. Horatio Wood of Lowell; Professor Palmer of Michigan University; Mrs. Lawrence of West Newton; Dr. Charles Beck of Cambridge; Prof. D. C. Gilman of Yale College, New Haven; Mrs. Dall of Boston; John A. Poor of Maine; Rev. B. K. Pierce of New York; Judge Wright of Boston.
Hon. Amasa Walker was chosen Vice President of the meeting, ns Gov. Andrew expressed his inability to be present at the afternoon session.
The meeting, at 1.30 P. M., adjourned till 3 P. M.

AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Association met pursuant to adjournment. The Committee on Nominations reported the following list of names for officers:
President-Professor Wm. B. Rogers, President Institute of Technology.
Vice Presidents-Department of Education-Rev. Dr. Thomas Hill, of Harvard College.
Department of Sanitary Matters-Dr.. Samuel G. Howe, Boston.
Department of Social Economy-Rev. Theo. D. Wolsey, President Yale College.
Department of Jurisprudence-Prof. Francis Lieber, New York.
Directors-Department of Education-Rev. E. O. Haven, President of Michigan University.
Sanitary Department-Mrs. Samuel Parkman, Jr., Boston.
Department Social Economy-Edward Atkinson, Boston.
Department Jurisprudence-Hon. Emory Washburn, Cambridge.
Library-Mrs. Caroline H. Dall.
Treasurer-Charles H. Dalton.
Corresponding Secretary-Samuel Elliott.
Recording Secretary-F.B. Sanborn
Special Secretaries-Department of Education-Hon. Joseph White, Secretary Massachusetts Board of Education.
Sanitary Department-Dr. James C. White.
Department of Social Economy-George Walker.
Department of Jurisprudence-Prof. Thomas W. Dwight, of Columbia College, N. Y.
The report was tabled for further consideration, when there should be more members present. It was afterward take-n up and adopted.
Mr. William P. Atkinson of Cambridge, in response to a call, read a paper on the subject of Education. He was followed by Dr. H. G. Clark of Boston, who presented an article on the subject of Epidemic Diseases.
Mr. Otis Clapp of Boston, in speaking on the subject of the disposition to be made of the papers that had been read, desired that the latter be printed, as he considered it very important that the people of Boston should know the facts therein stated. He had been on a committee of the city government, and knew that the city was not in that condition of cleanliness that many suppose. The new City Hospital is situated near a nuisance which is almost intolerable; and some measures should be taken to spread among the people
<c03>
the information that is needed on Sanitary matters in order to avert disease.
Prof. Rogers at this juncture appeared in the Hall, and was invited to take the chair to which he had been elected. He complied, thanking the Association for the honor that had been conferred upon him, and pledged his cooperation in the work proposed by the Association.
Mr. T. C. Emory of Boston spoke on the subject of the public health, showing that there was great necessity for further drainage and sewerage in and about the city, and showed that there is a lack of the power to correct these matters.
A lady in the audience remarked that though this paper were printed, and read by all who read, yet who is to teach those wives and mothers who do not read the papers and who are ignorant of the laws of health; who purchase and eat bad vegetables, make use of bad bread, and breathe impure air?
A gentleman called the attention of the Association to the operatives who are obliged to tenant houses built on low lands, and to work in factories for thirteen hours per day. He thought this question ought to be attended to and discussed by the Society. Even the laboring classes understand that something should be done in their case, as the organizations which have been formed of late and the action of political caucuses has shown.
Prof. Palmer thought the Association should give some expression of its opinion of the importance of giving an education in sanitary science not only in colleges but in other educational institutions, down to the primary schools.
The question of a future meeting was left to the discretion of the Executive Committee, after considerable discussion, and the meeting finally adjourned.-Boston Traveller.

BRITISH SENTIMENT.
Extract of a letter from JOHN.NOBLE.E, Jr., Esq., London, to George Thompson, Esq., dated Sept. 21, 1865:-
"It must indeed have been a gratifying circumstance for you to have been present to witness the death agonies of the monster that has so long dominated over the otherwise free republic, more especially when the remembrance of your former visits, contrasting with the present in every possible way, must have been ever-present with you.
'But, alas! what holy angel
Brings the slave this glad evangel,
And what earthquake's arm of might
Breaks his dungeon gate at night'!'
The angel has appeared, and the earthquake has razed the prison to its foundations. Your letter acquaints us with the fact that there is still work to be done, that the serpent is as yet merely scotched and not finally killed, that the virus still exists, and that patient labor will be necessary in order to complete the emancipation of a race than which none has been more down-trodden and oppressed since the days of Israel in Egypt. We need not wonder that in the Southern States hatred of the negro and of his New England benefactors still exists, nor that the spirit of secession should be rife. Many in this country were under a delusion respecting the real merits of the rebellion, but such was not the case with others. The old slavery virus still works in Liverpool, Glasgow and other parts. Blockade running and the supply of aid to the rebellion were entered into more heartily because of the motive from which they sprung. Nay. we have even had our savants discussing the inferiority of the negro, his unfitness (or any state but that of slavery; and if the Bible argument has not been openly employed, it has been because at the first mention of it, such a burst of indignation arose as proved that there were things which even John Bull would not stand.
You would be amused at the meeting of Confederate bondholders and their arguments as to the more responsibility of the North for the cotton loan. Don't they wish they may get it! The Star suggests that they should seize the Shenandoah, the only Confederate property still at large. I presume that, if caught, the pirates on board of her will be hung, and richly will they deserve their fate.
The sycophancy of the Times, Punch and their followers on the death of the martyred President was most disgusting and repulsive. For months and years he had been the constant object of their vituperation-his personal appearance, his manners, his origin, his marvellous fund of humor, his wise and statesmanlike policy, his honesty, were all the subjects of their ridicule-he was attacked by them as no one else had been. He is murdered, and all is changed. Times, Telegraph and Punch discovered excellencies which even his best friends were unaware of; from being a demon of darkness, he was suddenly transformed into an angel of light.
When Johnson succeeded to the Presidency, a similar course was attempted. The public, however, were warned by the previous fiasco, and the denunciations of the press fell upon ears which heeded them not.
And now we have a small rebellion of our own on hand. The Irish justasses, as you will see in the papers, have run mad. What comments would have appeared in the Times if the arrests which have recently been made in Ireland had taken place in New York! Cork proclaimed-steam packets arriving from America searched-military force increased &c. &c. &e. What an opportunity for the American press to retort upon us the revilings of the last four years!"

RESOLUTIONS
Passed at the preliminary Meeting of the Freedmen's Aid Association of Ferrisburg and vicinity, ( Vt.) Sept. 29,
1865.
Whereas, it is our privilege to sec the abolition of American slavery nearly consummated, as far as legislative action extends; and,
Whereas, we feel devoutly thankful to our Heavenly Father for this event; also for the great change in the public sentiment of the people that has accompanied the emancipation of millions of our fellow-men; and,
Whereas, there is still remaining a pro-slavery disposition in the private sentiment of many of our citizens, that is detrimental to the best interests of the people; therefore,
Resolved, That it is our bounden duty to use, to the best of our ability, such means as are sanctioned by law, humanity and religion, to remove the remaining obstacles that lie in the way of the education, elevation and complete citizenship of the colored race within our borders; and give our aid to the measures that arc being taken by the General Government of the United States for that purpose.
Resolved, That we deem it expedient to form an association of such men and women, residing in this vicinity, as favor the above sentiments, and are willing to give their sanction and support to the objects in view; to be called T HE FREEDMEN'S AID ASSOCIATION OF FERRISBURG and vicinity, auxiliary to the American Freedmen's Aid Commission.
On the part of the Committee to prepare Constitution, &c., HENRY" MILES.
NOMINATION OF GENERAL BANKS FOR CONGRESS. The Republicans of the Sixth District, in this State, nominated Gen. Banks as their candidate for Congress, on Tuesday last, on the third ballot. His principal competetors were James M. Stone and J. Q. A. Griffin, of Charlestown. Gen. Banks has written a letter, in which he expresses himself in favor of conferring the suffrage upon the negro, as a measure of justice and necessity. Chief Justice Chase has recently, by letter, expressed his opinion of Gen. Banks's course in Louisiana. He says:" I shall ever regret my opposition to Gen. Banks. I am convinced now that he was the only man who could make Louisiana a free State."
Ohio has gone Republican by 25,000 majority. Pennsylvania also gives a Republican majority.
<c04>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK NO. XLIV.
NEW YORK, Oct. 5,1865. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
To ratify the Constitutional Amendment is to vote against the perpetuation or resurrection of slavery. Except New Jersey-which always proves any rule that may be asserted of the North as a whole-there is no free State which has as yet rejected the Amendment, nor is there likely to be. To elect a Union or Republican government is also a sign of hostility to slavery and adhesion to the successful idea of the war. There is no free State as yet which has been gained by the Democratic party. Connecticut asserted in this two-fold manner the liberty of the negro; yet she has just deliberately sanctioned by ballot the principle or assumption without which he never could have been made a slave. It is the most disastrous event since the death of Mr. Lincoln and the inauguration of the present policy of his successor. The denial of all human rights implies in the object of that denial that he is something less than a man; the denial of any one human right implies the same. The slave on a Kentucky plantation and the disfranchised colored citizen of Connecticut are alike regarded as deficient in manhood. All the schools and colleges from Narragansett Bay to the North River could not so instruct the people in logic as that they were aware their late election was a justification of Kentucky in holding on to slavery and rejecting the Amendment; and all the churches of the southernmost New England State could not so enforce the equal laws of Christian morality as that the brotherhood of the human race was safe from being disowned at the polls.
As the first real test of the public feeling in regard to negro suffrage, the result in Connecticut is disappointingly significant. If the widest inference is either admissible or necessary, then the people are still joined to their idols, and the radical voices which prevail in the press and on the platform are-voxet proctored uphill. Then the Southern retort does truly prick our conscience, and a sense of hypocrisy must attend if it does not forbid our demand for negro citizenship in the revolted States. Let no one believe that New York or Pennsylvania would do better than Connecticut; certainly not after her deplorable, mischievous example. Whenever there is a stain upon the garments of New England, the national linen cannot be free from dirt; and in sorry truth, our future looks very like a protracted washing-day. By the theory of mechanical equivalents, the cause is exactly measured by the sum of its effects, and for every pound of accomplishment there muse have been a pound of power exerted. That this law is applicable to moral dynamics would be perhaps generally admitted, if we knew how to estimate the units of force -the reformer's No and the philosopher's Aye. So much granted, it does not seem probable that the pro-slavery prejudices of the people can be eradicated or nullified by the action of their more enlightened representatives in Congress. Agitation and education are still the necessities that they have been for thirty years. Connecticut is herself a witness. Her legislature struck the word white from her Constitution, but their constituents restored it with emphasis-underscored the word at a time when a double infamy attaches to notoriety. How will the State's representatives in the Capitol be inclined behave after such a lesson? How can they answer Terry when he comes up with South Carolina's Constitution ignoring its colored population in any civil capacity, and asks that the charter and the territory be taken back into the Union? Will not Massachusetts be invited to apply her theory of reconstruction to her neighbor, before she launches it south of Mason and Dixon's line?
That the colored inhabitant of Connecticut has no redress against the Deacon Buttons among whom he dwells, is a fact which may well alarm those who see the gathering strength of the subjugated but only half-renovated States, and the prospect of their read-mission. Or are we prepared to believe that the Supreme Court would now, on appeal, pronounce these color distinctions unconstitutional and void, whether set up in the North or in the South? No very harsh or strained construction would be needed for a decision of this character; but who is so sanguine as to look for it, even from the Chief Justice himself? The fact is, we have but just begun to investigate the nature of our federation, and the social principles which created our democracy. We have only half studied the Constitution, and still less the Declaration of Independence.
Curiously enough, as if to stock completely the armory of the opponents of negro suffrage, and to rob its friends of every natural advantage except its intrinsic rectitude, Colorado has adopted a State Constitution with the conspicuous rejection of a clause permitting all colors to vote. Thus Congress will have to deal with the only three possible phases of the vexed question: 1st (chronologically), the action of an original State of the Union; 2nd, that of a territory entreating for recognition and adoption as a State; 3d, that of the"wayward sisters" desirous. to return to the Paradise they conspired to convert into a Pandemonium. The cases are diverse, but the principle involved is one.
It is well that all our politics is not so dismal as this specimen. Your Massachusetts Democracy always elicits the homage of a smile by its annual turning in its coffin. There is that in the rattle of its bones which precludes every effort of never so benevolent an imagination to conjure up flesh for them, juicy with the spoils of office, redolent with liquor, almost decently covered with the laurels of victory. Time was, when the party had good lungs, and used them well-that is, effectively. Now, theirs is but
"A thin, sad voice, when the cold wind roars by From the clear North of Duty."
They roared you as gently as any sucking dove at Worcester, cooing lovingly about the President, cooing patronizingly about the workingmen."Once a State," said chairman A very,"always a State." Sound Democratic doctrine that. Andrew Johnson holds it. I thought as I read this pompous and fallacious announcement that, with the slightest possible change, conservatism had found its formula:"Once a status always a status!" Poor creatures! who do not know they have survived a revolution, or hope that it will presently go backward.
M. Du PATS.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Oct. 6. A great mass meeting of negroes and freedman was held at Edgefield yesterday afternoon. There were 6000 persons present. An address was made by Brig. Gen. Fisk. He told them that they must prove themselves entitled to freedom by industry, sobriety and integrity. His duty was to see that they discharged their duties. He would put black men in the jury-box and on the witness stand. His remarks were received with enthusiasm. He was followed by several other speakers, after which the meeting adjourned.
Gen. Fisk states that during the past week 600 or 700 negroes have been sent to their former homes, in different parts of the State, and have contracted with their former owners to work for wages.
Gen. Gregory, Superintendent of the Freed-men's Bureau in Texas, made a speech to the negroes at Houston, assuring them that their rights should be respected; that they could hold property, and would be governed by the same laws as the whites. He informed them that the military would compel them to abide by their contracts, and that they should not be a burden to the government.
Chaplain O'Brien, Superintendent of the Freedmen's Bureau at Jefferson City, Mo., makes a favorable report of the condition generally of the freedmen in that part of the State. He finds good schools among them, and with the exception of gome abuses resulting from former wrongs, which can and will be rectified by the civil courts, they are in quite a prosperous condition.
Reports from Arkansas represent freedmen's affairs as in a flourishing condition. Labor is scarce, and many of the freedmen are receiving ten and fifteen dollars per month. The colored lessees of farms are doing -well. On the Freedmen's Home Farm, at Pine Bluff, a school house has been erected, and an orphan asylum is being built. The cotton on this farm looks well, and will realize 250 bales, and from fire to ten thousand bushels of cotton seed.
<c05>
From the Vergennes Vermonter of Oct. 6th.
THE NINTH ANNUAL CHAMPLAIN VALLEY AGRICULTUREAL FAIR.
SPEECHES OF GARRISON AND CHAPIN.
The Annual Fair of the Champlain Valley Agricultural Society was held at Vergennes on Wednesday and Thursday of last week. The weather was delightful, perfect. There were no clouds in the sky, -the sun shone goldenly all day long, while the breezes were as gentle as the soft breath of spring. In every aspect, the Fair was successful, never more so; it did credit to the Champlain Valley. The display of stock was good, and that of sheep larger than ever before; new pens were put up for their accommodation.
There was also a goodly number of horses and colts; the fast horses, however, were at Burlington. We have never seen such a display of fowls at our fair before; they attracted aureate deal of attention, and were well worth seeing. Nearly all of them belonged to S. Allen, who received the first premium. The show of fruit was exceedingly gratifying-the more so because it was so unexampled and unexpected.
Floral Hall was, perhaps, the most attractive place, after all, for there the cunning hand of woman, and man too, had wrought many things curious, useful, ornamental and delightful. The Hall was very prettily and tastefully trimmed, and sufficiently elaborate for all practical purposes. The neatness and taste displayed elicited commendatory remarks.
The Society was exceedingly fortunate in its selection of speakers, for they areboth so able and so unlike. The two addresses were as dissimilar as any two we ever heard, especially delivered on the same occasion; and yet they were both listened to with interest.
The first day of the Fair the number in attendance was not very large, but there were as many as could have reasonably been anticipated. It was a good day to examine the articles on exhibition, for there were no swaying crowds to obstruct the way. The Jericho Cornet Band was present and discoursed stirring music, which added much to the interest of the occasion.
Mr. Garrison, while here, was the guest of Hon. George W. Grandey. On Wednesday evening, a number of our citizens, and a few from neighboring towns, with the band, went to Mr. Grandey's house, and called Mr. Garrison out.
After the band had discoursed sweet music, John F. Roberts, Esq., called for three cheers for Wm. Lloyd Garrison, the champion of universal freedom, which were enthusiastically given. Mr. Garrison appeared and made a brief speech. He thanked the citizens for the kindness manifested in giving him an evening call. He felt the more gratified, because he regarded it as an approval of the great work he had been engaged in, the work of redeeming oppressed millions. At its close, three more cheers were given for him. A call was now made on Hon. F. E. Wood-bridge, M. C., who has long been confined to his house from an injury received while on a visit to Mansfield Mountain. After the band had played, Mr. Woodbringe appeared at the door on crutches, and made a brief address. He felt gratified with the visit, crippled though he was. He thought that we ought to feel proud that we lire in the beautiful State of Vermont. We had reason to be proud of our soldiers in the late terrible contest. There were no better troops in the service than the Green Mountain Boys. The rebels always feared the Vermont Brigade, and the Brigade was never whipped and could not be. He spoke a few words to the young men which are well worthy of their consideration. He advised them not to go West, but remain in Vermont. They could make more money, live better and be happier to stay in Vermont than to go to the prairies of the West. Mr. Woodbridge said that, if it were not for a sick daughter and his own disabled condition, he would invite the company in and have a good old fashioned, social time. His remarks were received with applause, the band played again, and then the company returned to the hotel and dispersed.
The morning of Thursday was still more lovely, if possible, than that of Wednesday; it was warmer; the air more genial; a glorious, golden autumn day. People began to pour into the city at an early hour, and head for the Fair Gounds. The number in attendance was larger than ever before.
MR. GARRISON'S ADDRESS.
At quarter past eleven, Mr. Garrison commenced his speech. The crowd all around him was altogether larger than he had anticipated, three or four times larger. He spoke for an hour and a half; we never heard him do better. Many of his hits were very happy, and elicited much laughter and applause. He was listened to with marked attention and intense interest. The stillness, though nearly one-half of the people were standing, was remarkable. We shall not attempt to give even a synopsis of the address, but rather a meager sketch in our own homely style.
The speaker touched briefly the subject of reconstruction. The people of the South are demoralized. They are subdued, not repentant-the old leaven of slavery still clings to them. Remove our troops, and the freedmen's schools would be broken up in twenty-four hours by mob law. If the Southern States are in the Union, President Johnson is a usurper. They are not in the Union as States; neither are they territories, for territories have never been States. The people of those States, by rebellion, have forfeited every right but the right to be hanged! They must be kept out, if necessary, as long as the Israelites were kept out of the land of Canaan, forty years. We can send teachers, emigrants, and by and by they will be titled to enter the family of States to makeone whole and glorious country.
In conclusion, the speaker said that it was with pride and joy he announced that it was on Vermont soil he first commenced the anti-slavery agitation. He published for nine months, at Bennington,"The Journal of the. Times." While there, he started a petition to Congress to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, which received 6.000 or 7,000 names- He was glad to be in the State where Judge Harrington declared he would not deliver up a fugitive slave, unless they brought him a bill of sale from God Almighty. The people of Vergennes had his thanks for their kindness to him, and his blessing for the respectful and reverent manner in which they received the martyr, John Brown. It was a courageous and glorious act, and had made the place historical. May Vermont ever lead the way in all that is freedom-giving and ennobling, and be always"The star that never sets."
At the close of Mr. Garrison's address, Gen. Grandey remarked that the speaker had uttered thoughts that breathe and words that burn, which would live in the memory of us all, and then called for three rousing cheers for Mr. Garrison, which were given with enthusiasm.
ADDRESS OF REV. DR. CHAPIN.
At 3 o'clock P. M., Mr. Chapin commenced his address. The gathering of those who were anxious to hear the distinguished speaker was so large that everybody felt a right to be astonished. The seats were all crowded full-there were carriages all | around filled with people, and then if there was not a sea, there was at least a small lake of upturned faces, and not so very small either. We regret that all could not hear distinctly. Mr. Chapin has lungs like his body and brain, strong, but the strongest lungs cannot make everybody hear.
Those who were present on the occasion, or who have heard Dr. Chapin, know something of his style, but if they think they can report one of his speeches, or even give a tolerable synopsis, we should like to have them try it Wirt, in his life of Patrick Henry, states that it was often the case that professional reporters would forget themselves in some of Mr. Henry's loftiest flights of eloquence, and the pencil would cease its work just where it was most desirable to preserve what the speaker was uttering. In some of Mr. Chapin's grandest flights, which no living man excels, we inevitably become oblivions to all around us, and did we understand the art,we could not report him. Sometimes, when he has uttered a thrilling sentence or a grand sentiment in living, burning words, we start to write it down, but suddenly find ourself listening to some startling metaphor, ludicrous yet impressive illustration, or an outburst of eloquence which, though it seems governed by no law, sways the multitude as God's great winds sway the trees of the forests, and the pencil is again still.
And we cannot report him from memory, for we have not the power to use his language, have you, reader? So then, what shall our report be? A meager sketch, a disjointed affair, clothed in words which Mr. Chapin would not know, should he be introduced a dozen times.
Mr. Chapin said that he should not attempt an agricultural address, for that was out of his province. It is well for a man once in a while to get outside of his own work. No earthly employment will entirely satisfy the mind of man. One pursuit alone shrivels up the human soul.
Success in a business point should be the object of every one, that he may be able to bless the world by his life and lift himself up in the true scale of manhood, fulfilling a noble destiny. The idle, the useless and improvident in the world, are only a curse and arc subjects for the devil's recruiting sergeants.
A man should be faithful to his business, but to have only a pecuniary object in view was abominable. No man had a right to engage in a calling which he believes will be injurious to his race. He should feel while employed upon his daily task that he is not only benefiting himself thereby, but the world of mankind. A man may devote too much time to business or too little. He may overtax his brain or his muscle. In the one case, be is a wasteful idler; in the other, business alone absorbs all his powers. Business or labor
<c06>
in its right aspect, has but one tendency, the happiness and elevation of man.
Some say God made the country, but man made the town; he did not believe that. God made the country and God made the town also, for he made the active brain and cunning fingers which called the town into being. The country is believed to be purer, the people nobler than these of the city. Who can deny the wickedness of the great Babylon, its squalid wretchedness and shame? And yet what glorious lights are there, heavenly charities and Christ-like guides for the wandering!
The labor of the farmer is healthful labor, even though at times very exhausting. It gives a color to the cheek and health to the body. Dreadful is the condition of these who have nothing to do-dreadful the condition of these who have too much to do, in mines, shut out from the light of heaven, in garrets where there is hunger, cold, and wan faces over the midnight lamp. The farmer works by the celestial clock. His is a balanced labor. If in the time of gathering the hay or the grain, the muscles or the mind is overtaxed, there are days when he may rest-whom the rain is falling, or in winter when the cold drives him within doors to the social joys of his home.
The farmer ought to be ever advancing, ever learning, improving in his whole business of agriculture. There are these who claim to be practical men, who claim to follow the good old customs, conservative in all things. Such become so set against action, that if it were not for the law of gravitation, the earth in its revolutions would be twitched from under their feet, and leave them sticking in ether.
If a man's business does him injury, he should escape from it as soon as possible, and seek that which will benefit him as well as others. Every man should be proud to labor, and none more so than the farmer. Agriculture lies at the base of all material prosperity. It is the food of the world. The wondrous pyramid of the world's callings and productions has for its foundation, its base; agriculture.
The speaker alluded to the war and asked what have we gained by our great conflict-what harvest have we gathered in? Have we gathered in righteousness, justice, for all? But the national harvest is not all gathered in yet. The evils of slavery still linger; hatred of human rights, hatred of the Union, and the equality of all before the law. He should prefer enlightened suffrage, every man be able to read and write, but if we cannot have that, then give to every man of whatever color the right to vote for these who rule over them.
Impartial suffrage is our only safety, and reconstruction without it will result in terrible evils. He thanked God that the war was over, that the great evil of slavery was wiped out; and the mourning ones before him, to whom the war had brought weeds of woe, had cause to rejoice that their great sacrifices had not been in vain. Shall we on account of a man's color disfranchise him? Shall we receive disloyal votes and exclude the loyal? The living and the dead cry out against it, and so does all that is ennobling and just. The speaker, in concluding, paid a globing compliment to Vermont. His address was about an hour and a quarter long, and during the time, very still was the great throng around him. He sometimes convulsed his auditors with laughter, and again moved them to tears. At the close, Mr. Grandley called for three cheers for Mr. Chapin, which was heartily responded to.
EARTHQUAKE IN SAN FRANCISCO. The severest earthquake ever felt in San Francisco, occurred there about noon of the 8th inst., frightening almost the entire population of the city out of their houses into the streets. During half a minute, there were two tremendous shocks, which caused buildings to rock to and fro in an alarming manner. The motion was apparently from east to west. The ground along the river opened in fissures and spouted water like Geysers. No lives were lost, but buildings were damaged to the amount of $10,000 or more.
Among the rebels recently pardoned is Mr. Walker, who was the first rebel Secretary of War, and who put the ball-a cannon ball it was-in motion, by the order which he gave to fire on Fort Sumter, which was meant to bring on war, in order that Virginia might be forced, against her will, into the secession movement. He predicted that the rebel rag would fly over Faneuil Hall, after Sumter had been taken. When such a man is pardoned, Mr. Jefferson Davis need have no doubt as to his own future. Ho can "eliminate" the gallows from his dreams. -Traveller.
The Mayor of Vicksburg having given satisfactory assurances that the freedmen should hereafter receive the same treatment by the civil courts as that accorded to whites. Gen. Howard has instructed his Assistant Commissioner at that point not to interfere with the municipal regulations of that city, so long as the negroes' right to testify before the courts is recognized.
THE VOTE IN CONNECTICUT. Returns from all but four towns in Connecticut, show the majority against negro suffrage to be 6507.
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth annual course of these favorites and eminently popular lectures will be delivered in Music HALL, on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Oct. 17-WENDELL PHILLIPS, of Boston.
24-FREDERICK DOUGLASS, of Rochester.
31-HENRY WARD BEECHER, of Brooklyn.
Nov. 7-JACOB M. MASSING, of Boston.
14-ANNA E. DICKINSON-, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
19-DAVID A. WASSON, of Boston.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
10-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock. Mrs. FROIHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting" One Person" to the course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street; Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, and by the Lecture Committee.
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one- dollar each for the course, for also only at DITSON & CO'S, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (these to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a largo number on the lower floor and both balconies to the other ticket-holders.
ANNUAL MEETING.-The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Horticultural Hall, West Chester, Oct 27th, day and evening. A more particular notice hereafter. 
JAMES MOTT, President.
BENJAMINC. BACON, Cor. Sec.
Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right, remedy. Take Ayer's Pills. and cleanse out the disordered humors-purify the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural: functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and, common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when, suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigeston, Derangement of the Liver, Costive-ness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and suppression, when taken in large doses.

They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative, medicine yet discovered.

AYER'S AGUE CURE,

For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in bleary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.

This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinsy or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and that Weat, try it, and you will endorse these assertions. •
Prepared by J. C. AYER, & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct.13: 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
The following poem is by Miss FANNIE JACKSON, the first colored female graduate from the College course at Oberlin, Ohio. It is a creditable production, and we thank the friend who sent it to us for publication.
THE GRANDEUR OF OUR TRIUMPH.
Is the grandeur of our triumph
The Republic's preservation,
That her name is not a byword
In the mouth of every nation?
Is it in the new-born glory
Which around our country glows; 
In her heroes' names immortal;
In the conquering of her foes? 
Surely, not e'en though the whole earth
Shook with her triumphal cars;
Though all nations bowed before her,
And her glory touched the stars.
For the pride and pomp of splendor
Which the great world can afford,
Sink to vanity and nothing
In the presence of the Lord.
In His power He passed among us,
And our hearts stood still in awe;
While with more than Sinai's thunder 
He proclaimed His holy law.
In the mire where guilt had flung us,
In the slough of deep disgrace,
Struggled we-He passed among us,
And we saw His dreadful face.
Towered His lofty form above us,
Frowned His fearful, glorious brow;
Dripping with the blood of millions,
Swept that red right hand below.
And He showed us in the fierceness
Of His anger what awaits
Those who trample on the weak-or
Turn the stranger from the gates.
Those who flaunt their banners proudly,
Calling on the Lord of Hosts,
Knowing that their praise is mockery,
And their words but idle boasts.
Oh! we thought to build our glory 
On th' oppression of the poor!
Vain attempt; upon our heads came
Retribution swift and sure.
Sooner build your cities
On mount Ætna, than to place
Your glory in oppression,
Or the wrongs of any race.
For the slumbering fires of manhood
Shall burst forth with giant leap,
Leaving your renowned republic
But a smoking, blackened heap.
When from out the stormy war-cloud
Came the awful voice of God,
Dare ye lift in supplication
Hands red with your brothers' blood?
Haughtily we answered Him
With empty words and forwardness;
Loftily we bore ourselves;
Was not our army numberless?
Then the dark days came upon us-
Bloody days, when no man slept;
When at Bull's Run and at Richmond
O'er unnumbered slain we wept.
When we knew in Southern fens
The bravest of our warriors lay;
Marking where the bullets rained
In the stormy battle-day.
All for love of Christ and country,
In the trenches dead they lay;
Greener grows the turf, and sweeter
Bloom the wild flowers there to-day.
Then came also days of fasting,
When our country bowed her head;
While in sackcloth and in ashes
She sat mourning for her dead:
For her dead, and not her sins:
So our ears no victory greeted;
For the Lord was still against us-
We were smitten and defeated.
Till a great cry rose amongst us,
Till the whole land blushed with blood,
At the stubborn sin which kept us
Under Heaven's avenging rod.
But the cloud of death was lifted;
Stayed the flow of martyr's blood;
When our country, humble, coutrite,
Groping found her way to God.
As from out the Jordan's waters
Came the spotless Lamb of God;
As from heaven the light eternal
Flashed its glory round our Lord;
So from out of war's red sea,
Baptized anew in Freedom's name,
Our country comes with snowy robes,
And heart with holy fire aflame.
Then the Lord rebuked our foes,
And all their boastful horde
Fled like leaves before the whirlwind,
At the coming of the Lord.
In their men of war they boasted,
But the great Avenger's breath
Fell upon their mighty men, and
Smote them like the frost of death.
Come not too near the triumph mount,
On which God's lightning flashes;
But come we in his presence clad
In sackcloth and in ashes.
For our souls have not been sinless,
Nor our hands been free from stain;
And our altars yet are dripping
With the blood of brothers slain.
Unto God belong the praises;
His right arm the vengeance deals;
In the whirlwind of the battle
We have heard his chariot wheels.
We have heard His mighty trumpet,
We have seen His flaming sword,
And the grandeur of our triumph
Is the glory of the Lord.
A STILL DAY IN AUTUMN.
BY MRS. SARAH HELEN WHITMAN.
I love to wander through the woodlands hoary,
In the soft gloom of an Autumnal day,
When Summer gathers up her robes of glory,
And like a dream of beauty glides away.
How through each loved, familiar path she lingers,
Serenely smiling through the golden mist,
Tinting the wild grape with her dewy fingers,
Till the cool emerald turns to amethyst.
Kindling the faint stars of the hazel, shining
To light the gloom of Autumn's mouldering halls,
With hoary plumes the clematis entwining,
Where o'er the rock her withered garland falls.
Warm lights are on the sleepy uplands waning;
Beneath dark clouds along the horizon rolled;
Till the slant sunbeams, through their fingers raining,
Bathe all the hills in melancholy gold. 
The moist winds breathe of crisped leaves and flowers, 
In the damp hollows of the woodlands sown,
Mingling the freshness of Autumnal showers
With spicy airs from cedarn alleys blown.
Beside the brook, and on the umbered meadow,
Where yellow fern-tufts fleck the faded ground,
With folded lids, beneath their palmy shadow,
The gentian nods, in dewy slumbers bound.
Upon those soft, fringed lids the bee sits brooding,
Like a fond lover loth to say farewell-
Or, with shut wings, through silken folds intruding,
Creeps near her heart, his drowsy tale to tell.
<c02>
The little birds upon the hillside lonely
Flit noiselessly along from spray to spray,
Silent as a sweet, wandering thought, that only
Shows its bright wings, and softly glides away.
The scentless flowers in the warm sunlight dreaming,
Forget to breathe their fulness of delight,
And through the tranced woods soft airs are streaming,
Still as the dew-fall on the Summer night. 
So, in my heart, a sweet unwonted feeling
Stirs, like the wind in ocean's hollow shell,
Through all its secret chambers sadly stealing,
Yet finds no word in mystic charm to tell.
-New York Citizen.

The Liberator.
BEECHER ON PRAYER.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher having received letters from some friends who had found relief from great troubles through some simple means for which they had waited and suffered a long time, and who in these letters to him expressed surprise that God should have allowed them to remain suffering so long in ignorance of the means of relief for which they had earnestly prayed, made these expressions the subject of one of his Lecture Room Talks, in which he spoke as follows of God's methods of answering prayer:-
“I do not undertake to interpret the methods of God; and, certainly, I do not undertake to limit God's sovereignty. I do most firmly believe that God is at liberty to exercise direct and efficient power over us by, or in spite of, natural laws. But, on the other hand, there can be no doubt, as a matter of fact, and as a matter of implication in the New Testament, that God prefers to administer in his moral kingdom by the operation of stated laws, just as he does in the physical kingdom; and that the road to blessings in the moral kingdom of God is through an intelligent obedience to natural moral laws, just as in secular things the road to any result is through a knowledge of, and an obedience to, natural physical laws.
Suppose that one, having been almost starved, and having struggled with starvation through the whole summer, praying, every day, ' Give me my daily bread,' should, in October, discover there were esculent, nutritious roots growing abundantly in the edge of a wilderness near by, and should say, ' It seems very strange to me that I should have been suffered to want for food when I prayed, day and night, ' Give me my daily bread,' and when these roots were within my reach, if I had only known where to go for them; why did not God tell me?’ You would smile. Suppose a person should say, ' Here I have been shaking with chills and fever for weeks and months, and all the time there has been this Peruvian bark next door, with which I might have cured myself, if I had known that it would cure me; but I did not know it, though I constantly prayed God to cure me.' You would say, at once, ' No prayer will ever bring medicine. You must know that it exists, and then apply it, in obedience to natural laws, or it will not meet your case.'
Go further. Did you ever know a person that could pray down an arithmetic? Did you ever know a person that, going to school, and finding himself puzzled by a tough problem, could get it solved by asking God to solve it for him? Did you ever know anybody, except by legitimate headwork, to accomplish anything intellectually? We know that, if a man wants to do anything in physics or mental culture, he must apply himself to it according to the laws of those departments. In other words, we must find out the appointed means of obtaining the things that we seek, and apply them; and no amount of effort, ordinarily speaking, will bring us to the desired end, unless we use those means; and the finding out what those means are is as important as their application is when found out.
Now, is it so morally? Yes; and nothing shows it plainer than the history of the church and good men. A man may live in needless sufferings for forty years, praying to God every day, and finding no relief, if God has made provision for his relief in natural law, and he just prays, and does nothing more. A brother in this church suffered untold agony from depression of spirits, and prayed against it long and vehemently, until at last, finding a skillful physician, he obtained the appropriate remedy, and got well. There are persons who, though they are sincere and earnest, have such erroneous views of God that they intercept the law of divine favor in its action on the mind; and all the prayers in the world will not make them happy until they rectify those views.
You will ask, ‘Then, is prayer in such a case use less?’ No, think not. I can conceive that, though it does not bring the answer directly, it may be preparing one to get the answer in some other way. For example, a woman prays for the conversion of her husband, under the impression that God will answer her prayer outright. She prays all the week, with the general impression that all she has to do is to persevere in prayer. But, as she is true, honest and sincere, going before God, praying retroacts upon her position, and affects her, and makes her more heavenly, and makes her affection for her husband, whom she is thinking of in the very highest relations, deeper, and makes her family life more exemplary; and, although God does not convert that man directly by a stroke of omnipotence, by praying and praying, she is made better, and better, and better. And, meanwhile, the man says, ‘Well, my Mary is a saint, if there is one. She wants I should go to those meetings; I do not care for the meetings; but I will go to please her. She feels that somebody ought to pray for the children. I do not have that feeling myself; but for her sake I will treat it with respect.' And such thoughts as these run through his mind. And so her patience and gentleness and goodness, augmented by prayer, acting upon him, at last produce a state of mind in him which is favorable to his conversion, and he is converted. Thus her prayer was answered, though it was answered not at all as she expected it would be, but indirectly, her life being made an instrument of her husband's conversion.
You will ask me, perhaps, ' Ought we not to pray for direct spiritual gifts?’ Yes, I think we ought; but I think that whenever a man asks God for any spiritual gift, the next step would be to ask, ' Have I not asked God for something that I can get myself? Have I not asked God for something that he has made provision to give me in an indirect way?’
Suppose I should go to God and say, ‘Lord, be pleased to give me some salad!’ He would point to the garden and say, ' There is the place to get salad; and if you are too lazy to work for it, I shall not give it to you.' Suppose, standing by a crab-apple tree, I should say, ‘Lord, give me pippins on this tree!’ He would say, 'Certainly, if you will graft it.' And if I grafted the tree, I would get the pippins. If I neglected to do it, I would not get them.
Prayer is often an argument of laziness. For instance, a person finds that his temper is a source of great trouble to him; and if you divest his prayer of its reverential character, it amounts to about this: ' Lord, my temper gives me a vast deal of inconvenience, and it would be a great task for me to correct it; and wilt thou be pleased to correct it for me, that I may get along easier?’ And if prayer was answered under such circumstances, independent of the action of natural laws, it would be paying a premium on indolence. If, therefore, a thing is accessible to a person; if, by proper exertion or inquiry, he can compass it himself, it is not supposed that God will turn aside from those natural laws by which he has made provision for the supply of this very want, to give it to the man in a special manner.
You will ask me, ‘Are there any circumstances in which God may be disposed to do such a thing?' I am inclined to think there are. I can imagine how he might do it in the case of one who was
<c03>
placed beyond the reach of those instrumentalities which alone could enable him to avail himself of the blessings that, ordinarily, men could obtain by their own exertions. I can understand how an angel might be sent to release Peter from prison; but if Peter had a pass-key in his pocket, and had had the power to use it for his own release, I do not believe that any angel would have been sent to release him. I can understand how, when Paul and Silas were praying and singing in prison, there might have been an earthquake sent that should open the doors and set them free; but if they had files and saws, and could have set themselves free, I do not believe that they would have got their liberty by any other means. I can understand how special answers to prayer might have been granted those in slave life-for consider what slave life was. I do not refer to its toils and unjust exactions, but to its deprivations. Consider how the slave was not permitted to read the Word of God, how it was only now and then a detached morsel of the Gospel was vouchsafed to him, and how he was kept in twilight so far as the outward forms of truth are concerned. In view of these things, it is not unreasonable to presume that God would answer the prayers of slaves as he would not answer the prayers of those who were more highly favored. I can understand that God might do for little children, since natural laws are beyond their reach, what he would not do for grown folks. The same reason that led God to work miracles in the earlier periods, leads him to answer prayers for blessings for which there is a provision made in natural laws, in cases such as I have enumerated.
I do not say that he does it every day; but I meet cases in which it seems as though the Lord said, ' If this had been a white man, I would not have answered that prayer so; I did it because it was a poor black man, who could not know how to help himself.' And the law for you is obvious; that your prayer must be accompanied with investigation and activity."

A CALL TO WORKING MEN IN THE TEMPERANCE CAUSE.
Intemperance rages, and will rage till we change our hand, rely less on organizations, and more on honest, earnest, individual effort. There is desperate need of men to battle this GREAT EVIL on their "own hook," responsible to God only.
What if great men continue to discuss the Maine Law, and their admirers continue to read and admire? Will that save us?
What if great conventions continue to be held, and distinguished men make masterly speeches and pass resolutions, both masterly-foolish and masterly-wise? Will that save us?
What if Temperance Societies, not a few, continue to meet and do little more than air their regalias, have a convivial time, and occupy our newspapers with a display of organizations and names? Will that save us?
Most manifestly we have organizations enough, discussions enough, and legislation enough, whilst the EVIL waxes worse and worse. In this dilemma, can anything be done? Yes, thank Heaven! Let us, with the spirit and gospel of Christ, go straightway to work (as individuals) in the very neighborhoods where, in God's providence, we reside. Let us labor, might and main, with Young America, with temperate drinkers and drunkards, diffuse light and love by spreading Temperance Papers and Temperance Tracts in the very dens of sin, and in all the "highways and byways" of life; and looking to God for strength, we may soon understand the promise, " One shall chase a thousand."
The spreading of Tracts-Tracts which are short, pungent, pithy, rather than pretty-is attended with great success. We have such Tracts. We sell them at common prices. We send them gratuitously to those who wish to do good, but are too poor to buy them. Friends, send for them. Send a little postage, if you please; the tracts you can have " without money and without price."
We are rather radical, but we have a few friends just as radical. They like our "One Man Tract Society"; they like our individual and independent action against popular abominations, and occasionally send us a little money to carry on the battle; and being almoner of their bounty, though poor, we wish, with God's blessing, to make many rich. Therefore, fellow-laborers, send for our Tracts, and try their quality upon your dram-sellers and dram-drinkers.
The flood-gates of iniquity are lifted up. We have three hundred thousand drunkards sinking into their graves! We have hosts of "temperate drinkers" coming on to fill their places! Earnest, self denying workers are needed on all hands. We must reanimate a dying cause. Friends, awake! Let us stretch ourselves upon it as Elisha stretched himself upon the dead child, and it shall rise to life in majesty and strength.
GEORGE TRASK.
Temperance Depository, Fitchburg, Mass.

THE PSALM OF DEATH.
NOT IN THE BOOK.
“To be said or sung" by politicians of the Copperhead persuasion, at all meetings held during the approaching political campaign.
When sung, tune, "Copperhead Lament." 
Niggers young and niggers old,
Niggers warm and niggers cold,
Niggers large and niggers small,
Niggers short and niggers tall,
Niggers yellow, dark or dun,
Curse the niggers, every one;
Niggers low and niggers high,
Niggers wet and niggers dry,
Niggers heavy and niggers light,
Niggers dull and niggers bright;
Summer, Winter, Spring, and Fall,
Curse the nigger, one and all.
Curse the nigger, curse him well,
Curse his color, hair and smell;
Curse his eyes, his cheeks, his nose,
Curse his feet, his head, his toes,
His grinning teeth, his curving shins,
Load him with the nation's sins.
Curse his sighs, his tears, his groans,
Curse brain and muscle, blood and bones;
Curse arms and shoulders, back and breast,
Curse him roundly, curse your best,
Call him monkey, ape and beast,
Of all the things that live, the least-
With hissing breath and foaming lip,
Lash with tongue for want of whip.
Sneer and roar, and stamp and swear,
With brandished knuckles pound the air,
Gnash your teeth with rabid rage-
Curse all the tribe, from youth to age.
Curse him while he breathes the air,
Curse him cold upon his bier;
But to his soul be pity given,
And send him to some nigger heaven.
Then own yourself the lowest sneak
That ever trampled on the weak;
The lowest, foulest wretch, forlorn,
Whom men should kick, and women scorn;
Confess yourself, without a figure,
Of all that breathes the meanest nigger;
Though white without, all black within-
Black of heart, though not of skin;
Sunk in meanness past retrieving,
Who curse the nigger for a living.
It was an ancient Butternut, with grizzled head unshaved, his coat was torn and tattered, and his hat was badly caved. His raw-hide boots did bear the brunt of Johnson's last campaign, and his hollow cheeks were tanned by the sun, and wind, and rain. His flask was filled with Robertson: he was tight as any brick, and every time he opened his mouth it ended with a "hick!" One arm around a lamp-post affectionately twined, about the "nigger meetin" our hero spoke his mind: "Ish a mosh awdashus bishness (hic) for a low, (hic) blasted nigger, to inshult our (hic) noble stockracy, by cutting such a figure. Its ‘gainst the Constitution (hic) and the Dred (hic) Shot decision, and the police ought to clean 'em out, and lock 'em up in prishun. A nigger's (hic) no right to work, unless his master makes him; 'cos (hic) he isn't civilized until a horse-whip breaks him. The Bible shays that heaven was made for (hic) the Saxon race, and (hic) religion tells us make the niggers know their place. Unless we make 'em (hic) feed us, they'll (hic) all go to ruin, and then our consciences will say we've been (hic) their undoin."
So spoke the seedy Butternut in accents sad and low, till in the gutter down he dropped, and slumbered off his woe.-Nashville Press.
<c04>
A DEMOCRATIC PROTEST.
Petroleum V. Nasby protests, as a consistent Democrat, against the nomination of soldiers by his party. He writes:
I object to nominatin em for the follerin reasons:
1. Taint honist. In 1862 I called the soljers "Linkin purps," and the officers " sholder-strapt hirelins," and I meant it. They wuz wagin a crooil and unholy war agin Dimacrisy; they wuz redoosing our magorities in the Suthern States at the rate uv sum hundreds per day, and now to nominate em is a flop I'll never make.
2. Twon't pay. These fellers sold out when they took commishns; they sold out the Ablishnists when they flopt back to us; and what guaranty hev we that they wont sell us out the next turn of the wheel? Ef we cood git sum decent wuns, it mite do; but, good Lord! the soljer who wood do this wood be lower down than we is, which wood bother a man. All the votes that sich men cood controle, we hev alluz owned in fee-simple.
3. Taint justis 2 us originel copperheds. We endoored the heat and burden uv the day; we resisted drafts, we dammed taxes, we wuz Fort Lafayetted and Fort Warraned. Twas us who died in our door-yards. Where wuz these orfisers then? All the damage they done the government wuz in drawin pay and rashens.
4. The reconstructed dimocrisy uv the South won't like it; and to them, after all, we must look for success.
5. They acknowledge nigger-equality by allowan niggers to fight with em.
6. We hev gone too far to try the soljer dodge. We opposed the war, we opposed their votin, we opposed the Ablishn in votin pay and supplies, we opposed Aid Societies, and laft at Sanitary Commishns; we opposed drafts at a time when they needed help, and to go back on such a record, I rather reckin I wont do it.
7. Ef we undertake the soljer, we commit ourselves to payin his pension, et settry. How wood the Suthern Dimocrisy like that?
8. Ef we nominate men who served, we disgust the deserters and them ez went to Kanady for the sak ov the coz.
Mr. Nasby appends the following advice to his party:
We have cappytle enough in the Nigger. Let us plant ourselves boldly on shoor ground. Let us Resolve that Goddlemity wuz rite in makin the Nigger our slave, tho he made a mistake in planting in his heeven buzum a cronic desire to run away from his moral condishun. Let us hang out our banner and inscribe on its folds, "No marryin Niggers!” "No payin a debt inkurd in a Nigger war!”-“Protect us from Nigger equality!" and sich other precepts ez cum within range uv the Dimekratic intellek, and go in and win.
May the Lord hasten the day.
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Lait Paster uv the Church uv the Noo Dispensashun.
THE RIGHTS OF LABOR.
Miss Anna Dickinson is a public lecturer. We are not among the admirers of her discourses nor of her most characteristic views; but we do profoundly honor the courage and self-poise which have enabled her to strike out for herself a path to self-support and competence which detracts nothing from the opportunities of her sisters, born, like herself, to the common heritage of poverty and labor. Hence we most intensely loathe and reprobate the spirit which instigates such paragraphs as the following from the Ohio Lorain County News:
SILVERY. Some one has called Miss Anna Dickinson a silvery-tongued orator. The College Societies' Library Association have found out what that means. She offers to come to Oberlin this winter, and lecture one evening for $200. Two hundred dollars for one hour's talk! That is just three dollars and thirty-three and one-third cents per minute. As "silvery" as it well could be in this age of greenbacks.
Let us look a little first at the facts in the case:
Miss Dickinson lives in Philadelphia between four and five hundred miles from Oberlin. It is a pretty fair week's work for her to leave home, travel by honest daylight to Oberlin, lecture there, and return, at a cost, including wear of clothing, of hardly less than $50. And then, she ought to devote not less than a month to study, thought and preparation, to qualify her for giving such a lecture as Oberlin can afford an evening to hear. So that, in fact, instead of paying her "three dollars and a third per minute " for her lecture, what she asks is not a hundredth part of that.
But we do not rest the case on the fact that her charge is reasonable. We place it distinctly on the ground that she, like every other worker, has a right to whatever remuneration her abilities and services will command. There are lawyers who will gladly undertake for $100 an important litigation for which other lawyers would charge $5,000; and sad experience has often proved the former much the dearer. And Miss Dickinson, as a lecturer, is better worth hiring at $200 (simply as a business venture) than many others at $10 who would gladly lecture for that sum.
If Signora Squallini were wanted to sing, or Mile. Tagliona Tightfit to dance, or Miss Lucille Weston to play at Oberlin or elsewhere, no one would expect her to do it for a penny less than the most her talents and popularity would command. Why should she? And, if Miss Dickinson can employ her time elsewhere to greater profit than to lecture at Oberlin for less than $200, why should she lecture there for less? Can any one tell?
“Isn't she a philanthropist?" some one sneeringly asks. We really don't know. We never heard her say that she is or is not. In her three lectures to which we have listened, she stood up stoutly for justice to all-not for philanthropy. And if philanthropy means working for half price, we don't believe she lays any claim to it. If she does, we don't.
The editor of the Lorain County News, we presume, lives by his own talents and exertions, such as they are. He ought, therefore, by interest and instinct, to be on the side of Labor-to affirm and defend its right to full and fair compensation. He ought to insist, with us, on every one's receiving for any labor or service all that he will bring in the world’s open market. Why should he take the wrong side of this great question? He wrongs himself with every one else who honestly works for a living, by seeking to expose Miss Dickinson to odium for asking for her services all that they will command.
Even if the lady is unwise in fixing the price of her lectures, she has a perfect right to be unwise, and to lecture ten times per annum for $200 rather than one hundred times for $50. By so doing, she affords a better chance to other lecturers, possibly more needy than she is, and does something toward upholding the dignity and rights of Labor. When poorer and more dependent than now, she refused to teach and Went hungry, rather than accept half the price paid to men for services no better than hers. We presume she is acting on the same principle now.
 If Miss Dickinson should, by asking too much for her services, remain unemployed, and so become a pauper and a public charge, the public would have a moral right to interfere, and insist on her going to work at something for the means of paying her way. If she were to head a mob about the doors of lecture-rooms where cheaper lecturers were employed, and attempt by menace and violence to silence her rivals or deprive them of hearers, the police would be obliged to take her in hand. But, so long as she does nothing of the sort, such paragraphs as that above quoted are grossly impertinent and censurable.
" Isn't a dollar too much for two hours' work sawing a load of wood? " queried an employer “Sah," replied the Ethiopian professor of the manly art of wood-sawing, " I charge fifty cents for the sawing, and fifty more for the know how." That colored gentleman had an appreciation of right and justice far transcending that evinced by the Editor of the Lorain County News.-N. Y. Tribune.
CENTRAL AFRICA.
At a missionary meeting lately held in England, the great American explorer, Dr. Livingston, said:
I should like to answer a question that is very often put to me: " What sort of people are those you wander amongst?”
Now, I should like to tell you that they are very far from being savages. On the sea coast they are rather blood-thirsty, especially those who have been in the slave trade; but when you get about three hundred miles into the interior, you meet with people who are quite mild and hospitable. It is the duty of each man in the village to give every stranger his supper, and to show him every hospi
<c05>
tality which lies in his power. These people are not engaged in hunting, as most inhabitants in this country think they are, but are employed in cultivating the soil. They also manufacture iron, smelting it from stone, and very excellent iron it is. I brought home with me the last time I was in England some of the ore, and the iron was manufactured into an excellent Enfield rifle. The quality was exceedingly good, and equal to the best Swedish iron.
They also manufacture a superior quality of copper; also articles of earthen ware and basket work. When we first go among this class of people, with the idea of their being savages, it is rather singular, but I believe true, that they rather believe we are savages. They do not understand where all the black people that are carried away go to. Thousands are taken away annually, and you cannot go anywhere without meeting with slave parties. The men carry what are called slave sticks, with a fork at the end of them, which is fastened round the necks of the captives, so that it is impossible for them to get out of them, or get at the other end, by which they are tied to trees throught the night. The people I am now speaking of imagine that the white people eat them. They look upon us as cannibals, and we look upon them as savages. Now, if we take an impartial view of both, we shall find that they are better than each imagine one another to be.—African Repository.

ABANDONED PLANTATIONS-A VIRGINIA CASE.
One of the most difficult and delicate duties devolving upon the Government will be the adjustment of the question of abandoned lands of rebels, in cases complicated by their intervening occupancy and improvement by freedmen. It will be an act of cruelty and bad faith to disregard the rights that have accrued to the latter, where their possession of such tracts was secured to them through the direct agency of the Government. An interesting case of the kind has been developed in Virginia, and we refer to it more especially from the nature of the proof it gives of the industry and thrift that belong to a freedmen's community. It is not a solitary instance, for there are many very nearly its parallel in the vicinity of points of long military occupancy on the Southern coast.
Certain Virginia rebels have returned from service in the cause of the rebellion, to claim back their lands. Some of them have received the Executive pardon, and are pressing their demands with entire confidence that they will straightway recover their own again. The embarrassing point in this called for rendition contains the proof all friends of the Freedmen are interested to study. These lands are in the vicinity of Fortress Monroe, lying back of the destroyed town of Hampton, burned by its rebel inhabitants, representatives of indignant F. F. V., early in the war. After such a wanton act of destruction, the United States Government set apart abandoned and confiscated lots in the ruined town, and on two adjoining estates of J. B. Sinclair and S. K. Shields, rebels both, and of from 400 to 500 acres each in extent, for the occupancy of colored refugees and Freedmen.
The experiment of developing order and system out of this element has had excellent success. Sinclair and Shields, now returning to claim their estates, find them covered- with an industrious, self-supporting black population of some eight hundred families in several distinct settlements. These dwellers have each homes of their own. They number nearly five thousand souls, of whom twelve hundred are over twelve years of age. There are five hundred and eighty-seven who can read and write, and nearly one thousand church members. They have built five churches, and raised among themselves $1,050 for the annual ministration of the gospel. These people are mainly engaged in humble agricultural pursuits, but the trades and a small local commerce are maintained among them in shops and stores. Of these latter an union grocery and dry goods store is the property of a black Trades' Union, with a stock of goods which cost $7,000, of which $4,000 was paid in cash. That the enterprise is profitable is shown by a report of daily sales ranging from $249 to $379 for a period of ten successive days preceding the report. These freedmen, so far from being a weight upon the Government or their neighbors, show a property roll of $51,006, in their own right. Nor is this all in the hands of a few fortunate owners. The list shows two to be possessed of $4,000 each, the millionaires of this black Acadia, while the succeeding entries on the list are $2,000 to one, $1,500 to another, nine possessors of over $500 and under $1,500, and a lengthy catalogue of smaller property holders.
Such are the facts concerning these Freedmen of Virginia, called out by the attempt of the rebel owners to recover their farms. These people called a public meeting in one of their chapels, and appointed a committee, one branch of whose constituted labors is given in the statements we compile, showing the status of the communities whose dispersion is sought. On the evidence of the Government officers, the census returns are trustworthy and to be relied upon. A sum of money has been raised and pledged by these freedmen sufficient to retain competent counsel, and in all legal points protect the interests of their community. They are in the hands of the Government, and express a confidence in its humanity and wisdom toward them. And so do we. In the establishment of a special bureau of freedmen's affairs, in the present charge there is an abundant earnest that the Government is not disposed to ignore the new relations the issue of the war and the downfall of slavery have created between itself and the freedmen. The collection of such facts as the above, in relation to the Hampton communities, will strengthen and justify its purposes in their behalf, by showing that these people can take care of themselves, and, under Liberty, bring forth all the fruits of a prosperous and peaceful community.—Chicago Tribune.

THE TOBACCO NUISANCE.
SMOKING IN THE CARS.
It always happens in our travels that we note more topics for remarks than we have space for in the Herald. Two or three, however, we must notice at this time. One is the imposition which "first-class" passengers are allowed to practise on those of the "second-class " in using the cars of the latter to do their smoking in. Smoking is, of course, a vile habit and a filthy nuisance anywhere; but so long as the thing is to be done, the "smoking car" is a proper institution. There are many persons who, though poor, are respectable, and who pay for seats in the cheaper style of cars.' But it is a common practice for the first-class passengers, instead of performing their pestilential rites in the car appropriated for the business (perhaps because the smoke there is too thick and narcotic even for their perverted olfactories), to step into the second-class cars, and after filling them with the fumes of tobacco, retire to their own proper places. This is an abuse which demands the attention of the conductor; an outrage which, we are glad to know, some second-class passengers have resolved to submit to no longer. If persons will defile themselves and poison their own atmosphere, so be it—until they can be educated into better habits and reproved into better manners. But let them keep their filth to themselves.
SLEEPING CARS FOR SMOKERS.
We propose, as an improvement in railroad travelling, and for the special benefit of those who are not addicted to the use of "the weed," that the sleeping cars be divided into two classes, and that one of them be appropriated to those who do not use tobacco, and are not fond of the smell thereof. The chief stench of a sleeping car is the breath of the tobacco users. The cars at best are not very well ventilated, and where a single car contains fifty or sixty persons, two-thirds of whom exhale with every expiration from the lungs, and from every pore of the skin, odors as unlike the " perfumes of Eden" as is possible to conceive, the discomfort, to say nothing on the score of health, of those whose instincts are not so depraved, can be better imagined than described.
“YOUNG AMERICA."
If there is any one thing more ominous of evil to our country than another, it is that of tobacco smoking on the part of our young men. This habit has long been on the increase, and is now, probably, more rapidly extending than ever before. Go where you will, on steamers, ferry-boats, stages or railroad cars; stop where you must, in hotels, depots, public halls, etc., in all such places and on all occasions where a crowd of people assemble, there the tobacco smokers will be also. Nor does the
<c06>
common notice, "No smoking allowed," prevent their intrusion into parlors, private rooms and other places where decency is a commandment. And who are those persons, so bold in filthiness; so lost to shame; so unconscious of their own impertinence and offensiveness; so reckless of the feelings and opinions and rights of others, and so seemingly destitute of all sense of purity or propriety? They are mostly young men; many of them are mere boys. Precocious they may be in sensuality; witty they may be in the lower range of intellectuals; depraved they certainly are in the lower range of propensities; and cloudy, dreamy, visionary or stupid, they cannot help being in the reflective intellect and the moral sentiments. Three-quarters, if not nine-tenths, of all the tobacco smokers who obtrude themselves into every crowd, and puff their foulness into every body's face, with no respect to 
persons and no regard to notices to the contrary, are young men. Their fathers and grandfathers, if they smoke at all, usually have some sense of propriety left. They smoke in private, in their own places. They seem to know that others have rights and noses as well as themselves. But with " Young America" this is very different. Our young men seem to prefer to do their smoking in the most offensive manner possible, and where they can render themselves as disgusting as possible. They seek the crowd. They smoke while walking with a lady in the streets. They stride into public rooms, private houses, and parade themselves, with a lighted cigar or a burning pipe in their mouths, alternately ejecting suffocating smoke and nauseous spittle, as unconcernedly about the wishes or opinions of others, and with as much self-complacency and moral obliviousness as might be expected from a donkey or a goat. Can nothing be done to prevent these caricatures of humanity from becoming the fathers of a race of degenerate pigmies, whose existence can only be a disgrace to human nature and a curse to the world?—Herald of Health.
SMOKING IN THE CARS. The directors of the Race and Vine, Arch street, and Hestonville lines, in compliance with the wishes of their customers, and in conformity with the rules of all other well conducted lines, have given orders that no smoking shall be permitted on their cars, either by day or night, and any conductor who allows a violation of this rule will be liable to be suspended or dismissed.
The Board of Presidents a long time since passed a resolution to the above effect, and for a time its provisions were strictly adhered to. Gradually the rule was lost sight of, and smoking of rank segars and stinking pipes became quite popular on the cars. The front platform was generally used by the smokers, and consequently the smoke would pass through the cars, among the passengers, carrying with it the taint of whisky and onions. The fragrance of a good segar is not universally objectionable; but such pipes as have been smoked on the cars form a most intolerable and sickening nuisance. So great did the evil become that ladies retired from the cars in some instances, to our own personal knowledge. It was only a week or two ago, on a very hot and sultry afternoon, that a front-platform smoker was the cause of not only seriously annoying a babe in its mother's arms, but gave it great pain. The ashes from his rank cigar were partly carried into the car by the artificial current caused by the moving of the vehicle, and the eyes of the little innocent were filled with particles thereof. Gentlemen will not knowingly violate any law or rule that is made to protect the people, and render them comfortable. No matter how well dressed a human being may be, if he still persists in smoking on the front platform, when requested by the conductor not to do so, he stands as a living monument that dress does not make a gentleman. The directors of the Race and Vine streets and Hestonville cars, in renewing the effort to stop smoking, will probably induce the directors of other companies to do likewise. The drivers of some of the cars are in the habit of smoking. This should be peremptorily prohibited; because if an employe takes the liberty of smoking out of place, it cannot be expected that passengers can be stopped doing the same thing.—
Philadelphia Press.
LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but while these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a means of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisite colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be further elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address
GRACEANNA LEWIS,
Care of EDWARD PARRISH,
South west corner of Eighth and South Sts.,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of "Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancester, Pa.
ISSAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D,
Author of "Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees," and Entomologist of the State Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
VINCENT BARNARD,
Kennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania. April 10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis's instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions.
DILLWYN PARRISH, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH, MARGARET J. BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISH,
MARTHA KIMBER, CALEB S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, E. M. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M. D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.
GREAT CHANCE FOR AGENTS.
WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT. 
COMPLETE History of the War, in one large volume, splendidly illustrated, with over 125 fine portraits of Generals and Battle scenes. The most candid, lucid, complete, authentic and reliable history published. It contains reading matter equal to three large octavo volumes. Send for circulars, and see our terms. Address
"JONES, BROS & CO., Philadelphia., Pa." Sept. 29.
$2000 A YEAR
MADE by any one with $15-—Stencil Tools. No experience necessary. The Presidents, Cashiers and Treasurers of three Banks endorse the circular. Sent free with samples. Address the American Stencil Tool Works, Springfield Vermont,
October 6. 3m.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagleswood School, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.
THE RADICAL:
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S. H. MORSE, BOSTON.
