<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for cents for free insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country in the World, our Countrymen are all manking.
VOL. XXXV. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1865.
Selections.
RECONSTRUCTION AND NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
[From the Atlantic Monthly for August.]
The submission of the rebel armies and the occupation of the rebel territory by the forces of the United States are successes which have been purchased at the cost of the lives of half a million of loyal men, and a debt of nearly three thousand millions of dollars; but, according to theories of State Rights now springing anew to life, victory has smitten us with impotence. The war, it seems, was waged for the purpose of forcing the sword out of the rebels' hands, and forcing into them the ballot. At an enormous waste of treasure and blood, we have acquired the territory for which we fought; and lo! it is not ours, butbur belongs to the people we have been engaged in fighting, in virtue of the Constitution we have been fighting for. The Federal government is now, it appears, what Wigfall elegantly styled it four years ago,-nothing but the one-horse concern at Washington": the real power is in the States it has subdued. We are therefore expected to act like the savage, who, after thrashing his Fetich for disappointing his prayers, falls down again and worships it. Our Fetich is State Rights, as perversely misunderstood. The rebellion would have been soon put down, had it been merely an insurrectionary outbreak of masses of people without any political organization. Its tremendous force came from its being a revolt of States, with the capacity to employ those powers of taxation and conscription which place the persons and property of all residing in political communities at the service of their governments. And now that characteristic which gave strength to the rebel communities in war, is invoked to shield them from Federal regulation in defeat. We are required to substitute technicalities for facts; to consider the rebellion-what it notoriously was not-a mere revolt of loose aggregations of men owing allegiance to the United States; and to hold the States, which endowed them with such a perfect organization and poisonous vitality, as innocent of the crime. The verbal dilemma in which this reasoning places us is this that the rebel States could not do what they did, and therefore we cannot do what we must. Among other things which it is said we cannot do, the prescribing of the qualifications of voters in the States occupies the most important place; and it is necessary to inquire whether the rebel communities now held by our military power are States, in the sense that word bears in the Federal Constitution. If they are, we have not only no right to say that negroes shall enjoy in them the privilege of voting, but no right to prescribe any qualifications for white voters.
In the American system, the process by which constitutions are made and governments instituted is by conventions of the people. The State constitutions were ordained by conventions of the people of the several States; the Constitution of the United States was made the supreme law of the land by conventions of the people of all the States; and the only method by which a State could be released, with any show of legality, from its obligations to the United States, would be the assent of the same power which created the Federal Constitution,—namely, conventions of the people of all the States. The course adopted by the so-called ”seceding" States was separate State action by popular conventions in the States seceding. This was an appeal to the original authority from which State governments and constitutions derived their powers, but a violation of solemn faith towards the Government and Constitution decreed by the people of all the States, and which, by the assent of each State, formed a vital part of each State Constitution, No State convention could be called for the purpose of separating from the Union,-of destroying what the officers calling it had sworn to support,-without making official perjury the preliminary condition of State sovereignty. Looked at from the point of view of the State seceding, the act was an assertion of State independence; looked at from the point of view of the Constitution of the United States, it was an act of State suicide. The State so acting through a convention of its people was no longer a State, in the meaning that word bears in the Federal Constitution; for, whatever it may have been before it was one of the United States, it was transformed into a different political society by making the Federal Constitution a part of its own organic law. In cutting that bond it bled to death as a State, as far as the Federal Constitution knows a State, to rise again as a rebel community, holding a portion of the Federal territory by force of arms. A State, in the meaning of the Federal Constitution, is a political community forbidden to exercise sovereign powers, and at once a part of the Federal Government, and owning allegiance to it. Is South Carolina, which has exercised sovereign powers, which has broken its allegiance to the Federal Government, and which at present is certainly not a part of it, such a political society?
It is, we know, contended by some reasoners on the subject, that the rebel States could not do what they palpably did. This course of argument is sustained only by confounding duties with powers. By the Constitution a State cannot (that is, has no right to) secede, only as, by the moral law, a man cannot (that is, has no right to) commit murder; nevertheless, States have broken away from their obligations to the Union, as murderers have broken away from their obligations to the moral law. It is folly to claim that criminal acts are impossible because they are unjustifiable. The real question relates to the condition in which the criminal acts of the rebel States left them as political societies. They cannot claim, as some of their Northern champions do for them, that, being in the Union in our view, and out of it in their own, the only result of defeating them as rebels is to restore them as citizens. This would be playing a political game of ”Heads I win, tails you lose," which they must know can hardly succeed with a nation, which has made such enormous sacrifices of treasure and blood in putting them down. After having, by a solemn act of their own, through conventions of the people, forsworn their duties to the Constitutions, they by that act forfeited its privileges. In our view they became rebel enemies, against whom we had both the rights of sovereignty and the rights of war; in their own view they became foreigners; and from that moment they had no more  “constitutional" control of the area they occupied, were no more "States” than if they had transferred their allegiance to a European power, and the war had been prosecuted to wrest the territory they occupied, and the people they ruled, from the clutch of England or France. Even if we consider the Union a mere partnership of States, the same principle will apply; for partnership implies mutual obligations, and no partner can steal the property of his firm and abscond with it, and then, after he has
<c02>
been hunted down and arrested, claim the rights in the business he enjoyed before he turned rogue.
But it is sometimes asserted that the small minority of citizens in the rebel States claiming to be, and to have been, loyal, constitute the States in the constitutional meaning of the term. Now without insisting on the fact that it is so plainly impossible to accurately distinguish these from the disloyal, that an oath, not required by State constitutions, has, in the recent attempt at reconstruction, been imposed by Federal authority on all voters alike, it is plain that no minority in a political society can claim exemption from political evils it had not power to prevent. Had we gone to war with Great Britain, the property of Cobden and Bright on the high seas would have been as liable to capture as that of Lindsay or Laird. No loyal citizens at the South could have been more bitterly opposed to secession than some of our Northern Copperheads were to the war for the Union; and yet the persons of the Copperheads were as liable to conscription, and their property to taxation, as those of the most enthusiastic Republicans. There would, be an end to political societies, if men should refuse to be held responsible for all public acts except those they personally approved. A member of a community whose people, in a convention, broke faith with the United States, and made war against it, the Southern Unionist was forced into complicity with the crime. By the pressure of a power he could not resist, he was compelled to pay Confederate taxes, serve in Confederate armies, and become a portion of the Confederate strength. More than this: the property in human beings, which he held by local law, was confiscated by the Federal Government's edict of emancipation, equally with the same kind of property held by the most disloyal. And now that the war is over, he and those who sympathized with him are not the State, which was extinguished by its own act when it rebelled. He and his friends may be the objects of sympathy, of honor, of reward; but in the work of reconstruction, the interest and safety of the great body of loyal citizens of the United States, of the persons who have bought the territory at such a terrible price, are to be primarily consulted. And not simply because such a course is expedient, but because the Southern Unionists can advance no valid claim to be the political societies which were recognized by the Fedederal Constitution as States before the rebellion. If they were, they might proceed at once to assume the powers of the States, without any authority from Washington, and without calling any convention to form a new Constitution. If, on the breaking out of the rebellion, they had rallied in defence of the old constitutions within State limits, preserved the organization of the States in all departments, raised and equipped armies, and conducted a war against the Confederates as traitors to their respective States as well as to the United States, they might present some claims to be considered the States; but this they did not do, and they were not powerful enough to do it. The large proportion of them were compelled to form a part of the rebel power.
And this brings us directly to the heart of the matter. It is asserted that the acts of secession, being unconstitutional, were inoperative and void. But they were passed by the people of the several States which seceded, and the persons and property of the whole people were indiscriminately employed in making them effective. The States held by rebel armies were rebel States. All the population were necessarily, in the view of the Federal Government, rebel enemies. Consequently the territory of the States was as ”void” of citizens of the United States as the acts of secession were ”void” The only things left, then, were the inoperative ideas of States.
Again, to put the argument in another form, it is asserted that, though the people of a State may commit treason, the State itself remains unaffected by the crime. A distinction is here made between a State and the people who constitute it-between the State and the persons who create its Constitution and organize its government. The State Constitution which existed while it was a State, in the Federal meaning of the word, was destroyed in an essential part by the same authority which created it, namely, a convention of the people of the State; and yet it is said that the State remained unaffected by the deed. By this course of reasoning, a State is defined an abstract essence, which can comfortably exist in all its rights and privileges, in potentia, apart from all visible embodiment; a State which is the possibility of a State, and not the actuality of one; a State which can be brought into the line of real vision only by some such contrivance as that employed by the German play-Wright, who, in a drama on the subject of the Creation, represented Adam crossing the stage going to be created.
There is, it is true, one method of getting a kind of body to this abstract State, but it is a method which may well frighten the hardiest American reasoner. It was employed by Burke in one of the audacities of his logic directed against the governments established after the French Revolution of 1789. He took the ground that France was not in the French territory or in the French people, but in the persons who represented its old polity, and who had escaped into England and Germany. These constituted what he called ”Moral France," in distinction from ”Geographical France”; and Moral France, he said, had emigrated.
But as few or none will be inclined to take the ground that South Carolina and Georgia exist in the persons who left their soil on the breaking out of the rebellion, we are forced back to the conception of an invisible spiritual soul and essence of a State, surviving its bodily destruction. But even this abstraction must still, from the point of view of the Federal Constitution, be conceived of as owing allegiance to the Federal Government; and it can confessedly get a new body only by the exercise of Federal authority. Its leading institution has been destroyed by Federal power. Its old legislature and governor, who alone, on State principles, could call a convention of the people, are spotted all over with treason, and might be hanged as traitors, by the law of the United States, while engaged in measures to repair the broken unity of the State life,-a fact which is of itself sufficient to show that the old State is dead beyond all bodily resurrection. The white inhabitants who occupy its old geographical limits are defeated rebels, and not one can exercise the privilege of voting without taking an oath which no real ”State” prescribes. They are all born again into citizens by a Federal fiat; they are ”pardoned” into voters; they derive their rights, not from their old charters, but from an act of amnesty. Far from any discrimination being made between loyal and disloyal, the great body of both classes are compelled to submit to Federal terms of citizenship or be disfranchised; and they are called upon, not to revive the old State, but to make a new one, within the old State lines. And all this would result from the necessity of the case, even if it were not made justifiable by the essential sovereignty of the United States, of which the war is power is but an incident. But if the Federal
<c03>
Government can thus give the white inhabitants, or any portion of them, the right of suffrage, cannot it confer that right upon the black freedmen? It will not do, at this stage, to say that the Federal Government has no right to prescribe the qualifications of voters in the States; because, in the case of the whites, it does and must prescribe them; and President Johnson has just the same right to say that negroes shall vote as to say that pardoned rebels shall vote. The right of States to decide on the qualifications of its electors applies only to loyal States; it cannot apply to political communities which have lost by rebellion the Federal character of “States;" which notoriously have no legitimate State authority to decide the question of qualification, and which are now taking the preparatory steps of forming themselves into States through the agency of provisional Federal governors, directing voters, constituted such by Federal authority, to elect delegates to a convention of the people. It is a misuse of constitutional language to call North Carolina and Mississippi ”States," in the same sense in which we use the term in speaking of Ohio and Massachusetts. When their conventions have framed State constitutions, when their State governments are organized, and when their Senators and Representatives have been admitted into the Congress of the United States, then, indeed, they will be States, entitled to all the privileges of Ohio and Massachusetts; and woe be to us, if they are reconstructed on wrong principles! 

GEN. GARFIELD ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
We make the following additional extract from the able and eloquent oration of Gen. Garfield at Ravenna, on the 4th ult., wherein he urged with irresistible logic the right of the negro to vote:
Let us not commit ourselves to the absurd and senseless dogma, that the color of the skin shall be the basis of suffrage, the talisman of liberty. (Applause.) I admit that it is perilous to confer the franchise upon the ignorant and degraded; but, if an educational test cannot be established, let suffrage be extended to all of proper age, regardless of color. It may well be questioned whether the negro does not understand the nature of our institutions better than the equally ignorant foreigner. He was intelligent enough to understand from the beginning of this war that the destiny of his race was involved in it. He was intelligent enough to be true to that Union which his educated and traitorous master was endeavoring to destroy. He came to us in the hour of sorest need, and by his aid, under God, the Republic was saved. (Applause.) Shall we now be guilty of the unutterable meanness, not of thrusting him beyond the pale of its blessing, but of committing his destiny to the tender mercies of those pardoned rebels who have been so reluctantly compelled to take their feet from his neck, and their hands from his throat? But some one says it is dangerous at this time to make new experiments. I answer, it is always safe to do justice. (Applause.) But to grant suffrage to the black man in this country is not innovation but restoration. It is a return to the ancient principles and practice of the fathers. Let me refer you to a few facts in our history, which have been but little studied by the people and politicans of this generation.
1. During the war of the Revolution, and in 1789, the date of the adoption of our national Constitution, there was but one State among the thirteen whose constitution refused the right of suffrage to the negro. That State was South Carolina. Some, it is true, established a property qualification; all made freedom a pre-requisite. But none save South Carolina made color a condition of suffrage.
2. The Federal Constitution makes no such distinction, nor did the Articles of Confederation. In the Congress of the Confederation, on the 25th of June, 1778, the fourth article was under discussion. It provided ”That the free inhabitants of each of these States shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of the several States."
The delegates from South Carolina moved to insert between the words ”free inhabitants” the word "white” thus denying the privileges and immunities of citizenship to the colored man. According to the rules of the Convention, each State had but one vote. Eleven States voted on the question. One was divided. Two voted aye, and eight voted no. (See Elliot's Debates, Vol. 1. p. 90.) It was thus early, and almost unanimously, decided that freedom, not color, should be the test of citizenship. (Applause.) 
3. No Federal legislation prior to 1812 placed any restriction on the right of suffrage in consequence of the color of the citizen. During that period, the Congress passed ten separate laws, establishing new Territories. In all these, freedom and not color was the basis of suffrage. 
4. After nearly a quarter of a century of prosperity under the Constitution, the spirit of slavery so far triumphed over the early principles and practice of the Government that, in 1812, South Carolina and her followers in Congress succeeded in inserting the word ”white” in the suffrage clause of an Act establishing a Territorial government in Missouri. One by one the slave States, and many of the free States, gave way before this crusade of slavery against negro citizenship. 
In 1817, Connecticut caught the infection, and in her Constitution she excluded the negro from the ballot-box. In every other New England State his ancient right of suffrage has remained and still remains undisturbed. 
Free negroes voted in Maryland till 1833; in North Carolina till 1835; in Pennsylvania till 1838. It was the boast of Cave Johnson, of Tennessee, that he owed his election to Congress in 1828 to the free negroes who worked in his mills. 
They were excluded from suffrage in 1834 under the new Constitution of Tennessee, by a vote of 33 to 23. As new States were formed, their Constitutions for the most part excluded the negro from citizenship. Then followed the shameful catalogue of black laws-expatriation and ostracism in every form, which have so deeply disgraced the record of legislation in many of the States.
I affirm, therefore, that our present position is one of apostacy; and to give the ballot to the negro will be no innovation, but a return to the old path-—a restoration of that spirit of liberty to which the sufferings and sacrifices of the revolution gave birth.
But, if we had no respect for the early practices and traditions of our fathers, we should be compelled to meet the early questions which will very soon be forced upon us for solution. 
The necessity of putting down the rebellion by force of arms was no more imperative than is that of restoring law, order and liberty in the States that rebelled. No duty can be more sacred than that of maintaining and perpetuating the freedom which the proclamation of emancipation gave to the loyal black men of the South. (Applause.)
If they are to be disfranchised, if they, are to have 
<c04>
no voice in determining the conditions under which they are to live and labor, what hope for the future? It will rest with their late masters-whose treason they aided to thwart-to determine whether the negroes shall be permitted to hold property-to enjoy the benefits of education-to enforce contracts, to have access to the courts of justice-in short, to enjoy any of those rights which give vitality and value to freedom. Who can fail to foresee the ruin and misery that await this race, to whom the vision of freedom has been presented, only to be withdrawn, leaving them without even the aid which the masters selfish commercial interest in their life and service formerly afforded them? Will these negroes, remembering the battle-fields on which two hundred thousand of their number have bravely fought, and many thousands have heroically died, submit to oppression as tamely and peaceably as in the days of slavery? Under such conditions there could be no peace, no security, no prosperity.
Bear with me, fellow-citizens, while I urge still another consideration. By the Constitution only three-fifths of the slaves were counted in forming the basis of Congressional representation. The Proclamation of Emancipation adds the other two-fifths, which at the next decade will be more than two millions. If the negro be deprived of the franchise, we shall have fifteen additional members of Congress from the States lately in rebellion, without the addition of a single citizen to their population, and, the number of representatives being fixed, we shall have fifteen less in the loyal States. This will not only give six members of Congress to South Carolina, four sevenths of whose people are negroes, but will place the influence and power of the State, as well as the destiny of 412,000 black men, in the hands of 20,000 white men, (less than the number of voters in our own Congressional District,) who, under the restricted suffrage of that undemocratic State, exercise the franchise. Such an unjust and unequal distribution of power would breed perpetual mischief. The evils of the rotten borough system of England would be upon us.

DESTINY OF THE BLACKS.
The New York Herald says that Chief Justice Chase reports that it is believed that the black is destined to be the ruling race throughout the land of slaveholding States:
"The whites are enervated, demoralized, and certain to be eradicated. The blacks are vigorous, progressive, and bound to become the dominant people in less than a quarter of a century. A negro aristocracy will spring into full grown existence in all these States, elect negro members to the Federal Congress, almost without opposition, and hold the legislation of that district in their own hands."
With Chief Justice Chase, the wish is doubtless father to the thought, if indeed he has, which seems almost impossible, any such idea as is herein intimated. How any man, whose brain has not been turned by vague visions of the Presidency, can believe in any such future for the negro, is beyond comprehension. 
We shall not stop to discuss the desirableness or otherwise of this consummation, but look for a moment at its feasibility. We will take it for granted that when the ballot is given to the negro in the South, it will not be withheld from the white man. There are now more than two white men in the South to one negro. The ballot then will not give the negro the superiority over the white man here contemplated, for no man is going to vote to degrade himself. But what is the position of the whites? They have just emerged from an unsuccessful war; and however honest they may be, in accepting the situation, it is not in human nature that their love for the negro should have been enhanced by their late experience. Besides, they are now relieved from all responsibility in regard to him; nay, more, the negro has been placed in a position of opposition to the whites; he has been taught to believe that he has all his life been defrauded, and that any means by which be can in a measure repay himself are justifiable.
Clearly then, there will be no suffrage for the negro without a struggle, and there will be no such thrusting forward of the negro as will give him precedence to the white, without resistance to the bitter end. 
We have seen that, alone, the negro cannot vote himself beyond and above the white; it is quite as certain, that being in such a minority be cannot by physical force compel the whites to place him over their heads.
Suppose this was to be attempted; either the negroes would be exterminated or the federal government must come to their rescue. The question then presents itself, is there a party in this country which is desirous, by means of federal bayonets, of degrading or exterminating the whites of the South for the purpose of raising up a negro aristocracy, and bringing into Congress negro members. 
It is almost impossible to treat this supposition with any degree of calmness. It is in itself, and abstractedly considered, so foolish, so absurd, so repugnant to every feeling of manliness and self-respect, that one is ashamed to consider it as a subject which by any possibility can come into the range of practical questions. On the other hand, it is no more absurd, and not a particle more wicked, than the ideas and practices of the Abolitionists for the last thirty years; so that we are not entitled to say that it is either too ridiculous or too shameful to be entertained, and pressed upon the people.
Whether there be much or little of truth in the Herald's article, it is disgraceful that such ideas should be promulgated. The negro cannot attain, and no power can attempt to thrust him, to a level above the whites without a sanguinary conflict which would drench the entire South with blood. Unaided the negro would be no more in the South; aided by the federal army and the whites of the South would be exterminated. Is this what the abolitionists desire? Are they not satisfied with the carnage the have already caused? Is not the cup of Southern humiliation, sorrow and ruin sufficiently full, and have not the Southern people drunk enough of the dregs of misery? Must disunion be made sure permanent? Is there to be no peace, no safety, no justice for the white man?
And this last question is as important to the North as to the South; for it is self-evident that that spirit of innovation, usurpation and illegal rule which would thus devastate the South, overturn all law and rights, would not leave to the North the semblance of constitutional government. We cannot maintain in the South the rule of brute force in defiance of all justice and equity, and retain in the North our laws, our constitutional privileges, and our individual rights.
The question is not a sectional one; it is one which most directly and emphatically bears upon our entire country, and its entire freedom. We must speedily return to our early system of law and order, or we are wholly lost;. It is for the American people to say whether they will have the wild anarchy and lawlessness of the radicals, or the Constitution
<c05>
and the laws. And the decision must speedily be made.-Providence(Pro-Slavery, Sham-Democratic, Billingsgate) Post.
Who are the traitors in sentiment to our government; those who are struggling to bring back the administration to a recognition of, and obedience to the Constitution, or those who are urging such measures as must inevitably overthrow all legal safeguards, and who are clamorous for such a course toward the South as shall prevent their being recognized as citizens of the United States.
The radicals insist that the Southern States are, and must be kept, out of the Union; they are therefore disunionists, striving as earnestly against the Union as did the secessionists. The Democratic party, on the other hand, is laboring for Union, for the due and proper position in it of all the States, and for such a policy as will give us, politically and in fueling, one people-Ibid.

THE ASSASSINATION PLOT.
The Washington correspondent of the Pittsburg Chronicle writes as follows in a recent letter:
I have talked with an intelligent colored woman who says ”she was in the crowd at Secretary Stanton's door on the evening of the assassination-that she was in charge of several children; and to prevent their being hurt, placed them in the angle formed by the steps and wall of the house, so that she and they were almost behind Mr. Stanton while he stood on the steps speaking to the people; that a man in a heavy, dark coat, with his hat drawn over his face, edged his way in among the children, and kept moving his head from side to side as if trying to get a good look at Mr. Stanton, while he kept his right hand down at his side, and she thought he had a pistol in it. She became alarmed, and spoke aloud to a colored man near, asking him to come and stand between her and this man, for he had a pistol. The colored man came and took the position she desired, and the other moved off. The story was hard to believe, but her daughter stated that she came home that evening quite excited, saying” there was a spicious character in the crowd, and she thought he wanted to shoot Mr. Stanton." I have reason to believe Mr. Stanton knew of this, and expected to the last that she would be examined before the Commission.
On a visit to Mrs. Lincoln, the day she left for Chicago, I said to her that I had always expected slavery would poison Mr. Lincoln as it did Presidents Harrison and Taylor. The idea appeared new to her, and recalled the fact that her husband had been very ill, for some days, from the effects of a dose of blue pills taken shortly before his second inauguration. She said he was not well; and appearing to require his usual medicine, blue pills, she sent to the drug store in which Harrold was employed last, and got a dose and gave them to him at night before going to bed, and the next morning his pallor terrified her.
"His face," said she, pointing to the bedside where she sat, ”was white as that pillow case, as it lay just there," she exclaimed, laying her hand on the pillow-“ white, and such a deadly white! As he tried to rise, he sank back again, quite over-come!"
She described his anxiety to be up, there was so much to do, and her persistence, and his oppressive languor in keeping him in bed for several days; said be and she both thought it so strange that the pills should affect him in that way; they never had done so before, and both concluded they would get no more medicine there, as the attendant evidently did not understand making up prescriptions. Could this have been the time spoken of in that letter produced on the trial, in which it is said the cup had failed once?
I know an officer's widow who spent some time with her husband in Georgia while Gen. Mitchell was in command. She has told me of a pretended Union woman, in a small town where they were stationed, who kept a boarding-house for Union officers; of the large number of invalids among these boarders, and her especially remarking the excessive and peculiar pallor of these invalids. Soon the number of deaths attracted attention, and an investigation was ordered of the charge that this female fiend had been poisoning her boarders. While the case was pending, some order changed the troops occupying the town, and my informant never learned how the matter ended, but her description of the pallor of the victims so coincides with Mrs. Lincoln's account of our Martyr's appearance after taking the blue pills, that it has occurred to me those monsters may have some peculiar method of poisoning. Moreover, it is highly probable that our political assassinations are not yet over.
A conversation was overheard the latter part of last month, on a dark night, between a knot of men who distinctly detailed a plan for shooting President Johnson on the Fourth. The speakers were to station themselves at different points in the crowd, and while he should be speaking at Gettysburg, at a signal, fire simultaneously. This conversation was promptly reported to Col. Baker by Judge Day, who told me of the fact.
The person who heard it was a colored woman, late a slave, who knew of Judge Day as the slaves’ lawyer, and unburdened herself to him of her great secret. After he bad reduced her testimony to writing, he sent her with it to Col. Baker. An intelligent white woman on the evening after the executions, overheard one man say to another that "the d-d blue-legged Yankees had not made much of the conspiracy out, and were not done with it yet."
Such conversations have been by no means uncommon here during the past four years, and that against Mr. Lincoln's life attracted but little attention here once, but such threats seek the cover of darkness now.

LETTER FROM MRS. L. M. CHILD.
WAYLAND, Mass., July 23, 1865.
DEAR MR. TILTON:
I have been reading last Saturday's Liberator, wherein I find declarations from various sources which invigorate my soul, as a shower-bath at day light invigorates the languid body. I refer especially to Senator Wilson's speech at the meeting of colored men in Washington, the best he ever made, to my thinking, though he has made many good ones. Also the thoroughly hearty and bold speech of Gen. Palmer, at Louisville, Ky., on the Fourth of July; and the excellent Letter from the Hon. John Covode.
Regarding war as a barbarism which demoralizes and disgraces civilized society, I am unable to enter into the military enthusiasm of the day; but such soldiers as Saxton and Palmer, who are true to the idea of universal freedom, and who use military power to protect the helpless, inspire me with reverence, for they are moral heroes, who are burning up evil things in a flame holier than the flash of gun-powder.
<c06>
I confess to great apparent inconsistency of feeling during the course of events in the last few years. I detested war, with all my heart and soul; yet I was mortally afraid our terrible struggle would end too soon. I have never wavered in my convictions that peace principles were the highest and truest, and that human society would never be truly civilized till they were adopted. Yet, when I put a white flag on the gate, as a signal agreed upon between me and a neighbor, I was indignant to hear passers-by say, ”The folks in that house belong to the Peace Party.” I was not so inconsistent as I seemed. I dreaded to have the war end before slavery was completely overthrown, because I foresaw that, if it did, another bloody war must inevitably follow. I was indignant at the misconstruction of my white flag by Copperheads, because by Peace they meant compromise with Slavery. In their mouths, Peace Party became a damaged phrase, un-fit for honest use; just as slaveholders and their professedly pious accomplices desecrated the Bible by striving to make it prove the divinity of Slavery. People accuse Theodore Parker of diminishing reverence for the Bible: but men who used it as Nehemiah Adams did, on this subject, undermined its influence a thousand fold more. And as for the New York Observer and the Journal of Commerce, Satan must have laughed over such pious helpers! An honest soul could hardly tolerate speaking the word religion to the slaves, so long asat hypocritical teachers made it mean, for them, nothing more than this: “God forbids you to murder your masters, though they may murder you. They have a divine right to be your masters. You must obey them with fear and trembling, though they pollute your wife, and sail your children, and order you to scourge your brother to death." The more true religion a person had, the more he would abhor this base counterfeit, which passed current under its name. I repeat that such teachers made infidels by thousands.
But I have wandered away from those speeches in the Liberator, which braced me like a current of mountain air. I was the more glad of their refreshing influence, because, having started with strong faith in our new President, I had lately found myself asking, in tones of perplexity, gradually deepening into distress, ”What ails Andy Johnson?” Some reply that he sincerely abhors Slavery, and wishes to have that Upas Tree torn up by the roots, but that he shares the prejudice of the poor whites against the negroes. Surely that cannot be; for, with an overflowing eloquence of the heart, he promised the negroes of Tennessee, ”I will be your Moses till the Lord raises you up a better."
I shall always remember a meeting of the colored people in Boston, which I attended, on the day John Brown was hung. Men and women knelt in tearful silence when the clock indicated the hour of execution. The stillness was broken by the tremulous voice of an old black man, a fugitive from slavery, calling out in pleading tones, ”Oh Lord, thou hast taken from us our Moses. Raise us up a Joshua!" I could not help responding with a loud “Amen!" And now, if their promised Moses is going to prove recreant, I should repeat a fervent “Amen!” to the prayer, ”Oh Lord, raise them up a Joshua!"
But I will not give up my faith in Andy Johnson, without more decisive proof. That he has sent such a man as the Hon. John Covode to examine into the condition of the freedmen is one very good sign. Moreover, it is difficult to imagine any natural motive for stepping down from the pedestal on which the people placed him in consequence of his conduct in Tennessee. Some say, in explanation of his strange and puzzling course on the question of reconstruction, that his mind is entirely bent upon the elevation of the poor whites of the South, and that he considers the civil equality of negroes an obstacle in the way of his purpose. But Andy Johnson has heretofore shown himself to be a man of too much intellectual ability and largeness of vision to take such a narrow view of the subject. He must be aware that the best thing for each class in the community is to improve every class to the utmost. If any class is shut out from competition for the prizes of society, and divested of the responsibilities of such competition, it not only deprives that class of salutary educational influences for themselves, but it reacts unfavorably upon the classes more privileged. Slaveholders and poor whites have been more injured by Slavery, morally and intellectually, than the negroes have been.
And much as women have been weakened by being excluded from the weightier responsibilities, and more enlarged spheres of social action, I judge that men have lost the most by such exclusion. It is impossible to estimate on how much higher plane men would have stood, morally and intellectually, in the year 1864, if, for the last two hundred years, they had generally found in mothers and sisters, wives and daughters, intelligent auditors and cooperators in their various plans and theories, moral, political, and scientific. Their favorite idea of being a sturdy oak, with women twining round them as a clinging vine, has cost them more than they wot of; though in numerous instances the vine is too obviously a mere bindweed to the growth around which it clings.
Kinmont, in his ”Natural History of Mann," has summed up, in a few sensible words, the relative position of men and women in a well-organized society. After mentioning the account given by Tacitus of the bravery of the women, in ancient Germany, and of their being respectfully consulted on important public affairs, he says:” You ask me if I consider all this right and deserving of approbation, or that women were here engaged in their appropriate tasks? I answer, Yes; it is just as right that they should take this interest in the honor of their country as that the other sex should. Of course, I do not think that women were made for battle; neither do I believe that men were. But since the fashion of the times had made it so, and settled it that war was a necessary element of greatness, and that no safety was to be procured without it, I argue that it shows a healthful state of feeling in other respects that the affections of both sexes were equally enlisted in the cause, that there was no division in the house or the state, and that the serious pursuits and objects of the one were also the serious pursuits and objects of the other."
Thinking of the great and blessed work done during these last four years by women in the Sanitary Commissions, the hospitals, and the school-houses for the emancipated, I seemed to see a bright light dawning on our future career. But the vision receded in the distance, when I looked from my window and saw a bevy of damsels sailing by, with hen-coops in their skirts, and upon their heads a rimless pan of straw with a feather in it-utterly useless for defence against wind or sun. To make this unbecoming head-gear still more ungraceful, there descends from it something called by the flowing name of waterfall, but which in fact looks more like a cabbage in a net, tricked out with beads and wampum. If I had met them in Western forests, I should have taken them for Ojibbeway squawa, but their dress was a la mode Parisienne. This tyranny of France is, I suppose, one of the things that must be endured, because it cannot be helped, till our brains are better developed. In process of time, I trust the Em-
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive managements of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slave taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR: and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
press Eugenie will sleep with her illustrious ancestors, and that no other fantastic queen of fashion will come after her, to lead the civilized world such a fool's dance. What a set of monkeys, we are, in feathers and furbelows, dancing to the tune of that imperial show-woman! Yours truly,
L. MARIA CHILD.
INTERVIEW WITH A PLANTER.
CHARLESTON, S. C, July 17,1865.
While the steamer was approaching Hilton Head, I was sitting on deck engaged in conversation with a rebel officer who had been spending several months on Johnson's Island as a prisoner of war, and was now on his way to his Southern home. He was a fine, stalwart fellow, in the very bloom of manhood, of pleasant address, and an intelligent expression of countenance. The conversation was soon turned upon his personal situation and prospects I would not attach much value to what was said, had I not heard the same sentiments expressed by a number of other Southern men, and had I not reasons to believe that they are indicative of the way of thinking of a large and influential class of people.
He was glad to get home again, very glad. He had entered the army in 1861, and had not been home since. For many months he had not heard a word from his family.
"I am a planter," said he, ”or, rather, I was a planter before the war. My plantation is in Georgia, south of Savannah, not far from Darien. I have 4000 acres of land and about ninety negroes. I was well off, I assure you. But what am I now? My slaves are all gone; I am sure they are. Whether my house is still standing I do not know, but I am sure every thing about my plantation is gone to wreck and ruin."
"Well, what are you going to do when you get home ?”
“Do? I don't know, sir, no more than the man in the moon. May be some of my negroes, when they hear that I have come home, will come back to me. They were always faithful to me. I treated them well; lost but one in four years by death, of congestive fever."
“Well, then, if some of them come back to you, you will make contracts with them, give them fair wages, and go to work again, will you not?" 
He looked surprised. ”How so?  make contracts with them" 
“Well," said I, ”you know slavery is abolished, and if you want the negroes to work for you at all, you will have to make agreements with them, as with free laborers."
“Yes," said he , ”I have beard of this. I know that's the intention. But, now, really, do you think this is a settled thing? Now, niggers won't work when they are not obliged to. A free nigger is never good for any thing. I know the thing won't work. No Southern man expects it will. No use trying." 
He grew quite animated. I endeavored to convince him, in as forcible language as I could command, that the emancipation of the slave was indeed a settled thing, and that the Southern people would be obliged to try."
He still remained incredulous. ”Yes, yes," said he,” I know that's the intention. But I tell you I know the nigger. I know him, sir. He isn't fit for freedom, sir. President Johnson is a Southern man, and he knows the nigger, too, sir. He knows him as well as I do, sir. He knows that the niggers must be made to work somehow. You can't make a contract with any of them. They do not know what a contract is. They won't keep a contract."
I remarked that the system which he deemed impossible was carried out at a great many places, and that where the military power of the government saw to it that the contracts were fairly made, the system worked well.
" Yes," said he, ”as long as the Federal troops are there, the thing may work. But the troops will soon be withdrawn, won't they? And the people of the Southern States will manage their own affairs again, won't they?"
“May be, by and by," said I, meeting his anxious eye with a smile.
"Well, isn't that the policy of the administration? You see, then, the thing won't work."
I tried once more to convince him that he would have to make up his mind to treat the negro as a free laborer, and suggested that if he thought he could not. he ought to sell part of his land, and keep only as much as he could cultivate himself. The idea struck him as absolutely inadmissible.
"Sell my land!” said he. ”What shall I do if I sell my plantation? I have not learned any thing with which I could make a living"
“You might cultivate a small farm yourself, and make a living in that way."
"“Why, I can't work. I know how to manage a plantation with slaves on it. But I can't work; I never did a day's work in my life, sir"
“Then sell the whole of your land, and invest the money in some other profitable business. What is land worth down your way?"
“Why, I don't know. Land won't sell where I am at home. I haven't got the remotest idea what land may be worth there. There never was an acre of land sold in that neighborhood, that I can remember." He meditated awhile in silence.” No," said he, at last, ”I can't sell my plantation. We must make the nigger work some-how."
I have now heard a good many Southern people speak about this subject, some of them very emphatic in their protestations that they accept things as they are, without any mental reservation,— restoration of the Union, abandonment of the right of secession, abolition of slavery and all,-but, whenever you question them about particulars as to their future course, you will always find this to be the burden of the song. ”The” nigger is free, to be sure, but he will not work” unless compelled to work; we must make him” work somehow we understand the matter, and” we will see about that as soon as the control of” the political power in the States is restored to” us." I believe every intelligent Southern man must have come to the conclusion that slavery is gone and cannot be restored, but he deplores this fact most sincerely. If the negroes were not so” demoralized" as to render every attempt to restore the old form of slavery dangerous, I have no doubt the attempt, would be made. But the” demoralization"” of the colored race does not permit it. On the other hand, the introduction of a bona fide system of free labor is a thing wholly foreign to the Southerner's ideas. He does not know what free labor is. The problem he feels himself at present called upon to solve is, how to impose as many duties upon, and grant as few rights to, the negro as possible.
FIRST OF AUGUST CELEBRATION.
The colored citizens of New York city celebrated the first of August with great spirit in a grove in Brooklyn. Prof. Day delivered a very interesting and eloquent address, the closing portion of which we give below:
Our future is in our own keeping. I do not look for full justice to-day, nor to-morrow, but the next day, as surely at that four years of war have passed, and 200,000 black Minervas, fully armed, have sprung from the brain of the white Jupiter of this land. My motto is, ask for justice—ask respectfully—of those who have withheld it; but ask earnestly, and sleep on your arms. Trust in the people, but trust far more in yourselves. This spirit, united exhibited, will win the day. Even Gov. Perry (the loyal disloyal Provisional Governor of South Carolina) is but the chaff before the wind in a conflict of principles. Let him rave. Let him deprecate. Let him warn. The majority of the people, of South Carolina are colored people-—always loyal of course and Provisional Governor Perry does not represent them. I look to the Americans? who profess to believe in majority ruling, to see that such an incubus shall be removed. Such an” experiment"” as Governor Perry should not be continued long enough to make Democratic institutions a mockery. That ”experiment" will pass away, and the freedom not merely, but the enfranchisement of the colored people be secured. It  most come. No man or men can resist the decrees of God. We read it on blood-red waves. We read it on battle-fields four years back. We read it on half a million lives given, cheerfully given, that liberty in this land might be more than a name. We read it in the history of the good man gone, Abraham Lincoln, who, in" 1859, did not think it necessary to give the ballot to any colored man, but who, in 1865, was willing to give it to the colored soldier, and the intelligent colored citizen. I wear my Lincoln badge yet. I feel like wearing
<C02>
it until the nation shall return to Mr. Lincoln's latest and safest policy. I see, therefore, the States reorganized merely sufficiently so to include every native male 21 years of age of some kind, whether he be black as night or white as the icicle that's dwindled by the frost from the purest snow and hangs on Dian's temple. I see this Government made one by black and white hands, yielding up to black men thus, effort after effort, a portion of Government control. I see the schools thrown open for the black child as for the white. I see black and white priests ministering together at the altars of religion. I see black men elected to petty and then to higher offices in the State. I see preferment open to the black man, even to the Presidential chair. I see everywhere respect for brains and worth, moral and material. I see everywhere the recognition of the normal principle,” Man is man, and no man is more." I see, therefore, internal peace unbroken for ages. I see a pure government striving for the interest of the weaker members of it. I see power everywhere stooping to protect the poor I see a nation clinging to justice, the admiration of the world. I see a civilization, not of head merely, but of heart—a civilization unlike any except one which this tyrant-ridden world has ever seen—a civilization manufactured out of world thoughts, world sympathies, world loves. It shall go forth on the wings of the morning, a bright angel visiting the homesteads of all, and leaving over every relationship of life a blessed influence borrowed, as it were, from that law expounded by the good Bishop Hooker-—the very least as feeling its care-—the very greatest as not exempt from its power. Tyrannies shall stand abashed in its presence, and acknowledge its supremacy. Liberty, a wanderer over our world for six thousand years, shall here fold up her wings and rest forever. Hence, if, in a word, the nation decrees that loyal majorities in States shall not rule, but obey an oligarchy, then take notice the national battle is only half fought, and must be waged until the true Democratic principle shall triumph. To that declaration we give our voices and votes,” our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor."

FREE SPEECH vs A FREE PRESS.
The Richmond Whig was recently suppressed by the military authorities for indulging in a style of discussion calculated to induce a renewal of the war. After a few days, the proprietor gave satisfactory assurances to the authorities, and was allowed to resume business. In resuming publication, he bewails the disability which prevents his giving expression to the fulness of his thoughts on public questions.
Mr. Emerson Etheridge was arrested recently in Tennessee, by the military, for addresses to the people, in which he counselled his hearers to set the new Constitution of the State, and certain laws passed under it, at defiance. He has made his arrest the pretext for a scurrilous but powerful letter, through the newspapers, to the President. His venom takes its edge from the concessions Mr. Johnson, as U. S. Senator, was willing to make to avoid a civil war, as contrasted with the attitude he assumed after the war was forced on the country.
These cases, and others like them, are made, the basis of loud complaints by the late rebels and their Northern friends. They clamorously repel these invasions of the freedom of discussion.
We submit that these criminations come with a bad grace from men who have stoutly denied, through a long course of years, the right of all persons to discuss the nature and bearings of the institution of slavery; and who have not only denied the right, but have visited the exercise thereof with the most terrible vengeance of mob law. For at least ten years prior to the war, neither Horace Greeley, nor Henry Ward Beecher, nor Wm. Lloyd Garrison, nor any one of hundreds of such like, would have been permitted to live six hours in any city of the States lately of the Confederacy. The Northern men and journals who are now incensed at the restrictions laid on discussion at the South, would have esteemed the hanging of cither of the persons named, in Charleston or Richmond, as a commendable exhibition of chivalry. If the Federal armies were disbanded or removed from the South, not a month would elapse before the unconditional Union men resident there would be completely silenced, and most likely thousands of them assassinated. Certain it is, all discussion as to slavery would be forcibly stopped, the instruction of blacks would be abrogated, and their rights, acquired by military service, would be derided and trampled upon. Before Southern men set up as victims of the proscription of free speech and a free press, it would be well for them to set an example of at least tolerating free discussion in others.—Honesdale Republic.
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 1865.
BENEVOLENCE OF ENGLISH”FRIENDS"
We have had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of JOSEPH SIMPSON, Esq., an agreeable and intelligent member of the Society of Friends in England, who has been deputed by the Central Committee of that Society for the relief of the emancipated slaves in the United States to visit this country, in order to investigate their actual condition, and the working of the various associations that have been organized here in their behalf. Although the Friends are a small body in England, we are equally surprised and gratified to find that they have already contributed the munificent sum of more than sixty thousand dollars in aid of our freedmen, and are still making collections for the same beneficent object. It is impossible for charity to be more opportunely or more wisely bestowed, and the benediction of Heaven will be sure to attend it. Besides, such benevolent co-operation cannot fail to strengthen the bonds of international amity, and promote the cause of peace universally.
Mr. Simpson arrived in this country in April last, and has made diligent use of his time in visiting various localities of freedmen in Virginia and at the West, and has been much gratified by what he has seen and heard. Below we give some extracts from his interesting letters, which we find appended to a private Report of the Central Committee to which we have referred:-
"The planters, having row ceased, in reality as well as in law, to be responsible for the maintenance of these people, are not likely to deal very kindly with those for the tightening of whose fetters they have fought so long and suffered so much. No mercy, no kindness, (much less any help,) will be afforded them in this, the most critical period of their history. It is then, to his friends in the North, in England, and elsewhere, that the freedman must look for just that amount of help which is required to get him safely over this great turning-point in his history. And more than this he does not ask. It is the unanimous testimony of all with whom I have spoken, and of all who have mixed with the Southern negroes during the last few years, that he neither asks nor desires continued charity. Just give him a hand out of the misery in which his race has been steeped for generations-give him facilities for acquiring that knowledge which has not only not been given to him, but positively forbidden him-—give him freedom and just enough education to fit him to use it aright—and he asks for no more. If you will refer to the reports of the teachers and inspectors at the various camps and schools, you will see how universal is this evidence of an independent feeling- on the part of the blacks themselves.” We can work—are willing to do so-but we don't like to live upon charity." Such is the feeling, and, from all I have yet seen of the action of the various committees in the North, (and I have sat with several during their executive deliberations,) they do all in their power to keep this up. The women are taught to sew; material is provided for them, and they are paid for their work just as our women were in the sewing schools in Lancashire. Many, if not most, of the able-bodied men were induced or compelled to enlist; others remain at home, and, where practicable, work for wages in the fields. The children are takes into the schools, and show a really wonderful quickness in the acquisition of knowledge. The idea, by the way, of the intellect of the black man be-
<C03>
ing inferior in its nature to that of the white is entirely scouted by those who have taught both. Give him equal chances, and the teachers say the black is certainly not behind his competitor.
Yesterday I spent several hours, in company with Dr. Thomas, in visiting the colored Free Schools of this city. About 1000 names are on the books, and the average attendance lately has been 650 to 700. Good school-rooms have been provided; 13 teachers are regularly at work; and though operations were not commenced in these schools till the beginning of the present year, the general appearance, conduct, and attainments of the children struck me as being especially encouraging. They were clean, as orderly as the negro's fun-loving nature will allow him to be, and in attainments would not disgrace any English school which I was ever at Figures, mental calculation and grammar are their weak points; and some of us, I think, won't be inclined to judge others very harshly on these points.
There was an evident feeling of interest prevalent amongst the scholars; they seemed eager to learn; and it is the universal testimony of every teacher with whom I have yet conversed, that in point of intelligence and aptitude for learning the black child is not one whit behind the white; but, if anything, he is the quicker of the two. The teacher, who is looked upon as the best in this city, has been seven years teaching in Boston, (Mass.) and is now in these Free Schools. Her testimony was very clear:-"I have taught this class the same lessons I taught in Boston to white children, and I can safely say that the lesson has been much more quickly mastered here than there, and with much less labor to myself." 
In these schools, however, but few children of men recently emancipated are to be found. They are chiefly the sons and daughters of men who have long been free.
In Richmond five Freedmen's Schools are already established, and in them about 2,000 children are now being taught—chiefly by New England lady-teachers sent here by the Baptist Missionary Society. Seeing that little more than a month has elapsed since the Union troops obtained possession of the city, you will see that little time has been lost in getting the schools to work; and this would strike you more forcibly on visiting the schools.
Most of the scholars are but just free. Nearly all have long lived in the city; and though large numbers of colored people who have just been liberated are flocking into this place from the vicinity, it is expected that most of them will return to their old or adjoining farms as hired servants, as soon as the novelty of their new state of being (which, as yet, they can hardly realize) shall have given place to the consciousness that they will now be dependant solely upon themselves for their livelihood.
As might be expected, the children come to the schools perfectly ignorant of the very rudiments of learning. Their ignorance has, in fact, been compulsory. Remembering this, one is surprised to note how rapidly they advance, especially in all branches which can be taught orally. The teachers are surprised at this-—especially those who have only been accustomed to white children before. To these children, coming to school is looked upon quite as a treat, (O how different was it with some of us in bygone days!) and it would please you much could you see the little dark-eyed girls (decked in their bits of finery) march into school, laden, perhaps, with large bouquets of flowers for their teachers, and take their places with an air of delight, which says, as plainly as action can say anything, ”Yes, massa, me free now; can come to learn book, learn sing, and den me short time write like white man." Of course, nothing but the simplest lessons are yet taught; though, by the way, I noticed one or two who spelled words of two syllables nicely  In order to avoid languor, various exercises are resorted to continually; or a song is taken up with wondrous energy by all. Yesterday, for instance, a school of 500 or 600, which meets in the African Church, gave us with great vigor, ”Rally round the flag," “John Brown," and others, much to our and their enjoyment.
So far white teachers are found to answer better than colored ones. In lime, no doubt, colored ones must take their places, especially during the hot weather further south. At present there seems to be but one teacher to 40 or 60 scholars, and some of them are much overworked."
A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW.
In another column may be found a statement of a conversation with a Southern gentleman, written by a regular correspondent of the Daily Advertiser in the South, who is vouched for by its editor as eminently qualified to obtain adequate and trustworthy information in that region. It corroborates the testimony that is coming in from all quarters, showing how tenaciously the slaveholders adhere to the ideas formed under their slaveholding relation. They no longer fight, because they have no armies, no arms, and no leaders. They yield to the United States Government, because there is no confederate Government. They take any required oath, because that is the only way of living in quiet under the Government which hey have vainly tried to overthrow. Their old method of life is no longer available, and they must find a new one. They know not what to do. But, manifestly, what they will try to do will be to get as much as possible out of the class they formerly pretended to own. They still spell negro with two as They still repeat, alike to others and to themselves, the lies with which they have always been accustomed to justify slavery. If, as now seems probable, they shall find it no longer possible to have slaves, they will do what they can to keep the colored people in the position of” niggers”; they will demand work of them on the smallest possible wages; they will prevent them, as far as possible, from attaining the rights of land-holding, of voting, and of manufacturing and commercial enterprise; and they will restrict, as far as may be, their progress in education, and in the attainment of civil and political rights generally. Are men like these to be entrusted with the legislative power in the reconstruction of States?—C. K. W.
"HARFER'S" NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE," for August, is received. It is a good number to take with you to the sea-side, or for an afternoon under an apple-tree about the homestead. It has an illustrated bit of colloquial poetry, ”Blacksmith and Farmer"; a paper descriptive of western mining;” In the Witness Box," and the Pursuit of the guerilla Morgan, all illustrated, and the latter written by Abbott; Recollections (and a portrait) of Sheridan; papers on ”Nevada," “Hugh Miller and Geology," “Under Fire at Charleston," and the ”Influence of Climate on National Character”; the continuation of” Armadale” and”Our Mutual Friend," with tales, sketches, poetry, and the editorial after part, always entertaining, and a perfect ”magazine” of itself.
Messrs. E. Tilton & Co.have in press Volume Second of their edition of the Conspiracy Trial, edited, with an Introduction, by Ben. Perley Poure The publishers, in giving this book to the public, seem to appreciate the value that will always be attached to the most remarkable military trial which has ever occurred or is likely to occur on this continent, and have brought it out in the most desirable form for libraries. It is beautifully printed in clear, open type, on fine white paper, and neatly bound; has a vignette of Justice, blindfolded, with scales and sword. We are glad to learn that libraries are recognizing its importance; it should be in every public library. Of the trial of Aaron Burr, which has recently been in so much demand, there can scarcely be found a perfect copy, even in the largest libraries. The publishers present the Conspiracy Trial in a most attractive manner, and in a way to put it within the reach of every one. Its sale will doubtless be a large one.
<C04>
THE RENOVATION OF THE SOUTH.
Cognate to the obligation on the part of the government and the liberal mind of the North to secure popular instruction to the people of the South of all colors and conditions is the still more imperative duty to provide a way by which they may become possessed of land. It is well known that all the land opened to cultivation and adjacent to the lines of traffic is in the hands of the slavocracy, with rare exceptions. The poor whites have for long years occupied the poorest lands, and in some parts the sand hills, eking out a miserable existence on a little corn, pork and whiskey. Now, the war has ruined the old landed aristocracy, except in those instances where the foresight of the planter will lead him to use his influence over his former slavess to induce them to work for low wages, which will probably be the case quite generally on the back plantations; and the result will be that the negro will have no home of his own, unless he retreats to the poorest land—perhaps the pine barrens or sand hills. In all cases where the avarice or anger of the planter shall induce him to procure white laborers, as is threatened in North Carolina, the future of the colored man, even with freedom and the right of suffrage in his possession, will be unenviable.
Now, the first thing to be done by the power in authority is to apply the Confiscation Act to the rebel land-owners with judicious severity all over the Slave States, and then under the Homestead Law set off to every family of blacks forty acres of land, on or near his old plantation. Not to beggar the class of former rich whites, the government, can generously allow forty acres to remain to the old slaveholding family, so that they will be on a level with the blacks in the ownership of land. And where the confiscated and abandoned lands do not suffice, the unoccupied and unsold lands belonging to the government can be brought into requisition, and divided among the freed men and poor whites. This will secure two very important and essential results: first, the complete extirpation of the Southern aristocracy the most uncongenial nuisance in the republic; and, secondly, the anchoring of the poorer people in permanent homes. Ownership of real estate by its citizens is the real safeguard for a government. Where such a condition is almost universal, as in the Northern States, a revolution to destroy the government which guarantees the title is next to an impossibility. Had the system prevailed at the South, the people could not have been dragooned into rebellion; and in those States where the custom prevailed to any great extent, a vote for secession could not be obtained from the people. Witness Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Missouri.
Having accomplished this extremely important object for the down-trodden blacks, let us look forward a few years, and remark the state of things that will gradually ensue. The blacks of Missouri, being few in number compared with the whites, will form, as in most of the old Free States, an uninfluential class, and will gradually, for the sake of each other's sympathy, or for social reasons, sell out their farms, and settle in the towns or cities. This will not add to their virtues, but will be apt to affect them as it does the whites. They will become more refined in manners, but poorer in substantial wealth, weaker in health, and less virtuous of life. Any laboring class of people, unless educated mechanics, grow more dependent and less self-reliant the longer they cling to great cities, not to say that they sooner fall into pinching poverty. What lessons of bitterness do our financial convulsions reveal in cities among the laboring poor! while the hardy laborers in the country, away back in the forest, can rarely suffer for the necessaries of life, unless through intemperance. So we fear little good will come of the colored people flocking to large towns, and becoming menials. We wish to see them out of menial employments as soon as possible, that they may silence by their enterprise the slanderous lies of their enemies.
What we fear for the colored people of Missouri will be the case too much in Kentucky, Tennessee, West Virginia and North Carolina. In Kentucky or Tennessee, the whites are about four or five to the blacks, and in many counties of those States there are but a few colored people, say a dozen or so. They will naturally gravitate to those regions where society congenial to their feelings can be found; and consequently, very many of the negroes will find themselves obliged to work as servants again, and under the same disabilities as we mentioned above. But Eastern Virginia has negroes enough in her borders to found a respectable Commonwealth, and we need fear no such effect, for there will be room enough and work enough and abundant society for them and their posterity for the present and immediate future, with out crowding into towns and cities. The gracious fact, that of an equal population of whites and blacks at Richmond, more than ten whites to one black drew government rations in the month of May, speaks volumes for the sagacity and industry of the blacks. The cheapness of vegetables in the market there speaks the same language. The suburbs of Richmond, we doubt not, are pretty generally occupied by the hardy blacks, with their” truck patches," and their skill at raising pigs, poultry and vegetables doubtless solves the whole question of difference in poverty of the two races. 
So we conclude that where the colored race can enjoy, not only personal freedom and civil rights, but social advantages that shall give them quiet and respectability with their compeers, we shall see the true development of the race. And in this light we look to the settlement at Port Royal and the Sea Is lands of South Carolina and Georgia, and the operations of the freedmen on the Mississippi river, between Vicksburg and New Orleans, as full of promise. We do not doubt their success; and in the belt of country that skirts the Gulf of Mexico, for some two or three hundred miles inland, where the great bulk of the colored population now reside, we expect to find all the elements of success that can be wished for. We want to see the commerce of that region in the hands of the children of the men and women who have for six generations groaned in slavery, and died in the house of bondage. We trust that the close of this century will see no representative of that dominant class of oligarchs who have abused humanity, insulted God, and cursed our country with the enormities of slavery and the horror of civil war, owning one acre of soil, managing a single branch of business, or claiming a share in the commerce that then will bless that land and whiten the adjacent sea.
We look to that section as the real Canaan of the race that has redeemed it from the hands of nature, and who own it by the divine right of labor; and the first step will be to secure a share in the soil. The whole State of Florida contains only about one white inhabitant to a square mile, and large areas of its land lie as neglected as when the Spaniard first laid his eyes upon it, three centuries ago. The rebellious whites, having no rights that black men are bound to respect, should be rooted out, as lords of the soil; for they have shown themselves unequal to the task of properly developing a lovely and fertile State, close by the tropics. Give it to the loyal black man. Put him in full possession of it, as a part of his inheritance, and bid him God-speed. We do not fear for his future there. Fifty thousand square miles of fertile land, that aches for the hand of civilization, lie ready to be vexed into yielding up its treasures. Let the loyal blacks who wish to own it ask the government to set them down there with the requisite tools. How glorious the Africa-American future may be, with the appliances of seaports, cities, towns, railways, schools and manufactories, owned and engineered by the brains of the descendants of those who died far out of sight of the promised land! Will not the philanthropist turn his attention to this question? 
Our last page will be found wholly occupied with the proceedings of the First of August celebration at Abington, as reported by Mr. Yerrinton.
<c05>
A TRIP TO LAKE MEMPHRAMAGOG
The Newspaper Fraternity of New Hampshire, who belong to the Royal Order of Good Fellows, commiserating the trying situation of their metropolitan” brethren of the quill," sweltering in their pent-up sanctums, with the thermometer in the nineties, last week sent them an invitation to join in an excursion to Lake Memphramagog, Vermont; and on Thursday, a number of the representatives of the press of this city started for Newport, at this end of the lake, via the Lowell Railroad and its connections. The day was one of the hottest of that feverish week, and warmly reminded one of Holmes's” Hot Season," when
"Plump men of mornings ordered tights, 
But, ere the scorching noons,
Their candle-mounds had grown as loose
As Cossack pantaloons!
The dogs ran mad,—men could not try
If water they would choose;
A horse fell dead,—he only left
Four red-hot, rusty shoes.”
But our steed was of different mettle, and bore us steadily and swiftly through the pleasant environs of Boston to the ”City of Spindles," to Nashua and Manchester, and thence, along the beautiful valley of that ”lowland river  “whose” praises Whittier has just now so sweetly sung, where the stately elm stands sentinel over the ”green repose" of luxuriant meadows, to Concord. Here we met a large company, the representatives of the press of the Old Granite State, with a few from Eastern Massachusetts— many of them accompanied by ladies,—for whose accommodation two spacious and well-appointed cars were in waiting. Among the party were Gov. Smyth and lady, (whose simple presence is a benediction,) Adjutant-General Head, of New Hampshire, and Mayor Humphrey, of Concord, as invited, guests. Again on our way, we sped over the Northern Railroad from Concord to White River Junction, at which point we struck the Connecticut and Passumpaic Rivers Railroad, and, following the course of these streams, through thriving villages and well-tilled farms, whose handsome corn
"Waved in the hot midsummer’s noon
Its soft and yellow hair,"
we reached, at seven o'clock in the evening, the village of Newport,—some 250 miles from our starting-point,-,—where the doors of the spacious Memphramagog House were flung open, with welcoming sound, and the company were soon busily engaged in removing the incrustations consequent on the long and sultry ride. The lavation completed, full justice was done to an excellent supper, and then most of the party strolled out in groups to the shore, to take their first view as the evening shadows rested on lake and wood and mountain, and just as the moon,
"slow rounding into sight,
On the hushed inland sea looked down."
The view, at this moment, was one of surpassing loveliness. Owl's Head Mountain, the chief point of attraction about the lake, towered in mysterious grandeur in the distance, while close at hand the waters broke into ripples of silvery laughter beneath the rays of the moon, which revealed, on either hand, the dark foliage of the trees, in shadowy indistinctness,—making a picture that will long live in the memory.
Friday morning, the company (now numbering about seventy) gathered on the little steamer” Mountain Maid," Capt. Fogg, for an excursion on the lake. Light clouds somewhat obscured the sun, and a gentle breeze tempered what had otherwise been an exceedingly sultry day, and made enjoyment possible. Lake Memphramagog, (the name is said to be a corruption of the Indian words signifying a large, beautiful expanse of water) is about forty miles long, with an average breadth of three miles, two thirds of its surface being within the dominions of the British Queen. We sailed, therefore, under the Cross of St. George as well as the Stars and Stripes. The main sources of the lake are the Clyde, Barton and Black rivers, and its waters find their way to the St. Lawrence through the St. Francis river. As we have said, the mountain which bears the name of”Owl's Head," (why,”’twould puzzle a conjuror" to tell,) is the centre of interest, and the steamer stopped at its base, where there is a quiet and attractive hotel, nestling snugly in a lovely nook-
"With mountains round about environed";
but the pressure for time was too great to permit even the most zealous of the party to climb the mountain, which is 2700 feet high, and from the top of which, it is said, a delightful and very extensive view is obtained, including the White Mountain summits, Lake Champlain, the rivers St. Lawrence and St. Francis, and, on a clear day, even the glistening spires of Montreal. The ”Mountain Maid” made several landings on both sides the lake, affording excellent opportunities for the enjoyment of its varied beauties: its bold headlands,—the picturesque islands that gem its placid waters,—the pleasant villas and well cultivated farms on its eastern shore, which testified to the natural fertility of the soil and to careful husbandry, with the verdure-clad hills on the western side, where the somber hue of the evergreens was relieved by the lively green of the deciduous trees, while here and there a solitary maple flung out its banner of scarlet and gold, prophesying of the autumnal glory of the woods. Some of the party were disappointed in the character of the scenery, having looked forward to a visit to” forests primeval,"—to the sight of deer in their native wilds, and, perchance, to exciting adventures with bears, or other predatory roamers of the forest. They had anticipated another Moosehead, and found a second Winnipesaukee. But it is praise enough for this northern lake to say that it may contest for the palm of beauty with "Winnipesaukee—” the mirror of God's love." 
About noon, the steamer reached Magoz, the outlet of the lake, where there is a water privilege of great value, equal in power to that at Manchester and Lawrence. Here, if before there had been any doubt as to the civilization of this region, the question was set at rest by the spectacle of a hoop skirt factory, (the enterprise—how fit!—of some fugitives from the draft on this side the line,) and of a tobacco patch! A substantial lunch was provided for the company on board the boat; and, after an hour pleasantly spent in rambling over the village, the steamer's bell summoned them once more to the boat, for the return. In the course of the afternoon, the inevitable speech-making took place, (Gov. Smyth very acceptably occupying the chair,) and brief responses were made by several gentlemen to toasts appropriate to the occasion. Resolutions of thanks were also passed to the officers of the various railroads, and other gentlemen, to whose kindness and voluntary good offices the party were indebted for the pleasures of the day. An interesting incident of the proceedings was the introduction of one of the oldest settlers to the company, who described two encounters with the veritable sea-serpent on the lake, with a dramatic power that Gough could hardly surpass, and a strength of faith and freedom of manner truly refreshing in this age of unbelief and rigid conventionalism.
The boat reached Newport again about seven o'clock, and the company disembarked, and hastened to relieve the well-filled tables of the Memphramagog House of their burden. The evening was spent in conversation, and (by the younger portion of the party) in dancing.
We ought to say a word of Newport and its neighborhood, and will say it here. The village is a settlement of but four years' growth, yet it contains one or two hundred houses, and is evidently a busy and thriving place. Limestone abounds, and quite a traffic is carried on in lime, which is burnt in kilns on the margin of the lake. Copper and lead are also found in the vicinity, and some portions of the country are said to be auriferous, but the gold has not yet made its appearance in sufficient quantity to stimulate adventure. These mineral resources wait but the capitalist, and the skilled laborer who comes at his bidding, for their development. The agricultural ca
<C06>
pabilities of the country are great, and when the rail road is carried through to its junction with the Grand Trunk, a distance of some thirty miles, and this consummation, we are confident, is in the near future, if there is any virtue in intelligent real and unflagging perseverance) there cannot fail to be a great increase in the productions of this section. When completed, this road will make a <illegible> rail communication between New York and Quebre almost on a straight line, and doubtless much of the traffic between these two important points will take that direction.
On Saturday morning, the party bade fareved to the lake, and turned their faces homeward, separating, at various points along the route; each and all, we cannot doubt, rejoicing in the strengthening of and friendship, the formation of new ties of brother, and a store of pleasant memories to make glad the, coming time.
In closing this hurried account of a delightful excursion, we desire to express our special obligation to the officers of the several railroads forming the line between Boston and the lake, and particularly to Hon. Henry Keyes and A.H Perry, Esq., the President and Superintendent of the Connection and Paasumpsic Rivers Railroad, (who accompanied the party,) for their constant courtesy and kindness; also to Capt. Fogg., and Messrs. Buck & Pander, of the Memphramagog House; and last, but not by any means least, to our good friend, J.E. Pecker, Esq., of Concord, by whom the arrangements for the excursion were made, and under whose intelligent supervision they were carried out to so successful and gratifying an issue.

LETTER FROM L.N.FOWLER, THE EMINENT PHRENOLOGIST
The publication of the following letter has been accidentally delayed since its receipt:—
LONDON, (Eng) April 24, 1865
MY OLD FRIEND, WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
Having for the two past years found your paper a valuable medium through which I have gained important information about the affairs of my country, while travelling in England, I must tell you that I read the announcement that it would be discontinued, after the present year, with mingled feelings of pain and pleasure; —pain, because the Liberator was a house hold word when at home, and has come to me over the ocean a pleasant messenger of glad tidings, and it is too valuable a paper to be stopped—pleasure, because the cause which started the paper, thirty years ago, no longer exists for its continuance.
I congratulate you on the changes which have taken place in the American people, because you have done so much toward bringing about the desired results. Rarely does a pioneer live long enough to see the fruition of his labors, as you have done. You have won a martyr’s fame by a martyr’s labors, bearing opposition, imprisonment and calumny when the cause was weak, and there was no credit in being an Abolitionists,. May your life be long spared to see the fruits of your earnest labors! I should rejoice to hear that you had lectured in Richmond, Charleston, Raleigh, Columbia, and New Orleans. The thought has occurred to me, that instead of stopping the Liberator altogether, its name might be changed to ”The Liberator." Those who are liberated will want a medium through which they can tell their experience, give their views, and make known their rejoicings as they become educated.
To-day we are rejoicing throughout England I say we—I mean those who have always defended the North, and there are many such throughout the country. For the last four years, in every course of lectures I have given, I have endeavored to state the policy of the North; and though surrounded by secessionists, yet whenever I have spoken of the leaders of the Anti-Slavery movement, and showed the portrait of Garrison, I have” brought down the house” To-day, for the first time, the papers here have published the thrilling news that Lee, with his army, has surrendered, and that there is a prospect of peace What rejoicings you must have had in every part of the North! What a glorious event! How appropriate that it should have occurred on the anniversary of the day when war was declared! The Southern sympathizers in England must feel quite” chop-fallen" and discouraged, especially the Confederate bondholders, who will have to pocket their loss the best way they can. What a change it will make in America and throughout the world!—for liberty, freedom, republicanism, justice and human progress have conquered the worst forms of despotism, slavery, selfishness and irreligion. The freed bondman is to be educated, to have the same privileges as the white man at the ballot-box; the master has hereafter to do his own work, or to pay his workmen. The aristocracy based in unrighteousness is brought low, the negro will be on a par with his master in privileges, and will be far superior to him in this fact, that he has nothing to repent of in his degradation, while the master will have to repent of the sins and errors of his whole life.
May God bless and sustain our President and his Cabinet, that they may properly guide the military powers of America; that they may have wisdom in settling the great and complicated difficulties thrown upon them, in making peace negotiations, in securing justice to all, and in showing a due regard of humanity and sympathy where they really belong!
I rejoice that you were enabled to go to Fort Sumter to help raise our noble flag on that renowned old ruin. It must have made you feel that God is on the side of the right, and that truth ultimately will  prevail.
Yours with great respect,
L. N. FOWLER.
formerly of 308 Broadway, N. Y.

REPLY TO ”D M"
“God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are “
To D. M.: The above would have been an appropriate heading for your letter to Rev. John Ware, in the Liberator. I cannot see in it, or in the fact of your having disturbed a loyal congregation, of which you were not a member, anything liberal. My object in addressing you is to refute your unjust, unchristian and Pharisaical ”flings” at Mr. Ware, and his congregation in Baltimore.
Mr. W.'s congregation knew, at the time they ”called” him, that he would preach new ideas to the people of the South. The congregation, when he took charge, was small, but by his manly course and by his bold advocacy of anti-slavery and other forms, in the pulpit and in private, he has drawn around him a large congregation, and a great circle of friends and admirers; not composed entirely of Northern people, educated in liberal ideas, but including many native Southerns, who are abolitionists and reformers from conviction.
Mr. Ware’s ”trimming” in Baltimore has consisted in his announcing from his pulpit his opposition to the ”curse of the country," and his intention to preach such doctrines and reforms as he believed it his duty to call the attention of his congregation to, without consulting their feelings. His sermons have emboldened other ministers to take the same manly course.
I deem this defence of Mr. Ware due to him and his old friends of Massachusetts; and that you may not suppose I am one of the class for whom you assert he has to “trim," allow me to say that I am a native Marylander, son of a slaveholding secessionists, and a convert of Helper; and advocated, in Maryland, in 1860, the election of Abraham Lincoln. I also believe in universal suffrage. Of such material are Mr. Ware’s congregation and friends mostly composed, and his friends can readily see that trimming is unnecessary, and would not be tolerated. The doctrines preached by him would be acceptable to the congregation of the ”Church of the Disciples," and his old friends may be proud of his course in Baltimore, and the great success consequent thereupon 
Roxbury, Mass., Aug.3., 1865.J.T Y G.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTER FROM HON. N. H. WHITING.
MARSHFIELD, July 30, 1865.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Esq.:
DEAR SIR:-When I saw you in Boston a few days ago, I gave you permission to advertise me as one of the possible speakers at the celebration of Emancipation in the West Indies, which you propose to hold at Abington on the first of August. As the time approaches, I find that my health and voice are not sufficient to justify me in the attempt to speak in the open air; and, as the best substitute I can offer, I send you on paper the substance of what might have been said in speech, had the "divinity that shapes our ends" made time and circumstance of that complexion.
The auspicious event in the world's progress which we have commemorated now for many years, has, at last, been overshadowed, and, at least partially, eclipsed by the great deliverance which the stern necessities of war have wrought in these terrible four years, for black men, and for white men as well. The sterling apothegm of our martyr President, "If slavery is not wrong, then nothing is wrong," was affirmed of a system which rests on the monstrous postulate that there is, or may be, something in a man-everything, indeed, that makes him a sentient, reasoning, producing creature-which does not belong to him-is not subject to his volition, nor to be used for his needs,-but is the property of another, subservient to the interest or caprice of his owner. That system, so tersely described by John Wesley as "the sum of all villanies," has been broken and pulverized by the iron hammer of war which had been invoked by its friends to rivet more strongly its fetters, and extend its weary chain, with the slave-coffle, across the continent and around the world.
We sing paeans to-day, then, not merely for the liberation of eight hundred thousand, but for four millions of slaves, as the immediate result of the dread convulsion through which we have just passed. The yawning gulf of "chaos and old night" opened at our feet; and it could only be closed by the sacrifice of untold thousands of the nation's most precious children. That fruitful parent of all our woes is dead. On us and our children is placed the responsibility of seeing that it never has a resurrection.
The Declaration of Public Law has gone forth, wherever the stars and stripes of the American Union float on the breezes of heaven, "that all men are born free." It is affirmed with an emphasis like the sound of many waters, in contradistinction from the infamous postulate with which slavery went forth to battle against the civilization of the age,-it is proclaimed that there is something in every man, constituting the inherent, essential qualities of his human nature, which belongs to himself, and which cannot be bought and sold in the market, or made to minister to the cu pidity and avarice of another.
The part of the great problem now lying unsolved immediately before us is to determine what is that something which belongs to every man. Is it not a right to the best use of all the faculties God has given him!-the right to choose the form of government under which he shall live? the right to home and family-to free thought, free speech, and free worship? The right, in fine, to everything essential to growth and happiness which the Commonwealth can furnish? This is what we have claimed for the slave. So ours, in its last analysis and result, is a complete and universal reform. Thus our work is but just begun. The Reformer can truly say, with Emerson, that "he is an endless Secker with no past at his back." With him nothing is completed while anything remains to be done. His work is that of criticism of the actual, and a perpetual demand for the realization of the ideal. But his is ever the attitude of hope, not of despair. His appeal is for justice always and everywhere. With the Hindoo of Eastern story, he says, "I cleave to Right as the sure ladder that leads up to man and to God." He acknowledges and accepts the good that is done; but he is on the alert to point out the rocks and quick-sands that still lie along the pathway of the man and the nation. He rejoices, with a joy that can find no verbal expression, in that new morning of freedom before which the night of slavery is rapidly fading away; but he says, "To my eye there are still some lurid streaks in the expanding sunlight which are ominous of future tempests and convulsions in, the 'reconstructed' Union." And this brings me to the string upon which I conceive we are to pound in our "rub-a-dub agitation" of the present hour-that is the question of equal, or negro suffrage.
We owe the negro far more than we can ever pay for the victory we now enjoy. When our great war began, it was predicted that whichever party succeeded securing the assistance of the negroes would surely conquer. The peculiar nature of the conflict enabled us to see and act upon this "military necessity" first. And so we have won. But I venture to say that the valor and endurance of all the white soldiers we sent into the field, though perhaps never exceeded in the history of the world, and coupled with the marvellous resources which the Government has otherwise developed and brought into play, would not have been sufficient, and the rebels would have succeeded in their nefarious work of breaking the Union into fragments, if the armed hand of the negro had not been thrown into our scale. The element of weakness in the South was the slave. This element Abraham Lincoln, of blessed memory, seized upon, and attached to the loyal cause; and so the hour of victory came, and the nation is saved.
For this we promised the negro his liberty. Shall he have it in fact, or only in form? It is proposed to leave him, with this name alone, at the mercy of the white population of the rebellious States, smarting under their defeat, and exasperated to madness by the knowledge that their overthrow has been accomplished by the aid which their former slaves gave to the national cause,-it is proposed to leave these faithful and indispensable auxiliaries in such hands, without homes, without land, without any law in whose enactment and administration they have any voice, literally bound hand and foot, with not even the poor protection which the interest and lurking humanity of the former master gave them.
Against this be it ours to protest, as an act of injustice so cruel, of meanness so despicable, that it may well be called the crowning shame of the ages. No mon and no people can ever prosper after consenting to it. Now is the time to cry aloud on this subject. If we cannot protect the emancipated blacks now, in the first flush of conscious triumph, when gratitude for our salvation is unchecked by the cupidity of personal or party interest, we shall never voluntarily do so. It can only be wrung from our heart's blood, or that of our children.
I make no account of this plea of State Rights in <illegible> of national justice to the negro. There are no States. They deliberately committed suicide. There is nothing left but so much territory belonging to the nation, and sundry defeated rebels, without one national or State right but to be tried and punished for their crimes. The machinery of those States can never be put in motion again except by the consent of the Government against which they rebelled. Never was a clearer case. We used to say we were not responsible for the treatment of the blacks at the South. That plea can never be entered again. Of all the people on the planet, we are just the ones who have this matter in charge. In the name of good faith, common honesty, and the public safety, let us see to it that whoever is left "out in the cold" under the new order of things, it shall not be the only thoroughly loyal people in the rebellious South. They clung to the starry flag in its darkest hour. Through all the heavy night of doubt, and almost of despair, which so often shut down on the Union cause, those black faces were always the symbol of loyalty and truth. The curses of all that is good will light upon as if we leave them in their hour of need to the tender mercies of the "mean whites" of the South, and the meanermanner ”copperheads" of the North.
Nobody should be forsaken or neglected who has
<c02>
done anything to aid the Union in its mortal peril; but it is especially our mission as reformers—as abolitionists—to see that justice is done to those poor black men, who, though laboring under the terrible disabilities of relentless prejudice and grinding servitude, by their sublime patience, courage and fidelity made it possible for the nation to live.
We flatter ourselves with the notion that the result of the conflict through which we have just passed is the triumph of democracy—of the people—over despotism and caste. This gives it not merely a national, but a human and world-wide significance. Thus our star becomes a cynosure of hope and promise to the struggling people everywhere. But let us have no more of that sham democracy which, with niggardly selfishness, confines itself to snarling at the aristocracy of birth, or wealth, or literature,—"I am as good as you," and at the same time despises the poor of other races and nations. Give us rather that genuine life—that pure democracy—which goes down to the bottom of society, and, in the spirit of the Great Reformer whose light streams through the centuries from the cross of Calvary to the outcast and oppressed of all races and climes, says,” YOU ARE AS GOOD AS I. You are a man and a brother. You are an heir to sublimer possibilities of activity and achievement than ever prophet dreamed or poet sang. Come up, my poor brother! Enter and take possession of your inheritance." This is the true democracy. How much of it is to be embodied in the life of this nation? Enough to save it, and make it commensurate with the wants of the human race? The answer is with each and all. The problem is the” riddle of man." The duty of life is to aid in its solution.
Yours in that work, 
N. H. WHITING.
"THE SAFEGUARDS OF PERSONAL LIBERTY." This is the title of a manly and eloquent Address delivered by Hon. William D. Kelley, at Concert Hall, in Philadelphia, on the evening of June 22, and the first of a series of pamphlets on the important subject of suffrage, which our colored friends in that city are now publishing. A gratuitous distribution will be made to all who desire to read on the subject. Those, however, who wish to aid the cause, can do so by donations to the Publishing Committee, consisting of William Still, 107 N. Fifth street; J. C. White, Sr., Philadelphia Institute, Lombard street; and S. Morgan Smith, N. W. corner of Sixth and Walnut streets.
Among those who have been foremost and strongest in the advocacy of negro suffrage as a right not to be withheld, and a policy essential to the safety and pacification of the country, Judge Kelley deserves all praise. We believe him to be thoroughly in earnest, and do not doubt that he will be true to his pledge-"For myself, as God is my judge, I will never consciously cast a vote in the American Congress that shall favor the admission of a representative from a reconstructed State under an oligarchic or aristocratic constitution." In reply to the slang charge of having” nigger on the brain," Judge Kelley nobly replies as follows:-
"I think I hear some one say,’ Oh, you have nigger on the brain, and now you are beginning to plead for the nigger!' God forbid that I should forget the existence of nearly five millions of human beings who know every sorrow that I know, and every joy that I may feel, and who look through the same narrow way to enduring happiness. Thank God! I do not forget their existence, and I do not fail to plead for them. But, my white brethren, allow me to assure you that it is you for whom I am pleading now, because you are more numerous than they. The colored people of America number about five millions; the white people over twenty-five millions; and as five is worth more than one, I plead for the five, and embrace the sixth, and plead for him too. It is not the negro alone I, have’ on the brain;' it is him and the white man; it is mankind, and not any single race or class of men. (Applause.)" 
We have received—in a neatly printed pamphlet—the Proceedings of the Pennsylvania Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends, held at Longwood, Chester County, Pa., in June last—in which it was our privilege to participate. We shall publish, in the next Liberator, the "Testimonies" adopted on the occasion. These were on the following subjects: —1. Religion. 2. Slavery and the Rebellion. 3 The Rights of Woman. 4. Memorials for Equal Suffrage. 5. The Assassination of President Lincoln. 6. Temperance. 7. Peace. 8. In Memoriam. 9. The Freedmen. Appended is an interesting and instructive discourse by George Thompson, Esq. 
DEATH OF HEZEKIAH GRICE. We regret to learn, by a letter from his son, that this very respectable, intelligent and enterprising colored American, who many years since emigrated to Hayti, and took an efficient part in industrial matters in that republic, died at Port-au-Prince on the 23d of May, after a brief illness. We became acquainted with him in Baltimore in 1829, and have ever since held him in high estimation. Physically and mentally, he was” every inch a man," and won the respect of all who knew him. 
A correspondent of the Boston Journal, in giving an account of the Philomathaean Society exhibition at Andover Seminary, July 21, says—"Among the speakers was Richard T. Greener of Boston, (colored,) who showed great depth of thought and much research in the manner in which he handled his subject—'The Teachings of History.'" 
An unsuccessful attempt to abduct that infamous wretch, George N. Sanders, for whose arrest as an alleged participant in the assassination of President Lincoln a large reward was offered by the Government, was made at Montreal a few days since.—Two of the abductors were arrested. 
After leaving Boston, General Grant went as far east as Augusta, and from thence to Canada, all along the route receiving the most enthusiastic ovations. At Quebec he was welcomed in an unexpectedly handsome manner. 
NEGRO SUFFRAGE. The Atlantic Monthly, for August, contains a forcibly written paper on” Reconstruction and Negro suffrage," the first half of which may be found on our first page. 
A GOOD SIGN. A leading citizen of Virginia, in a recent letter, writes thus of Mr. Sumner's pamphlet, entitled,” Security and Reconciliation for the Future:" 
"I thank him for convincing me, very much against my will, that to allow immediate representation to the rebel States would be a cruel breach of faith and honor to the freedmen, and that we of the South must be just to these poor people, and submit to a genuine republican government before we deserve admission again into the American family." 
John Stuart Mill, the eminent author, just elected to Parliament, is in favor of female suffrage. But that did not alarm Englishmen into defeating him. A good deal of personal freedom of opinion is conceded by an English constituency. 
A call for a National Convention, to be composed of three delegates from each Congressional District in the country, to devise means for securing the voting privilege to the colored people, is being extensively signed and circulated in Norfolk, Portsmouth and other parts of Southeastern Virginia. 
The Port Royal New South says the negroes on St. Helena Island have armed themselves for self protection. 
THE ATLANTIC CABLE. Intelligence from Liver pool via Queenstown, 30th ult. reports that 700 miles of the Atlantic cable had been payed out, when insulation was lost—cause unknown. Further particulars had not transpired. 
Breckinridge, the ex-rebel Secretary of War, has arrived at Southampton from the West Indies. 
<c03>
THE JEFF. DAVIS MEETING. 
The New York Post publishes the following sworn statement of Robert Brown, one of the attendants upon the Jeff. Davis meeting in that city the other day:-
"State of New York, City and Co. of New York, as.
Robert Brown, of said city and county of New York, being duly sworn, deposeth and saith:
On Monday, the 31st of July, 1865, he attended a meeting in this city, having received an invitation in the following terms:
'You are invited to meet, with several gentlemen, at the offices 19 and 20, in the house No. 9 Broad st., on Monday, the 31st instant, at 4 P. M., to devise means for the fair and full defence of Jefferson Davis and his associates, so that whatever happens, justice may be done. 
New York, July 26, 1865.' 
The meeting was held in the rooms designated, being those occupied by Carlos Butterfield. There were present at the meeting Messrs. Gideon J. Tucker, Surrogate of this county, Theodore Martin, Peter Y. Cutler, Clancy and Douglass, among others. One of them said that Mayor Gunther would attend if business did not detain him, and that he was entirely in union and sympathy with the objects of the meeting.
After some delay, it was remarked that it would be as well to invite their Southern friends outside to come in. This was done; several persons entered, after which the doors were closed. There were now ten men present.
The object of the meeting was to raise funds to meet the expenditures to be incurred in the defence of Jeff. Davis.. The following committee was appointed for that purpose: C. Godfrey Gunther, Mayor of New York; Carlos Butterfield, Theodore Martine, Messrs. Douglass and Clancy.
A general conversation followed, upon the signification of the trial of Jefferson Davis. It was, they all agreed, the most important trial in the world's history. Every lover of liberty in Europe and America had an interest in it. They were on trial. The celebrated trial of Warren Hastings would sink into insignificance compared with that of Jefferson Davis. 
Mr. Cutler declared the Declaration of Independence to be the Magna Charta of human liberty, and quoted it to prove that the Southern States had the right to secede.
Another person, one of the New Yorkers, remarked that the State of New York refused to enter the Federal Union, except the right was assured to her to withdraw if she thought proper. The proceedings and debates of the Convention were referred to in confirmation of this statement.
Another of the New Yorkers declared that even in Massachusetts every officer taking the oath of office swore that he owed allegiance to the State paramount to every other obligation of fealty.
Mr. Robert M. Livingston of. Mobile remarked how few people had ever read the Constitutions of the different States. He had read them, and found in several Constitutions of free States the expressed right to secede.
A running conversation followed this statement, in which it was said that the effect of the trial of Davis would be a revolutionary sentiment everywhere in favor of the South. It would be proved on the trial that the secession cause was right, and entitled to the sympathies of the world. One of the company (Mr. Cutler, if I remember rightly,) quoted a passage from Burke, to show that a State cannot be guilty of treason.
Mr. Livingston, now wrought up to a high pitch of enthusiasm, made the declaration—' In twenty-five years, the man that now accuses the South of having committed treason will be looked upon as a madman and a fool.' He repeated this declaration, saying that in fifty years the revolution in popular sentiment would be so great, that such a man would be looked upon as a madman or a fool.
One of the New Yorkers denounced the execution of Mrs. Surratt as a cold, deliberate murder. Another declared that she was convicted upon forged testimony. A third (Martine) asserted that the court by which she was tried had no legal jurisdiction, and that the execution was a deliberate murder.
Mr. Livingston said that he had conversed with a number of Englishmen in regard to this brutal murder. They told him that it would send a thrill of horror throughout Europe, and the howl of indignation that will be sent back would so cower and terrify the American Government that it will be afraid to bring Mr. Davis to trial. He believed that the intention was to keep him lingering in prison till he died, without bringing him to trial. The friends of Mr. Davis must keep such an agitation of the matter stirring, that the Government would be forced to put him on trial without further delay.
Mr. Cutler said that he had been of opinion that the Government would bring Davis to trial before the District Court of the District of Columbia. But it had been ascertained that a Democrat (Judge Wylie) had been appointed one of the Judges; and hence the Government would not dare let him be tried there. It was probable that Mr. Chase would hold the court.
The conversation took another turn; and’ Black Republicanism’ was taken up. The question of negro suffrage, it was predicted, would divide the 'Black Republicans.'
Mr. Livingston said that he had conversed with a great number of Western soldiers. He found that their hatred for the’ nigger’ was more intense than even that of Southern men. He would mention a fact that had come under his cognizance: within a short time more than a hundred 'niggers' in Mobile had been murdered in cold blood by Western soldiers.
A New Yorker asked Mr. Livingston how Alabama would be likely to vote at the next election for members of Congress.
'They will return a solid delegation of stanch and true Southern men,' he replied. Working himself up into another fury of enthusiasm, he declared that thirty-five hundred noble, lion-hearted Southerners had kept at bay, for several months, an army of seventy-five thousand Union troops. Mobile only capitulated when she was worn out and exhausted.
He then paid a glowing tribute to’ the noble-hearted women of Mobile.' 'They look down,' he said, 'with scornful contempt upon a Yankee officer, and suffer no advance from them, taking care, of course, to give no cause or pretext for arrest. The feeling is universal that no damned Yankee must be allowed a foothold in the South.' These are not my words; I am not a swearing man.
As the meeting was about to break up, Mr. Livingston remarked:
'Gentlemen, you will want a great deal of money. I am on my way to England for the purpose of raising funds. This great work must go on. The Government must not be allowed to shirk the trial. I can promise you with confidence that I will furnish you with the requisite amount.'
One of the New Yorkers replied to this that there would be no difficulty in raising the money in this city. 
A further opportunity for private conversation was held, of which no account can be given. 
The Southern men present were all of them open and avowed secessionists. The Northern men at the meeting were in the most perfect accord of sentiment and sympathy with them. There was not the slightest perceptible shade of difference between any of them. They were all ultra and unequivocal secessionists. 
ROBERT BROWN. 
Subscribed and sworn before me this 4th day of August, 1865. JOHN BUTCHER,
Notary Public, City and County of New York. 
Mr. Robert Brown, who exposed the Jeff. Davis meeting in New York, is one of Superintendent Kennedy's detectives. Set to watch this conclave of traitors and sympathizers, he did his duty well, and the upshot is that their scheme is ruined, and the cause they espoused seriously damaged. 
DAVIS AND HIS FRIENDS. The meeting of the New York adorers and admirers of Jefferson Davis proves to have been a genuine affair, after all, and if not huge in numbers, was sufficiently violent in spirit. The informant of the New York Evening Post, who of course was doubted and denounced by the friends of Davis, comes out in a full statement, giving full particulars, which we copy. The Jeff. Davis party is evidently on the increase in the North. He has some ardent supporters even here.” The stern statesman” would not long lack a volunteer attorney if he were tried in our courts. And at any meeting held to sympathize with him, a very little pressure would tempt the Sage of Wheatland to assume the curule chair. How strange the bond between these loving compatriots! How true to themselves! How costive in their gifts to others! They had nothing to spare for the assassinated President, the butchered Secretary of State, the starved prisoner, the mutilated martyr. What they had they held in reserve for Davis, the patriot; for Payne, the Adonis; for Mrs. Suratt, the Mary of the scaffold; for Wertz, the noble janitor of the Andersonville heaven. Calculating the degree of veneration by the degree of crime, it would be easy to estimate, that if Davis had killed a few more thousand of innocent people, Booth had lived to murder President Johnson, and Payne had survived to "finish" the family circle of Mr. Seward, a new set of saints would have been added to the Christian church, of which Wilmer, Green and Pierce are the presiding apostles and priests.—Phil. Press. 
A New York contemporary says that the idea of the Mayor acting on a committee to raise funds to defend the traitor who dispatched his agents to burn that city is monstrous, and that it should as soon think of raising money to defend Judas Iscariot.
<c04>
SLAVERY IN KENTUCKY. 
General John N. Palmer, commanding the Department of Kentucky, has addressed a letter to President Johnson, in answer to the charge that the Provost Marshals of his department were in the practice of issuing "free papers" to colored persons without regard to the legal right of those receiving them to freedom. It is a forcible paper, and contains many important facts. We give it below. The orders which he refers to we do not find in our exchanges which publish the letter: 
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF KENTUCKY, Louisville, Kentucky, July 27, 1865.
To His Excellency Andrew Johnson, President of the United States:
Sir: I have already by telegram acknowledged your dispatch of yesterday, containing copy of a dispatch of Mr. Price, which states that Provost Marshals issue "free papers" to negroes indiscriminately. I refer you to my dispatch, in which I say no "free papers" are issued by any officers of this department, which, though literally true, does not quite meet the facts as they are.
I forward you my General Orders Nos. 32 and 49. Under these orders many passes have been issued by Provost Marshals, &c., to negroes who hold them; and, lam told, in many cases they regard and act upon them as free papers. 
THOUSANDS OF NEGROES ABANDONING THE STATE. 
The reasons for issuing Order 32 will be found on the face of the order, but the reasons which influenced the Mayor and his friends to apply to me do not. Large numbers of negroes were then in Louisville, from the surrounding country, who had escaped from, or repudiated the authority of, their masters.
The Mayor and others desired my approval of a plan they had arranged for the general enforcement of the laws against vagrancy, and the law which forbids slaves to go at large and hire themselves out as free persons. To have enforced these laws would have produced great misery and alarm amongst the blacks. To leave the negroes in the city would have alarmed the fears of the citizens, who were beforehand taught to think their presence would cause pestilence. They sought to make me responsible for either consequence.
To avoid both, I issued Order No. 32. Under it over 5000 negroes have crossed the Ohio river at this place alone. 
EXPECTED EMANCIPATION ON INDEPENDENCE DAY. 
Before the 4th of July, an impression got abroad amongst the negroes throughout the State that on that day they would all be made free. Inflamed by this belief thousands of them left their masters' houses, and came into our posts at different points in the State. Every nook and hiding-place at such places as Camp Nelson, Lexington, Frankfort, Bowling Green, Munfordville, &c., was filled with them. They were without work or means; and the greater the number and the more destitute they were, the more the people resisted employing them. I was compelled, from these causes, to issue General Order No. 49, and the "free papers" referred to in the telegram of Mr. Price are merely the passes issued under that order. 
THE’CONSERVATIVES' MAKE THE NEGROES EXPECT THEIR FREEDOM. 
I have been greatly embarrassed in respect to the colored people by the acts and declarations of politicians and presses in the anti-administration interest. They have given the negroes extraordinary ideas of the purposes of the Government, by announcing in their speeches and columns that it was the intention of the Government to free them all, furnish them with food and clothing, and put them upon an equality with the whites. Invariably a conservative gathering in a neighborhood is followed by a stampede of negroes.
ONLY  SIXTY FOUR THOUSAND SLAVES IN KENTUCKY. 
I think and respectfully submit that it is impossible, under the existing state of facts here, to enforce the laws of the State in reference to slaves and slavery.
At the beginning of the war, Kentucky had about two hundred and thirty thousand slaves—
Say-230,000
Our reports show number of negro enlistments,-28,818 
Estimated number of women and children freed by resolution of Congress of March 3, 1865, 2 1-2 for each man-72,015—100,863
Balance,-120,137
One-half this residue are presumed to have belonged to rebels, and are, therefore, free,- 64,568
From this small number ought still to be taken a percentage for the thousands who have escaped from the State. 
OPPRESSION OF FREE COLORED MEN. 
For the sake of keeping the small number in subjection to masters, the whole race in the State are most cruelly oppressed and outraged under color of laws which render freedom to a negro in Kentucky impossible.
I have felt it my duty to give protection to this large free population as far as possible, but in doing so I have been, on occasions, compelled to do acts which, in effect, greatly impair the tenure of the small number of persons who are still technically masters of slaves. Indeed, it must be admitted that many slaves have left the State under Orders number 32 and 49, which are enclosed, and every decision I make in favor of a negro seems to start a host of individual cases which comes within the same principle. 
THE STATUS OF NEGROES IN KENTUCKY. 
In short, slavery has no actual existence in Kentucky, and if the constitutional amendment is defeated at the election, the whole active colored population will fly unless I employ the troops to prevent it, and you have not, and will not be likely to order that to be done. 
To illustrate the effect of any fair rule upon the status of slavery in Kentucky, I will advert to the effect of one rule which I am compelled to recognize and observe. 
By the laws of Kentucky—laws once, when all were slaves, just enough in their application—all negroes were presumed to be slaves. Now a large majority are certainly free. To presume slavery from color alone is contrary to justice; to presume freedom without regard to color, and give protection accordingly, is to end slavery. I am often called upon to afford protection where there is no proof at hand, and am compelled to presume one way or the other.
I submit these difficulties to meet some of the complaints which will probably reach you from the loyal people of Kentucky.
I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully,
J. M. PALMER,
Major General Commanding." 

EX-SENATOR FOOTE ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
Ex-Senator Foote, of Tennessee, who is now reluctantly chewing "the cud of sweet and bitter fancy" in Canada, for want of permission to return to the United States, and who has inflicted a good many long epistles on the public, is out with a letter to Mr. A. O. P. Nicholson of Tennessee. He discusses the state of the South in general, and the subject of negro suffrage in particular. He says slavery is clearly now at an end., and its revival impossible, and the sooner the South realizes this fact the better. But, more than this-
"We must, in order to be free ourselves, agree never hereafter to interfere with the freedom of others. I We must amend our State Constitutions as soon as possible, and embody therein our consent that the four millions of bondsmen and bondswomen heretofore existing upon Southern soil shall be henceforth as free in all respects as those of the white race who lately dominated over them; in other words, we must formally recognize the state of things already existing, and bind ourselves to do nothing to disturb it in all future time. We must, in order to assure our own return to liberty and happiness, not only recognize the colored denizens of the South as now free, but we must allow them the same means of preserving their freedom that we ourselves desire to possess. They must be freemen in fact as well as in name.
We must consent to their being invested with the elective franchise; and this must be done, too, no matter what cherished notions we may entertain in regard to the mental inferiority of those whom some of us have heretofore regarded as the doomed posterity of Ham. Nor can we now safely talk about carrying them through a course of special tutelage and probation, such as I understand you to recommend, ere we make them our own equals before the law of the land. These are not at all matters for our regulation, but are to be attended to by those who hold in their hands exclusively the sword and the purse of the nation.
I tell you, my dear sir, and through you I wish to urge upon the whole mass of my fellow-countrymen of the South, that these things must be done by us, else our States will not be allowed to have senators and representatives in Congress, or even be permitted, without molestation; to administer their own municipal concerns. This, I say to you emphatically, is a settled matter; it is res judicuta, and there is no appeal for us in the case." 
Mr. Foote concludes with a plea for equal rights to negroes, on the ground that it will open a glorious era for the South:
"Our true friends and our future allies in the North are those who are now pleading in our behalf for justice, and for a kindly and politic forbearance as to the past. If we fail not to be equal to the demands of the present critical exigency, we shall in a few short years at most find ourselves once more happy, and safe, and prosperous. For I am not among those who
<c05>
at all doubt the complete success of the new system of labor now being introduced in the South; nor do I agree with those who apprehend any great injury of any kind as likely to arise from the proposed extension of the elective franchise to both classes of our Southern population alike.
I doubt not at all that with proper judgment, diligence and thrift, Southern plantations will be as prosperous under the new system of agricultural labor as they ever were under the old one; and I am decidedly of an opinion that there will be as little of fraud and unfairness in our elections hereafter in the Southern States, and upon the whole as judicious and beneficial an exercise of the right of suffrage as there has ever heretofore been." 

LETTER FROM ROBERT TYLER. 
The Richmond Republic contains the following sensible letter from Robert Tyler, whilom of Philadelphia, and more recently Register of the so-called Confederate Treasury:—
RICHMOND. VA., August 2, 1865.
To the Editors of the Republic:—Without assigning special reason, I take the liberty, respectfully but most earnestly, to advise that no person who has held a commission in civil or military service of the late Confederate Government shall permit himself to be a candidate for the Legislature, either Federal or State, at the ensuing election.
It is true, as I believe, as a result of the recent struggle, that the entire people in Virginia have accepted the Union and Government of the United States in good faith. The institution of slavery has been extinguished. As matters now stand, I cannot perceive what possible danger to safety, or the peace of the country, could arise by allowing an absolute choice of representatives to the whole constituent body. But there are circumstances in the present state of general and national politics which make it imperatively necessary, in my opinion, that those citizens who were prominently identified with the cause of the Confederacy should exercise a rigid political abstinence at this time. Very respectfully,
ROBERT TYLER. 
WISE SOUTHERN ADVICE. The Mobile Register, before the rebellion, was the leading paper in the Gulf States, outside of New Orleans, and was probably the most influential of all. Its then editor, Hon. John Forsyth, has returned to his post, and is now writing with his accustomed vigor in favor of reorganization on the Government basis. In a late editorial he says:
"In respect to the emancipation oath, we give the counsel to our readers upon which we have acted ourselves. Whether the Act of Emancipation has been equally and constitutionally completed or not, slavery is as dead as Julius Caesar. No human power can resurrect it, and we candidly admit that if that power rested in our single hand, we would not, under present circumstances, exert it. And we can say this much without changing a single one of our life-long opinions on the beneficence of the institution as the best form of organized labor, for mankind at large, and for the well-being of the slave in particular. But what are our opinions worth against the fixed and unalterable sentiments of the civilized and semi-civilized world? What do they avail when the sword has just declared against them? The inexorable fact is, that the institution of slavery is uprooted in the land, and if we had the power to reestablish it, it would be through such a process of conflict and turmoil as would make the game not worth the candle. It is the part of good sense to accept facts, and the death of African slavery at the South is one of those unchangeable and unchallengeable facts we accept without a moment's hesitation. The deed is done; let us make the best of it, and shape our course upon it as a stern fait accompli. Now, the deed being virtually done and beyond recall, let it be constitutionally done, and let every Southern State in Convention at once endorse the decree which the will of God, the edge of the sword and the voice of the nations of the earth seem to have united in promulgating." 
COLORED SUFFRAGE. The convention of colored men which met last week at Alexandria, Va., in their appeal to the conscientious, sympathetic, and just judgment of the American people to be invested with the elective franchise, advance the following reasons why they should have authority to vote:-
"Because we can see no other safeguard for our protection. 
Because we are citizens of the country and natives of this State.
Because we are as well qualified to vote who shall be our rulers as many who do vote for that purpose, who have no interest in us, and know not our wants. Because our representation, as heretofore felt in Congress, was not in accordance with our own wishes, and therefore we feel that it is right and our privilege to vote for the man who shall so represent us.
Because we believe that the time has come when the colored people are to be felt as a power in this government, either for good or evil, and that there is no way so calculated to make him subservient for good as to make him a good and loyal citizen.
Because we believe it will be the means of restoring the balance of power, which shall harmonize the conflicting elements which are now so rife in the South.
Because we believe that if the white men will look at the subject in its proper light, they will see the necessity of granting us this privilege, as they will find in us friends that will ever vote for men who shall be true to the State and loyal to the United States, and because nothing short of equality in law will ever secure to us the wants which every freeman needs and must enjoy, if he will be at peace at home and in the community in which he lives.
With these considerations, we do most respectfully and earnestly appeal first to the citizens of Virginia that they give ear to our humble petition, that in the reconstruction of the laws of this State they do, in the prayers of this convention and before a just God, so harmonize their laws as there shall be no distinction before the law on account of color, and that every man may expect justice before the tribunals of the State; and then shall righteousness go forth as brightness and truth, as a lamp that burneth." 
OUTRAGE ON A RETURND FUGITIVE SLAVE. The Tribune's Raleigh correspondent says a negro named Curry, who, some years since, made his escape from slavery, a few days since reappeared in his old neighborhood in search of his family, to take them to the North, when he was set upon by citizens, and nearly killed. He related his treatment to General Amos, who sent a squad of cavalry out, and had the assailants brought to him. Governor Holden then notified Gen. Ames that he had appointed justices of the peace to attend to such cases, and he had no doubt justice would be done; but Gen. Ames retains his prisoners. In the meantime a charge of assault and battery has been brought against Curry, and he too has been arrested and imprisoned by Gov. Holden's orders. 
CONFESSIONS OF DR. MUDD, O'LAUGHLIN AND ARNOLD. The New York Times' Washington dispatch says Gen. Dodd, who had charge of the conspirators on the trip to the Dry Tortugas, reports that Dr. Mudd confesses that he knew Booth when he came to his house, but was afraid to tell of his being there, fearing that the life of himself and family would be endangered thereby. He also acknowledged that he was acquainted with Booth for some time, and was with Booth at the National Hotel on the evening referred to by Weichman; that he introduced Booth to John H. Surratt in the street, and then went to Booth's room in the National, where Surratt and Booth had a private conversation. He said the Military Commission had done their duty in his case, and the sentence was just.
O'Laughlin acknowledged that the Court had done its duty; but insisted that he was only implicated in the plot to capture the President. Arnold made a similar statement, saying that he believed the assassination was gotten up by Booth a few hours before executing it. Spangler insisted that he had nothing whatever to do with the assassination. 
WHITE LABOR ON PLANTATIONS. We understand that on account of the demoralization of negro labor in many parts of the State, the white population have vigorously and industriously taken hold of the work themselves, and are producing some of the best crops now growing. The people are beginning to see, that under the new system of African labor, or want of system rather, no further dependence is to be put in that race, and they have resolved to do their work themselves.—New Orleans Picayune. 
Capt. Jackson, about 45 years of age, said to be a brother of Stonewall Jackson, fell overboard from the steamer Lundis, on her last trip from Mobile to New Orleans, and was drowned. He had been wounded three times while in the service, and at the time of his death was en route for Galveston. Capt. Jackson was formerly a merchant of Augusta, Ga.
How IMMIGRATION IS ENCOURAGED. The settlers in America from Ireland and England have sent from America in the last sixteen years, $13,178,929— or, over four million dollars a year— to their friends in Great Britain to help them over to America. The London News says very truly that this is the real British Emigration Fund. No artificial system for promoting emigration could produce such a result as that. 
Ford's Theatre was on Wednesday cleared of all theatrical furniture, scenery, &c., and the floors are being torn up. The entire interior of the building is to be remodelled, under the direction of the Secretary of War, preparatory to the uses of the Bureau of Rebel Archives and Relics.
<c06>
MARRIED— In this city, July 19, by Rev. Wm. Thompson, Mr. JEROME JEFFRY, of Rochester, N. Y., to Miss HASTER C. WHITERURST of Boston.

THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHINEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. McCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLE,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON, &c. &c.
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau st., New York.
June 16.

WOOL.
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISSION and BROKERAGE business.
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufacturers large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required.
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase of Fleece or pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia markets, will receive immediate attention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, JR. 
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston. 
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York. 
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia. 
Boston, July 14, 1865.

Ayer's Sarsaparilla
IS a concentrated extract of the choice roots, as combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this has, of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the following complaints:-
Scrofula, Scrofulous, Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, &e .
Syphilis or Venereal Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient is left in comparative health.
Female Disease are caused by Scrofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarsaparilla, while it was not. When you have used AYER'S then, and not till then, will you know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the diseases it cures, we refer you to Ayer's American Almanac, which the agent below named will furnish gratis to all who call for it.
AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS, for the cure of Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner PHI.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best Aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Aug. 4. 2m.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LAXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the <illegible>, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover. 
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.

HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York. 
June 23. 4w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
The Liberator.
CELEBRATION OF WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
On the 1st of August, as usual, the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society called together the friends of freedom to celebrate the anniversary of the emancipation of West Indian slaves in 1834, by the British Government. They assembled in good numbers, both from the Boston and Plymouth sides, and the weather for their purpose was all that could be desired.
Rev. SAMUEL. MAY called the meeting to order, and proposed the following list of officers for its acceptance:-
President-ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, of Abington.
Secretaries-JAS. M. W. YERRINTON, CHARLES K. WHIPPLE.
Finance Committee-ROBERT F. WALLCUT, BRIGGS ARNOLD, SAMUEL DYER, N. B. SPOONER, J. G. DODGE.
The vote being called for, these officers were unanimously chosen.
Mr. SPRAGUE, President of the meeting, having taken the chair, prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. TOMLINSON, of Plymouth.
SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL MAY.
The First of August has been a Saint's day with the Anti-Slavery people of America for full thirty years past, being observed by them more uniformly and generally than in England itself. The time has not quite come yet for us to discontinue its observance. As commemorative of a most auspicious event in the history of freedom, an event fraught with lessons of the greatest importance and interest to us in America at this immediate juncture, it yet has high claims upon us, and comes powerfully to our aid. Our people are not yet all anti-slavery, although the great majority of them are so, never to be flattered or driven into the recognition of slavery again. But, nationally considered, many questions raised by the Anti-Slavery movement of thirty years past are not yet settled,-even the chief of them all, the Abolition and Prohibition of Slavery throughout the land forever, by Constitutional Amendment, is not yet finally determined, although morally sure.
In past years, we have been taught and encouraged by the successes of Emancipation in the British West India islands. For, notwithstanding the unfavorable and hostile influences under which that ”experiment” was made, (for an experiment the world generally regarded it,) every candid mind has admitted that, as a humane measure, as a social and economical reform, as a triumph of justice and right over cruelty, barbarism and crime, it has been a perfect success. I shall not dwell upon the facts in detail which prove these results. Let all who desire to see the subject treated by a writer quite free from any Anti-Slavery bias, and giving the facts from personal and careful observation, consult the” Ordeal of Free Labor in the British West Indies," by W. G. Sewell of New York; and he will find material for a satisfactory moral judgment of the case, as well as for the more” commercial" one which Mr. Sewell chiefly undertakes to give. The” experiment" has been successful, and acknowledged to be so by intelligent planters and candid witnesses in the islands themselves, men originally bitterly opposed to the measure. For nearly thirty years past the Abolitionists of this country have been wont to gather up these facts and evidences, and present them in their meetings and publications, though for a long, long period scarcely a press in the land, and very few pulpits, gave the slightest aid to their diffusion.
To-day, we have little reason to go to the West India islands, or anywhere out of our own country, for an example of the happy and prosperous working of Emancipation. Our nation has tried for itself the experiment on a grander scale, and (I am fain to think) on a more just and comprehensive basis, than any other nation has done. And there are none so blinded, among patriotic and humane people, as to deny the immensely valuable results, in every direction, already accomplished by our Emancipation measures, incomplete as they yet are.
We look to West India Emancipation with another object to-day. It yet has its lessons to teach us. But whereas heretofore we have been taught and stimulated by its grand idea and its essential success,- today we should take warning by its mistakes, and consequent partial failures. For we may well believe that Emancipation, when conducted by a monarchical government, would not be as likely to be placed on the broad basis of equal human rights, as when undertaken and organized in a Republic, where its operations should be set in motion by the genius of a free and equal people, determined that there shall be no aristocracies, no privileged orders, no master-class, but everywhere, in accordance with the Declaration of July 4, 1776, entire equality of all before the law. Now there is precisely that difference between the British Emancipation of August 1, 1834, and the American Emancipation of our day so gloriously commenced, and whose results, daily becoming more encouraging, are doubtless to grow brighter, until the full day of justice to all men in our land has come. Even British Emancipation would not have been secured when it was, but for the existence of a powerful religious democracy, if I may call it so, in England, which extorted Emancipation from a reluctant government and a selfish and obstinate aristocracy. Even when granted, it was impaired first by the imposition of a heavy tax of twenty millions of pounds sterling, as” compensation” to the planters, for a loss which really was no loss to any who accepted it in an intelligent and liberal spirit; it was fettered in most of the colonies by the wretched apprenticeship system; and from first to last it has been hindered, and as far as possible thwarted, by artful contrivances on the part of the masters to retain their power in fact, even though they might have lost it in form. All these things conspire to show that the slaveholder, even after emancipation has taken his slave from him, CANNOT BE TRUSTED with the care and duty of educating and elevating his former dependants, and doing them justice. In the British West Indies, stipendiary magistrates, appointed to oversee the workings of emancipation, too often inclined to take the masters' view of questions arising, and under the “apprenticeship” cruel and severe punishments continued to be the rule rather than the exception. No “Bureau of Freed-men" was established by the British government; no corps of watchful officers at all considerable points protected the rights of the freed people; no company of teachers went forth from the old country to carry instruction, sympathy, and assurance of protection to the long-degraded and defrauded slaves. They were FREE! a blessed gift, received by them with the most simple and touching gratitude to God, and used by them with prevailing good sense, good order, and self-respect. But the amount of sincere help and encouragement. to self-improvement which they have had is small. A few noble men, like the Rev. HENRY BLEBY of Barbadoes, who visited us some years ago, and spoke to us one First of August beneath these very trees, have stood faithfully by them, and by example and precept furnished the friendly counsel and help which might be needed. But it was comparatively little that such could do against the combined power of a class long used to mastership, and determined to keep their old laborers dependent and subject. Accordingly, it has happened, that in the thirty-one years since West India Emancipation was decreed, the educational advancement of the freed people there has been but small, and their influence in civil and social matters scarcely appreciable. Emancipation found the colored population of Jamaica, and of the other British W. I. colonies, in a-state of gross ignorance; and the education of this mass of people, as we have been recently told on good authority, “has been all but totally neglected by the Legislature of Jamaica." That colony has <illegible> expended for a prison $200,000, and the prison system of the island is maintained at an annual cost of
<c02>
$100,000. But for popular education, in a population of half a million, only $20,000 per annum is voted! The result is, that “the great bulk of the black people of Jamaica are, as regards mental culture, in a state but little removed from that in which slavery left them thirty years ago; that only two blacks have ever sat in the legislature of the colony; that, out of the hundreds of magistrates on the island, there are not more than four black men holding commissions of the peace; that among the ninety-odd ministers of the Established Church in the island, there is only one black minister,-and he is said to be without an incumbency,-and in the civil service of the colony only a single negro, and he holding only the subordinate post of tide-waiter in the custom-house." The same legislature which appropriates only $20,000 yearly for all public schools, raises $200,000 yearly by taxation for the church-establishment,-a church to which only about one-fourth of the population belongs.” The blacks are nearly all dissenters from the church of the island," and contribute handsomely to the maintenance of their own churches and ministers,- yet are taxed besides to support the church of the wealthy class! Such is the chivalry and magnanimity and sense of honor of a class long used to slavery, and bent on maintaining its mastery over the laboring class! Let us beware!
It is even more instructive and more full of warning to note how the civil and electoral rights of the freed population of the West India islands have been dealt with.” Shortly after emancipation took place, an election-law was passed by the Jamaica legislature, giving the elective franchise to owners of freeholds of the annual value of six pounds sterling and upwards (about $30). Under that law a considerable number of the freed blacks became entitled to vote; but as the negro in numerous instances showed quite a disposition to think and act for himself as a voter, or at any rate to follow other leaders than the men of the old dominant party, it was discovered that the law was a great deal too liberal, and after various other attempts the happy expedient was hit upon of imposing a tax on the suffrage, besides retaining the property qualification for it. This tax is two dollars and a half a year, in addition to any other taxes which a man may have to pay. But mark the unblushing meanness of the matter! All persons paying taxes to the amount of seven dollars and a half, and upwards, are exempted from the tax on the elective franchise. So it happens that the voting tax falls exclusively on the poorer class, and the wealthy and well-to-do are relieved from it entirely! A more barefaced and iniquitous evasion of law and justice it would be difficult to imagine. The result of this legislation has been to render popular representation in Jamaica a mockery and a delusion. There are several parishes of that island, numbering respectively a population of 25,000 to 30,000 souls, whose voting-lists show only 30 or 40 registered voters. The whole number of registered voters in the island is but two thousand; and that, remember, in a population of half a million.”-(See The Nation, No. 1.)
Very differently has our American “experiment” been commenced. At the first tidings of the downfall of slavery on the shores of Chesapeake Bay and the Port Royal islands, teachers and friends made ready in New England, in the Middle and North western States, to go at once to the emancipated, and give them the welcoming hand to freedom. They have gone all over the South and Southwest, and still they go, instructing the children everywhere, and teaching to the adults invaluable lessons of self-respect, independence, and industrious enterprise. The school-house is set up. The voices of school children make sweet music in the ears of teachers, and of parents scarce able yet to comprehend the good that has come to them. Savings' banks are instituted; and the people who came out of slavery two years ago, ragged and penniless, have now in numerous cases comfortable homes, and money laid up in these banks. The nation has called the freedmen into its armies, and they have proved themselves brave, efficient, and excellent soldiers. The Government has declared them citizens,-a decision which the Supreme Court of the land will abundantly sustain, if it should ever be made a question. President LINCOLN, in his thoughtful, cautious, and statesmanlike way, for which we can never too much honor his memory, laid the foundations of their liberty deep and strong. President JOHNSON thoroughly understands the old slaveholders of the South, knows them to be the enemies of the Republic, and has suffered in himself, in his family, and has seen others suffer, from their selfish, oppressive, and cruel policy. He bravely with stood and resisted them in his own State and in the Senate of the United States,-before the war, and during the war. He is not the man to restore to their hands the power they have so infamously abused, and which had righteously been taken from them by the war. True there are some discouraging appearances now, and an active imagination may conjure up others, which we trust will never have a real existence. There are individual cases of suffering and wrong among the freedmen which excite the liveliest indignation. But the weight of the facts and the evidence is on the other side. President Johnson has given the seceding States the opportunity to take, manfully and voluntarily, if they will, an honest position in a restored and free Union. If they will not, but shall still evince a rebellious and oppressive purpose, doubt not that he will “apply the brakes," before it is too late. To suppose that he can or will be guilty of the treachery, which some few are ready to charge upon him, is too monstrous. Let us not hastily yield to such suspicions, or withdraw our support from those whose past course has earned a right to our confidence. Nor yet let us give that confidence blindly. The Government must know the opinions, convictions, and determinations of the people. There is danger, but the danger will best be averted by working in a generous and hopeful spirit.
But I must close, and would say in closing that the great and uniform lesson we learn from West India emancipation is that slaveholders cannot be trusted with the rights and welfare of their former slaves. They are, at the best, biassed by self-interest and by old prejudices; and in too many instances are ready to wreak their own rebel spite and mortification on the heads of their unoffending laborers. False to the country, false to their own oaths, lost to every sense of manly obligation, such men are utterly unfit to hold any trust or exercise any power; and it will be the extremest cruelty, as well as the basest desertion of our best friends, if we suffer the freed people of the South to fall into their hands. It must not be so. No words can represent too strongly the doom which our nation will deserve, and which God's inevitable judgments will bring upon us, if we now desert and betray these humble yet faithful friends of our country into the merciless hands of that country's worst enemies. May our hands forget their cunning, and our tongues cleave to the roof of our mouths, if we forget these people in their need, who never forgot us nor our suffering sons and brothers in our sore need! Let us refuse to build our national house by any wrong. Let us not suffer venal and corrupt Northern demagogues, combining with Southern rebels, to cheat us of the glorious results of a true Republicanism, for which our people have paid so vast a price. Education is the first necessity now, and that must continue to be furnished freely by thousands of Northern hearts and hands, with the help and protection of the United States government. Citizenship,-the right to participate in making the laws under which they live, and to be defended in all personal and social rights precisely as other citizens are,- this is the next necessity, and equal to the other. Education and Citizenship for all, without distinction of color or of race,-and not less for the nation's safety than for the freedman's- this must be our motto, whether as just men, or true patriots, or wise builders of our country's future. So shall we best honor this great Anniversary of Freedom, making it a help and a power in securing one for our own land, more complete and more thoroughly imbued with the spirit of humanity and justice. So,
<c03>
too, shall we best pay back,-at least in part,-to the noble company of workers for freedom in the Old World, the debt we have owed them so long; and show to all mankind an Example, in full and honorable success, of a Republic based on” these self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an INALIENABLE RIGHT to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness."
The Trimountain Glee Club, a quartette of excellent singers, connected with the Trimountain Ball Club, who had kindly given their services for this occasion, were then called upon by the President, and sung the beautiful piece entitled-“There's music in the air."
HENRY C. WRIGHT then spoke on the Ballot. 
The majority of the nation, he said, represented the people, and that majority could be ascertained only by the ballot. That was the sole pivot on which this Government turned. The ballot was the democratic symbol of sovereignty, and meant absolute, supreme, uncontrolled, irresponsible power in the hands of man over man. Everything that was done by the Government of this nation was done by the voter, and on the soul of the voter rested the responsibility.
This being the case, the question was, who should use the ballot. The right of suffrage was not a natural right at all. It was a mere conventional right, bestowed by the State, and only by the State. So said every State Constitution, and so said the Federal Constitution. The question arose, Shall the white man, because he is white, be allowed to vote, and the black man, because he is black, be disfranchised? He believed that nothing could save the nation if it persisted in disfranchising the black man because of his color. Should a man, because he was a man and not a woman, be allowed to vote? No; this was usurpation. It was just as great a crime, in his opinion, for a man to claim the right to vote because he was a man and not a woman, as it was for him to claim the right to vote because he was white and not black. Every argument in favor of negro suffrage that could possibly be produced was of equal force in favor of the right of woman to the ballot. Looking at the condition and destiny of this Republic, he ventured the prediction, that unless the ballot was put into the hands of the intelligence and virtue of the country, of whatever color or sex, the Republic was doomed to certain destruction.
Mr. Wright said he hoped the day would come when neither the drunkard nor the drunkard-maker would be allowed to vote. Should a man in a beastly state of intoxication, he asked, be allowed to reel up to the polls, and decide by his ballot the destiny of the nation? He thought, also, that the man who would make merchandize of the ballot, and sell his vote for so much rum or so many dollars, or such a fat office, ought not to be allowed to vote. These questions must be looked at, and the country must speak out on them, or we were lost.
The ballot was now needed to complete the work that the bullet had begun, and the question was, Shall we put the ballot into the hands of those who have wielded the bullet against the Government, and who have been conquered in their effort to destroy the nation, and refuse it to those who have saved the nation by the bullet? It might be that for a time the people would refuse the ballot to the negro, out of deference to the prejudices of the traitors; but the day would come when they would be obliged to put the ballot into the negro's hand, to save the nation from a deadlier war than that through which it had just passed.
The simple question to-day was between Democracy and Aristocracy. The recent war originated in an abuse of the ballot-the refusal of the minority to submit to the majority; and what was needed was, that everywhere throughout the laud should be held up the fundamental democratic principle, the duty of the minority to submit to the rule of the majority. The practical duty of the hour was to bring a power to bear upon Congress that should influence them to refuse to admit a State into the Union on the principle of white sovereignty.
CHARLES L. REMOND said he agreed with Mr. Wright so far as the great question of the hour was concerned-the ballot; but he was frank to say, that he expected our country and our cause would be saved before every man and woman should be made virtuous or made temperate. He regretted the extreme ground taken by Mr. Wright, because it seemed to him that he (Mr. W.) defeated his own object, and that his remarks, instead of creating enthusiasm in the audience, were calculated to depress by the suggestion that there was a work to be performed which could not be accomplished in the lifetime of this generation.
The Glee Club then sang “Wake, Nicodemus," to the great amusement of the audience, who testified their pleasure by hearty applause.
At the conclusion of the song, a recess was taken for dinner.
AFTERNOON SESSION. After an hour spent in picnicing, in participation in the various amusements offered to the pleasure-seeker, and in social intercourse, the company again assembled at the stand, and speaking was resumed.
JOHN WETHERBEE, JR., Esq., of Boston, was the first speaker. He commenced by referring to the prospect before us in regard to reconstruction, and alluded to the danger of attempting to settle matters upon any other basis than that of justice and righteousness. In order that our country should be happy and prosperous, he said, it was necessary that the negro should have all the rights of a man and a citizen. He thought it would be a burning shame to take the shackles off the negro, and say to him, “You are free!" and then leave him in the hands of those people against whom he had fought, entirely disfranchised, and with no right to a voice in the Government. The needle of the negro had invariably pointed, during the last four years, without any variation in his compass, to the Union and to Union men; and if today it was customary, as it was at one time in Rome, for each citizen to utter the sentiment which was most important as bearing upon the affairs of the nation, every sympathetic man would utter this word first, “The negro shall be, in every sense of the word, a citizen!" He was very happy to see that people were beginning to feel it so; and that, too, outside of the special ranks of the abolitionists. Still, he felt it to be their duty to urge the nation forward in that direction. He was one of those who did not believe that Wendell Phillips, when he went to Cleveland last year, made a mistake. He believed that Convention did good, and that the Republican platform was lifted some degrees in consequence of that meeting; and to-day, the duty of anti-slavery people was to utter their voice, as educators, and it would have an effect. He believed there was something in the anti-slavery party that was important as an organization. He believed in organizations, for he knew it was impossible for individuals to do what people could do in an organized body; and he thanked God and took courage that the Anti-Slavery Society did not dissolve last Spring. He wanted that Society to exist, because of its prestige. It had prophesied truly; and when the anti-slavery party, in their incarnation, or in their body politic, uttered a sentiment, that sentiment became a prophecy: the people felt that it would come true. They felt just exactly as the poet expresses it,-
“Tis the sunset of life brings us mystical lore, 
And coming events cast their shadows before." 
Agitation would prevent all the trouble that was now anticipated. 
In conclusion, Mr. Wetherbee quoted a toast said to have been given by John Quincy Adams, many years ago: “Our country: may she ever be successful! But, whether successful or unsuccessful, may she ever be right!" Thank God, said Mr. Wetherbee, in this particular case, right and success mean one and the same thing.
<c04>
SPEECH OF REV. NATHANIEL COLVER. 
Rev. NATHANIEL COLVER, of Chicago, was the next speaker. He said he felt like rejoicing on this occasion. When he looked back over the past twenty years, and saw what God had wrought, his heart swelled, and he was filled with gratitude. He remembered when it was very dark, and when it seemed as if the heavens were shut down all around; but there was light from the skies.
He desired to bring forward some of the lessons to be learned from emancipation in the West Indies. The government of Great Britain was entitled to no credit for that emancipation; it came through the struggles of a few individuals, who labored in the cause of human rights. Clarkson and Wilberforce, and Wm. Knibb, and their co-laborers, kept the light shining in the midst of a corrupt generation, until England gave freedom to her slaves. In 1840, he was in London, and saw a number of people from Jamaica, and learned the condition of things in that island. The slaveholders were unwilling to let their victims go, and did them all the harm they could. So it would be in this country. The Legislature of Jamaica passed a law providing that if any colored man was found on the highway over night, he should be put in prison as a vagrant, and sold to work out his fine. The negroes were living in cabins owned by their former masters, and they could reduce their wages as low as they pleased, turn them out of their cabins, and then have them arrested and sold under the law. There were other laws terribly oppressive to the blacks; and when he was in London, he signed a petition to the Queen; asking her to refuse her sanction to those laws. The petition, which was of great length, was placed in the hands of Lord Brougham for presentation, and he said, “There is one name at the top; cut off all the rest, and send it in." The suggestion was complied with, and the petition was successful. That one name was THOMAS CLARKSON -potent then, but which for years had been spurned and trodden under foot by the aristocracy and governing classes of Great Britain.
The friends of the colored man in the West Indies had to stand by him after his bonds were stricken off by law, and see that he had his rights. The slave-holders had no notion of giving up their victim. Politicians could not be relied upon to carry out the behests of freedom, and their old friends had to stand the guardians of the freedmen. The three hundred thousand slaveholders of the South, whose victims had been plucked out of their hands, did not mean to give them up. They would crush the blacks, unless the anti-slavery friends stood their guardians. They must still tie the crushed black man to them as their brother, and stand by him until his freedom was assured.
Another fact was developed by emancipation in the British West Indies, and that was, that freedom is not the only thing the slave needs. Who were the freed slaves? Poor, crushed human beings; ignorant, untaught; their bodies developed, but their souls stultified. Here and there a colored man would stand up a prodigy of mental strength and vigor, but this was the exception. The colored man, like the white man, was the creature of circumstances, to a great extent. Bring up the children of white men as the children of slaves are brought up, and he did not know that they would be any worse, but they would be just as bad as black children. The fact was, that there was a departure from virtue among the colored people of Jamaica that was alarming, and it had held them in degradation ever since. So it was with the liberated millions of the South. They were crushed, degraded, ignorant; and it would be but a wretched boon to give them freedom, unless something else was given with it. They must have light and knowledge.
He differed from Mr. Wright in regard to the ballot. He believed that the right of suffrage was inherent in every man and woman, and that the business of every community was, not to give that right, but to guard it sacredly. The crushed bondmen at the South had this right, but they must have something besides this. Manhood must be restored to them. The wretched bondman must be lifted up, and taught what his rights are; and this would be the labor of years.
Then the white men of the South must be taken care of. It was more work for England to take care of the whites of Jamaica, after emancipation took place, than it was to take care of the blacks. The whites of the South were on our hands, thousands of them as imbecile as infants. They would kick and bite, and the question was, what should be done with them. He did not believe there would be any sweet peace in the country until the larger part of them were dead; and they would waste away amazing fast. The whites of the South were in a position to do us more harm than the blacks could, and if they were not saved, they would ruin us. God had opened all this immense field to us, and we had got to meet these issues.
In conclusion, Mr. Colver said that while the names of those through whose instrumentality British emancipation was achieved were remembered with honor, the names of those who had breasted the storm in this country should not be forgotten. He loved the name of Wm. Lloyd Garrison; and when the names of political traitors had gone to rot, that name would stand high and never be forgotten. The nation owed him, and the men who stood with him, a debt of infinite gratitude. I am glad to meet you here to-day, said Mr. C. It does my old heart good. It carries me back to the time when we were struggling together in Massachusetts, and met with but little favor, except from on high. Oh, there was light up there! Blessed be the name of God forever and ever for the emancipation in which we rejoice to-day!
Mr. May stated that the Finance Committee would now enter upon the discharge of their duty, and urged the importance of liberal contributions, not only to defray the expenses of the meeting, but to assist in the general operations of the Massachusetts Society.
SPEECH OF MRS. FRANCES E. W. HARPER. 
Mrs. F. E. W. HARPER then addressed the audience. She said it was interesting to mark the rise and progress of any reform which had for its object the welfare and happiness of mankind, and proceeded to sketch, briefly, but in an interesting manner, the efforts for the suppression of the African slave trade, and then for the abolition of slavery itself, which have resulted in the utter extinction of the infamous system among the nations of Europe, and all, or nearly all, their colonies in America, and in this country, to a very large extent, with the prospect of its entire annihilation at no distant day. This is the Lord's doings, said Mrs. H., and marvellous in our eyes. The Bible told of a man who built his house upon the sand, and when the floods descended, and the winds came, it fell, and great was the fall thereof. But the slaveholders, rebels against justice and humanity, built not only upon the sand, but over the crater of God's wrathover the magazine of Divine retribution; and to-day the colored people stood, as a race, newly anointed with freedom. Looking beyond the life of the individual to the life of the race, she was not hopeless of the future of the negro. She found at the South three classes: The scum of society, the dregs of society, and the colored man. By the scum of society she meant such men as Jefferson Davis, Hunter, Beauregard, and the other leaders of the rebellion. Where were they to-day? Scattered by the whirlwind of the living God. Some were looking out through prison bars, some were exiles, and some were in the surest and safest place for all rebels,-the grave. By the dregs of society, she meant the poor white of the South, who saw his brother stricken down, and consented to the wrong. The paramount idea of President Johnson, if she understood him right, was to elevate this mass of poor whites. She thought he was right in this; but she would tell him that between the poor white men and the poor black men of the South, there was a community of interest. If legislation degraded the labor of the black man, the white man also would be degraded.
<c05>
God had linked the two races together, and when the South pressed the slave beneath the burden of his chains, she placed a weight upon her bosom which crippled her moral power and paralyzed her spiritual energies.
Mrs. Harper said, that what she asked of the American people was, that if they could not get indemnity for the past, they should have security for the future. How was that security for the future to be obtained? By disfranchising the colored man,-by putting him at the feet of every; whitewashed rebel who called himself loyal? Was it not madness and folly for a nation to sacrifice its interest to its prejudices? She was not able to argue the question of suffrage with Mr. Wright, but she believed it was generally conceded that men had the right of self-defence, and the ballot was the means of self-defence to the negro against the malice of his oppressors.
The lesson of this hour was simply, that justice is the right of every race. The humblest and meanest child of the living God was linked to the throne of the Eternal Father with such strong but invisible ties, that if they were rudely jarred upon earth, they would tremble around the Throne. (Loud applause.)
Mr. MAY stated that a letter had been received from Hon. N. H. WHITING, who had been expected to speak, but found himself unable to address an outdoor meeting; and, on motion of Mr. Foss, it was voted, that the letter be published with the proceedings of the meeting. [For Mr. Whiting's letter, see third page.]
Mr. RICHARD THAYER read one of Mrs. Harper's poems, entitled,” Bury me in a free land," which was warmly applauded.
SPEECH OF C. L. REMOND. 
CHARLES LENOX REMOND then briefly addressed the audience. He expressed the conviction, that whatever might be the results of emancipation in the future, so far it had failed. He believed, with Mr. Wright, that the suffrage question was to be the next great question in this country, but he did not believe that the people of this State were responsible for the wrongs to which Mr. Wright had referred. How long had it been true that a single Massachusetts man would permit Congress or the President to interfere with the local institutions of this State? He hoped that Congress, at its next session, would decide that no State should enter the Union but upon the basis of free suffrage, a free religion, and free social and civil rights. He asked this, not for his color, but for the welfare of the nation; and he agreed with the friends who had asserted, that unless that principle was adopted, freedom, democracy and civilization in this country were lost.
SPEECH OF ANDREW T. FOSS.
Mr. Foss said his friend Remond had entirely changed the character of his speech. He had intended to criticise the government for its want of fidelity to freedom, but Mr. Remond had made such charges that his sense of justice was roused, and he felt obliged to defend the government. 
There were many things he did not like in the present condition of the country. He did not like Mr. Johnson's idea that the rebel States had not lost their status. He (Mr. F.) believed they had; and he thought the President had recognized this fact, in appointing military Governors for those States, which he could not do if they had not lost their character as States. He thought that if the President could interfere with the internal affairs of a State so far as to appoint its Governor, he could prescribe who should be the voters. He believed, as Gen. Nye had said, that the people of the rebellious States had lost all their rights but two; the first was the legal right to be hung, and the second was the divine right to be damned. (Laughter and applause.)
Mr. Foss said he was glad the President's plan was working so badly. He was glad the scoundrelism and rascality of the South were being made manifest. The scheme was working so badly, that he had every hope the President would change it. Already, the recent election in Richmond, it was said, had been declared null and void. A negro was shot in Mississippi for insolence to a white man; and, finding that the civil authorities did not arrest the murderer, Gen. Thomas did. A writ of habeas corpus was issued, which the General refused to obey, and wrote to Washington for instructions. The answer came back, “Don't obey the writ; and if the civil authorities wont try that man, try him by a military commission, and hang him." (Applause.) The President sees his plan working badly, and sends one of the most reliable and intelligent anti-slavery men of the country, General Carl Shurtz, to inquire into the feelings of the people of the South in regard to their loyalty, and as to their treatment of the colored man, and report. He thought this indicated a willingness to change the policy, if its necessity was shown.
It had been said that no good had come to the black man. Was it nothing that 200,000 black men had worn the army blue and shouldered the U. S. musket? Was it nothing that Congress had passed the Amendment to the Constitution, and that its acceptance by the people had been assured? That was in prospect, but in such near prospect that he clasped it near his heart as a God-benison. He thought he was justified in being joyful and hopeful, in view of the prospect before us.
He agreed with all that had been said of the infamy of depriving the colored man of his vote. He did not believe the President ever intended to do it; if he did believe it, he should despise him. The President had his pet idea of State rights; that was his fetish, so to speak; but he desired that the States should establish their Constitutions in accordance with the Proclamation of Freedom, and in harmony with the great idea of human rights, that the ballot belongs to every man in the land who is amenable to the law, and has attained the requisite age. But if that would not work-and he (Mr. F.) knew it would not work-the President then intended to try another course; and so surely (said Mr. F.) as you and I live, the colored man will be the conqueror in this conflict, as he has been in every other. By giving a vote to the colored man, we should divide the fearful unanimity of the South, and be able to control those States. If we withheld the ballet from the black man, the Southerners would, by uniting their power with the Copperheads of the North, rule the country as in the olden time.
I said upon this stand, years ago, (said Mr. Foss,) that I should live to see slavery abolished; and some of you laughed-for I was gray when I said it. I have lived to see slavery abolished in this land; I have lived to see it go down to its grave; and now, God willing, I will live to see the negro, a citizen; and then, if it please God, I will live about twenty years more to see the working of equality and freedom in this land; and then, my friends, I will fold my hands, and with Simeon of old exclaim,” Now, Lord, lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes hare have seen thy salvation."
The Glee Club then sang, “There's victory at last," in a spirited and effective manner, which elicited the hearty applause of the audience.
SPEECH OF REV. SERENO E. HOWE.
Rev. S. E. HOWE, of East Abington, said this day was a brighter day than ever dawned upon this country before. We had always loved to think of British emancipation; we had always rejoiced in the fact that thousands of men had leaped up free, their shackles falling off in one blessed, God-given hour; but when we thought of British emancipation, then came the remembrance of our own slaves, and we were ready to say, with Whittier, the sweetest poet, perchance, of America-
“Shall every flap of England's flag
Proclaim that all around are free,
From farthest Ind to each blue crag
That beetles o'er the western sea; 
And shall we scoff at Europe's kings, 
While freedom's fire is dim with us, 
And round our country's altar clings
The damning shade of slavery's curse?"
<c06>
But now, all that was past. The slave was no longer to be found, and his master was seen, a covering, trembling, wretched being, going to Washington to ask for pardon at the hands of that Government which he had spurned and hated, and sought to crush!
The failures of emancipation in the West Indies spoke to us, trumpet-toned, warning us that if we would make our emancipation a success, we must be just to every man-just to those who ought to meet with condign punishment, and just to those who had always been our friends. He had often been surprised that the negro, after all the obloquy and reproach and contempt that had been rolled upon him was so ready to shoulder his musket, and go into the thickest of the fight; but he had done so and the rebellion had been crushed. Now, did the negro beg for the ballot? No, he claimed it; he had a right to it; and it was not for us to say,” We will accord him the ballot; we will allow him to vote." He had the right to vote, and if he did not vote we were guilty of accursed injustice. (Applause) We were not doing a magnanimous thing when we said to the negro, “Here is the ballot-box open-come and vote, sir," There was no magnanimity about it; it was only doing just the thing which he had a right to claim.
Another thing which had surprised him was, that these slaveholding rebels should now claim that they had a right to decide who should and who should not vote. All the Republican newspapers were saying that there was a tremendous feeling in North Carolina and South Carolina and Virginia against the colored man's voting. Who was it that had that feeling? Why, those God-forsaken rebels, who had just escaped the halter! (Applause.) These men had the impudence to tell who they wanted to vote, and who they didn't want to vote. All he had to say about that was, that so far as the greater part of the South were concerned, it was just distinctly and particularly none of their business who voted! (Applause) Sometimes it was said that it would irritate these men who were asking pardon if we said the negro should have the right of suffrage. A few years, ago, it was said that it would be a terribly irritating thing if the black man should be allowed to fight. Well, it did terribly irritate the slaveholders when the black man fought: it hurt them, but they needed to be hurt, and it did them good. It would hurt their feelings more when the negro had the ballot than when he had the musket, for it would tend to place freedom on a firmer basis.
There is just this about it, said Mr. Howe: either the negro is to vote, or the country is a used-up concern; and the negro is going to vote. I don't care whether that right is alienable or inalienable-whether it was born with him or not; all I want to know is that he has it.
SPEECH OF WM. A. JACKSON.
WM. A. JACKSON, known as the former coachman of the Chief of the rebel Confederacy, was then introduced, and made quite a telling speech. He said he did not agree with what had been said with respect to the little progress that had been made. If he had been born in Salem and been educated in Paris, perhaps he should think differently; but, looking back on his slave life, he felt that his existence did not commence till 1862, though he was thirty years old. He thought if Mr. Remond had talked in the same strain that he had to day when he was engaged in enlisting colored troops, he would not have obtained a single man.
He thought the people of Massachusetts had a right to say who should vote in the Southern States, and he felt very sure that if the black man was ever to get the rights of citizenship, they must be given to him by somebody else than by the Southern rebels, who had been subdued, but not converted. He believed it was for the people of New England and the West to say that the rebel States should not come back, except on the basis of negro suffrage. He expected the white people to make blunders. He knew that they had been brought up to everything like an ox to the slaughter (laughter); but all he wanted was to have them stay there after they got there.
Mr. Jackson thought the appointment of the rebel Governors would be beneficial to the cause of freedom, because, when Congress met, they would say, “We have tried them three or four months, to see what they will do. We see that they are tyrants and rebels now, and therefore we must pass some laws by which the colored men shall have the ballot, to sustain not only themselves, but the Republic." The prospect before us, then, was bright.
SPEECH OF GEORGE W. STACY.
GEO. W. STACY, of Milford, was the last speaker. He said he felt it good to be there, to look into the faces of the people, and to hear what he had heard; and yet they were not there so much to think about West India Emancipation, as about our own day of complete jubilee. Although they might say, prospectively, that their work was finished, yet there was a great deal to be done, for in every community there still existed a bitter prejudice against the oppressed race, which must be exorcised from the human heart, before it could ascend to the plane of liberty, and all men be recognized as the children of one common Father, who loves and blesses us all. They were looking for that brighter day, that day foretold by prophets; but it would not come unless they worked, and worked faithfully still.
He felt that although there was much for which we should thank God and take courage, yet there was also much that should cause sadness. We could not tell what the future might bring. It might bring all we hoped for; but he would say, that God would work no miracle; we must keep our hands to the plough, and not look back until the slave is not only freed from the shackles of bondage, but in the enjoyment of all the privileges of a free man.
Let us go home, said Mr. Stacy, with the determination that what we have heard shall not be lost; with the determination that God, who strengthens every good purpose, shall be honored, not in profession, not in ceremony, but in honest and earnest lives, so that wherever we go, all that we do or say shall be on the side of that truth and righteousness which shall bring about that glorious period for which we have been sighing, lo! these many years. I have looked around to-day and seen many pleasant faces, but some that I should have been glad to see are not here. They are with us, I trust, in spirit; I wish they had been with us in the flesh. But, my friends, roll on the Liberty ball! “Sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish," let us not stop in this work until the negro stands by our side an equal brother. May God give us all strength to be faithful, and not to cease from our in bore until the day shall come which we desire, when there shall be no slavery, either for body or mind, upon the face of the earth. (Applause)
The popular song, “Tramp, tramp, tramp.” was then sung, in an admirable manner, by the Glee Club; at the conclusion of which, on motion of Robert. F. Wallcut, a vote of thanks was passed to the Club for their welcome contribution to the pleasure of the occasion.
The hour having arrived for the departure of the train for Boston, the meeting adjourned.
The thirty-first anniversary of West India emancipation was celebrated at Myrick's Grove by a large congregation of colored people from Providence. Boston, New Bedford, and other places. Dr. J. S Smith, of Boston, presided. The resolutions adopted express fears that the government may recognize a principle by which the freedmen of the South may be forever excluded from the ballot-box; claim that the country is in duty and honor bound to secure the colored citizens of the republic equal liberty in every respect; urge that those who have so nobody defended the flag with bullets ought not to be <illegible> of the privilege of defending it with ballots; that without the elective franchise, all other rights become mere privileges to be held at the option of any political party; and that they will never be satisfied with any thing short of perfect and absolute equality before the law.
