THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 19. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1735.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
THE ABOLITIONIST AND THE CONTRABAND.
A PARODY.
"Many of them sigh for their old servitude."-Report
Sanitary Commission.
ABOLITIONIST.
Needy Contraband, whither are you going?
Rough is your road; your hoe is out of order;
Your coat is of homespun, thick and ungraceful,
So are your breeches!
Weary Contraband! do you not hate them,-
They, the proud Southrons, rolling in their comforts,
Swinging the lash, and lounging in splendor, while you
Hoe the potatoes?
Can you desire ever to go back to them?
Have you not tasted the sweetness of freedom,
Heard us discourse on human equality,
Read Summer's speeches?
Have you no terrible story to tell us,
No back to photograph, covered with gashes,
No little children, white as the lily,
We can exhibit?
Drops of compassion hang on my eye-lids,
Ready to drop in lectures on freedom,
Soon as you tell me the numberless horrors
Which you have suffered.
CONTRABAND.
Horrors! Why, bless you, massa, I know no horrors;
I'se no back to show, nor lily-white children;
I was but kindly treated, down on the river,
On the plantation.
Then came your captains, dashing on horse-back,
Scattering the white folk, driving the niggers
In a big flock together, ‘way from their cabins,
Foodless and homeless.
Now they are dying in hundreds about us,
Women and children, the feeble and aged;
What do we want with your lectures on freedom,
With Summer's speeches?-
What do we want with Uncle Tom's Cabin, 
(I mean now the book,-the cabin we'd gladly have,)
Or strong-minded ladies to teach us in politics?-
Give us potatoes!
Give us potatoes, or let us go back again
To the old master, where at least we had victuals,
And where, it we worked, we at least were not driven
To be shot in the battle.

ABOLITIONIST.
Give you potatoes, and not read you Summer?
Wretch, whom no sense of wrongs can rouse to vengeance,
Sordid, unfeeling, reprobate, degraded, 
Spiritless outcast!
[Her Abolitionist orders Contraband to be torn from his wife and children, and "conscripted." Wife and children are left behind to starve.]-Boston Post.

MISCEGENATION.
The efforts of leading radical newspapers to force the negro equality and amalgamation idea on the community are continued with great determination. Others, seeing the tendency of the thing, endeavor to repudiate the idea, but it is inexorably established as a part of the creed of the radical church, and no man is in good and regular standing who refuses absolute social and political equality to the negro. The regular pioneers of the abolition party have issued their call for the spring celebration, or anniversary. The published call concludes as follows:
There still remains much to be done by the abolitionists, in the way of labor and testimony, to secure full and complete justice to the colored race, both at the hands of the government and with reference to the reconstruction of society on the basis of political equality in the rebellious States. Let the approaching anniversary, therefore, be well attended by the tried men and women whose purpose it is still to confuse the great moral struggle until before the Constitution and laws all are made free, and complexional distinctions are unknown. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C.BURLEIGH,
Is it not, after all, a very curious picture in the history of mankind, a nation convulsed by a war, men perishing by thousands on battle-fields, all the horrors of war enacted daily, hourly, over a vast expanse of country, a host of gallant soldiers offering life and all for the Union and Constitution, and all the while a party, in effect the dominant party, certainly its leading and guiding spirits, avowing their determination that this war shall never cease till white men consent to give political and social equality to black men? It is certainly one of the most remarkable pages in human history. These men, too, are persuaded that they are philanthropists, have really a conviction that they love the human race, when the impartial observer cannot but see plainly that they have no love for any portion of that race, black or white, but an intense, over powering hatred to a large part of the white race which impels all their action. They consign both white and black to extermination because they hate the white. All this fanaticism of abolitionists is the madness of hatred, not the sentimental folly of love. When a nation falls into the hands of such men, its fate is under the most dangerous control.
Negro equality is now the demand of the radical party leaders. The Senate and House of Representatives are occupying their time with legislating negroes into railroad cars, negro voters into territorial organizations, negro equality everywhere, so far as they can, while the country is rushing the downward road to ruin. And some sensible men still adhere to the party, and think that there is a charitable nation in it all. And in the meantime the freedmen are starving by thousands, and misery is over-whelming the black race.-Journal of Commerce.

THE PEOPLE ON THE PRESIDENCY.
We receive communications touching the nomination of the President, many of which we shall be glad to print if we can make room; for the people ought in some way to express their views. We notice in them all a growing discontent with the present associates of President Lincoln, and a feeling that so decided, healing policy can come from him while he is under the influences that are now so powerful over him. This idea takes expression in such strong declarations as this: "I have more confidence that McClellan would, if elected, shake off his ‘peace' associates and their policy, than I have that Lincoln would rid himself of the Blairs, and their re-action policy." We note this popular feeling, for the present, without comment, as one of the indications not to be disregarded.-Hartford (Copperhead) Times.
<c02>
Selections.
THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COLORED TROOPS.
We observe in the Anti-Slavery Standard a letter from Maj. Geo. L. Stearns, giving some of the reasons which compelled him to withdraw from the service of recruiting colored troops, in which, by all accounts, he has been exceedingly efficient and valuable. He admits that the personal treatment he received from Secretary Stanton was disagreeable, but says he did not resign till he was convinced the government did not intend to deal honestly with the negro, and did not wish and would not bear conscientious work in that line of recruiting. We shall be slow to adopt such a conclusion as this, but it must be confessed that the facts related by Maj. Stearns, as well as the general policy, or want of policy, on this subject, are calculated to give too much warrant to his strictures. He says: 
"We might have had 200,000 colored men in our army to-day, if they had been dealt with in good faith and treated properly. 
The War Department commenced recruiting negroes as soldiers in Massachusetts, Hilton Head and New Orleans, with the promise of the same pay, clothing and treatment as to white soldiers; and when I was commissioned to recruit, that understanding prevailed throughout the country. 
I commenced recruiting colored men for the government in Philadelphia on these terms, and when I accidentally learned at the War Department that a decision had been made some time before to pay but ten dollars per month, without clothing, I was obliged to discharge all my recruits, and commence anew. 
Of the 54th and 55th Mass. I recruited thirteen hundred men, who were induced to leave Pennsylvania and the West because they were to enter the service on the same terms as white soldiers. It was not a question of pay but of equality. They believed and had a right to believe the representations made to them, and the government was bound in honor either to comply with or abrogate the whole contract; but it stood by silently, allowed the fraud to go on, then repudiated the promises of its agents, but kept the men." 
Again, he says: 
"When I went to Nashville, colored men, free and slave, were hunted daily through the streets, and impressed for labor on fortifications, railroads and in hospitals, and although promised ten dollars per month, it was rarely paid, and many of them worked from twelve to fifteen months without any pay. Let me give you one case of several that came under my notice. When our army occupied Nashville, in August, 1862, calls were made for slaves to work on the fortifications. About 2700 were employed. A large number ran from their masters. Many Union men sent their best hands, and some were impressed. These men, working in the heat of the Autumn months, lying on the hillside at night in the heavy dews without shelter, and fed with poor food, soon sickened. In four months about 800 of them died; the remainder were kept at work from six to fifteen months without pay. Then all who were able-bodied were forcibly enlisted in the 12th U. S. colored troops. Many of them had families, who were destitute of the necessaries of life. Why? Because the War Department would not decide whether the slave or his owner should have the money." 
Before leaving Major Stearns, we will give his opinion on two other points of expediency connected with this subject, as follows: 
"So long as the slaveholder hopes to keep his slaves, he is at heart a rebel. Emancipate them, and he begins to be a ‘Union man.' When the planter is thoroughly convinced his slaves are free, and not until then, he will begin to reconstruct his home and his fortune. All men at the South, Union or rebel, are waiting to see the result of this war. 
Give the slave the same inducement to enter our service that we give to the Northern white soldiers, and rebeldom would be deserted by the blacks. One-fifth of the money expended to procure Northern volunteers would deplete the Southern States of the negro, both slave and free, and enable us to keep a large number of white men at home." 
On this main question of the justice of putting the negro troops on the same footing, as regards pay and general treatment, with the white troops, the Government is strangely behind the people. We suppose it is settled now to universal satisfaction, that the colored troops have demonstrated their capacity of becoming as good soldiers, much better than many of those who have been recently enlisted at the North under the stimulus of high bounties. To that end, if for no other reason, they should be freed from every degrading distinction, and put on the same honorable level. This is the first dictate of good military policy. But the colored soldier has his family to support as well as the white, and usually he is not able to leave it in so good a condition. What a condemning fact is that of the colored sergeant in a Massachusetts regiment, who was promoted for his signal gallantry at Olustee, while his wife and children were being placed in a poor-house to prevent their starving! injustice, of which this is but a single specimen, will surely have its penalty.
But how is the case aggravated when most of these regiments were organized at the North under the distinct understanding that they were to have the regular volunteers' pay! Such was the case, for instance, with the Massachusetts 54th and 55th, raised under the June call of the President, and their very numbering showing their equality with the other Massachusetts troops. And yet these heroes of Fort Wagner are obliged to learn in the field, that they are expected to do soldiers' deeds, and, it may be, die soldiers' deaths, on laborers' wages of $10 a month! They only add to the esteem in which they are held by all loyal men for refusing to take any pay till they get the soldiers' pay, as a token of just and honorable treatment. It is to be observed that a plain line of distinction exists between the colored troops recruited as these were, and the recruited "contrabands" of the South. The latter have to undergo a species of expensive tutelage before they arrive at the starting-point of the former, and there, again, they have their families taken care of by the government. We lay their case, therefore, one side. But with regard to the former, we consider them the victims of an injustice on the part of the government so surprising that we know not whether it proceeds from intentional ill-will or thoughtless neglect, for both are equally culpable. At any rate, the policy ought to be reformed altogether, and as speedily as possible.-Boston Journal. 

RADICALISM. 
What, then, is radicalism, properly understood? Certainly the original meaning of the word is, going to the root of any matter; doing the required work thoroughly, and not by halves. It does not necessarily imply destructiveness; but when destruction is necessary, when evil is to be overcome and abolished, then it says: Strike at the root, not at the branches; otherwise you will have all your work to do over again. In this there need not be anything malignant, fierce, or irreverent, as the popular idea of a radical supposes. Many, indeed, who have gloried in this name, have been apparently
<c03>
more zealous to destroy than to build up; and have seemed to take delight in trampling upon all that has been held sacred and venerable. The radical reformers, as a class, have made themselves frequently offensive to the good as well as to the bad, by their assumption, intolerance and recklessness. But I insist, my friends, that radicalism itself is not justly chargeable with these faults. The true radical is the sworn enemy of every known evil or wrong, under whatever sanction it may now stand. He believes that no law, no constitution, no hoary custom or usage can make wrong right; that no commandments of men, however enforced by physical might, can alter the eternal laws of God. And yet he is no law-breaker; he would not accomplish even the destruction of wrong by unlawful means. He esteems it the duty of a good citizen to respect the existing laws and government of the country, but he is not blind to the real nature of any sin or wrong, because for the time it happens to be clothed with authority. He is therefore still the uncompromising enemy of the sin, waiting only for the time when he may most effectually strip it of all authority, and make it abhorred of all men. Others persuade themselves that long years of tolerance give a certain prescriptive right to some things which originally were not right; he cannot be seduced by any such sophistry. Oppression and corruption are to him ever the same odious things, radically at war with that liberty and truth which God designs for every man, and therefore to be radically destroyed. He may, out of regard to the rights of all, defer the period for attempting the suppression of some evil institution or habit; but he never forgets that the work of suppression is to be done, sooner or later. To the eye of God, good and evil can never for a moment be confounded, whatever names are used to cover up these distinctions; and it is the aim of true, Christian radicalism to look at the evils of the world in this Divine light. 
If this be so, what truer benefactor of the human race is there than our radical reformer? And yet to most persons he is a visionary or a fanatic, a rude, coarse, violent man, who makes no allowance for practical difficulties, but rushes blindly on, caring for nothing but the indulgence of his special scheme or hobby. Yes, it is the favorite cant of our day: that it is unpractical to be thorough, unpractical to attempt to carry out the Christian ideas of truth, justice, and charity into all the various relations of life. And so it frequently comes to that miserable skepticism, that he gets the reputation of being most "practical," who has least to say about the removal of acknowledged wrongs, who is willing to let things go on just as they always have done, who never does anything to disturb or agitate the community, though they should be fast sinking into moral lethargy and death. Such skepticism and cant I say are a disgrace to men professing to be. in any sense Christians. If you believe the Bible to have any sort of authority, to be in any respect a message from God to men, how can you help seeing that you are required as Christians to labor with God for the introduction of a new order of things?-not to leave the world as it was, but to make it better, purer, happier; not to leave your own little world or circle as it was, but to let your influence and words and example be unmistakably elevating and purifying. 

CONSTITUTIONAL EMANCIPATION. 
We copy the following paragraphs (says the Christian Ambassador) from the New York Herald of the 8th inst. They show which way the wind blows, After abusing the abolitionists through all its changes for the past thirty years, the Herald perceives at last which way the tide is setting on the subject of slavery, and hastens to place itself in the current; and the public need not to be surprised to see it claiming, ere long, that it was the original "inventor" of the very idea of freeing the slave from his shackles! Like many of our modern politicians, it recognizes the fact that though slavery might possibly be kept in existence for many years to come by careful nursing, still it would be at best but a sickly thing without power or prestige, and only able to damn the man or party that should earnestly undertake its preservation. Hence it wisely concludes that it may as well be destroyed, root and branch, as no longer capable of serving as political capital. When the life-long friends of slavery thus not only abandon it, but unite with its zealous enemies for its complete overthrow, we think its fate may be regarded as sealed. And let all the people say, Amen! The Herald says:- 
"The Senate of the United States have ordered to a third reading, and will doubtless pass by the required two-thirds majority, the bill providing for the abolition of slavery in all the Stales and Territories of the Union, through an amendment of the federal constitution. After passing the Senate, the proposed amendment will require the concurrence of the House by a two-thirds vote before it can be submitted to the States. The next thing required will be a ratification by three-fourths of all the States of the Union, through a majority in the Legislature of each, or through a system of State conventions, as Congress may finally appoint We presume, however, that the legislative alternative of ratification of three-fourths of the States will make the proposed amendment part and parcel of the federal constitution, the supreme law of the land. 
What is the prospect? When the Herald some time ago first broadly advocated this proposed abolition of slavery, as provided for in the Constitution, the idea was ‘a new thing under the sun.' The possibility of such a thing as two-thirds of both houses of Congress and three-fourths of the States being in favor of universal emancipation within the limits of the Union had never been dreamed of before. Now, however, from the mighty political changes resulting from the upheavals of this gigantic civil war, we have ceased to be astonished at anything. It was but the other day that a man in boldly advocating the abolition of slavery in Maryland, whether as a stranger or as a citizen among that people, did so at the peril of his life; and now we find an overwhelming majority of the popular vote of the State cast for the immediate abolition of slavery therein, and without compensation to the slave-owners. For thirty years that learned and experienced conservative Senator from Maryland, Reverdy Johnson, has been a tower of strength to the pro-slavery party and interests of the State; but to-day he stands among the most radical on record for the immediate, universal and unconditional abolition of slavery, through the Constitution.
These changes are among the numerous things afloat on the political waves which show the drift of a tremendous reacting tide of public opinion. We think it, therefore, highly probable that, before the adjournment of the present session of Congress, a majority of two-thirds will be gained in the House, if that majority does not now exist, in favor of the constitutional abolition of slavery. And what then? A ratification by three-fourths of the States, including in the count the rebellious States-this would give us thirty-five States in all, and, with the admission of Nebraska, Colorado and Nevada, thirty-
<c04>
eight. Three-fourths of this number would be twenty-nine. There are twenty-five States now represented in Congress, and three more ready to come in-Arkansas, Louisiana and Tennessee. These will make the number represented twenty-eight. Add Nebraska, Colorado and Nevada, and we shall have thirty-one. All these-excepting, perhaps, Kentucky-if put to the test, will ratify this great constitutional amendment; but, as twenty-nine will do the work, Kentucky may be spared. The amendment thus adopted will be precisely the same in its binding effect upon all the States hereafter as if the outside, nine had voted unanimously against it. See the Constitution. If the administration, then, will give to this important movement an honest, helping hand, we can see no obstacle to prevent the constitutional abolition of slavery throughout the United States before this day in April next." 

UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION. 
Extract from an earnest and eloquent speech of Hon. Charles Sumner, in the Senate of the United States, April 8, on the proposed Amendment of the Constitution, abolishing Slavery throughout the United States:- 
Unhappily the courts will not perform the duty of the hour, and we must look elsewhere. An appeal must be made to Congress; and here, as has been fully developed, the powers are ample, unless in their interpretation you surrender in advance to slavery. By a single brief statute, Congress may sweep slavery out of existence. Patrick Henry saw and declared that, under the influence of a growing detestation of slavery and the increasing "urbanity" of the people, this must be expected, while all the capacious war powers proclaim trumpet-tongued that it can be done constitutionally, and the peace powers now echo back the war powers. 
Of course, we encounter here again the "execrable" pretension of property in man, and the claim of "just compensation" for the renunciation of Heaven-defying wrongs. But this pretension is no more applicable to abolition by act of Congress, than to abolition by an amendment of the Constitution; so that if the claim of "just compensation" can be discarded in one case, it can be in the other. But the votes that have already been taken in the Senate on the latter proposition testify that it is discarded. Sir, let the "execrable" pretension never again be named, except for condemnation, no matter how or when it appears, or what the form it may take. Let the "idea," which was originally branded as so "wrong" that it could not find a place in the Constitution, never find a place in our debates. 
But even if Congress be not prepared for that single decisive measure, which shall promptly put an end to this whole question and strike slavery to death, there are other measures by which this end may be hastened. The towering Upas may be girdled, even if it may not be felled at once to the earth. Already, by acts of Congress, slavery has been abolished in the national capital and in the national territories. But this is not enough. 
The fugitive slave bill, conceived in iniquity and imposed upon the North as a badge of subjugation, may be repealed. 
The coastwise slave trade may be deprived of all support in the statute book. 
The traffic in human beings, as an article of "commerce among the States," may be extirpated. 
And, above all, that odious rule of evidence, so injurious to justice and discreditable to the country, excluding the testimony of colored persons in national courts, may be abolished. 
And there is one other thing which must be done. The enlistment of colored persons must be encouraged by legislation in every possible form; for enlistment is emancipation. That contract by which the soldier-slave promises service at the hazard of life, like the contract of marriage, fixes the equality of the parties, which Congress, for the national defence, and the national character also, must sacredly maintain.
All these things at least may be done, and when they are done, Heaven and earth will be glad; for they will see an assurance that all will be done. 
But all these will not be enough. The people must be summoned to confirm the whole work. It is for them to put the cap-stone upon the sublime structure. An amendment of the Constitution may do what courts and Congress decline to do, or, even should they act, it may cover their action with its panoply. Such an amendment, in any event, will give completeness and permanence to emancipation, and bring the Constitution into avowed harmony with the Declaration of Independence. Happy day, long wished for, destined to gladden those beatified spirits who have labored on earth to this end, but died without the sight! 
And yet let us not indiscreetly take counsel of our hopes. From the nature of the case, such an amendment cannot be consummated at once. Time must intervene, with opportunities of opposition. It can pass Congress only by a vote of two-thirds of both branches. And when it has passed both branches of Congress, it must be adopted by the Legislatures of three-fourths of the States. Even under the most favorable circumstances, it is impossible to say when it can become a part of the Constitution. Too tardily, I fear, for all the good that is sought. Therefore I am not content with this measure alone. It postpones till to-morrow what ought to be done to-day; and I much fear that it may be made an apology for indifference to other propositions, which are of direct practical significance; as if it were not unpardonable to neglect for a day the duties we owe to Human Rights! 
"To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow, 
Creeps in this petty place from day to day, 
To the last syllable of recorded time; 
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools 
The way to dusty death." 
For myself, let me confess that, in presence of the mighty events of the day, I feel how insignificant is any individual, whether citizen or Senator; and yet, humbly longing to do my part, I cannot consent to put off till to-morrow what ought to be done to-day. Beyond my general desire to see an act of universal emancipation that shall at once and forever settle this great question, so that it may no longer be the occasion of strife between us, there are two other ideas which are ever present to my mind as a practical legislator: first, to strike at slavery wherever I can hit it; and secondly, to clean the statute book of all existing supports of slavery, so that it may find nothing there to which it may cling for life. To do less than this at the present moment, when slavery is still menacing, would be an abandonment of duty. 
So long as a single slave continues anywhere beneath the flag of the Republic, I am unwilling to rest. Too well I know the vitality of slavery, with its infinite capacity of propagation, and how little slavery it takes to make a slave State with all the cruel pretensions of slavery. The down of a single thistle is full of all possible thistles, and a single fish is said to contain two hundred millions of eggs, so that the whole sea might be stocked from its womb. 
<c05>
THE BATTLE-FIELD AFTER THE FIGHT. 
On Sunday morning at daybreak, I took occasion to visit the scene of Saturday's bloody conflict, and a more ghastly spectacle I have never witnessed. Over the field and upon the Shreveport road were scattered dead horses, broken muskets and cartridge boxes stained with blood, while all around, as far as the eye could reach, were mingled the inanimate forms of patriot and traitor side by side. Here were a great many rebels badly wounded, unable to move, dying for want of water, and not a drop within two miles, and no one to get to it for them. Their groans and piteous appeals for "water, water, water," were heart-rending, and sent a shudder to the most stony heart. Such horrid expressions as dwelt upon each death-like countenance can neither be described nor imagined. Here was a brave loyal sergeant, his trusty rifle grasped in his hand, while each eyeball glared from its glazed socket with fierce excitement. The dead were everywhere, and in every possible position which could render the scene more appalling. I saw one sweet face, that was a young patriot, and upon his icy features there lingered a heavenly smile, speaking of calmness and resignation. The youth was probably not more than nineteen, with a full blue eye beaming even in death with meekness. The morning wind lifted his auburn locks from off his marble face, exposing to view a noble forehead, which was bathed with the heavy dew of Saturday night. I dismounted for a moment, hoping to be able to find some trace of the hero's name, but the chivalry had stripped his body of every article of value. The fatal ball had pierced his heart. Not twenty feet from this dreary picture lay prostrate the mutilated body of an old man, apparently forty-five years of age. His cap lay by the side of his head in a pool of blood, while his long, flowing gray beard was dyed with his blood. A shell had fearfully lacerated his right leg, while his belt was pierced in two places, both balls entering the abdominal region. In front of the long belt of woods which skirted the open field, and from which the rebels emerged so boldly, was a deep ditch, and at this point the slaughter among the rebels was terrific. In many places the enemy's dead were piled up in groups, intermixed with our dead. I saw two or three of our men whose bodies had been brutally violated by the exasperated foe, too horrible for mention.
It is universally supposed, and I am not prepared to deny its correctness, that we inflicted a heavier loss of life upon the enemy on Saturday. Admitting that the undiminished valor of our troops forced the enemy to retreat, leaving us in full possession of the battle-field-did we carefully bury our dead, and gather up the thousands of rifles that were thrown upon the field? No; we stole off stealthily before daylight Sunday morning, Gen. A. J. Smith's forces covering our retreat, with 500 cavalry as a rear guard, under the command of Col. Lucas. The entire army reached Grand Ecore, on Red River, on Monday and Tuesday, April 14 and 15. 
Our loss will probably not exceed thirty-five hundred in killed, wounded and missing, although some officers assert it will reach four thousand. Quite a number of our wounded were left in houses at Pleasant Hill, in charge of two of our surgeons. 
LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, April 4, 1864.
To A. G. Hodges, Esq., Frankfort, Ky.: 
MY DEAR SIR,-You ask me to put in writing the substance of what I verbally said the other day, in your presence, to Governor Bramlette and Senator Dixon. It was about as follows: 
"I am naturally anti-slavery. If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong. I cannot remember when I did not see, think and feel that it was wrong.; and yet I have never understood that the Presidency conferred upon me an unrestricted right to act officially upon this judgment; and feeling it was in the oath I took that I would, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, I could not take the office without taking the oath; nor was it my view that I might take an oath to get power, and break the oath in using the power. I understand, too, that in ordinary civil administration, this oath even forbade me to practically indulge my primary abstract judgment on the moral question of slavery. I had publicly declared this many times and in many ways; and I aver that to this day, I have done no official act in mere deference to my abstract judgment and feelings on slavery. 
I did understand, however, that my oath to preserve the Constitution to the best of my ability imposed upon me the duty of preserving by every indispensable means that Government, that Nation, of which that Constitution was the organic law. 
Was it possible to lose the Nation, and yet preserve the Constitution? 
By general law, life and limb must be protected. Yet often a limb must be amputated to save a life; but a life is never wisely given to save a limb. 
I feel that measures otherwise unconstitutional might become lawful, by becoming indispensable to the preservation of the nation. Right or wrong, I assumed this ground, and now avow it. I could not feel that to the best of my ability I have even tried to preserve the Constitution, if to preserve slavery or any minor matter, I should permit the wreck of the government, country and Constitution altogether. 
When early in the war, Gen. Fremont attempted military emancipation, I forbade it, because I did not then think it an indispensable necessity. When a little later, Gen. Cameron (then Secretary of War) suggested the arming of the blacks, I objected, because I did not yet think it an indispensable necessity. 
When, still later, Gen. Hunter attempted military emancipation, I again forbade it, because I did not yet think the indispensable necessity had come. 
When in March, May and July, 1862, I made earnest and successive appeals to the Border States to favor compensated emancipation, I believed the indispensable necessity for military emancipation and arming of the blacks would come, unless averted by that measure. 
They declined the proposition, and I was, in my best judgment, driven to the alternative of either surrendering the Union, and with it the Constitution, or of laying the strong hand upon the colored element. I chose the latter; in choosing it, I hoped for greater gain than loss, but of this I was not entirely confident. 
More than a year of trial now shows no loss by it in our foreign relations, none in our home popular sentiment, none in our white military force. No loss by it any how or any where. On the contrary, it shows a gain of quite 130,000 soldiers, seamen and laborers. These are palpable facts, about which, as facts, there can be no cavilling. We have the men, and we could not have had them without the measure. 
<c06>
Now let any Union man, who complains of the measure, test himself by writing down in one line that he is for subduing the rebellion by force of arms, and the next that he is for taking these 130,000 men from the Union side, and placing them where they would be but for the measure he condemns. If he cannot face his cause so stated, it is because he cannot face the truth." 
I add a word, which was not in the verbal conversation. In telling this tale, I attempt no compliment to my own sagacity. I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me. Now at the end of three years' struggle, the nation's condition is not what either party, or any man, devised or expected.
God alone can claim it. Whither it is tending seems plain. If God now wills the removal of a great wrong, and wills also that we of the North, as well as you of the South, shall pay fairly for our complicity in that wrong, impartial history will find therein new cause to attest and revere the justice and goodness of God. Yours, truly,
A. LINCOLN. 

LINCOLN TO HODGES. 
President Lincoln is not generally esteemed a man of signal ability; yet he has no adviser, and (since Jefferson) has had no predecessor, who surpassed him in that rare quality, the ability to make a statement which appeals at once, and irresistibly, to the popular apprehension-what we may call the shrewdly homely way of "putting things." As we are known not to favor his renomination, we cannot be blinded by partiality in our judgment that few men have ever lived who could have better explained and commended his course and attitude with regard to slavery, than he has done in his late letter to Mr. Hodges of Kentucky. We consider that coarse, that attitude, open to criticism; but none but a besotted partisan can fail to see that both are honestly and candidly set forth in the letter to Hodges, and that whoever shall hereafter charge the President with being impelled by "fanaticism" in his official action respecting slavery must sin against the clearest light. We do not favor the drifting policy which Mr. Lincoln has pursued-we are confident that there is a higher and better-but it has some recommendations; and among them this-that so many are in precisely the same category with the President-having been fairly driven by their patriotism into a position of active hostility to slavery, in spite of their own wishes and efforts-that they will accept his letter as a vindication not less of their own course than of his, and will like him the better for his admirable statement of convictions which they already felt as deeply as he did, but could not so happily and forciby express. His paragraph beginning, "I am naturally anti-slavery," is a most terse and convincing presentment of what are to-day the faith and feeling of a majority of the American people. 
What he says of the Constitution, the Government and the Nation, is really the best portion of his letter. It will stand the severest criticism. Ever since the Constitution was formed, those who struggled desperately to prevent its perfection and ratification have assumed to be its special guardians, interpreters and champions. And, following this cue, the dark spirits who have for thirty years been plotting our National disruption and overthrow have steadily boasted of their fidelity to the Constitution. That was Vallandigham's role also in the last Congress; and John C. Breckinridge, in perfect sympathy and constant intercourse with, the manlier traitors who were crimsoning our fields with patriot blood, kept dinning in the ears of the Senate, during the summer session of 1861, his protestations of fealty to and regard for the Constitution, which he very soon afterward drew his sword to subvert and overthrow. 
Mr. Lincoln realizes, with every clear-seeing patriot, that the Constitution is a precious means to an inestimable end, which end is the life of the Nation. If the President had indubitable proof that the Governor of this State, for example, were intriguing to throw New York into the arms of the rebel confederacy, we have no doubt that it would be his constitutional duty to prevent, by the readiest and most certain means, that consummation, even though those means found no express warrant in the letter of the Constitution. Breckinridge was eternally arraigning the President for having arrested and isolated a few such traitors as he was, who, like him, had committed no overt act of which proof was attainable; while the President's real error was that of not arresting many more such, and not holding them more firmly. They who were struggling, though by extraordinary means, to save the country from ruin, were true to the Constitution; while those who were conspiring to disrupt and destroy the Union, were implacable foes of that Constitution to which they rendered so much hollow lip-reverence.
And now to that portion of the letter wherein we consider the President less successful in the vindication of his past course: 
We do not propose at this time to discuss the abstract wisdom of the drifting policy. It has its advantages, doubtless; though we think they are overbalanced, and that it is not the natural resort of the highest order of minds. As he is a poor natural philosopher who ignores the law of gravitation, so that statesmanship is shallow which fails to count God's justice among the forces, which it is far safer and wiser to conform to than to resist. But, what we object to is that policy which ties a boat fast to the bank while the river is in a flood, and there waits talking of progress and of going with the current while the flood is running out. As, for instance, Mr. Lincoln says: 
"When, early in the war, Gen. Fremont attempted military emancipation, I forbade it, because I did not then think it an indispensable necessity."
Let us look at this a little:
Gen. Fremont was appointed, in July, 1861, to the command of a department whereof Missouri was the heart. His headquarters were at St. Louis, the emporium of that State. Missouri was confessedly a loyal State. Pollard's "Southern History of the War" concedes that when her Convention of 1861-elected at the call and under the auspices of C. F. Jackson, her traitor Governor-came together, it was found that not a single County had chosen an avowed Disunionist to sit therein. Yet this Convention was chosen while all power in Missouri was in the hands of Jackson and his confederates. Now the Rebellion inaugurated by Jackson & Co. in Missouri was essentially a revolt of the slaveholding caste, with its ignorant dupes, against the State as well as the Nation. In every county and neighborhood, the strength of the Rebellion was that of Slavery-neither less nor more. The Convention-called by himself and his legislative vassals-deposed Jackson-as it had abundant right to do-and appointed a successor. Jackson revolted, made war on the Union; and the slaveholding caste (though not every slaveholder) actively promoted that rebellion. Gen. Fremont, therefore-his department formidably threatened with invasion from several quarters, while guer- 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANICIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
rilla raids, burnings, and murders, were rife in every county, and a formidable army was advancing from Arkansas, through the heart of the State-issued his Military order, which prescribed that “the slaves of rebels shall be free.” We hold it demonstrable that, in a purely military light, this was a lawful and proper measure of resistance and counteraction to rebel hostilities-that it was as justifiable and as effective as any kind of resistance to the Rebellion (in a loyal unseceded State, mind you!) could be. And we bold that, had the President then been faithful to the principle he now stands upon-nay, had he considered the subject purely in the light of military necessity—he must have allowed that order to stand.
What the President says of the Military expediency of Emancipation and of Arming the Blacks is incontrovertible There is no need of adding a word. He is simply and ingenuously loyal to truth when he says, “I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me.” Had be only been a little more docile to their teaching and prompt to apprehend their bearing, we might have been saved many disasters and rivers, of precious blood. May we not hope that, with regard to the murder of our soldiers who have surrendered, and other questions of the hour, be will have learned something from the sore experience of the past, and imitate the ultimate fidelity of the prophet Jonah, without waiting for the discipline of that prophet’s marine experience to quicken his inclination?—N. Y. Tribune. 

THE PRESIDENT’S LETTER.
It cannot be denied that Mr. Lincoln has a straightforward way of his own, and is very apt, when be does speak, to hit the nail he proposes to strike, directly on the head. Evidently he has calm convictions on the subjects about which he is called upon to act, makes up his own mind rather slowly, and having reached his conclusions, is able to state them with perfect distinctness, in a homely style that the common sense of the people at once comprehends. His views may be accepted or rejected; but he never leaves it to be questioned what his views are. The letter in our telegraph columns today is a fresh instance of these characteristics. It very clearly states the whole history of the President’s thinking, principles and acts, in regard to the most important measure of his Administration. As the Executive of the nation, he felt bound to adopt that measure, when in his deliberate judgment it was absolutely necessary to save the nation. He put aside as irrelevant personal feelings and opinions on the moral question, and simply asked what was his duty as President, in obedience to his oath of office. He has steadily followed the answer his own conscientious reflections gave to that question, and points now to the results of his decision as its full justification.
This letter will commend itself to the loyalty of the country, as indicative of honesty and sagacity and independence on the part of the writer. The closing portions are as touching in their solemnity as they are frank and modest in their avowals, and indicate that Mr. Lincoln has not failed to read and interpret the great crisis with a profound sense of its magnitude and the difficulties accompanying it. Politicians and partisans may cavil at his words, but they will be received with favor by all whose first anxiety and purpose are the preservation of the Republic undivided under the Constitution, interpreted as designed to secure that end.-Boston Transcript.

UNION FOR UNION.
There are three classes of persons engaged in manufacturing opinion hostile to the Union Convention called at Baltimore. First, the enemies of the American Government and human liberty known as Copperheads. Second, the declared opponents of Mr. Lincoln's nomination in any case whatever. This class calls the Baltimore call “insolent!” and criticises the Administration with all the acridity of the fiercest rebel journals. Third, the class which is wholly devoted to the country and to liberty, but is dissatisfied with the influences that surround the President, and are persuaded that Mr. Seward and Mr. Blair are almost as dangerous to the good cause as Jefferson Davis or Lee. This class wishes the: Convention to be postponed until after General Grant has fought, and, in any case, asks that the terms of the call may be so changed as to include War Democrats and all other loyal Union men.
As to the first part of their objection, it is clear that under no circumstances whatever could the policy of a man like the President be altogether agreeable to them. It will always be a more cautious and patient policy than they approve. The practical point, therefore, for them to decide is whether, looking at the whole course of his administration, the cause will be imperiled by its continuance; or whether, all the circumstances considered, any other man known to us is more likely than he to accomplish the great work. If they know such a man, clearly it is their duty to persuade the country to adopt him. If they merely wish that there were such a one, do not the times require something else than expressions of regret and dissatisfaction? If they believe the continued presence of Mr. Seward and Mr. Blair in the Cabinet to be detrimental to the country, let the attack upon those gentlemen be made openly, fairly, and incessantly. But let it be based upon facts, and not upon rumors nor bald assertions. When the President is persuaded that the cause is injured by any of his advisers, and that public opinion demands their removal, we are very sure they will be removed. But a dumb dissatisfaction is of no use. Why should a few men go to Washington, and privately decry any secretary to the President? The public have a right to know, at such a time as this, why any great change is made in high public officers, and therefore the discussion should be as open as possible. The treatment of General Butler was formerly one of the chief charges against what was called the influence of Mr. Seward. Well. Mr. Seward remains, and General Butler declares himself to be entirely satisfied with his present treatment. We are not defending Mr. Seward nor denouncing him; but our friends ought to bear in mind that it is very easy to overestimate the influence of an obnoxious person. 
Now in the matter of the call to the Convention. It is surprising that any man who has carefully read it should call it narrow, partisan, or exclusive. It is as comprehensive as patriotism, and as little tainted by party-spirit. Indeed, we do not understand how a better call could have been issued. It is addressed to “all qualified voters who desire the unconditional maintenance of the Union, the supremacy of the Constitution, and the complete suppression of the existing rebellion, with the cause thereof, by vigorous war, and all apt and efficient means." Such voters are requested to elect delegates. Is this not a platform upon which every loyal Union man can stand, Generals Butler and Dix, Mr. Dickinson and Senator Johnson equally with Generals Fremont and Banks, Mr. Weed and Senator Sumner? How could it be simpler, broader, better? 
Every man who wishes to see equal popular rights established in all the States, and the final overthrow of the oligarchical spirit which generated the rebellion, and is a perpetual insurrection against our national peace and freedom, is invited to take part in the elections to the Convention by the very terms of the call, “the complete suppression of the cause of the rebellion.” Its complete suppression is its total destruction by the establishing of equal rights. To change the form of the call to “all who are in favor of the people against an aristocracy “does not change its nature, nor make it broader or stronger. It is already addressed to those very persons, and to none other. It certainly is not addressed to gentlemen like the Seymours, Vallandigham, the Woods, Long, and Harris, nor to Jefferson Davis and his Confederates. But to every loyal Union man who wishes to establish peace upon equal liberty, it is addressed with a directness that he cannot avoid. 
And how is it a party call? It is issued, indeed, by the Chicago Committee; but that is a necessity of the case. That Committee is the recognized representative of a great mass of voters, and speaks by their authority. And by that authority a party platform is repudiated altogether. Had a few gentlemen of the several late political organizations combined in a call, it would have had the force of their personal influence, but it could not have been so weighty as if they had been by consent of the voters their representatives. And it is obvious that at this time the fact of the late party ties of the Committee is of no importance whatever, in view of the entire absence of partisan character in their call. They propose nothing but the salvation of the country by every necessary means, specifying the destruction of slavery as one of them. Can this, in candor, be stigmatized as a party call or a narrow call? Is there a loyal citizen any where in the country, whatever his party antecedents, who may not heartily and wholly respond to it? And is it not the duty of all men who wish as little division as possible among the true enemies
<c02>
of the rebellion to refrain from hypercriticism upon the terms of a call which was intended and is framed to include every earnest and unconditional man in the country?
The Union men are unquestionably the mass of the people of the free States. But they most must not forget that every spring and autumn the elections are not unanimous. They must remember that last November, Pennsylvania was carried by less than twenty thousand majority for the Union; and that if the summer campaign in the field is unsuccessful, we shall need all our unity and ardor to withstand the disarrangement which will ensue. Let us seek, then, it rather for grounds of union than of difference. We cannot all be satisfied together. Shall we not take counsel of our patience and faith in justice and the people rather than of impatience and distrust?—Harper's?—Harper’s Weekly.

THREATS.
It is a very important question how far the menaces of refusal to abide by the nomination of the Union Convention at Baltimore, which are uttered by the immediate friends and supporters of General Fremont, are authorized by him. Has General Fremont interests different from those of the country? Is his nomination so essential to the national cause that the cause itself may be risked in order to secure it? We are unwilling to believe that he would acknowledge it. Yet he must be fully aware, that it is privately and publicly asserted that he means to be a candidate in any case; that those who declare their intention under no circumstances to vote for Mr. Lincoln, even if he be nominated, use the name of Fremont as their rallying-cry; and that his continued silence under such circumstances is an injury to the national cause. Certainly if General Fremont should declare that he means to abide by the decision of the Convention, he would neither decrease the favor of the Convention toward him, nor the respect with which so many Union men, who intend to support the Baltimore nomination, have been accustomed to regard him.
Those who speak in his name repudiate the action of the Union Convention in advance, because they declare that it will not represent the people, but the politicians; and they propose to obviate this difficulty by calling another Convention. Quis custodiet custodes? How is the new Convention to be purged of politicians? These gentlemen object that the Baltimore Convention will be packed to nominate Mr. Lincoln. And what is their remedy? To pack another at Cleveland to nominate General Fremont. But which is the more promising alternative? an unpledged assembly called to nominate the best candidate, whoever he may be, or one which is called to defeat the nomination of a certain candidate? The friends of General Fremont have as fair a chance to send delegates to the Baltimore Convention as the friends of any other candidate; and when they declare that they will have, nothing to do with it, they say very frankly that, as they cannot hope to control it, they will repudiate it. 
If this is the spirit which animates them—if the interests of one man are dearer to them than the welfare of the country—if they are seriously resolved to resist the nomination of the Union Convention, if it should not be that of their favorite, and to bring a third candidate into the field, the incalculable misfortunes which may befall the country in consequence will be justly attributable to them. When the order relieving General Fremont of the command of the Western Department reached him in camp near Springfield, Missouri, more than a hundred officers came to his tent, threw their swords upon the ground, and declared their intention to retire with him. "Take up your swords, gentlemen," said Fremont; "remember that you are the soldiers of a cause, not of a man." Has the General himself now ceased to be the soldier of a cause?—Harper’s Weekly.

GEORGE THOMPSON.
It was our privilege to hear this renowned champion of freedom and humanity, in this city, on the evening of Tuesday, the 19th inst.
It was a pleasure to see the man whose name has so long been a household word among the lovers of the poor and wronged. His countenance is open, honest, expressive of the nobleness and kindness that reign in his heart, live in his impulses, and find utterance in his words. 
It was a pleasure to think of him, and recall the touching incidents, struggles, and heroic conflicts on the moral battle-field, in the days when oppression triumphed, despotism vaulted against God and bid defiance to man,—when human heads were darker and hearts were colder than to-day. 
Thirty years ago, he came to our shores, and when he was known as the friend of the slave, hotels refused to entertain him, politicians treated him with vituperation, clergymen traduced him, and the heart of the nation repelled him like an iceberg. A few only, in all the land, greeted him with impulses and sympathies congenial to his own. 
In later years he came again on a mission of self-sacrificing devotion to the injured slave. His reception then was more respectful; not cold, perhaps, but formal and distant. He spoke at different places,—the best people in the North listened to his stirring utterances, awakened by his appeals, instructed by his counsels, and transported by his eloquence. Then politicians abused him, and ministers opposed him.
Though this was in the days of our childhood, we shall never forget how he vanquished, obliterated an impudent, fourth-rate "bread and butter priest" as he named him, who interrupted his address while speaking in Winfield, N. Y. At the close of that meeting, the poor preacher was a wiser, if not a happier man. 
But now, how changed the scene! A nation rises up to do him honor. His advent is hailed with grateful joy; friendship, gratitude and veneration pour their tribute into his heart, and his visits every where are bringing together the intelligent, the refined, and the pious of our land.
His addresses breathe the best sentiments that ever inspired human hearts,—universal brotherhood, piety towards God, and humanity to man. He ignores the false doctrine, "Our country, right or wrong,"—and while he loves his own land, is willing to see her faults, and others’ virtues. In his public efforts, he discourses like a man of mature knowledge upon things in England and America. He assures us that the best British statesmen are now our firm friends; and the multitudes of the common people, especially the "operatives," when cotton failed, labor was suspended, food was gone, and grain famine met them in every path, still with firm fidelity stood by our cause, and waited the turn of our fortune’s tide. God bless the honest laborers of Britain, who were true while others were false, and who the more patiently bore their privations, in view of the better day which they saw arising upon the crushed of this land whom they love!
Thompson is a true reformer,—willing to toil, endure and wait,—patient, conciliating and kind, confiding towards all that is good on earth and the Infinite God above,—ready to work out gradually that which cannot be dashed out immediately.—Syracuse Wesleyan.
A SPECIMEN OF FOGYISM. A day or two after the lecture, of the noble George Thompson, in this city, we were in the Journal office, and overheard two of our prominent citizens (prominent only for their wealth—for they possess neither intellect nor intelligence,) discussing the merits of Mr. Thompson, making him a mercenary hypocrite, who came to this country to flatter us for the sake of getting our money. To prove it, one of them said:: “All Englishmen hate this country, and the only way you can get this hatred out of them is to cut their heads off." Of course, they had never heard Mr. Thompson, nor read one of his speeches. We simply remarked: "Gentlemen, you evidently do not know Mr. Thompson, or you would not judge him so." But they replied that they knew him. He was an old Abolitionist, and they expected Abolitionists would stand up for him. As we said, the wealth of these men (nothing else) gives them position. One of them, the leader in this conversation, may be seen spending his time about one of the taverns, generally with a cigar in his mouth; and we have seen him on one occasion call for bottle after bottle of whisky to treat his fellows. They were old fossilized Whigs, brought into the Republican party as rotten logs are carried by the flood. They remember their old Whig hatred of Abolitionists, and they have not intelligence enough to know that times are changed, and that the President and the Government whom they support, and the party to which they belong, are Abolitionists, and are now laboring to perform the greatest work of abolition the world ever saw,—to alter the Constitution so as not only to abolish slavery in the whole country, but to make it impossible ever to revive it again.—Syracuse State League.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1864. 
THIRTY-FIRST ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirty-First Annual Meeting of the AMERICANAMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAYTUESDAY, May 10th, commencing at 10 o'-o’clock, A. M. 
The Society will hold another public meeting on WEDNESDAYWEDNESDAY evening, May 11th, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7 o'clock. 
GEORGE THOMPSON GEORGE THOMPSON and WENDELL PHILLIPSWENDELL PHILLIPS will address both the public meetings of the Society.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday evening, at half-past 7, and on Wednesday forenoon, at 10, A. M. 
Cheering as it is to know that the Government stands irrevocably pledged to the liberation of more than three-fourths of the slave population of the United States, by the Proclamation of Emancipation of January 1, 1863—that the remaining portion of the slave system in the Border States is rapidly dissolving by the enlistment and consequent freedom of such slaves within their limits as are capable of bearing arms in the service of the country, and by a growing conviction that it is useless to attempt any longer to resist the mighty tide of Anti-Slavery sentiment which is hourly deepening and widening in every direction, especially in the aforesaid States—and that the experiment of emancipation, under the war power, and at every possible disadvantage in the midst of an unparalleled national convulsion, is thus far eminently successful—there still remains much to be done by the Abolitionists, in the way of labor and testimony, to secure full and complete justice for the colored race, both at the hands of the Government and with reference to the reconstruction of society on the basis of political equality in the rebellious States. Let the approaching anniversary, therefore, be well attended by the tried men and women whose purpose it still is to continue the great moral struggle until before the Constitution and the laws all are made free, and complexional distinctions are unknown. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries

DIABOLISM AS A PATTERN.
In the Liberator of the 22d ult. we said—
"The difficulty, in such a barbarous case as that of the massacre at Fort Pillow, is to determine what shall be done, without being equally diabolical. Let the President have time to authenticate the facts in this butchery, and to take counsel as to the best manner of preventing a repetition of it, before hurrying to the conclusion that he is hollow-hearted." 
This considerate view of a case complicated with difficulties and thronging with horrors, we regret to find, excites the disgust and elicits the jeers of The Commonwealth, which paper sees "not the slightest difficulty in determining what shall be done." It is hot for "RETALIATION"—and by that word it evidently means that, in conducting the war, the Government is to take exact pattern of the demonized Confederate soldiery in the matter of savage barbarity and murder. It quotes approvingly the counsel of the New York Evening Post—"We should retort upon the rebel authorities, in every case, precisely in their own terms;" and it asks with a gusto that savors of ferocity—
"How long would it have taken to quell the Sepoy rebellion if that course [the course suggested by us] had been adopted, instead of trying the outlaws on a drum-head, and shooting them out of the mouth of a cannon? Peace men denounced this as barbarous; but it was mercy, Christ like mercy, compared with this policy, or rather absence of policy, which the liberator approves."[!!!]
This sanction of the blowing of the Sepoys to pieces at the cannon's mouth—a deed which caused the civilized world to shudder—is most extraordinary in a journal of the character of The Commonwealth. It is eager for the bloodiest retaliation; it wants no time "to authenticate the facts in this butchery." What the rebels do to our soldiers, let us do to theirs—massacre them in hot blood and in cold blood—mutilate their bodies—bury the living with the dead—BURN THEM ALIVE BURN THEM ALIVE!—So shall we teach them a salutary lesson!
While there is a strong conviction on the part of those who are for protecting our colored soldiers to the fullest extent, that retribution in some form must be administered, we rejoice to believe that there are few who are in favor of trying to equal the rebels in their fiendish atrocities. We repeat—laying our non-resistance principles aside, and arguing strictly on the war plane—the difficulty of deciding how to act where all the laws of war are grossly violated, and where the reign of hell is inaugurated, is one of the gravest character. If we are to be as fiendish as the rebels, then the civilized world will cry out against us; if we are not, then the question, "What shall be done?" remains for the most thoughtful consideration, but not for unnecessary delay. 
The Commonwealth may very complacently assume, if it chooses, that it has a keener sense of the outrages committed upon the colored soldiers, a warmer sympathy for them, a more humane interest in their protection, a deeper concern for their rights, than ourselves. We make no parade of our zeal cr our vigilance in their behalf. But we must confess that the spirit of the article in The Commonwealth savors, in our opinion, more of an electioneering purpose against President Lincoln, and more of a splenetic feeling towards us because we believe his re-election is more probable than the election of any other loyal candidate, than it indicates a heart-felt concern for the colored soldiers. For example, take the following uncalled for sarcasm, which combines falsehood and caricature in equal proportions:—
"’Take counsel as to the best manner of preventing a repetition of this butchery'! And is this the best defence of the President’s policy by his First Lieutenant in Boston? At the beginning of the fourth year of the war, the Commander-in-Chief has not learned how to deal with one of the ordinary occurrences of war; but we must wait for the report of the Congressional Committee of Investigation."
Is there no political bias, no personal thrust here? 
"His First Lieutenant in Boston"!
"How to deal with one of the ordinary occurrences of war," forsooth! If the awful tragedy enacted at Fort Pillow is an ordinary occurrence of war, what must be an extraordinary one—and why this call for swift and bloody retaliation??
As for the Congressional Committee of Investigation, it was promptly appointed, and they have made a prompt report, having taken the necessary affidavits, confirming the truthfulness of all that has been alleged in regard to the Fort Pillow tragedy. The next step will be, as a matter of course, to demand of the Confederate Government whether it sanctions or disclaims this butchery, and to act accordingly. 
We have no desire to shield Mr. Lincoln or his administration from any censure that is justly their due. We have not been backward in criticising them sharply when we believed they might and ought to have done better. Yet, from the outbreak of the rebellion, we have tried to remember the numberless difficulties and perils surrounding them,—unparalleled in the history of nations,—to make as wide a margin of allowance as possible for their blunders and errors, to give no "aid and comfort" to their enemies by sweeping accusations or partisan divisions, to bear in mind how malignant and powerful is the pro-slavery element with which they have had and still have to contend, and to strengthen them in well-doing by every means in our power. We shall aim to be governed by the same spirit to the end.
<c04>
MR. THOMPSON'STHOMPSON’S MOVEMENTS.
On Friday evening, the 15th15lh ult., George Thompson, Esq., delivered an address on American Affairs in Elmira, Chemung Co., New York. 
From Elmira he went to Syracuse, where, on Tuesday evening, the 19th, in Wieting Hall, he delivered an address before a large and appreciative audience, in aid of the Freedmen’s Relief Association, speaking an hour and three-quarters to the apparent satisfaction of the entire assemblage. The Syracuse Journal says:
"The opening of his address was appropriate to the day—April 19th—the eighty-ninth anniversary of the battle of Lexington, and the third anniversary of the firing upon Massachusetts soldiers by a mob in the streets of Baltimore; important historical events, to which he alluded in a manner that met the approval of every loyal person present. His comments upon the inauguration and progress of the war evinced a thorough-knowledge of the subject, and a correct appreciation of the bearing of every fact and incident. But the most interesting and satisfactory part of the address were the statements relative to the feeling existing in England towards the North and her cause. The efforts of the public men who have stood by us from the outset were concisely presented, and the heroic devotion to the cause of Liberty of the thousands of idle and starving operatives was stated so grandly, that it sent a thrill of admiration through every loyal heart. The speaker’s appeal to his hearers to consent to no Union in the future that shall not be founded and organized on the principles of justice and right was urgent and eloquent."
The Syracuse Standard says:
"His remarks throughout were very interesting, exhibiting a remarkable memory of historic and familiarity with transpiring events; clothed in plain but concise language, delivered with a deliberateness and earnestness that riveted the attention of every listener. Often his language and manner became brilliantly eloquent. He was attentively listened to throughout, and many times warmly applauded, the Reverend gentlemen upon the stage heartily joining in the applause.” 
From Syracuse he went to Auburn, where he delivered two addresses—the first on Wednesday evening the 21st, the second on Thursday evening the 22d. The subject of the second lecture was, "The Unionists and Copperheads of England and America.”
On Friday, the pastors of the different churches called on him at his lodgings, to pay him their tribute of respect and gratitude for his invaluable services in behalf of the American cause in England.
Mr. Thompson spoke at Rochester on Monday and Tuesday evenings of last week. The following letter to the editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard will be read with interest:—
OSBORNE HOUSE, ROCHESTER, N. Y., April 25, 1864.
To the Editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard::
I doubt not that you will be pleased to hear that America's great foreign advocate, Geo. Thompson, Esq., had a reception this morning (although very stormy) in part worthy of the man. Corinthian Hall was crowded with the most enthusiastic audience ever assembled within its walls. Mr. Thompson appeared in a happier mood than when he lately addressed the Brooklynites, although his topic was nearly the same. His listeners were enchanted by his living words of logic, as he presented, one after another, the duties of! freemen, portraying in a style peculiarly his own the work still unaccomplished for the cause of liberty, and urging them to buckle on their armor and put their shoulders to the wheel, and with determined effort raise their country out of their slough of barbarism to the solid foothold of humanity and justice. His sweeping denunciations of the crime of slavery were received with thunders of applause; and when he referred to England’s working-classes as our strong supporters, the old Hall resounded with cheers.
Rochester did well in giving to the noble Abolitionist such a hearty welcome. Our country is fast hastening to the time when it will look upon George Thompson as one of its benefactors; and posterity will write his name upon the scroll of fame, linked with the names of great reformers. 
Yours, for the cause,
E. A. STUDWELL.
SYRACUSE, (N. Y.) April 30, 1864.
MY DEAR GARRISOH MY DEAR GARRISON,—It is just a fortnight since I came to this, the central part of this great State, and, during my brief visit, I have lectured once in Elmira, twice in Syracuse, twice in Auburn, and twice in Rochester. My audiences have been good, my addresses radical and outspoken, and the attention given me all I could desire. I leave the pleasant abode of our dear friend, the Rev. SAMUELSAMUEL J. MAYMAT, with regret. I have slept six nights under his hospitable roof. II came to him weary and worn down. He afforded meme the means of entire rest. When he could in any way help me, he did so, with the spontaneity and grace of a friend, and a Christian gentleman. What a privilege to be the guest of such a man!—to be the witness of his domestic virtues—of his untiring and uncomplaining labors in behalf of all who seek his advice or succor, and to listen to his comprehensive petitions to the Father of all, that his kingdom of universal peace and righteousness may come! O, that the world were blest with more of such practical Christians as the good, sweet, generous S. J. MAY!
I am going hence by train to Albany—then by night boat to New York, and shall there rest till Monday morning, and then go to Pennsylvania, to give three lectures. On the 2d of May, at Chester; 4th, West Chester; 6th, Philadelphia.
Mr. May and I have read together, this morning, the President’s letter of the 4th inst. to A. G. Hodges, Esq., of Kentucky. We think it a remarkably clear and satisfactory exposition of his acts and policy on I the question of slavery. It is, essentially, what he said to me when he gave me an interview at Washington, on the 7th ult. I am glad to see from his pen what he verbally communicated to me. My remark, since I saw him, has been, that he kindly and frankly furnished me with a key to the right understanding of the course he had pursued, and that I was glad to find that I had, in England, explained his acts correctly, and had not misunderstood either his private views or the motives of his public conduct.
Ever sincerely yours,
GEORGE THOMPSON. 
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for May, is received, and presents the following table of contents:— 
1. American Finances and Resources. By Hon. Robert J. Walker. 2. AEnone. 83. Our Domestic Relations; or, How to Treat the Rebel States. By Charles Russell. 4. The Mound Builder. By January Searle. 5. A Universal Language. By S. P. Andrews. 6. A Summer’s Night. By Count S. Krasinski. Translated by Prof. Podbielski. 7. The English Press. By Nicholas Rowe, London. 8. The House in the Lane. By V. Townsend. 9. Music a Science. By Lucia D. Pychowska. 10. Thought. By Virginia Vaughan. 11. The War a Contest for Ideas. By Henry Everett Russell. 12. Hints to the American Farmer. 13. Aphorisms. By Rev. Asa Colton. 14. The Wild Azalea. By E. W. C. 15. A Pair of Stockings. 16. Literary Notices. 17. Editor's Table. 
The Continental Monthly is a live magazine, fresh as the times, and treats upon important national topics in an able and independent manner. The papers on American Finances and Resources, by Hon. Robert J. Walker, evince profound research, and teach important lessons in political economy.
HARPER'S MOSTHLT MAGAZINE HARPER’S MOSTHLT MAGAZINE, for May, is full of readable matter and graphic illustrations. It well deserves its wide popularity and extensive circulation. The table of contents for this month is as follows:—
1. Life with the Esquimaux. 2. Psyche. 3. Sold for a Song. 4. One of the Dogs of War. 5. A Visit to the Convent of Sittna, (Our Lady,) Damiane. 6. The Cool Captain. 7. How I Overcame my Gravity. 8. The Small House at Allington. 9. The Prescription. 10. Polly. 11. How Mr. Penryn Got the Dykedale Living. 12. The Moon’s Wanderings. 1318. A Stormy Night 14. Denis Duval. 15. The Second Division at Shiloh. 16. Peggoty Plimpton’s Choir. 17. A Suppressed Princess. 18. Monthly Rechoir cord of Current Events. 19. Editor’s Easy Chair. 20. Editor's Drawer. 21. Fashions for May. 
For sale by A. Williams & Co., Booksellers and News Agents, 100 Washington Street.
<c05>
NEW PUBLICATIONS. 
WOMAN AND HER ERA. BY ELIZA W. FARNHAM. In Two Volumes. New York: A. J.-Davis & Co., 274 Canal Street. 1864. 
For vigor of reasoning and depth of philosophical investigation, this work—projected by a female brain and executed by a female hand--is—U as remarkable and note-worthy as Miss Cobbe’s essay on " OB “Intuitive Morals." Even a somewhat cursory examination of it has profoundly impressed us, both, in regard to the grandeur of its object as connected with human destiny, and the ability of its author. It has been common in all ages and among all races for man to rank himself as superior to woman, to speak or of her as the weaker vessel, to claim for himself exclusive rights, and, consequently, to hold her in subjection to his will. In no country has she ever been treated as an equal, either religiously or politically, either in the pursuit single or the matrimonial state, either in the pursuit of knowledge or the acquisition of riches. Her wrongs have been grievous and manifold—her career one of prolonged martyrdom; and all attempts on her part to seek redress, to enlarge her unnaturally contracted sphere, to develop her faculties and powers, have been met with ridicule or violence. Into the consideration of these special wrongs, Mrs. Farnham does not enter; she raises no clamorous accusations; she indulges in no personal invectives. Nevertheless, she lays the axe at the root of the tree. The foundation upon which she builds is sufficiently broad and strong to sustain whatever nature prompts or justice demands. The position which she occupies as a thinker and an expositor of the truth is high above the region of passion, of selfishness, of inordinate ambition. Her claim for woman is not that she is the equal of man: she boldly meets the alleged charge of woman's inferiority by demonstrating her SUPERIORITY to him in alt all that is pure, exalted, holy and divine; and this she does so calmly, with such power of statement and clearness of elucidation, in so just and reverent a manner, and evincing so excellent a spirit, that, absurd and extravagant as her lofty claim may at first appear to the unreflecting, she cannot but excite admiration even where she may fail to convince. Her treatment of the subject is unique and exhaustive; every page is crowded with thought and reflection; there is nothing overstrained or visionary. But it is too profound a work for the masses, and therefore may fail to obtain a popular sale. To thinkers and explorers in the vast realm of mind, in the broad field of reform, it will prove highly suggestive and intensely interesting. Every private and public library should possess it—every family, if possible. 
The work is dedicated as follows:—
"To the few beloved friends, Women, on both shores of the continent, whose firesides have afforded me the rest and peace of home for the execution of this work; whose appreciative sympathy has given me both light and courage for its difficulties: and to Woman, whose gifts and responsibilities it seeks to set forth; whose earnestness it aims to kindle into divine, unitary co-working for the blessing of humanity; whose consciousness it aspires to inform of truths heretofore hidden, this book is affectionately dedicated by the author.”
How well qualified, so far as experience and observation are concerned, is Mrs. Farnham to write the work under consideration, (her intellectual ability and moral worth are unquestionable,) the following extract from her Preface will enable the reader to decide:—
"In the twenty-two years which the seed of this Truth has taken for its maturing, my experience has been so varied as to give it almost every form of trial which could fall to the intellectual life of any, save the very few most favored Women. The press of circumstances has crowded me, during those years, into prospective affluence, and again reduced me to poverty. The revolving wheel of experience has cast me up, and again thrown me down, on the thronged roads where I have had to walk. Joy and grief, happiness and anguish, hope and discouragement, light and darkness, have checkered my lot. Wedlock and widowhood, births and deaths have enriched and impoverished me. I have lived in the thoughtful solitude of the frontier, and amid the noise and distraction of the crowded mart. Years of severe manual labor have been exacted of me for the support and education of my children—years of travel have thrown me among great varieties of men and women; and the capacity to be useful to them, in many private and public ways, has mingled me much with their inmost, as well as their more common, external hopes, desires, fears and purposes. I have seen these in all varieties of character and degree, in both sexes; among the gifted and the stupid, the intelligent and the ignorant, the noble and the mean, the liberal and the bigoted, the criminal, the outcast, the insane, and the idiotic. Each phase of this varied experience has taught me its lesson: each has furnished its test whereby to try the Truth: each has is given its measure of culture to the little seed so long dropped in my mind.
And this is its product. 
I ask no one to take it at my valuation. I only affirm that it has grown steadily through the storm and shine of that quarter of a century, and is, to my thought, as firmly grounded among the eternal Truths as are the ribbed strata of the rocks, or the hollows of the everlasting sea. I can no more question this than those."
GENERAL BUTLER IN NEW ORLEANS.GENERAL BUTLER IN NEW ORLEANS. By James Parton. Published by Mason Brothers, No. 7, Mercer Street, New York. 1864. 
This book stands pre-eminent in interest among all yet occasioned by the rebellion. Its subject and author combine to render it fascinating. Fifteen editions have been called for as fast as they could be printed. It has been most warmly commended by the loyal press of the country, and scarcely less so by a portion at least of the English press, by whom it is acknowledged to be a complete vindication of Gen. Butler from the malicious charges which envy and hatred have brought against him. 
It contains an anecdotal sketch of Gen. Butler’s brilliant and remarkable career at the bar of Massachusetts; a history of the secret movements in the Charleston Convention; conversations between Gen. Butler and the leading secessionists at Washington, in December, 1860; the real plan of the traitors; Gen Butler invited to join them; his advice to Buchanan; his efforts in preparing Massachusetts for war; the celebrated march, via Annapolis, to Washington; his night march to Baltimore; collision with Gen. Scott; his course at Fortress Monroe; the history of the contrabands; his advice to the Administration how to take Richmond; the truth about the battle of Great Bethel; the Hatteras Expedition; the secret history of the New Orleans Expedition; the adventures of the General in getting to Ship Island; a full account of the capture of New Orleans; the landing of the troops in the city; a complete narrative of succeeding events, with a large number of highly interesting narratives and anecdotes never before published; the recall of Gen. Butler, and the explanation given of it by the Government; his present opinion upon the great issues before us. 
Edition in large type, crown 8vo., cloth, 662 pages, price $82,50. People’s Edition, 8vo., paper, 75 cents German Edition, $91. Sent by mail on receipt of price. 
For sale by Mason & Hamlin, 274 Washington Street, Boston, and by all Booksellers.
SHALL WE SUFFOCATE ED. GREEN? SHALL WE SUFFOCATE ED. GREEN? By a Citizen of Malden. Boston: James Redpath, Publisher, 221 Washington Street. 1864. 
This is a handsomely printed pamphlet of 61 octavo pages, discussing in a racy and cogent manner the subject of capital punishment; showing the incompatibility of the death penalty with the spirit, example and teachings of the Founder of Christianity, and presenting the argumentum ad hominem to all who profess to be his followers. Of course, it is elicited by, and specially relates to the deplorable case of Postmaster Green, of Medford, now under sentence of death for the murder of young Converse, and the robbery of the Malden Bank. 
SUNSHINE: A New Name for a Popular Lecture on Health. By Mrs. Dall, Author of “Woman’s Right to Labor,” “Historical Pictures Retouched," &c. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. 1864.
A sensible, suggestive, truly valuable essay on a most important theme—teaching the relation of health to sunshine and air. Pries 35Price 36 cents. Buy it.
<c06>
TO THE WOMEN OF THE LOYAL LEAGUE.
No. 70, WARREN WARREY AVENUE,}
BOSTON, May 1, 1864. }
I have received from the President of the Women's Loyal League, a letter inviting me to their Anniversary Meeting, at the Church of the Puritans in New York, on the 12th of May, may There is not a word in the printed call sent with this letter, to which my heart and brain do not ardently respond, unless it be the appeal to the "“Women of the Republic to make themselves a power for freedom in the coming Presidential Campaign." But in the private letter itself, and in all the rumors which reach me concerning the purpose of this meeting, there is so much of what seems to me serious mistake—prophetic of what may be a lasting injury to woman women themselves-that I feel bound to use whatever influence my name may possess to arrest those who may be hurried by social instinct, excited feeling, or even by their own holiest aspiration, into steps their cooler judgment will regret. To the women of the Loyal League, then, I appeal.
Most truly do I believe that it is woman's duty to interest herself in all national questions; to inform herself as to the operation of all government measures; to criticise, unsparingly, both men and legislation in their moral relation; to infuse into the politics of the people a purer faith;—above all, I would have every woman’s name, a power for freedom in the land,--,—but not expressly for this for this or any Presidential campaign. If we are faithful to our very uttermost, every moment of our lives, we shall have small need to sound such a reveille in the hour the of emergency.
The country has always. needed us; it does not need us at this moment more than at any moment of the past; and if it did, we can offer it nothing better than we have striven for, with religious purpose, through all that past. Woman should interest herself in all national questions, I have said; but I do not say that, upon these questions, she should dictate. God preserve me from ever counselling her to that! If the women of the advance owe one duty to their, country more than another, it is the duty of modest service in this hour of her trial. It is incumbent upon them, more than on any, to take no step for mere heroism’s, sake, which prudence, experience, and the thoughtful wisdom of men shall not be able to justify. Am I wrong, then, when I say, that I should grieve to have the approaching Anniversary turned into an electioneering caucus, where all that disgusts us in political strategy shall be repeated, and where and where those who have had no experience of the actual conflict, no long patience with the perplexities of the Executive chair, no far insight into the possibilities of this hour of retribution, shall hoist a party standard, proclaim a party purpose, and forfeit forever a moral stand-point which is fitly their own?
Bear with me, my sisters—as noble men would bear, if I stood among them, contending for a principle, or warning against a danger. Years of experience of civil power have not yet taught men the best way to govern. We women are safer only so far as well we adhere to the moral aspects of government. A narrow, illiberal utterance in the face of a great nation, in a moment of great peril, will throw us back a century in all that is essential to progress. What would I have, do you ask me? Let me answer for myself and you. Three years ago, who could have guessed what man was to sit in the Presidential chair? Through the uncertainties of statesmen, through the quarrels of demagogues, God safely led an honest and humble man to that seat—a man who had committed himself to nobody, who had pledged himself to nothing. Thankful, indeed, should we have been, that the nation furnished such an one.
Had you or I been asked at that moment, whom we would place there, we should have cried out with one voice, “FREMONT!” In our strong anti-slavery feeling, it would have seemed to us that the nation was ready to sustain him. Had he led us to an easy victory over the rebel forces, what should we have gained? Nothing. The first conditions imposed upon our fallen brothers would have been tinged with compromise, and slavery would have smiled blandly in the chieftain’s face.
It is through defeat, mortification, repulse and death, that this nation is marching to its apotheosis. To Him who looks upon "one day as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day," the way seems short; to us it seems weary and long. Anna Dickinson spoke the truth when she said, that God had given no great controlling leader for our emergency, because He was determined to educate educated to the people. Let us learn our lesson patiently. Do not let us women forget that He makes no mistakes; but, by faithful doing of our own daily duties, make sure that we lead to none. We have been trained as a nation, by battle and sorrowful endurance, to a point far above compromise. It seems to me that President Lincoln pauses before the gathering of all his forces, to make sure of popular support. Let him his presume one moment beyond his actual power, and an insurrection of Northern conservatism must complicate the Southern rebellion. My impatient heart has been by no means satisfied with all that he has done. I groaned inwardly over the suppression of Fremont's edict of emancipation; I have writhed under the mistaken policy pursued in Missouri and New Orleans; my own veins shed their dearest drops for the noble Colonel of the 54th Massachusetts, and the colored standard-bearer who kept that Colonel’s honor bright; but from time to time calm, simple words, spoken in homely phrase, have shamed me into silence, or nerved me into patience; and I fully believe that the man who bears all these terrible responsibilities known knows better than I can what is right for him to do. Yet, if I could replace him in that chair by the lifting of my finger, I should not dare to do it.
I have mentioned this feeling about Lincoln, because it seemed to me honest to do so; not became because I should wish you to take political position in his behalf, any more than in behalf of any other. It is the position I deprecate, not the candidate, let this be distinctly understood. Let me hear that you criticise men and matters in their moral relations sharply. Do your utmost to educate the Anti-Slavery slavery sentiment of the people; but, as a convention of women, stand on this high ground. Do not commit yourselves to unlimited laudation of any man—nominate no candidate, whether it be Lincoln or another—but teach the nation what to demand of either or of both. Lincoln has taken the first step towards universal freedom. Instruct the moral sense of the public, until it is forces Congress to equal or surpass him. It will find him, or his successor, ready to endorse a far more radical bill than it will be likely to present. The difference between the wise man and the fool is, that the wise man always knows what it is fit that he should do, while "fools rush in where angles fear to tread." I want women, in an emergency like the present, to show themselves worthy of the position I claim for them, and let their public action indicate at once a lofty motive and a wise discretion. Is it too much to ask?
A Garrisonian abolitionist,—as most of you have been for the last twenty years,—I have by choice withdrawn myself from all those political arenas which would fit me for a sound judgment of men, at a ,moment which involves in its issues the ravelled skein of the last thirty years. Mr. Garrison's own position, at this moment, seems to me a truly noble one—so broad and comprehensive as to wipe out forever the old charge of bigotry and fanaticism once raised by the people.
In the letter which I have received, two men are named as possible candidates for the Presidency. Fremont has long had my love and honor as a man—what he would be as chief magistrate I cannot guess, but surely no freer from personal ambition and selfish motives than the man who holds the position now. Small politician as I am, and unable entirely to guess the strength of his friends, I can see clearly that no man should be named for this office who cannot command the nation. With the name of the second General I shall not soil my paper. Every woman’s instinct ought to tell her in his presence the story of his
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
life. An intellectual conviction, even on the subject of slavery, is not all that is needed for the Presidency in 1864. A pure life and a moral purpose are required also. The extraordinary administrative talent which this man undoubtedly possesses is only one reason the more for keeping him out of the highest places.
In the letter which I have received, I am told that certain women are "opposed to the two-term principle." This sounds very much like the old cry of the spoiler, "Rotation in office!" Oh, my sisters, you should be opposed to nothing but a bad principle in power. A great deal is gained in perilous times by keeping old servants at their posts. Surely, women and house-keepers should know this. If you are wise, have you not often, in a domestic emergency, doubled the wages of some faithful dependent, bought off the impatience of some kitchen sweetheart, or favoured the failing health of a capable nurse, to avoid the risk and misery of a change of hands at such a moment? Is this change less critical in our great national homestead, in which the responsibilities seem too vast for one man's brain to bear? And what necessity exists for this fearful risk? MY letter states that Abraham Lincoln has proved incompetent to his post. Has he so? The slaveholder hates him—the slave blesses him—and the secessionist of the North is at this moment glad to see the Republican party splitting up for different candidates, because he hopes to be relieved of Lincoln. "By their fruits ye shall know them.” Does not your President stand ready to do the utmost that your nation will permit? Of what use to change your puppet? It is far better to control the wires. It seems to me that it would be an unspeakable blessing if no vote needed to be cast during the war, that no diversion of interest should interfere with the one great question.
I hear a great deal said about the jokes with which our President diversifies his talk, about his homely manners which repel our fine ladies. As a nation, we are an intelligent, but not a cultivated people. Mr. Lincoln fairly represents our average attainment, and he has never written a letter that the humblest of  his constituents cannot understand. Perhaps if we prayed for him oftener, we should criticise him less. AEsop told some stories, and his homely wisdom has kept his same alive. Our Divine Master knew little of classic lore of historic legend, but the lily of the valley, the sower in his field, the bridegroom in the Jewish street, tempted his simple story.
In conclusion, let me beseech you to forfeit none of the honor you have gained by any intemperate expansion of feeling in regard to matters not practically  in your hands. You have moral power—use it. I believe is woman's citizenship. If you and I sat together in the General Court, I think we might safely vote upon the practical questions at issue; but I, atleast, should wish to have an experience of some years before I held an office, or decided irrevocably upon any man's purely political fitness for it. Moral character would be the only test of which I should feel sure.
I am often asked why I do not address audiences of women, on political questions. I can say with simple truth, that I have never desired to do so. I would gladly speak to men on moral issues. I am proud of our women; they have done nobly. "Res non vebra" is the motto on my seal. I am glad to remember it, as I have been made to feel how much better are their deeds than my words. This is a time for doing, not for talking. I can pray, with sincerity, that there may never be need of me again; yet, I think, if I could have come to you, I should have been compelled to speak-but with more heat and less wisdom, perhaps, than I could write. I am not anxious, at this moment about woman's influence. It is almost the only thing felt in the land. Only let it be fifty exercised. As unauthorized interference never produces any good result. To work well politically, woman must not only possess opportunities of political education, not yet given, but she must win the consent of those she is to work with—a consent not yet accorded. I am anxious that you women, who are mostly what have been called”  what "women's Rights Women,” should so move at this moment as to have the complete sympathy of every loyal woman in the land. If you become active political partisans, you cannot have this. If you are sure that this is your duty, it is no matter whether you are have this sympathy or not—but make sure that this is your duty, it is no matter whether you have this sympathy or not—but makesere, I beseech you. Do not consent to lose influence without gaining power. A woman  may safely stand alone, if she stand on the right. Then, indeed, she is stronger than a thousand. Do not seek responsibility God has not conferred. In these terrible days it comes fast enough—only be wise to wield and bear it. Whoever be he that sits in the White House, he should have, I think, the tender sympathy of women, and from the length and breadth of the land he should hear—never their murmurs—sometimes, if need be, their moral rebuke—their stern "Stand, and deliver!" But, above all, he should feel their firm, unwavering support of his every effort towards the solving  of the great question of the practicability of an advancing civilization.
You have borne with me, I know, for I love and <illegible> you. If I speak too earnestly, it is  only because I would also serve you. 
Faithfully for the right,
CAROLINE H.DALL.
GEERIT SMITH ON THE FORT PILLOW AND PLYMOUTH MASSACRES.
The immediate criminals not always the only criminals— the creators of a wicked public sentiment responsible for its fruits—patriotism, and not party politics, our present seed—no taxes too heavy, if needed to put down the rebellion.
The whole civilized world will be startled and <illegible> by this slaughter of probably not less than five or six hundred persons. The excuse in the case of a part of the slaughtered is, that they were traitorous dozens of the Confederacy; in the case of another part. that they were whites fighting by the side of blacks; in the case of the remainder, including women and even children, that they were blacks. That these were blacks was cause enough why, though numbering three or four hundred, they should be murdered—murdered in utter contempt of all the sacred rights of prisoners of war. It is of the crime against these I would now speak.
Who are to be held amenable for this crime? The rebels. Yes, but not the rebels only. The authorship of this crime, so matchless in its worst features, is very comprehensive. The responsibility for it is wider that our nation. England shares in the authorship and responsibility, because it was she who planted slavery in America, and because it is slavery out of which this crime has come. Our own nation, however, is the far guiltier one. The guilt of this crime is upon at her people who have contributed to that public sentiment which releases white men from respecting the rights of a black men. Our highest Court says that this <illegible> sentiment prevailed in the early existence of our nation. Certain it is that it has prevailed in all later periods of that existence. Who are they who have contributed to generate it? All who have in the black are unfit to sit by the side of whites in the <illegible> the school, the car, and the table. All who have been in favor of making his complexion shut out a black man from the ballot-box. All who have been for making a title man's to any of the rights of man hood turn on the color of the skin in which his Maker has chosen to wrap him. All in short, who have hated or despised the black man.
Even President Lincoln, whom God now blesses and will yet more bless for the much God now blesses and black brethren, is nit he has done for his black brethren, is not entirely innocent of the Fort Pillow and Plymouth massacres. Had his plan of "Reconstruction" recognized the right of the black men to vote, it would thereby have contributed to lift them outrage, instead slave courage, instead of contributing as it now does to invite outrage upon them. By the way, it  is a pity that he undertook "Reconstruction." It was entirely <W>beyond his civil capacity to do so; and it was entirely beyond his military capacity to have a part in setting
<c02>
up any other than a military or provisional government.  Moreover, this is the only kind of government which it is proper to set up in the midst of war.  The leisure and advantages of peace are necessary in the great and difficult work of establishing a permanent government. In this connexion, let me advert for a moment to the doctrine ,"Once a State, always a State”—a doctrine so frequently wielded against" Reconstruction on any terms." Where is the authority for this doctrine?  In the Constitution, it is said But  no where does the Constitution say that a State may plunge into war, secure at all hazards from some of the penalties of war. But amongst the penalties of war is whatever change the conqueror may choose to impose upon the conquered territory.  I admit that it is very desirable to have all the revolting States re-established —re-instated; but that there is any law by which this becomes inevitable it  absurd. No where does the Constitution say that a State is to be exempt from the operation of the law of war.  No where does it undertake to override the law of war. How clear is it, then, that by this paramount law these revolted States will, when conquered, lie at the will of the conqueror! And how clear is it that it will then turn not at all upon the Constitution, but upon this will of the conqueror, backed by this paramount law of war, whether the old Statehood of these States shall be revived, or whether they shall be remanded to a Territorial condition, and put upon their good behavior!
There is another instance in which the President has contributed to that cruel public sentiment which leaves the black race unprotected. I refer to his so strangely long  delay in promising protection  to the black soldier, and to the even longer, and not yet ended, delay in affording it. The President is a humane as well as an honest man; and the only explanation I can find for his delay to protect the black soldier, and to put an end, so far as in him lies, to the various innumerable, incessant outrages upon the freedmen, is in the continuance of his childish and cowardly desire to conciliate his native Kentucky and the Democratic Party.
I argued that even President Lincoln is responsible, in some degree, for that public sentiment which invites outrage upon  the black man, and leaves him a prey to the wicked. Those members of Congress, who are opposing the reasonable measure of letting the black man vote in the Territories, are also guilty of favoring that public sentiment which broke out in the crime at Fort Pillow and Plymouth.  Similarly guilty are those members who would make the pay of a black soldier less than that of a white one. And so are those members who consent to leave a Fugitive Slave Statute in existence.  In a word, all should tax their consciences with the sin of this public sentiment, and with the resulting crime at Fort Pillow and Plymouth, whose influence, by either word or deed, has been to keep up in this heathen land the caste-spirit—that preeminent characteristic of heathenism. I call this a heathen land. To the Christ-religion—that simple religion of equal rights, and of doing as you would be done by—there can be no greater insult than to call a nation in which, as in this, the most cruel and murderous caste-spirit prevails, a Christian nation.
Both on the right hand and on the left, I hear that our nation is to be saved.  But my fears that it will not, often become very strong.  That the Rebellion is to be crushed, I deeply believe.  Often in the course of Providence a wicked people, which it itself to be afterward destroyed, is previously to be used in destroying another and generally more wicked people.  There are illustrations of this in the Bible.  The duty of Abolitionists and Anti-Abolitionists, Democrats and Republicans, to work unitedly, incessantly and unconditionally for the overthrow of the Rebellion, I have not only never doubted, but ever urged.  I hold it to be unpatriotic, and even traitorous, for the Abolitionists to make any conditions in behalf of their specialty, and to propose, as some of them do, to go against the Rebellion only so far as going against it will be going against slavery.  So, too, are those Democrats unpatriotic, and even traitorous, who can favor the war only under the stipulation that it be so conducted as to harm neither the Democratic Party nor the Constitution.  To put down the Rebellion is an object immeasurably higher than to save a party, or to save the Constitution, or even to save the country.  No man is right-minded who would not have it put down, even though it be at the expense of the last man and the last dollar.
If anything makes me doubt that the Rebellion will be crushed, it is the omission of Congress to abolish slavery, now when it is so clearly seen that the abolition of slavery is an indispensable means to the abolition of the Rebellion.  In the proposed Amendment to the Constitution, I take no interest.  One reason why I do not is, that it is not a proposition to abolish slavery now.  Another is, that war is not the time to be tinkering at Constitutions.  I see it denied that Congress has the power, even as a war measure, to abolish slavery. Amazing delusion! There is in every nation an absolute power for carrying on war. The nation that disclaims it may as well give  up being a nation.  In our own, this power is vested in Congress.  Congress is to declare war; and Congress is” to make all laws necessary and proper (itself, of course, the sole judge of the necessity and propriety) for carrying into execution" the declaration.  Is it the institution of apprenticeship which it finds to be in the way of the successful prosecution of the war? Then is it to sweep it out of the way.  Is it the abomination of slavery? Then is it to strike at that.
There is, however, one thing more which sometimes, though not often, raises a doubt in me whether the Rebellion will be crushed. It is the premature agitation of  the Presidential question. When  the Rebellion broke out, I assumed that it would be put down in a few months; for I assumed that this great crime against nationality and humanity would arouse and unite the whole North.  How greatly was I mistaken! Very soon, the Democratic Party was seen to prefer itself to the country. The Republican Parry stood by the country. But, at the present time, there is no little danger that the country may be sacrificed in a strife between the members of the Republican  Party; for, taking advantage of this strife, the Democratic Party may succeed in getting the reins of Government into the hands of one of its proslavery peacemakers. But I may be asked—Will not the rebels be conquered, and the country saved, before the next election?  I still hope so—and, until the last few months, I believed so.  But is there not some reason to fear that the North will be wrought up to a greater interest in this year's Presidential than in this year's Military campaign?  In other words, is there not some reason to fear that, for the coming six months, politics instead of patriotism will be in the ascendant? I still say, as through the past winter I have frequently said, written and printed, that the Presidential question should not have been talked of—no, nor so much as thought of, until midsummer. The first of September is quite early enough to make the nomination; and, in the mean time, undistracted by this so distracting subject, we should be working as one man for the one object of ending the Rebellion—and of ending it before reaching the perils of the Presidential election. And such working would best educate to make the best choice of a candidate. Moreover, it is the condition the country will be in, three or four months hence, rather than the condition it is now in, that should be allowed to indicate the choice; Great and rapidly successive are the changes in the circumstances of a country in time of war. To nominate a President in times of peace six months earlier than is necessary, all would admit to be great folly. But greater folly would it be to nominate him in time of war, even a single month earlier than is necessary. The Baltimore Convention is understood to be a movement for renominating President Lincoln, and the Cleveland Convention one for nominating General Fremont. Would that both Conventions were dropped! Would, indeed, that the whole subject were dropped until July or August! And would, too, that it were dropped with the understanding that it should then be taken up, not by the politicians, but by the people! The people would present a loyal and an
<c03>
able candidate: and whether it were Lincoln or Fremont, Chase or Butler, Dickinson or Dix, the country would be safe.
I recall, at this moment, the large and respectable meeting for consultation held in Albany last January. What a pity that the meeting took fright at the temperate and timely Resolutions reported to it! What a pity that the meeting saw in them danger to the country, or, perhaps, more properly speaking, to a party! One of these Resolutions and its advocates urged, the importance of postponing, until the latest possible day, the whole subject of a Presidential nomination; and, had it been adopted and published, it would not unlikely have exerted sufficient influence to bring about such postponement. Time has proved the wisdom of the other Resolutions also. I wish I could, without seeming egotism, say that slavery, and slavery alone, having  brought this war upon us, they who have given but little thought to slavery should be too modest to toss aside, indignantly and sneeringly, the suggestions of those who have made it their life-long study. Were these Resolutions now published, almost every man who opposed them would wonder that he had so little foresight as to oppose them.
And there is still another thing which should, perhaps, be allowed to suggest a doubt whether the Rebellion will be crushed. It is, that we are so reluctant to pay the cost of crushing it. Our brave soldiers and sailors give their lives to this end. But we who stay at home shrink from the  money tax, which is and which should be far more largely put upon us. Our nation is imperilled by the incessant outflow of a big stream of gold. Wise and patriotic as he is, our Secretary of the Treasury will, nevertheless, labor in vain to diminish this stream, unless importations shall be taxed far more heavily. Deeply disgraceful are these importations when it is by all that is precious in the very life of our nation that they are forbidden. Surely it is no time now to be indulging in foreign luxuries; and as to necessaries, our own country can furnish them all.  Luxuries, whether foreign or domestic, should all come now with great cost to the consumer.  And only a small return for protecting their estates from the rebels would it be for the rich to pay over to Government one fourth, and the very rich one half of their incomes. Let me add, in this connexion, that the State Banks should be so patriotic as to rejoice in the National advantage of an exclusively National currency.
I expressed my belief that the Rebellion will be crushed, but my doubt whether the nation will be saved. A guilty nation, like a guilty individual, can be saved through repentance only. But where are the proofs that this nation has so much as begun to repent of the great sin which has brought the great calamity upon her? She has, it is true, done much to prove that she regards slavery as a political and economical evil, and a source of great peril to the nation; but she has done exceedingly little toward proving that she has a penitent sense of her sin in fastening the yoke of slavery on ten to twenty millions of this and former generations. It is only here and there—at wide intervals both of time and space—that has been heard the penitent exclamation:" We are verily guilty concerning our brother":-only at these wide intervals that has been seen any relaxation of the national hatred and scorn for the black man. "Abolitionist," which, when the nation shall be saved, will be the most popular name in it, is still the most odious and contemptible name in it. That the Fugitive Slave Statute is still suffered to exist is ample proof that this nation has still a devil's heart toward the black man. How sad that even now, when, because of the sin of slaveholding, God is making blood flow like water in this land, there should be found members of Congress who claim this infernal Statute to be one of the rights of slaveholding! As  if slaveholding  had rights! As if anything else than  punishment were due to it!—punishment adequate to its mingled, un
utterable and blasphemous wrongs!
I shall, however, be told that slavery will soon be abolished by an Amendment of the Constitution. And what will such  an Amendment say? Why, nothing more than that slavery ought not to be—must not be—when it shall no longer be Constitutional. What, however, the American people need to say is that, be it Constitutional or unconstitutional, slavery shall not be. So they are always prepared to say regarding murder. But slavery is worse than murder.  Every right-minded man had far rather his child were murdered than enslaved.  Why then do they not affirm that, in no event, will they tolerate slavery any more than murder? The one answer is—because it is the black man, and the black man only, on whom slavery falls. Were white Americans to be enslaved in a Barbary State, or any where else, our nation would respect no pleadings of Statutes, or even of Constitutions, for their enslavement. In defiance of whatever pleas or whatever restraints, she would release them if she could. The most stupendous hypocrisy of which America has been guilty is, first, professing that there is law for slavery—law for that which all law proclaims an outlaw—law for that in which there is not one element of law, but every element of which is an outrage upon law; and, second, in professing it, not because she has a particle of belief in it, but simply because blacks, instead of whites, are the victims of her slavery. America declared that John Brown was "rightly hung."  How hypocritical was the declaration may be inferred from the fact that, had they been white instead of black slaves whom he flung away his life to rescue, she would have honored him as perhaps man has never been honored. And she would have made his honors none the less, but heaped them up all the more, if, in prosecuting his heroic and merciful work, he had tossed aside Statutes, and broken through sacred Constitutions.  Oh, if this nation shall ever be truly saved, it will no longer regard John Brown as worthy of the fate of a felon; but it will build the whitest monument to his memory, and cherish it as the memory of the sublimest and most Christ-like man the nation has ever produced! Some of the judgments of John Brown—especially such as led him to Harper's Ferry—were unsound and visionary. Nevertheless, even when committing his mistakes, he stood, by force of the disinterestedness and greatness of his soul, above all his countrymen. 
Would Congress contribute most effectively to put down the Rebellion, and to save the nation by the great salvations of penitence and justice—the only real salvations? Would it do this? Then let it pass, solemnly and unanimously, a Resolution that there never was and never can be, either inside or outside of Statutes or Constitutions, law for slavery; and then another Resolution, that whoever shall attempt to put the yoke of slavery on however humble a neck, black or white, deserves to be put to death.
A word further in regard to the proposed Amendment. Were the impudent and monstrous claim of its being law set up for murder, no one would propose an  Amendment of the Constitution forbidding murder. The only step in that case would be to make the penalty for the crime more sure, and, if possible, more severe. Such an Amendment would be strenuosly objected to in that it would stain the Constitution with the implication that murder had been Constitutional. And now if we shall have a Constitutional Amendment, which, in terms, forbids slavery, (it is already forbidden by the spirit, principles, and even provisions of the Constitution,) shall we not be virtually admitting to the world and to posterity that this nation has been guilty of tolerating, if not indeed of positively authorizing, in its Constitution, the highest crime of earth? God save us from an admission which shall serve both to stamp us with infamy and to perpetuate the infamy!
GERRIT SMITH.
PETERBORO, April 26th, 1864.
DEATH OF REV. HIRAM WILSON.  The Principia announces the death of Rev. Hiram Wilson, at his residence in St. Catharines, Canada West, after a short illness. He has been long and widely known for his missionary labors among the fugitives slaves in Canada, whose cause be zealously espoused.
<c04>
A PLEASANT "SURPRISE" PARTY AT REV.
 S. J. MAY’S.
Passing through Syracuse last evening, I was quite naturally, as is often the case, attracted to the home of this” Archimedes” of Theodore Parker, and beloved” Bishop” of this Liberal Diocese—the equal of whom, in many respects, I fear Syracuse will not see again, after his departure." After his departure” I have said; not that he is going to leave the place till he leaves the flesh, for his devoted people would hardly consent to that, under any circumstances likely to arise. Not that he is old, and must soon cease to be mortal; for though he will, ere long, be truly venerable for his length of years—years so crowded with all sorts of good deeds—in spirit he will, no doubt, I be young and enthusiastic to the end.” His countenance," as Theodore Parker also said," is a perpetual May," and it does not and cannot change much; for is not the spirit that radiates from it divine? Still, he, too, like all of us, must" pass on," in a few years, and leave a great vacancy behind that no one can exactly fill. I presume he will go to the "spirits in  prison first," even before looking into any of those many inviting mansions of the Father's house; for before the end comes, he will be sure to bless and save; as many wretched and suffering ones as possible—just as much the other side of the vale as this side.
But I did not mean to say much of the above, for it said itself.  I only meant to say that a large, earnest, and delightful company of persons, old and young, grave and gay, assembled at Mr. May's home on the evening aforesaid, and surprised him with the presentation of the handsome sum of $500—the free-will offering of their affectionate, grateful hearts. A "Sociable"—one of the Society's regular gatherings—he expected, but not the generous gift. Mr. George Maynard presented the tribute, in an appropriate and very pleasant little speech, and Mr. May briefly responded to it as well as one could under such circumstances. It was quite unlike "fighting with beasts at Ephesus," and he could not stand up against this expression of love and esteem so well, and would have broken down under it had he proceeded with much of a speech. I remember that the venerable Pierpont once humorously said to N..P. Rogers," If the slaveholders and liquor dealers with whom we have had to battle had worked to silence us, it would have been wiser for them to have offered you an interest in a plantation, and me an interest in a distillery."  And I wonder if many ministers have not been bought up in some such way! It must be hard for some of them to stand up against friends and supporters who are constantly feasting them, and loading them with favors more or less costly, and say—" Nevertheless, you are sinners; and except ye repent, ye will all likewise perish." But our devoted brother May, who has always been "faithful found among the faithless," is probably as much above such an influence as any in mortal form, and he will still preach "righteousness in the great congregation," and in all his walks and ways, as uncompromisingly as ever. And then he has so sensible and good a people to minister unto, that they want him to do about as he chooses—at least, as his conscience and judgment dictate. No doubt some of them would like to have him preach a little different from what  he sometimes does—a little less radically—but as one of them said, "We are united in the love of Mr. May, at any rate"; and well they may be, both for what he is and does. His family, also, did much to make the above named occasion a most pleasant one to all.
W. H. F.
CORRECTION —THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE.
DEAR SIR—after mailing my article under the caption of" Presidential  Nominee,"  published in the Liberator of April 8, I recollected that in the" pledge" to be signed by voters, I had, through inadvertence or forgetfulness, made the voter pledge himself to vote directly for President, Vice President, &c. Concluding, however, that if the general plan suggested should be deemed important, you would be likely to rectify the mistake, I forbore writing again, as especially where I live we have but a weekly mail. As the article has appeared without the necessary rectification, and also as" or otherwise viva voce," as published, is a transposition of copy which destroys the sense, (unintentional, of course,) I venture to send you the article written anew, with some addition, requesting its insertion; trusting that you, as well as myself, ardently desire nothing more than that the Presidential nominee shall be the man whom a majority of the loyal people shall "delight to honor.”
Truly and respectfully,
"ONE OF THE VOTERS."
THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE.
Let him be nominated directly by the people. Why not? Let the Republicans of every ward and township throughout the United States assemble at the usual places for holding elections, and after appointing their judges and secretaries, proceed then and there to vote, either viva voce or by ballot, for Presidential and Vice Presidential nominees. Why not? Will anybody, or any politicians, except those "who seek to misdirect the popular mind," undertake to say WHY NOT? Of course, it will be the duty of the judges, in this nominating election, to decide, in case of doubt, whether the vote offered smells of copper, or is good and genuine, and also to see, that every man signs the following pledge before his vote is received:
I hereby pledge my honor, as a gentleman and a patriot, that I will vote for electors pledged to those candidates for President and Vice President of the United States, at the next Presidential election, who shall receive a majority of votes at the hands of the people in this Nominating Election—or to those highest on the list, in case no candidate shall have a majority of all the votes cast as nominee for each office.
Now, if this course should be adopted, the General Convention would be subsequently held, and all Union parties who really desire that the majority shall govern would be  represented in that Convention, and would abide its decision—which, of course, would be simply a ratification of the voice of the people as expressed in the Nominating Election; the returns of which, officially in possession of the delegates, would be presented to the Convention,  would be then and there  opened and counted, and by the President  of the  Convention the result would be proclaimed. ONE OF THE VOTERS.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
ST. LOUIS, April 19, 1864.
Mr. SAMUEL. MAY, Jr.:—
DEAR SIR,—Permit me to publicly acknowledge, through the Liberator, as I shall also privately to the donor, the receipt of forty-seven dollars and fifty three cents, through you, from Mrs. ANNE  R. ALLEN, Brooklawn Block, Rock Co., Dublin, Ireland," as a donation for the use of the distressed, manumitted or escaped slaves." It was with no light degree of pleasure that I received this gift, as one entrusted to use it for so holy a purpose; yet this pleasure was not unmixed with pain, in the consciousness that so many of our own people, almost within sound of the cry of suffering, fail to hear the prayer of those who are ready to perish.
May the good deed of Mrs. Allen move others to work in the same way! I believe that good ways are readily followed by humanity, and are as enticing to those that see and know them as are the bad, which we are told are so alluring. Mrs. Allen's gift shall be speedily appropriated, and for every mill of it there shall be a "God bless you!" registered by the recording angel to her account.
Truly yours, FRANCES D.GAGE.
RELEASE OF REV. CALVIN  FAIRBANK. After twelve years’ incarceration (the sentence was fifteen years) in the Kentucky penitentiary, on the charge of having aided in the escape of some fugitive slaves, this unflinching martyr has been humanely liberated by Lieut. Gov. R. T. Jacob, (brother-in-law of Gen. Fremont,) while acting as Governor pro tem, in the absence of Gov. Bramlette at Washington.
<C05>
THE PAY OF COLORED TROOPS.
On the 27th of April, the Attorney General of the United States rendered an opinion to the President, in the case of Chaplain Harrison, of the 54th regiment of Mass. Inf. Vols., on appeal from the War Department by Gov. Andrew, in which opinion is discussed the competency of colored men (or men of African descent) to be accepted into the military service of the United States, and to be paid and treated accordingly —as soldiers. The Attorney General declares:—1st. That the 54th regiment of Mass. Vols. was organized in the same manner as were, other regiments of State Volunteers, under the following order of the War Department, dated Jan. 27, 1863:—
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY, ) January 26, 1863.
Ordered, That Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, is authorized until further orders to raise such numbers, of volunteer companies of artillery for duty in the forts of Massachusetts and elsewhere, and such corps of infantry for the volunteer military service as he may find convenient, such volunteers to be enlisted for three years, or until sooner discharged, and may include persons of African descent, organized into separate corps. He will make the usual needful requisitions on the appropriate staff bureaus, and officers, for the proper transportation, organization, supplies, subsistence, arms and equipments of such volunteers.
(Signed) EDWIN M. STANTON,
 Secretary of War.
2d. That he does not know that "any rule of law, constitutional or statutory, ever prohibited the acceptance, organization and muster of persons of African descent into the military service of the United States as enlisted men or volunteers.
3d. That whatever doubt might have existed on the subject had been fully resolved, before this order was issued, by the 11th section of the act of 17th July, 1862, chapter 195, which authorized the President to employ as many persons of African descent as he might deem necessary and proper for the suppression of the rebellion, and for that purpose to organize and use them in such manner as he might judge best for the public welfare, and by the 12th section of chapter 201 of the same date.
4th. That if persons of African descent could be lawfully accepted as private soldiers, so also might they be lawfully accepted as commissioned officers, if otherwise qualified therefore.
5th. That the clause or provision in the 15th section of chapter 201, of the year 1862, "that persons of African descent who, under this law, shall be employed, shall receive ten dollars per month and one ration, three dollars of which monthly pay may be in clothing," does not abridge the pay of officers and soldiers. He says, "The act of which the provision is a part was not intended, in my opinion, either to authorize the employment or fix the pay of any persons of African descent, except those who might be needed to perform the humblest offices of labor and service for which they might be deemed competent."
6th. That Chaplain Harrison is an officer legally appointed and commissioned.  And  "to bring him, then, within the sweep of this proviso, and thus with draw him from the reach of the act which specially fixes the pay of the class of officers to which by law he belongs, would violate the plainest principles of construction.."
In another place the opinion declares:" To assume because Mr. Harrison is a person of African descent, he shall draw only the pay which this law establishes for the class it obviously refers to, and be deprived of the pay which another law specifically affixes to the office he held, would, in my opinion, be a distortion of both laws, not only unjust to him, but in plain violation of the purpose of Congress."
The ground and reasoning of the opinion cover as well the cases of enlisted men as the case of the chaplain, who was an officer; because the same rule of construction which entitles the officer, although of African descent, to the pay affixed by law to the office he holds, entitles the sergeant-major, sergeant, corporal and private, regularly mustered as such, to the pay affixed to his grade of the service. Indeed, the Attorney General, throughout his opinion, clearly keeps up the distinction between persons accepted and mustered in as soldiers, and other persons who are only employed under the special provisions of chapter 201 of 1862 in such service as they may be found fit for.
The  Attorney General adds, in conclusion: —" Your attention having been specially called to the wrong done in this case, I am also of opinion that your constitutional obligation to take care that the laws be faithfully executed makes it your duty to direct the Secretary of War to inform the officers of the Pay Department of the Army that such is your view of the law.”
KNOXVILLE, (E. T.) April 18, 1864.
The news of the capture of Fort Pillow by Forrest, and the cowardly butchery which followed of blacks and whites alike, has produced a profound sensation here. The universal sentiment is—" Let no quarter be shown to these dastardly  butchers of Forrest's command while the war lasts.”
These Forrests, the oldest of whom, Gen. Bedford Forrest, has by his atrocities obtained such a record of infamy, were all negro-traders. There were four brothers—Bedford, who kept a negro pen for five years before the war on Adams street, in the rear of the Episcopal Church, Memphis; John, a cripple and a gambler, who was jailor and clerk for Bedford; Bill Forrest, who was an extensive negro-trader at Vicksburg; and Aaron Forrest, general agent and soul-driver to scour the country for his other brothers. They accumulated large sums of money in their nefarious trade, and Bedford won by that and other influences a natural promotion to a Brigadier in the woman-whipping, baby-stealing Rebel Confederacy. He is about fifty years, of age, tall, gaunt, and sallow-vis-aged, with a long nose, deep-set, black, snaky eyes, full black beard without a mustache, and hair worn long. He usually wore, while in the "nigger” trade at Memphis, a stove-pipe hat set on the back part of his head at an angle of forty-five degrees. He was accounted mean, vindictive, cruel, and unscrupulous. He had two wives—one white, the other colored. (Catharine,) by each of which he had two children. His "patriarchal” wife (Catharine) and his white wife had frequent quarrels, or domestic jars.
The slave-pen of old Bedford Forrest, on Adams street, was a perfect horror to all negroes, far and near. His mode of punishing a refractory slave was to compel four of his fellow-slaves to stand and hold the victim stretched out in the air, and then Bedford and his brother John would stand, one on each side, with long, heavy, bull whips, and cut up their victims until the blood trickled to the ground. Women were often stripped naked, and with a bucket of salt water standing by, in which to dip the instrument of torture, (a heavy leather thong,) their backs were cut up until the blisters covered the whole surface, the blood of their wounds mingling with the briny mixture to add torment to the infliction. One slave man was whipped to death by Bedford, who used a trace-chain doubled for the purpose of punishment. The slave was secretly buried, and the circumstance was only known to the slaves of the prison, who only dared to refer to the circumstance in whispers.
Such are the appropriate antecedents of the character of the monster who murdered in cold blood  the gallant defenders of Fort Pillow.—Corr. N. Y. Trib.
The Northampton Free Press announces the death of Mr.ABIJAH W.THAYER, 24th ult., at 68 years of age.  The deceased was a printer by trade. He commenced his editorial career in 1819, on the Concord (N. H.) Gazette. In 1820 he was editor of the Haverhill Gazette, and in 1821 conducted the Independent Statesman at Portland, Me. In 1827 he returned to Haverhill as the editor of the Essex Gazette, where he remained till 1835. He sold that paper to Erastus Brooks, now of the New York Express, who sold it to John G. Whittier, the poet  Mr. T. became the proprietor of the Commercial Herald, Philadelphia, and soon after that he went into mercantile business with Mr. Buffum, a Quaker, and afterwards with Col. Spooner, late of the U. S. Hotel, Boston. In 1840 he was engaged in silk raising in Amherst, Mass. Soon after, he became editor of the Northampton Courier, and afterwards of the Gazette. In 1845 he edited the Hampshire Herald.  In 1847 he was editor of a paper in Worcester, when he returned to  Northampton, where he remained until his death. Mr. Thayer was a man of considerable ability.  He published several of the earliest literary productions of Longfellow, Mellen, Whittier and others. His knowledge of political history was unsurpassed. He also had quite an antiquarian turn of mind, and set great value on ancient books and rare coins. He was a direct descendant, both by his father's and mother's ancestors, of John Alden, one of the distinguished company of the Mayflower. He was married in 1824, and his wife and four children survive him, two sons and two daughters.  His sons are graduates of Harvard University. The oldest, William S. Thayer. for a time associate editor of the New York Evening Post, is now Consul General at Alexandria, Egypt. The youngest, James B. Thayer, is a successful lawyer in Boston.

OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE FORT PILLOW MASSACRE.  Senator Wade and Representative Gooch, of the Committee on the Conduct of the War, have returned from Fort Pillow. They took fifty-seven depositions, all of which more than confirm the newspaper accounts of the Massacre. They say it would be impossible  to exaggerate the cruelties committed. Among the witnesses examined was the negro who was buried alive, and who dug himself out of his own grave. There is no doubt that one or more persons were nailed through their flesh to pieces of wood, and then burnt alive. Not only on the day of the surrender were such fiendish acts perpetrated, but on the next day, in cold blood. The victims seen by the Committee were some of them pierced and cut in the face and eyes. with bayonets, and swords, while other parts of their bodies were smashed and disfigured either by steel or lead.
<c06>
ANNIVERSARY OF THE WOMEN’S LOYAL NATIONAL LEAGUE.
The Anniversary of the Women's National League will be held in New York, Thursday, May 12th, at the Church of the Puritans, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
 Representatives from auxiliary Leagues, and all woman who believe in a democratic form of government, an invited to attend.
The work of the hour is not alone to put down the rebels in arms, but TO EDUCATE THIRTY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE INTO THE IDEA OF A TRUE REPUBLIC. Hence, every influence and power that both men and women can bring to bear will be needed in the reconstruction of the nation on the basis of justice and equality.
As the educators of future statesmen, heroes and martyrs, it is the duty of women to inform themselves on all questions of national life, that they may infuse into the politics of the nation a purer morality and religion.
This Revolution has thrown on woman new responsibilities, and awakened in her new powers and aspirations, no longer to be expended, as now, in mere surface work, but to be developed into a broader, deeper and higher range of thought and action than has of late been realised.
The nation's destiny now trembles in the balances, and waits the electric word that shall rouse the women of the Republic to make themselves a POWER FOR FREEDOM in the coming Presidential campaign.
That all our sacrifices of wealth and ease and home, and the blood of our first-born, may not have been in vain, let as—earnest and heroic through suffering—now make haste to pronounce the doom of slavery,  and ring the death-knell of caste and class throughout the land.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President
SUSAN  B. ANTHONY,) Secretaries
CHARLOTTE B.WILBOUR,)
LORING MOODY, Agent of the New England Educational Commission for Freedmen, will  lecture in New
Newmarket, Friday, May 6.
Dover, Sunday, "  8.
Saco, Tuesday," 10.
Yarmouth, Thursday, " 12.
Auburn, Sunday, " 15.
Winthrop, Wednesday, " 18.
Kendall's Mills, Thursday, " 19.
Bangor, Sunday, " 22.
TO LET, for the Summer season, one of the most desirable residences in Lynn, situated on Sagamore Hill, free from dust, mosquitoes and other annoyances, and within three minutes' walk of the Beach. The house will be let with or without the furniture. Rent reasonable for the times.
Inquire of J. BAILEY, on the premises.
COLLECTIONS BY WM. WELLS BROWN.
Westminster, Mass., $3.50 Birmingham, Conn.,8.40
Gardner, " 4.25 Waterbery, " 1.20
Hubbardston,  "  3.71  Woodstock,"  1.36
South Gardner, "  5.19  Ansonia, " 3. 16
Warren, "  2.77	Litchfield."  2.08
Putnam,  Conn.,   5.92  Wolcotteville,  "  17.21
Brooklyn, "  4.40  Norfolk, "  3.25
Danielsonville, "   3.75  Winsted, "  2.00
Wilimantic,    "  4.84
SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR  LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of " Woman's Labor,” "Woman under the Law,” &c.16mo; paper, 35 cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR. BARTOL'S SERMON COMMEMORATIVE OF REV. T. STARR KING.  15 cents.
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER  A Rational Method of Teaching Heading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By Rev. J. C.ZACHOS.  38 cents.
WALKER, WISE &. CO.,
BOSTON.
April 8—1w
THE RED SEA FREEDMEN,
ASTIRRING Sermon for the times; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing; upon the activities  of the  Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of "Clark's School Visitor," and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia.
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents. $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address
J. W. DAUGHADAY,
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
April 15. 3t
MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest  pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must  continue to increase as their merits become known.  They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially from different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind.  Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2.It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to reader it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence.  Such recommendations already have been given let hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beeeher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c:, such celebrated piantists as Gottschalk, Wm.  Mason, Mill, Sandersons,  Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundreds musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address. 
WAREROOMS } 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26—6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OWEN LOVEJOY.1
“I have done the work of a hundred years in the last twenty years, and now that the day of emancipation has come, can it be that God will not let me live to witness it?”—LOVEJOY.
Champion of Freedom! gone to rest—
Passed from the night to perfect day—
We press the turf upon thy breast,
And angels guard thy sleeping clay.
It was not hard that thou should’st go
From scenes of carnage, fields of strife—
Should’st leave a world of sin and woe,
To taste the bliss of endless life:—
Should’st hear no more the clanking chains
Of those whom God’s own image bear;
That thou no more their groans and pains,
Their fears and agonies should’st share.
Thou dost not see, by slow degrees,
The grand and glorious problem wrought
Of Liberty, to which thou gav’st
Thy life of earnest toil and thought.
But thou hast gone where, from the first,
The end is always clearly seen;
And thus thou seest all fetters burst,
And Freedom’s light on all men beam.
And while we doubt, and fear, and pray.
And agonize at what may be—
Thou, in the realm of brighter day,
In God’s own light dost clearly see
The end of all this fearful strife—
Triumphant justice, truth and peace
Descend to bless our mortal life,
And bid all jarring discord cease.
If those of coming years with shame
The record of our age shall trace,
We’ll point to LOVEJOY’S honored name,
And say, “Behold! all were not base!”
True friend of all humanity,
Brother of all that were oppressed,
Each day we thank our God for thee,
And thank him that thou art at rest.
Elmwood, III.
AMELIA SMITH.

IN MEMORIAM—LOVEJOY.
BY JOHN H. BRYANT.
O, lay him in his place of rest;—
His earnest, stormy life is o’er:
Let the green sods of Spring be prest
Round the lov’d form we see no more.
How throbbed his warm and generous heart!
What mighty passions thrilled his frame!
How beamed his eye with sudden start
At sound of Freedom’s holy name!
To her be gave his earnest life,
And toiled through seeming hopeless years,
Long years of scorn, and hate, and strife,
Till now her glorious day appears.
Strong words of Truth that cannot die,
He spoke in stern and high debate;
With manly front and dauntless eye
Met the wild charge of rebel hate.
With mightier power than Aaron’s rod
He tore the oppressor’s nets apart,
And poured the living truth of God
Fresh on the nation’s quivering heart.
What countless crowds throughout the land
Hung on each glowing, burning word!—
He swayed them with a prophet’s wand,
As woods in morning wind are stirred.
As Moses from the mountain steep,
He saw the enfranchised land before:—
He leaves the boon for us to keep,
His work is done—he asked no more.
In these free prairies of the West
We lay his manly form away;—
Tis meet that here Earth’s loving breast
Receive again the conqueror’s clay.
O brave, true friend of many years,
No other friend thy place can fill!—
I weep—but vain are all my tears—
The unmeasured void is open still!

IN MEMORIAM.
(THOMAS STARR KING, DIED MARCH 4, 1864.)
Mourn not for him who now in bliss eternal
Is clasped with fondness in the Father’s arms;
Whose voice, though below, below, in realms supernal
Swells the grand chorus of angelic psalms.
Mourn not for him—he heedeth not the story
Of earthly fame or earthly honors now:
Brave soldier of the Cross, the Father’s glory
Has crowned with triumph his celestial brow.
Mourn not for him; thy tears should be of gladness
For one translated to the highest plane;
And though for aye the heart may neat with sadness,
With the remembrance of his cherished name.
Mourn not for him, but for ourselves the sorrow;
We shed no tears for his rejoicing soul;
But rather from its light we seek to borrow
One gleam, to guide us to the heavenly goal.
—San Francisco Daily Bulletin, March 4. 

SONG OF THE FREEDMEN.
Sung at a Levee given for the aid of Freedmen.
TUNE—”John Brown.”
Our bitter tasks are ended, all our unpaid labor done,
Our galling chain are broken, and our onward march begun;
For our cry has reached the temple of the high and holy One,
And our God is marching on.
Glory, glory, halllujah, etc.
Down in the house of bondage we have watched and waited long,
The oppressor’s heel was heavy, the oppressor’s arm was strong;
A great Deliverer pleads our cause, we’ll sing a joyful song,
For our God is marching on!
Not vainly have we waited, through the long and darkened years.
Not vain the patient watching, mid our sweat and blood and tears;
For when the poor and needy cry, the Lord Jehovah hears;
And his truth is marching on.
We must travel through the wilderness to reach the goodly land,
But our hearts shall never falter, and our feet like rocks shall stand:
Our trust is in the mighty One—we’re led by his right hand;
And his truth is marching on.
If, like “de ole time people,” we mart in the desert die,
Yet on the fields where freemen fall our whitening bones shall lie;
And wise and children never More shall lift the bondman’s cry;
For our God is marching on.
Then swell again the anthem, let sound from sea to sea;
Like chaff before the whirlwind swift our proud enslavers Lee;
Jehovah’s arm has triumphed and the sons of Ham are free!
Still his truth is going on.
New Ipswich.
A. O.
—Zion’s Herald.

“BE STRONG, FEAR NOT.”
O ye of fearful hearts, be strong!
Your downcast eyes and hands lift up?
Doubt not, nor cry, “O God, how long?”
Hope to the end, in patience hope!
O never from your faith remove;
Ye cannot fail, for God is love!
<c02>
The Liberator.
“A CRITICAL HISTORY OF THE DOCTRINE OF A FUTURE LIFE: with a complete Bibliography of the subject. By William Rounseville Alger. Philadelphia: George W. Child, 628 and 630 Chestnut St., 1864.”—8vo. pp. 914. For sale in Boston by Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington Street.
This book must needs be a large one, for its author has undertaken much, has industriously devoted twelve years to his work, and has accomplished much. He has given us not only a critical, but an exhaustive history of the doctrine of a Future Life. His work is distinguished by comprehensiveness of plan, carefulness of arrangement, clearness of explanation, poetic life, of treatment, copiousness of information, and persevering patience of toil. He seems to have been inspired by an intense and genuine interest in the subject, and his treatment of it certainly awakens such an interest in the mind of the reader.
The book consists of five parts, the general plan of which shows the author’s largeness of scope and carefulness of arrangement. The First Part contains introductory views, historical and critical, of the general subject; treating of theories of the soul’s origin, the history of death, the grounds of a belief in a future life, and those general theories of the destination of the soul under which all the varieties of opinion may be classified. The Second Part treats of “Ethnic Thoughts concerning a Future Life.” Beginning with the notions of barbarous peoples upon that subject, it proceeds to sketch minutely the Druidic, Scandinavian, Etruscan, Egyptian, Brahmanic and Buddhist, Persian, Hebrew, Rabbinical, Greek, Roman and Mohammedan Doctrines in regard to it. The Third Part is devoted to “New Testament Teachings concerning a Future Life,” noting the several peculiarities of the testimony of Peter, Paul, John and Jesus, and of the authors of the Epistle to the Hebrews and of the Apocalypse in regard to it, stating the bearings of the Resurrection of Christ upon the subject, and giving the author’s view of the “Essential Christian Doctrine of Death and Life.” The Fourth Part treats of “Christian Thoughts concerning a Future Life,” classifying them as the Patristic, Mediaeval and Modern doctrines concerning it. And Part Fifth contains various historical and critical dissertations belonging to the subject, namely:—The doctrine of a Future Life in the ancient Mysteries; Metempsychosis, or the transmigration of souls; a Resurrection of the flesh; the doctrine of Future Punishment, or critical history of the idea of a hell; the five theoretic modes of Salvation; the Recognition of Friends in a future life; the Local Fate of man in the astronomic universe; the critical history of Disbelief in a future state; and the Morality of the doctrine of a future life. These doctrines receive elaborate, discriminating and judicious treatment. Next comes a full Index of Topics and Authors; and the book is closed by an Appendix, containing a complete Bibliography of the subject.
The preparation of this book has required very extensive reading, ancient and modern. Both the text and the notes everywhere reveal this, without officiously displaying it. The amount and the minuteness of reference to authorities is a matter for the. taste and judgment of each author to decide; and Mr. Alger seems to have chosen the golden mean, giving no more of such reference than is needful to justify his own positions, and guide the inquirer to the sources of further knowledge. The ordinary reader, however, would hardly imagine how many gleams of light, thrown by literature of every period and of every imaginable sort upon the subjects of this work, have been caught by its author’s industrious research, and so disposed as to display more clearly their scope and purport.
Mr. Alger has a rich and fine imagination, yet does not allow this faculty to intermeddle with the province of reason. The grave subjects which he has chosen to discuss receive touching and beautiful illustrations from his fancy, reminding the reader of the illustrated margins in antique books of devotion. His thought flows copiously, his style is large and free. He uses many epithets, more than a rigid taste would approve, yet few of them are tautologous, and most enrich as well as enlarge his meaning. The subjects are treated, throughout, in a lucid and attractive manner. Many persons who take up the bulky volume with the purpose of skimming it will find themselves attracted to read it; and many who began by borrowing will find it necessary to buy it.
This History throws a genuine light upon the subjects of which it treats. By pointing out the origin and tracing the course of many of the dogmas that now form part of the tangled mass of tradition, assumption and inference called church-doctrine, it enables us to distinguish them from true Christianity, and to see how and when priestcraft forged the claim that they considered parts, and essential parts, of the Gospel of Christ We get here much accurate know ledge of the ideas prevailing among the Jews in the time of Jesus, shared, of course, by the first receivers of the Christian doctrine, and continuing, for a long course of years, to modify their representations of that doctrine. We find clearly traced the distinctions, some of them very important, between the actual teaching of the several chief apostles and New Testament writers, and the particulars in which they all vary from the ideas probably taught by Jesus. We say probably taught; for we must not forget that we have no writings from the pen of that great Teacher, and that those who reported him often failed to understand his particular meaning, as they always failed to comprehend the full grandeur of his character and his ideas.
One of the important subjects thus elucidated by Mr. Alger is the Jewish idea respecting the underworld, the common receptacle of disembodied spirits, after death, without a correct understanding of which much of the language of the New Testament writers, and especially of Paul, must remain obscure, or be misunderstood. Another is the enormous extent to which, in the age preceding the Protestant Reformation, religious fears were made to operate on the minds of men, and the doctrines of hell and purgatory organized as a working instrument of ecclesiastical power and profit. Another is the fact that Paul plainly represents the resurrection, and not the crucifixion, as the efficacious feature in Christ’s work of redemption. Another is the view taken by Paul of the resurrection of men; not the raising of decomposed bodies from their graves, but a raising of the summoned spirits of the deceased from their rest in the underworld. Another is that most of the New Testament writers shared, and plainly taught, the error of expecting a destruction of the earth, and a cessation of the present form of human existence, in their own time. It is made plain that these writers, even where they shared the substance of Christ’s true thoughts, held also additional notions, which were errors retained from their Pharisaic education, and only partially modified by their succedding Christian culture. Mr. Alger’s book fulfils the function of a commentary on many portions of the New Testament, far better than most of the works that bear that name.
There are in this book many passages, many whole chapters of distinguished beauty, such as we should be glad to quote, only that to make a selection of the best, within moderate limits, would be difficult. The chapter on the “Grounds of the belief in a future life” gives a fine specimen of the author’s thought and expression. The close of that narrating the “History of death” pictures most beautifully the wisdom and benignity of this change of the form of oar existence. The chapter on the “Modern Doctrine of a Future Life” traces, in an impressive manner, the gradual change of belief in the Christian world upon that subject; show how vast numbers of the children of civilization have learned to accept religious ideas conformed to God’s teachings in nature and reason, instead of opposed to them; how many of the old dogmas, which still remain stereotyped in the creeds of the popular sects, slumber there unrealized and unnoticed by the great body of common believer, while
<c03>
the rational investigator notices only to repudiate them; and how utterly futile are the effort of priestcraft to prevent or restrain the common mind from the exercise of independent thought on religion subjects. In treating of the “Morality of the doctrine of Future Life,” the author gives just and effective answers, alike to the sceptics who deny that doctrine, and the false or superficial religionists who have misused it.
The Bibliographical Appendix to this work, by Mr. Ezra Abbott, the Assistant Librarian of Harvard University, is a marvel of labor and learning. Think of the patient industry and the extensive knowledge needful for the bare attempt to collect from all languages the titles of all the books, pamphlets, essays, and articles in Reviews and Magazines, which have ever been written upon any one of the group of subjects connected with the doctrine of a future life! And then think what laborious and extensive research must hare been needed to fill more than two hundred octavo pages with the titles of such works and the names of their authors, chronologically arranged, and classified in such a manner as best to assist the researches of the student! No wonder that this labor (a work undertaken in addition to the author’s customary employment) occupied years, instead of the months originally proposed for it. The number of titles collected exceeds 5300. The learned and accurate compiler has himself examined the originals wherever it was possible to do so. However the collection may fail of absolute completeness, we may be confident that all has been done which the time and the means allowed. The addition of this Catalogue greatly increases the value, already great, of Mr. Alger’s labors; and the many whose interest he has awakened, or increased, in the study of this branch of philosophy and religion, have here an accomplished and faithful guide in the continuance of their researches.
The form of the book corresponds in merit to its substance. We have the whole in one volume, in a clear and readable type, and the printing shows an accuracy of supervision rarely found in American books. Very few typographical errors appear in the nine hundred closely printed pages. It is very pleasant to learn that a large circulation of the work shows a good public appreciation of its merit.—C. K. W.

MIGHT versus EIGHT.
MR. GARRISON—What you have kindly printed, of late, respecting the ethics of Peace, has interested me much; especially that about the nature of government and men’s relation thereto. The essential truth, the abstract right of the thing, what God thinks of it, alone is of real importance;—politics, the war, the Union, all else being quite incidental and transitory. It is the good fortune of the readers of the Liberator to have learned, years ago, that war is wrong; not merely an evil, but a sin; the entrance of disorder; anarchy of ideas involving anarchy of interests. Hence, to support or encourage it is blameworthy, a retreat towards darkness and chaos; while the resolute and consistent assertion of the Peace principle looks to order and progress. In your own felicitous phrase, “Non-resistance is with government more than government is with itself. If that doctrine is true, it is capable of meeting every emergency and resisting every temptation; if it is right, then no human being may plead his or her necessity to have the right put aside, because principle is above all Considerations of safety, divine and eternal.”
Politics, with a large infusion of fraud and force, appears as president or pound-keeper set over those wearing hoofs until they get on two feet, and acknowledge the dominion of principles. Nominal governments are the Divine and human will as filtered through Palmerston, Louis Napoleon, Abraham Lincoln, or Jefferson Davis; real governments, the essential “powers that be,” are fixed ideas, and the example of them “the laws of God until we can make better.” The just man is the government, and the sure rampart against anarchy and despotism, is the universal sentiment of right; is the common sense we level up to find in manhood, not down in brute-hood. It is the Peace man, therefore, incarnating the Divine thought, who protects the soldier, not the soldier the Peace man—as will be plain enough when that doctrine is respectable as well as true. War to promote order, to say nothing of its immorality, is as absurd as the duel or the ring in defence of honor; the habit of brutes and barbarians, to be banished from the domain of reason and moral sense. Your special contributor, C. K. W., whose articles always command respect, once demonstrated that war was impolitic and unnecessary to secure the independence of ‘76. Will not his large experience, clear analysis and profound thought disclose to “unbelievers” the fact, that in this conflict also the sword, as an instrument of Union, Freedom or Peace, should never have been resorted to? Not that slavery is peace, but separation was the wisest and only Christian method to abolish that nuisance, as there are many good arguments on file to show. The ordeal of battle is a despair of reason, confessing imbecility and cowardice. Had we promptly declined that insane and diabolical method of arbitration, as Senator Wilson, to his honor, declined a duel with Preston S. Brooks, we should have given to the nations valid proof of faith in truth and man; the example of a people worthy of the grand motto, “Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.” Few seem to be aware that the soul is greater than the fist, and right alone is might; that Calvary is higher than Bunker Hill, and commands it. These fighting “peace men,” so anxious to show how Americans can constitutionally and gloriously murder their enemies, are wofully mistaken in supposing that perfidy to mankind is faith to one’s country; that treason to Heaven is obedience to the State. It is plus into minus, in politics as in mathematics, always producing minus. Could Jesus have given anything better to the world than the Cross?
But we are not at liberty to do evil, much less to commit sin, that good may come; to stoop to policy, and calculate how much virtue may consist with wrong-doing. As your correspondents, ALFRED H. LOVE and J. WESLEY PRATT, who speak with the authority of manly example behind their sentences, hold, we may not choose the by-paths of expediency and evasion, but must travel the high road of principle. If temperance is to be observed among drunkards, if liberty is to be asserted among slaveholders, surely Peace must be stood to in time of war. Insane enough to suppose a fundamental law of right can be violated with impunity, we instituted slavery as a “necessity;” thinking to atone for one sin by committing another, we now wage war as a “necessity.” But the Over-ruler, chastising oppressors and their accomplices, adds, “They who take the sword shall perish with the sword.” This slaughter of our fellow-sinners is no atonement for the joint iniquity; and though we cast out the devil slavery by the prince of devils war, as A. BROOKE, with great intelligence and force, argues in the Liberator of March 11th, “the people will be so demoralized by the means employed to do it that, at the end of the war, we shall find ourselves, as a whole, in an infinitely worse condition than at the beginning.”
It is argued, however, that to those who religiously commit this sin, it is a “duty,” and they must follow their own light. But truth alone is a ground of obligation can “must” us. If the light which is in thee be darkness, what then? Jefferson Davis follows his own light, is terribly sincere—is he any the less a slaveholding tyrant? The Inquisition was sincere in its tortures, thought the burning heretic a good torch to guide the erring. History shakes her head, “To the pit with you sincere tortures!” Sincere slaveholders, sincere thieves, sincere warriors! Of all men, the most dangerous to community and himself is a sincere wrong-doer. He is worse than a criminal—he is a lunatic. To quote Mr. Emerson, who seems himself to have forgotten his famous Peace discourse, “When men wage war or carry arms, they have that much madness left in their brains.” A novel
<c04>
doctrine this, that sin is virtuous and harmless if only we believe it so. At well say that, if a man does not believe a cannon ball is to travel his way you may shoot off his head, and it won’t kill him! Law holds on its coarse, will he, nill he. Leaping from a precipice, do you break gravitation? Interested parties baptize martial murder “heroic,” but the Infinite sees brothers’ hands smoking with brothers’ blood. To reject truth dues not invalidate it, any more than closing the eye pats out the sun. Justice asks no leave to be of shoddy politicians, and only the hard coin of reality, not “greenbacks,” will be honored at the counter of the Eternal.
Akin to this opinion, that fighters may innocently do what is essentially wrong, is another—that the decrees of war are binding on the people, and officials are blameless in executing this fashionable piracy, called the military code, because it is their “duty.” So Commissioner Curtis remanded Anthony Burns to bondage as his “duty “under the law; but he is not held in very affectionate remembrance there for. To me, a Provost Marshal is not less execrable than a slave-hunter; and were this a democratic, Christian people, such creatures would be scouted from decent society. Acting on the same impression, Congress in its revision of the Conscription Bill—I will not defame a sacred word by calling it LAW—enacts that those who have “consciences” may pay the fine for “hospital purposes”;—that is, if Mr. Senator Mason had inserted in the Fugitive Slave Bill a provision that the penalty of a thousand dollars, for aiding its flying victims, be expended in brine for washing down lacerated backs in the “hospital” of slavedom, Abolitionists would have paid the fine, and thrown in their principles! A brilliant discovery, indeed!—worthy legislators who ask Negroes to die for them under white officers and on half pay; a discovery that, at Washington, moral principle is a vendible commodity; that the market value of conscience, the price current of an honest man, is three hundred dollars! Peace men have not been wanting in efforts to assuage the miseries of war, or aid the noble Commission in behalf of suffering soldiers; but do legislators think, by this black mail method of enforced charity, to stimulate their good will
In the political view, I might quote Jeremiah Mason, the distinguished New Hampshire jurist, and Daniel Webster, both of whom in Congress, during the war of 1812, opposed a similar Conscription Bill as utterly incompatible with free institutions; and they openly declared that its execution would be and ought to be resisted by the people. And Hildreth records that thus exposed, “the odious measure fell to the ground.” But the cardinal principle of democracy is sufficiently conclusive on this point If “governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed”—that “consent” coinciding with abstract right—there is no legitimate authority to force a man to kill his brother, and the Administration should back square out of the barbarous assumption. The right to draft men is as purely imaginary as the right to enslave them; hence, this Conscription, like the Fugitive Slave Bill, is essentially wicked and despotic to be disobeyed and trod under foot. Not that we initiate bloody riot; our principles forbid it. But government is the aggressor; and, standing for rights which are above human authority, choosing to suffer wrong rather than to inflict it, we must obey God rather than men. Let us not, therefore, be deceived by this “red herring” of compulsory benevolence drawn across our path, but pay no fines and render no service in obedience to a statute plainly in conflict with the Divine Law.
E. H. H.
Princeton, (Mass.) April 27, 1864.

LETTER FROM VICKSRURG.
HEADQUARTERS 8th La. Inf. A. D. Vicksburg, March 25th, 1864. 
DEAR SIR,—I see that several Northern papers, including some New York journals, have published the statement that the force, including the 11th III., 8th La. A. D. and a part of 1st Miss. Cavalry, A. D. under command of Col. Crates, of the 11th Ill., sent to garrison Yazoo city, was all captured in the fight to the 6th inst. Nothing could be more untrue. On the 4th, rebel Gen. Ross sent in a flag of truce, and demanded the surrender of the town. He desired to know, also, on what principles Col. Crates intended to conduct fighting. For his part, he would be glad to treat all prisoners according to the usages of civilized warfare, and not as Col. Wood, of the 1st Arkansas A. D., had done. It seems that the rebels hue beaten in the brains of a soldier Col. Wood had left behind, sick. Col. Wood, in retaliation, having called the people of Mechanicsville together, and explained the case to them, made two prisoners he had taken kneel down by the dead negro, and shot them, and buried them in one grave, under the negro.
Col. Crates refused to surrender, and said he was not responsible for the acts of Col. Wood; but that he would be glad to treat prisoners according to the usages of warfare.
On the morning of the 5th, the rebels began to fight, in good earnest, attacking a fort on the left of the town, occupied by the 11th I11. The firing for two hours was quite lively; but the enemy finding it not so easy to gain the fort, sent throe regiments around into the town on the left. The 8th La. A. D. were holding a fort on the right, but six companies were sent to oppose the rebel force, and keep them out of the town; but having no time to construct barricades, they had to fall back, street after street, till a hasty barricade was made of cotton bales. The rebels got into the buildings, and fired on our men; but by charging on each house successively, we drove them completely out of the town, and established our picket lines where they were in the morning.
All accord great bravery and daring to the colored soldiers. They fought with the most unflinching determination. Scarcely a man of them skulked away, or left the ranks on any pretence, during the day, save to bear back the wounded; and when I told several of them that their services were no longer needed, they took their muskets, and returned without a word to the conflict. Even some of the new recruits, who knew nothing of the use of the musket, and were excused from taking a part, took the guns of their wounded comrades, and did good service.
Out of 300 of the 8th La. in action, nine were killed and fifty-four wounded, including nine officers, viz. Capt. J. L. Coppoc, Co. D, slightly; Capt. R. M. Campbell, Co. F, slightly, contused with spent ball; 1st Lieut. Fred. Smith, Co. B, seriously wounded in right shoulder; 2d Lieut. T. P. Holt, Co. D, fracture of collar-bone; 2d Lieut. E. W. Her she, Co. H, two toes cut off by fragment of shell; 1st Sergt. J. S Bean, Co. F, slight contusion; 1st Sergt. William D. Ashford, Co. H, flesh wound of abdomen; 1st Sergt. Wm. A. Nelson, severe contusion of thigh by fragment of shell; 1st Sergt. Wm. H. H. Marine, Co. D, shot through abdomen, fatal.
The 11th Ill. had nine killed and some forty wounded, besides several taken prisoners and missing.
The next day transports came up, and we evacuated the place.
On our arrival at Vicksburg, the wounded of the 11th were received on board a hospital boat, to be taken to some well kept Northern hospital; but for the black soldiers, equally as deserving, there was only the regimental hospital, consisting of unserviceable tents, with only a cot and a blanket for a bed.
But with this, as with many other grievances, we patiently bear, hoping the many prayers we have put up may reach the ear of the proper official, and we be treated with some of the consideration due those who have so bravely shed their blood for their country.
L. P. F.
Mrs. Cary, of Canada West, a colored woman engaged in the recruiting business, reached New Haven some days since with twenty-nine men, who were all accepted.
Mrs. Lee, a colored lady, recently graduated at the Female Medical College, Boston.
<c05>
THE FORT PILLOW MASSACRE.
Edward H. Benton, a citizen, resident of Fort Pillow, who was present at the inhuman massacre by the rebel troops under Forrest, at Fort Pillow, was examined at Department Headquarters on Tuesday by Major Bond, A. D. C. The testimony was taken by William Thorpe, Esq., phonographic reporter, of St. Louis, and is as follows:
I was born in Waltham, Vermont.
Question. Where have you resided last?
Answer. I was in Missouri, engaged in furnishing beef to the Government troops on the North Missouri read until a year ago last July. I then went down to Fort Pillow, and have been there ever since.
Q. What was your business there?
A. I owned 215 acres of the fort, bordering on the river, and the very land we fought on. I was putting in a hundred acres of cotton just outside of the fortifications, which was my principal business.
Q. You lived outside the fort?
A. Yes, Sir; I slept there. I was in the fort every day. It was only about a mile from the landing— not a mile from the fortifications. 
HOW THE FORT WAS CAPTURED.
Q. The second flag that came in—about how long after the first?
A. Well, there was no second flag of truce except the one; there was no firing in the interim.
Q. Was there any firing while the first was in?
A. No, Sir; not a single shot was fired on either side. After the flag of truce had been rejected, or the surrender rejected, they were so close to the Fort bat about 3,000 just sprung right in, and the whole garrison threw down their arms at once. The bigger portion of the darkies jumped down the bank toward he Mississippi River, without any arms at all, and were followed by Forrest’s men, and shot indiscriminately, black and white, with handkerchiefs held over them in a great number of instances—as many as fifty, I should think.
MURDERING THE PRISONERS.
Q. Did you see any of these persons formed in line and shot down?
A. Yes, Sir.
Q. How many?
A. They were collected, at least, I should think, five or six different times.
Q. How long a line?
A. Well, it was more in a collection than it was properly in a straight line; there was a line probably as long as this room—about 30 or 35 feet.
Q. These lines were scattered by rebel shots several times?
A. Yes, Sir.
Q. These men were unarmed?
A. Unarmed; no arms of any description, and held up both hands, begging for quarter.
Q. Were you put in the line?
A. No, Sir, I was not; it was attempted to put me in line, but I clung to a man who tried to shoot me, and I caught his gun and prevented him, and he took my money from me—some seventy dollars—and ordered me into line, raising his gun to strike me; and as I came to the line, the Captain made a feint to strike me with his sword, and told me to give him my pocket-book, which I did, but, as he turned to pat in others, I sprung away and clung close to this man that had first taken my money. I said to him that he had taken all the money, and he must keep me from being shot like a dog, as I was a citizen, and had nothing to do with the fight. He abused me in every way by bad language, saying that we had fought them like devils, and tried to kill all of Forrest’s men, until we came to the back stores, where he gave me a soldier’s coat, and told me to wait a moment until be could step in and steal his share. As soon as I was left, I took some clothing, a saddle, a blanket and a halter that were there, and started out of the fort as one of Forrest’s men; on the way I saw three persons shot—mulattoes and blacks—shot down singly, in cold blood. I succeeded in setting over the fortifications, and hid under fallen timber, where I remained until dark; alter dark. I attempted to go toward Hatchie River bottom, but the fallen timber being so bad, I got lost, and wandered near the Pass No. 2, leading out of the fort, inside, of it, where could see all, where I laid until the next day, about 2 o’clock. I heard fifty-one nr two shots fired singly, at different times the fort during that lime, and screams and cheers.
BLOODHOUNDS ON THE TRAIL.
About 2 o’clock, the dogs were getting so close to me that I knew they were on my track.
Q. What do you mean by-the dogs “?
A. Hunting out people everywhere. They have dogs.
Q. They had bloodhounds?
A. Yes, Sir. 1 left the most of my clothing, and hastened down a ravine in the timber, and kept on through the ravine till I came to the Coal. Creek bottom, some mile and a half, and swam across. I finally succeeded in getting to the Island; I had to swim across the river and a bayou; that is all I saw.
BURNING THEIR PRISONERS.
Oh, I was there at the fort two days after the battle, and saw the remains of burnt persons; helped to bury one of the dead that I saw shot in cold blood, lying right where be was left, and saw many of them, white and black, all buried together, and a number three days afterward not buried.
Q. How many did you see shot in this way?
A. I should think probably about 200.
Q. It was an indiscriminate butchery, was it?
A. Yes, Sir. They were about 15 or 20. All lay close in a pile, huddling close together, shot after they were wounded.
WOUNDED SOLDIERS SHOT BEGGING FOR QUARTER.
Q. Some white soldiers were shot after they were wounded
A. Yes, Sir, with the hospital’ flag flying, and they holding white handkerchiefs over their heads. I saw at least ten soldiers shot individually, with white handkerchiefs over their heads. They tore off pieces of their shirts—anything they could get.
Q. You say these men were shot in hospital, with flag flying?
A. Yes, Sir, lying right down under it—not up walking at all. Every man lying near me was killed—lying close to me. and on me. Two lay under, because they kept piling right up on top close under the bank. It was just down under the brow of the hill. A great many lying in the water were shot. Trees that were lying one end in the water, and the other on the shore, they would just go over on the other side of these and hide, and the rebels would go over and shoot them.
Q. Your citizens’ clothes saved you?
A. Yes, Sir. I told them I had nothing to do with them. They robbed every citizen, and took off all their clothing.
Q. How much did they take from you?
A. Seventy dollars.
Q. Yon say you were robbed twice.
A. Yes; once by the Captain of the company, and once by the private. I carry my money in my vest pocket always, and had my pocket-book “in my pocket with notes in it.
Q. That was what you gave to the Captain, wasn’t it?
A. Yes, Sir.
Q. And seventy dollars in money to the soldier? A. Yes,-Sir; he. said, “Give me your money,” and the other asked for the pocket-book.
A SYMPATHIZER TREED BY DOGS.
Q. You say they bad blood bounds; did you see any of them?
A. Yes, Sir; and not only I, but others, saw them. One other—Mr. Jones—was treed by them, and stayed there a long time.
Q. What Jones was that?
A. I don’t know his given name. He lives on Island No. 34. I can find oat his name. He a not any too good a Union man, but be is rather Southern in his feelings.
Q. State about Bradford’s death—when be was shot, and what was done. Was he wounded before the surrender?
A. No, Sir, but it was reported by very trustworthy persons that Bradford was shot and hung near Covington, in Hatchie River bottom.
P. Who told you this?
A. This same Jones, and there were tome darkies came on to the gunboat and said that Darkey evidence is very correct there. You might not think it worth while to take the evidence, but it is a great deal more to be relied upon than the Southern evidence there. I may state that I was inquired after by a large number of officers, and H was said they would hang me on a flag pole there.
Q. What for?
A. From the fact that I employed Government darkies from Col Phillips, at Memphis.
Q. On your plantation?
A. Yes, Sir, and they shot all my horses unfit for cavalry.
<c06>
SAVAGE TREATMENT OF NEGROES
Q. Did they shoot your darkie?, .I understood they did they did, and burned them all; I understand they took one yellow women; and two of three boys escaped that I tried to take to the fort with me. in the morning to help fight; the balance a darkey, whose name I did not know, said they were killed and burned in the house.
Q. You didn’t go back there, then?
A. 1 didn’t go hack there; that is only what is told me it was told to persons that were hid right near, and I saw persons bury the bodies after they were burned.
Q-Where?
A. In the fort. Sir.
Q. Burned in the house in connection with the fort buildings?
A. Yes, Sir, and out on timber; there was a large number of the buried in the building, but they had been buried the day before.
Q. You say there were five hundred and eight men, you think, in the for? 
A. Yes, Sir.
Q. How many do you suppose escaped?
A. Well, I know there were than a hundred as they marched out there surrounded by the other troops, I would not think there were fifty of them
NEGROES BURIED ALIVE
There are five darkies in Cairo hospital who were buried alive. Two of them have died since they got there.
Q. Did you see any of those men buried alive? A. No, I didn’t; but they are facts that can be easily proved by the darkies themselves, and those who saw it done, and saw the Quartermaster burned too.

A DIABOLICAL PLOT.
THE MINING OF LIBBY PRISON CONFIRMED BY GEN. NEAL DOW.
The following extract from a speech recently delivered at Portland by Gen. Neal Dow confirms the mining of Libby Prison, and the rebel plot to blow up our prisoners:—
“They told us of Kilpatrick’s raid. On the first of March, arrangements bad been made to receive him. And what do you suppose the arrangements were? To defend Richmond? Was that it? No They mined Libby Prison, with the intention. of blowing up it and us: to use their own phrase ,to blow us to hell!” (Voice, Is there proof, of that?) That is capable of proof. I cannot tell you how the Fact was intimated to us the next day, without betraying those from whom the intimation came. On the morning of Wednesday, March.2d after we had been informed of the gunpowder plot, Dick Turner, the Inspector of Military Prisons, was asked; by many officers, at different’ times, if we were correctly informed, and he assured us it was true that a large quantity of powder had been placed under the prison to blow us up if Kilpatrick had come in, and that would be done yet if attempts were made to rescue us.
Rev. Dr. Smith, President of Randolph Macon College, well known down South, and known in the, North too, as an able and influential man. Came into to the prison to visit Lieut. Col. Nichols, the l8th Connecticut regiment, with whom be was acquainted He said that powder had been placed, in the basement for the purpose of “blowing us into atoms.” Col. Nichols did not believe it Dr. Smith assured him it was so. He bad then come front the office of Judge Ould, Commissioner of Exchanges who told him it was so. Rev. Dr. McCabe said the same thing to Col. Cesnola, of the 4th New York cavalry, and others. Some officers were in the kitchen at the back window, directly over the door leading into the cellar. Major Turner, the commandant of the prison—Dick Turner—and four or five rebel officers, went into the cellar, and on coming out they remained a few minutes at the door, and one of the officers said, By G—, if you touch that off, it will blow them to h—,sure enough!” On the morning we came away, Major Turner assured Captain Flynn, who was exchanged in connection with myself, that powder was there, and he said “Rather than have you rescued, 1 would have blown you to h—1, even if we had gone there ourselves.” At first we could not believe it: not that we did not suppose them capable of it. We did not suppose them to be fools enough to be guilty of an act like that. The destruction of nine hundred Federal officers in that way would not have been a fatal blow to the Union cause, but it would Save dram upon them the execrations of all mankind; it would have united the Northern people as one man, and would have fired the Northern heart with an intense in dignation; and when Richmond should be captured it would have been utterly destroyed, and blotted out forever from the earth. At first, could not believe that such an act could have been could plated, but now regard it as established by satisfactory proof. Such is the temper of the leader of the rebellion. Such their character.”

HORRIBLE MOCKERY.
We extract the subjoined letter from the Houston Daily Telegraph of the 30th ult. It does not need comment, especially with the brave men in the Union army, whose friend’s and relatives have fallen tone this war:—
Ed. Telegraph—Among the multifarious incidents of this unholy war, not the least in interest and Peculiar attraction is the following, which l have taken down from the mouth of a writer and actor in the scene—a man of truth and energy, and who bears upon his body the marks of the enemy.
Along the banks of the Chickahominy may be seen the usual diversity of our glorious land Here, abrupt and towering acclivities; there, smooth and flowing table, or perhaps (.more properly speaking) prairie land meets the eye; and, even at this time of quick death and ruin, presents a picture of loveliness and beauty, at once pleasing, attractive and almost entrancing. Such is dear old Virginia—dear to me first, because from her soil and clime came my revered progenitor (if he did, as he used to tell his pride-full grandchildren, black shoes for a living)—and, secondly because the grand old chivalric, land has as much if not more, of natural beauty than any other portion of the Confederacy.
Very well; but now to the incident foreshadowed. On a certain occasion, my friend’s company was ordered. out, with other force. to check an anticipated raid of the enemy. They went, of course, and it so happened that they were then in the vicinity of Gaines’s Mill, where thousands of the enemies of out country had left their imbecile bodies in the implicate arms of death, Unlike ourselves the living had simply buried their dead on the top of the ground, or so shallowly that arm and leg bones and skulls were plenty, and rather in the way. Our boys had seen nothing of the enemy. The scouts reported that nothing could be seen or heard to them. The boys were not weary, but thirsting. so to speak, for something to do, and one proposed that they should have a game of tenpins. The proposition seemed ill-timed and unreasonable; so another asked. “How can this be done here, where the bones and skulls of our enemies are lying around us? “Easy enough” replied the eccentric and original. “the thing and leg bones seatered around will answer for pins, and the skulls will suit for balls.”
The strangeness of the proposition, together with an inexpressible interest all felt in it, won the day, and soon the pins were set up. and the skulls filled with sand to give them specific gravity,. Care being taken to select the round skull, (a rather difficult thing to find among Yankees.) and thus our revelers bowled away for several hours. Just think of it! The invaders of our country having fallen in battle —their bone, left by their own friends to cumber the surface of the earth, and our glorious boys meeting with these harmless relies. made them still subserve for the enjoyment of an idle hour To tell the truth I should like to have been there to participate think at every bowl, I should have shouted one more cry for Liberty! have rolled the balls with a vehemence unusual The pastime was something so unusual so piquant, so rich, recherché—like Byren’s drinking wine from a skull—that to me, doating upon on graveyards and delighting in wrecks as I do, the narrative gave exquisite pleasure. This is one of the pleasant features of the Death Dance Who will get tired first?
TOM ANCHORITE

THEODORE PARKER’S MEMORITE
JUST PUBLISHED BY
S.R URBINO
13 School Street
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
