THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor,
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 2, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1665.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S PROCLAMATION.
That the Constitution gives the President no authority whatever to issue such a decree as the emancipation proclamation, and that the decree, legally <illegible>, is simply null and void, is a minor consideration, since it must be looked upon as a measure of war, and not of civil policy. But is it, in any print of view, a wise or a warrantable measure? Hardly, we think. It may gain him the more active and cordial cooperation of the New England Abolitionists: but they are not a very numerous though increasing party; and they are for him peculiarly dangerous allies, because their objects and his are altogether distinct, and only casually and not necessarily connected. They would sacrifice the Union to extinguish slavery. He would perpetuate slavery to restore the Union. They can only act steadily or loyaliy together so long as abolition measures offer, or are thought to offer, the best chance of subjugating and peannexing the South. The great majority of people in the North are no friends to emancipation, and no partisans of the negro; they may ultimately consent to go in for abolition, but they will do so only as their last card, and as an evil only less than acknowledging the independence of the South. The proclamation, therefore, at first sight, seems as likely to divide as to reanimate the supporters of the Government. But this time will show.
As to the actual operation of the edict in the South, we ourselves believe that, except in a few districts near towns or ports in the neighborhood of the Federal camps, it will prove a mere brutum fatmen; that the slaves dare not rise, do not wish to rise, do not hate their masters, and, except for the sake of idleness; and on special occasions, do not desire freedom. But this cannot have been Mr. Lincoln's conception. He must have believed that it would be the very strongest and most effective measure of hostility which he could adopt towards the Confederate State; that it would terrify some back to their allegiance; that it would weaken the armies of his antagonists by the detachments which it would render necessary to keep down the blacks; in a word, that it would rouse against the slaveholders a formidable host of domestic foes. He must have designed, one would suppose-if he had any detinite design at all-and expected-if he had any distinct hopes of benefit from his decree-that his proclamation would raise the black race against the white; would turn the arms of four millions of half-barbarous Africans against their former masters! Would, at the very least, disorganize the entire social system in the South, and put a stop to the usual processes of industry and culture, and introduce a fearful state of anarchy and chaos. He must have hoped this: he must have been prepared for much worse. At the best, he must have hoped to create confusion and paralysis: at the worst, he must have been prepared for massacre, rapine and devastation. We confess, that in our eyes few crimes can be greater than that, the guilt of which he has possibly incurred, voluntarily and with his eyes open. The deed appears to us a step beyond the limits of civilized warfare. As against the slaveholders, it is something very like fighting with poisoned weapons; and as such will certainly be regarded and retaliated by the South. But passing over this view, in which many anti-slavery men will not agree with us, and looking at the decree as regards the negroes only, it is difficult to conceive any proceeding more wickedly selfish and cruel. It is urging an excitable, and ignorant, and helpless population to an outbreak either of violence or of insubordination, where they can neither be aided nor protected. It is exposing them at once to the suspicion of their masters, to further precautionary fetters, possibly to forecasting severities, in terrorem; and, if they do rise or strike work, to the harshest and most merciless retribution. It indicates a more utter want of regard for the safety, the welfare, the simplest rights of the negro, than we could have conceived possible. It shows how little in reality those who promulgated and those who advised such a proclamation care for their nominal clients. In order to create a possible diversion in favor of his arms, Mr. Lincoln and his Abolitionist friends have not hesitated to take a step which, if it produces any effect at all-if it produces the effect the hope of which must have been the only motive to it-must result, as its first and necessary consequence, in the most crushing and terrible ingflictions on the feebler race whom it is sought to rouse against the stronger. They have not scrupled to bring upon the slaves, whom they profess to pity, and declare to be free, a vengeace which they well know will, if need be, nor stop far short of extermination. How any man, or body of men, dare, for their own selfish ends, for their own success in war, to lay upon their consciences the sin of goading ignorant and helpless thousands, whom they cannot sustain or save, into insurrection against a class far more powerful, well armed, and in such a case utterly <illegible>, would be simply inconceivable, if we did not know too well, and had not seen too often, infuriated passion can obscure the plainest truth, and trample down the most solemn obligation.-North British Review for November, 1862.
 
THE RADICAL CONGRESS.
In the present Congress-to be sure, we mean the majority-there is as much Radicalism as there was in the French Assembly of Robespierre, without the brilliant ability for which that diabolical Senate was distinguished. The shabby disease of "nigger on the brain" afflicts each member of that majority. The malady has taken a fanatic grip of its victims. It will not let them go. They become delicious under its influence. And the ill-colored logic that arises from it is the balm they have for the disasters of the nation. Well may the exclamation of Cicero: "O.Tempora! O. mores! Quam, recupublicam habemus!" be now made. We have indeed a disjointed Republic! Radicaslism is the cause, and the cause persists in operation. And the national administration is to be two years longer in the hands of the Radicals! Thus we are in the very centre of evil. There is no remedy but one. The constituents of the Radicals must undo the votes by which they elevated these men by giving opposition to their measures, by nullilfying their acts. And if the country is to be made what it was, all that Radicalism has done for years must be subverted. Abolitionism in itself, and in all it has effected, must be expunged from the land, before the land can be what it once was. But will that ever be the case? Alas! The grounds for hope are indistinct. The Abolition radicalism of the North was too great for the South to resist it, and the consequent rebellion of the South the North, it may be feared, will never completely put down. Still a great effort can save us. Let us hunt Abolitionism from the face of the country. Let us show the Southern States that subjugation is not our aim. Let us return to constitutional principles. What has resulted to us from fighting?-desperate loses. What has resulted to us from "nigger on the brain"?-the destruction of the empire. Well
<c02>
may we go on our knees, and maledict the day. Abraham Lincoln's party predominated. Radicalism got then the crown on its temple, and in the excesses of its pride it has disjointed the nation. Are the sages of '76 uncontinued? Has the splendid political wisdom that once marked the UNITED STATES fled forever? Abolition radicalism answers the painful questions. Boston (Catholic) Pilot.

AB0LITI0NISM.
The Evening post indulged, a few days since, in the pleasing delusion that those who desire to get rid of the Abolitionists have only to get rid of slavery, and they would accomplish their purpose. " If there were no slavery, there would be no Abolitionists," argues this Authority. Mistaken man! have you indeed so little knowledge of the truth? Are. you in fact so innocent as to imagine that this mad spirit of radical Abolitionism is the evil evoked from the place of evil spirits, by the existence of slavery in America in the nineteenth century, and that it never before made its appearance among 
men? 
It is undoubtedly true that a great many people do believe that slavery is the sole cause of the existence of Northern radicalism. Hence it is that so many, including Mr. Lincoln, are misled into the idea that if slavery were only removed, we should enter on an American millennium of peace and union.
The error is fatal, and until this error is corrected, the country will not be saved. Remove slavery be fore this fierce spirit of radicalism, and it will become tenfold more fierce. It grows strong on success. It thrives on the destruction of all that it opposes.
It is no new thing in the world. From the earliest periods the spirit of the Pharisee, which pronounced all other men inferior to him, has animated more or less men. This is part of the spirit of Abolitionism, and another part is the desire to compel other men to submit to its views of right and wrong. The American Union might have existed in peace till the end of time if it contained no radical men; but without slavery, and with radical men, either at the North or South, East or West, it was certain at one time or another to plunge into ferocious sectionalism. If men were content to live, and let each other alone, as regards all offensive demonstrations, we should have no quarrels. If men in one State were content to live and let the men of other States alone, we should have no aggressions and no State quarrels. If, when wishes, or opinions, or interests differ and collide, there existed on both sides a willingness and a desire to yield for the sake of harmony, instead of a spirit of obstinate determination to compel submission, we should have eternal peace. Nor can people unite in any form of republican government on any other principle. Peace and prosperity will return to America only when this compromise spirit of our fathers is restored and made permanent. In vain we look elsewhere for union or peace. If Mr. Lincoln by a wave of his hand could remove every slave from America to Africa to-day, be would not add one iota to the permanent character of the American Union, unless he could remove the spirit of radical Abolitionism with it, and restore the spirit of mutual concession and compromise on all points of State or sectional difference. These are truths that radical men do not understand. But it is as solemn truth as the existence of the war itself, that there is no future of peace for America until the Abolitionist spirit is annihilated. It will not cease to exist when slavery disappears. Slavery might have existed in the South till the bondmen and the freemen witness the final catastrophe of the world, and without causing rebellion or war. if the aggressive spirit of Abolitionism had not made the contest.
The simple fact is. that the bad element, the combative element of self-esteem and desire to compel others to submit to our views and opinions, is the spirit of American radicalism, and, whether the radical is a Northerner or a Southerner, the moment he attempts to be a politician, he becomes a disunionist.
In all ages and countries these men have been the inciters of brawls, troubles, revolutions. They were known in old Rome. They were denounced in Greece. They were especially well known among the Hebrews. They were pestilent fellows always' and everywhere: nor is it to be doubted that when; we come to decipher the Egyptian writings, we shall; find that they were executed for sedition and conspiracy in the days of the Pharaohs.
The spirit came down through all the political history of European civilization. It was present in church and state. It was always rampant for the abolition of something; always' bent on what it called reform; always using fire and fagot to compel sub- mission. It kindled the flames of the persecutions in the later empire. It burned the Knights of the Temple at the stake in France under Philip. It rejoiced in St. Bartholomew's day. It crossed to England as early as the days of the Saxon kings, and remained there with the Norman line. It was uncompromising in its demands, persecuting in its disposition, cowardly in its action. It drove the Puritans from England. Yet when they departed, it attended them, and triumphed over them when they landed on our shores. For who can doubt that the noble spirit that led the Puritans to New England for" freedom to worship God as we please, soon became perverted into " freedom to worship God as we please, and freedom to make everybody else worship God as we please." It drove Roger Williams out of Boston. It burned witches at the stake, and made hideous spectacles of devout Quakers who became obnoxious to it.
No, no. gentlemen, we shall not have done with radical Abolitionism when we have done with slavery. Satan finds always plenty of work for his servants. When radical Abolitionism has no longer slavery to work at. it will try the vote-yourself-a-farm-ism, or one-religion-ism, or absolute democracy. It will attack the State divisions, as it is now doing, and little Massachusetts will demand that great New York submit, not to equality of representation, but to absolute subjection. For the spirit of Abolitionism is never a spirit of compromise or of arrangement, but always a spirit of domineering, always claims a superior virtue, and demands a humble submission.
There is no exaggeration in the picture we have drawn. We can show the portrait of the modern American Abolitionist, perfectly painted by the old Greek poets, by the Latin satirists—bow perfectly by the sacred writers!
This in fact is the grand difficulty in the way of democratic institutions, and we are now trying the experiment, the experunentum crucis of the possibility
of such institutions being permanent. If radicalism had succeeded in carrying the nation with it this fall in the elections, the doom of the country
and the doom of all democratic hopes of self-government would have been decreed. It would have been determined that the intolerance of human passion
and pride was so deep seated as to forbid men agreeing in self-government. Now the prospect is better. There is hope yet. But the hope is that this experience will have taught a lesson to America which will prevent radicalism in any part of the land from again obtaining the ascendency for a thousand
Years.-New York Journal of Commerce. 
<c03>
SELECTIONS.
THE ABOLITIONISTS.
There is no word more frequently and angrily used and less understood than the word Abolitionists. President Lincoln and Daniel S. Dickinson, Governor Johnson and Governor Andrew, Thurlow Weed and Wendell Phillips, arc all called by the same name. Of course, there is but one point upon which all these men agree, and that is a truly vigorous prosecution of the war. But that is not Abolitionism. Emancipation, as a means of war, may be justified by all of them; but that is not Abolitionism. The word Abolitionists designates a party in the country, whose position and influence have never been correctly estimated, because its members have been too much hated to be fairly treated. Nobody has taken the trouble to know what they thought or what they proposed. It has been enough that they were said to be disunionists. What kind of disunionists or why disunionists, have not been questions thought to be worth asking, especially by I the politicians who now call their late companions Abolitionists, because they insist upon the Union at every cost; and who think awl call the open, bloody disunionists of the South "erring brethren."
But the history of these times will have to deal differently with the facts, the influences, and the characters which arc summarily classed as "Abolitionists." For, merely to call the men known as Abolitionists, a handful of fanatics, incendiaries and agitators, explains them and their cause as much as I Sydney Smith's sneering accounts of Methodism and Methodists, or Hume's description of Cromwell and the Independents; but no more. It is certainly not very complimentary to the American people to say I that a few bitter fanatics at the North, called Abolitionist, and a few other fanatics at the South, called Secessionists, plunged thirty millions of people into this tremendous civil war. If the individual, James Otis, had held his tongue, would there
have been no Revolution? If John Hampden had paid the ship money, would the. Stuarts, to-day, be kings of England? James Otis and John Hampden were but men, who spoke for fundamental and decisive principles. When those ideas were in play, those men were inevitable. If fifty Abolitionists and I as many Secessionists had been hung, think many, there would have been no trouble. But do you think, if Luther had been hung, there would have been no Reformation? In what conceivable way was Luther strong or successful, but in being the mouth of those who believed as he did? Unless you could have I hung the instinct of popular liberty in England, in 1040, or the same feeling in America, in 1770, you would have struck but one soldier of an army in striking Hampden Otis. Unless you could kill Protestantism, you might as well spare Luther. And unless you can hang Abolitionism, you will hang Abolitionists in vain.
 Correctly speaking, the Abolitionists were, in our history, a body of persons who thought slavery wrong; who held that the Constitution favored it, and that, as the system was sure to corrupt the whites as well as imbrute the blacks, there was no hope for either but in the change of the Constitution, and the dissolution of the Union, of which it was the bond. But they proposed that the change should be effected peacefully and legally, by common consent; and, to that end, they endeavored to, show what they considered the ultimate danger and present wrong of the Constitution. This was their "agitation." They opposed violence of every kind. They were, many of them, non-resistants. They did not vote; for to vote was to acknowledge what they thought a wicked Constitution. They did no approve the method, but only the purpose of John Brown; and they said to the rest of us, " You who believe in force have no right to blame him for helping others to do what you praise our fathers for doing in the Revolution." They believed that immediate emancipation was desirable, but they aimed to achieve it solely by influencing public opinion through that perfect freedom of discussion which the Constitution guaranteed. Some among them — but very few—were more vehement, and sometimes attempted to resist the law, as in Boston, at the Burns capture. But the Personal Liberty bills, although the Abolitionists approved and advocated them, were passed by Legislatures in which no Abolitionists sat, because no Abolitionist could swear to support the Constitution and the laws of the United States.
Abolitionism, justly understood, was thus a purely moral power. It sought a moral end solely by moral means. It was fierce, vituperative, and denunciative; but so has every party been. Its leaders deliberately resigned all the prizes of worldly ambition, and accepted contumely, heaped upon them by both the great parties in the country—Republican and Democrat equally eschewed the name or suspicion of Abolitionism. And justly; for the Democrats were in political alliance with slavery, and the Republicans differed fundamentally from the Abolitionists in their interpretation of the Constitution. The latter bold it to be a bond of slavery; the former, of liberty. The Abolitionists thought the only hope of the country was in escaping from the Constitution. The Republicans believed that the slavery question could be settled peacefully for liberty, without change of the Constitution.
They were right. For it was the clear perception of the slave interest that it would be so settled— a fact of which Mr. Lincoln's election was the earnest—that drove that interest to arms to destroy the Constitution. Philosophically, the difference between the Republicans and the Abolitionists was one of political method, not of moral conviction. But, in human affairs, a difference of method is radical. The Republicans, therefore, neither decried the Constitution nor the Union. But they deplored the false interpretation of the one, and the prostitution of the other. They believed that the people would yet save both. Consequently, they were, all of them, unswerving Unionists. They did not threaten to rebel, if they were not successful at the polls, and they severely condemned all who assented to such threats. For they had faith in a popular government to right even the worst wrongs. And their faith is justified.
 There is no more interesting chapter of our history than that known as Abolitionism, which is an episode in the great movement of liberty upon this continent. To call it fanaticism, and consider that a final and satisfactory explanation, is as ludicrous as to define. Washington simply as a rebel, or Luther as a heretic.—Harper's Weekly.
TREATMENT OF FEDERAL PRISONERS. Gen. Rosecrans has addressed a letter to Gen. Bragg, complaining that the rebels stole overcoats from the prisoners at Hartsville; also, that the cartel had been violated in returning prisoners by flag of trace to this point instead of to Vicksburg and Aiken's Landing Traitors are thieves, and - never keep their pledges in any thing.
<c04>
JUSTICE TO SLAVEHOLDERS.
The impression prevails to some extent, more particularly abroad, that the late emancipation triumph in Missouri was a victory over the slaveholders, and that the contest was one partaking largely of the character of the war of classes or interests— one side being represented entirely by slave-owners and their adherents, and the other entirely by non-slaveholders. Such is not the fact; and justice to a large number of earnest, hard-working Emancipationists in Missouri, who are owners of slaves, requires that it should be stated.
Previous to the election, and since, we have been in confidential communication with slaveholders, as well as others, in all sections of the State, and have in consequence the means of judging of their real sentiments upon the subject of emancipation. A disclosure of our entire correspondence would exhibit some singular things—among others, the fact that many of the most liberal-minded men in the State upon the question of free soil are largely interested in slave property. Many of these men were, however, not simply favorable to emancipation at heart, but have been the most zealous and successful workers in its behalf in the late canvass. It is one of the singular, and by no means uninstructive features of the election, that several of the heaviest slaveholding counties in the State have given decided emancipation majorities, while counties, on the other hand, having scarcely a slave in them, have elected pro-slavery representatives to the Legislature.
The great fact established is, that the result of the election is not the product of a prejudice of one class of our people working against another class. It is the result of a general conviction, entertained by men of property and intelligence throughout the State, without reference to the character of their possessions, that slavery in Missouri is a doomed institution, a cumberer of the ground, a dry and worthless trunk, the sooner cut down and cast into the fire the better for the true interests of the State. The triumph of emancipation, although to some extent aided, undoubtedly, by the peculiar condition of public matters in our midst, was not the work of the bayonet, of popular excitement, or anything of a temporary nature, but of the sober second thought of the people, as deliberately executed as it was formed. Outside of St. Louis, where the contest was between two parties of professed Emancipationists, there never was a more quiet and orderly election held in the State, nor one at which loyal citizens had a better opportunity to vote their real sentiments, nor one succeeded a less exciting and acrimonious canvass. It was the deliberate verdict of a people who had calmly weighed all the facts in the case. The result is a revolution which is in no danger of going backward.
We feel a greater anxiety to have the real facts, as we have stated them, correctly understood in the Northern States, on account of the conditions upon which constitutional and legal emancipation in Missouri must take place. If our election had been a triumph over slaveholders and the slaveholding interest purely, we are well aware of the repugnance the people of the North would feel towards contributing out of the national fund for the compensation of the owners of slaves to be set free. There are, of course, a number of slaveholders in Missouri who have bitterly opposed emancipation from the first, and all the time; but these will generally be found to be tainted with disloyalty, and will not, therefore, be likely to derive much benefit from a compensatory system of emancipation, framed, as it will be, with a rigid enforcement of a law of confiscation. Of the loyal slaveholders of Missouri, very many are liberal, high-minded gentlemen, and earnest Emancipationists. To deprive such men of their property for the public good, without some recompense, would be clearly unjust. — Missouri Democrat.

HENRY WARD BEECHER ON THE WAR.
We give below the concluding portion of Henry Ward Beecher's Thanksgiving Sermon:—
The political blessings for which we owe thanksgiving are next in order. In surveying these, we must dismiss from our minds the prejudices that have colored the thick coming events of the year, and survey the scene by the light of facts.
First—We find, then, that the nation has passed through the period of the evolution of slavery and its nature. Slavery, here, has had time to develop itself upon a better and wider field than was ever before open to it in the world. In the midst of Christianity, civilization, liberty, and under a Republican system, it has had perfect scope, defended, too, by regulations that gave it all the healthy blood it needed to repair the waste its own workings made.
In the beginning, slavery seemed to be but an accident, and its operation in relation to moral and political government loft room for discussion and for doubt. That uncertainty exists no longer. Some pretend to believe that it is good—but they are either men who do not think at all, or who, in their hearts, believe in tyranny. The result is before us, and results cannot be contradicted. The experiment has ended by giving us clear knowledge of its nature.
The effect of slavery upon the slave may be a matter of speculation, or even of sentiment, but its effect upon the master is beyond all controversy. There it is! Its first effect upon the African may be good. I am not prepared to say that the first shipload of poor, wild natives brought to the land was not, at the commencement, benefited by contact with even the low civilization with which it came in contact. But that benefit is only skin deep. The moment it began to sprout in the slave, the master forbade it to grow. The latter germinates the negro, but will not let him put forth into leaf. He is but as grass for the mower.
War has revealed the effect of slavery upon the master. Patriotism could not adhere, public spirit could not exist, where slavery breathes. It was thought that the chivalric South, full of lordly natures, would be more patriotic than the cold, calculating North, but at the first trial its patriotism snapped like a pipe-stem, excepting in a few localities—among the mountains of East Tennessee—and let her name not be forgotten! and one or two other glorious sites, they went down like rotten trees struck by the hurricane. We go forth in the morning after a storm, and we say of the fallen monarchs of the forest, the tempest overthrew them, but look closer and you will sec the rot, the carrion at their heart; for twenty years decay had been working at the centre, and the first puff of the blast levelled the hollow shell.
The effect of slavery upon the master is seen in its influence against intelligence and religion— i. e., that the interior policy which slavery renders indispensable, corrupts religion and prevents education. Instruct the slave, and you give him twenty mouths foil of hunger that most be fed; the brute man has but one mouth, but the taught man has varied tastes and yearnings. You give him paternal love, not the
<c05>
love of the savage for hit young—the love of the bear for its cub, but the love of the spirit, and the spirit's aspirations for the object of its affection. Instruction would make better workmen, but worse slaves —it would break the back of the whole system. Bat where it is so dark for the slave, it must also be dark for the master—black as charcoal—and the charcoal of that blackness, like its prototype, may be the chief ingredient in the dire explosive that blows up the nation. (Applause.) If there be no books for the million of negro picaninnies, there are none for the million of white picaninnies who run about with them. Hence the dreadful ignorance of the poor whites of the South, and the power of their leaders. After this war, 500,000 men, now soldiers, will return to us with their tongues in their cheeks, and say, "Those Southerners don't know much. They are ignorant fellows."
It cannot be denied that as an element of political economy, the system makes riches. It makes wealthy slaveholders, but poor white men not slave holders. It builds up a Plutocracy—the very worst form of aristocracy. Prosperous wealth U like the even fall of snow—the poor man's cutter and the rich man's sleigh have a common and untrammeled highway—but this kind of wealth is like the snow drift that blocks up the road to all but the mighty few. One rich man's hand in Georgia is stronger than the hands of one thousand, aye, than ten thousand in these Free States, and thus it strikes like a hammer at the door of the Capitol, armed with the weight of whole sovereign States. This power would be terrible with us, but there, where men thus armed curse human freedom and the doctrine of human equality, it is appalling. This is the demoniac possession of the South. "Dr Clay has administered the rhubarb of compromise, and Dr. Webster has exhibited his diluents, but all in vain. Now comes the surgeon, War—he with that surgical instrument, the
sword, cuts open the body of the patient, and finds him rotten in kidney and heart, in Jiver and brain.	

THAT'S WHAT'S THE MATTER. 
 (Tremendous applause.) Now cure him, sew him > up, and let him go! (Renewed applause.) We shall I not any longer be told that these are Abolition lies about slavery. There is the ulcer!—we have seen I it, we have probed it, we have cleansed it., Both North and South have come to one conclusion, viz.: that Slavery and Liberty cannot exist together under one and the same Constitution. The South, laying down this premise, have drawn the inference—Secession. We, too, accepting the premise, have drawn our inference—Emancipation. (Sensation and applause.) The Judge who is trying the question is the sword. But, what a stride has been I taken — what old prejudices have been quelled! What an opening up of the intelligence of the people! All the prophets would not have been believed two years ago, had they predicted this. John Van Buren, even now, thinks there is some other way—that the patient may be cured, and the demon still left in him; but even he, with returning health, ex-claimed in his way of seeing the same truth we have enunciated so feebly: "Wayward sisters, depart I in peace." (Laughter and applause.) Our answer to the truth is, that the nationality of this people shall be maintained; and government, liberty and law upheld upon this continent. Mr. Beecher concluded by referring to the points magnificently proven in this supreme struggle of the Republic, viz.:
1.	That it is capable of equipping vast armies on
the instant.	
2.	That it can wage campaigns of unparalleled
magnitude, both by sea and land.
3.	That its people are capable of taxation, and cheerful submission to the same in the midst of war.
In the trials of the war, this free Government and people have, at every turn, proven their superiority to any monarchy, in all the requisites of grandeur and power.
In the Trent affair, they even conquered pride; and this fierce Democracy, which all Europe thought would revolt at concession, bade pride go down, and acknowledged the act wrong. Mr. Beech«r then portrayed the pseudo-conservative action of the recent administration at Washington with the present attitude of Mr. Lincoln. Conservatism had done its best and had derided radicals. Now we were to see what radicals could do to heal the nation. We hail closed conservative war with artillery made of sugar plums; we had closed conservative campaigns of mud, and dust, and nothing! (Great applause.) Bad counsellors had wanted to put a snuffer on the President, and say, " Let not your light shine!" but he bad said, " Enough of this!" and now men are waging the war who mean war. (Applause.) The faces of the army are turned toward Jerusalem, and, in the language of Christ, we say to the demon in the South, "Como out of him!" He loved the South as he loved his whole country. Error must not obliterate our love for u flesh of oar flesh and bone of our bone;" but in this love let us look forward to the hour when the South, regenerated and disenthralled, restored and clothed in its right mind, shall sit at the footstool of Jesus, and, with us, praise God for liberty, virtue, and religion. Let us, then, with one voice, be thankful for the heroic examples of the year, for the perils overcome, for the blessings plentifully gathered, for the transcendent promise of the future dawning in a glorious radiance out of the depths of night.
Mr. Beecher's allusions to the pro-slavery attitude of England at this crisis, notwithstanding all her former professions and exhortations, was a powerful episode of his sermon, and, like many other passages, elicited uncontrollable applause.
In conclusion, he offered, as appropriate, the 104th hymn:—
"My country, 'tis of thee,
Sweet land of liberty, 
Of thee I sing;
Land where my fathers died;
Land of the Pilgrim's pride;
From every mountain side 
Let freedom ring."

THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH.
Measure the comparative strength of the two parties contending in arms for the dominion of these States, and judge what will be the probable issue of the contest. Between Freedom and Slavery in the abstract, there can be no question on which side lies the greater power. Freedom has the steady nerve, the true aim, and the enduring heart; Slavery the conscious guilt, the boding doubt, the alarming suspicion. Why, then, is the champion of the Philistines allowed to present himself morning and evening for forty days, yea, forty waxing and waning moons, and still utter his taunts of triumph? It is became Rebellion has a vigorous soul; oar Government has none! The organism of the rebellion is wholly animated by one purpose; every muscle, nerve and sinew, strained to its almost team, obeys the governing will. No antagonistic forces, no palsied limb, no—imitated elements, are allowed to mar the vital energy of the war for slavery; difference of opinion is punished with death; the unwil- 
<c06>
ling slave himself is made to be the most powerful support of the despotism that him. Trace the history of this war from the beginning. Where has a Confederate officer proved treacherous to his cause? Where has an opportunity for winning as advantage been suffered to pass unimproved? On which side have been the daring raids, the celerity of Movement, the ceaseless watching, the wily strategy, the invention and preparation of new engines of the destruction, and the prompt use of all possible means and appliances of war?
While such is the spirit that animates the Southern rebellion, what is it that animates our war for its suppression? Is the nation, under the influence of its own mighty soul. Freedom? Are all the organisms, that combine to form the body politic, in strict subordination to that one great principle which gave us national existence? So far from this, the very fact that Liberty is the nation's soul been ignored, and a new organism attempted, under the name of Union. Is union a source of life? Can mere combination give dead forms vitality? Union is a product of life, not its cause. Liberty creates union, as magnetism gathers atoms around a centre; but union creates nothing, is no life-germ, cast give no inspiration. The war has been waged on a issue. Are we fighting for union? Do we hope to promote union by guns and armies? It is a mere pretence. We are not fighting for simple union; we arc fighting for conquest. Our aim is to subdue. We expect no union, unless it be a union force.
The antagonistic souls are Liberty and Slavery. The one fires the North, so far as it has any fire; the other fires the South. But the Northern soul is bound. It is not allowed to meet its antagonist. It cannot throw its vitalizing energies into every nerve and sinew of the Northern mass, and hurl our army with its full momentum on the foe. The influence of the permeating soul is restrained by the foul ulcers and spreading gangrenes that have appropriated to themselves the substantial forces of the Republic. The grand slave cancer has been suffered to extend its roots down to the very heart. The patient had become reconciled to the disease; wedded to its foul ulcerations, as the drunkard is wedded to the stimulus of his cups. The business of statesmen has been to administer opiates and anodynes. At length, death stares us in the face. We place ourselves in the hand of the physician. The magnitude of the disease appals him. He resolves to run no risks. If he can barely save the file of the patient, he is willing to let the disease ran. He dares not withdraw the opiates, and let the full, strong current of vitality sweep from the brain through the nerves, restoring the whole frame to its normal condition, and drawing sharply the line of separation between health and disease. Was there ever such empiricism? For almost two years, since the ulcer broke, the energies of the nation have been wasting, and, during all that time, the opiates have been administered to its soul and conscience. The connection between liberty and the war has been severed, so far as official action could sever it; and what has been the result? A series of colossal campaigns, fruitless victories, and terrible defeats. Our movements have been without heart, inspiration, or energy; with the right hand we have swung the battle-axe, with the left we have held shield over the enemy. If a general utters the word Freedom, he is removed; if he fails to gain victories, the same fate awaits him. Repeated failures have made our rulers desperate; in their disappointment, they order impossibilities. Gen. Halleck declares that the army shall march to Richmond, if it goes on crutches; but he forgets to send the pontoon bridges in season; when they arrive, the enemy are massed on impregnable heights; but the order is imperative; the army must advance, and on it marches, under a blind infatuation, and in spite of the judgment of its leaders, to certain defeat and wholesale massacre. The President himself is the most perfect illustration of this national paralysis; not a soul-inspiring sentiment, not a single fresh, warm, hearty appeal to glorious fundamental principles that would touch with glowing fire the sympathies of millions, but vacillation, indecision, and a constant paltering between what is right and what is expedient. We could wish that he had issued his late proclamation in this form: u Whereas, liberty is the inalienable right of all men, and justice demands that this right should be restored to the enslaved and oppressed of our country, therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, declare that all slaves in the rebel States shall, on the first day of January, be thenceforth and forever free; unless the rebels shall meanwhile return to their allegiance, in which case the rights aforesaid shall not be restored, but the oppressed and enslaved shall remain as heretofore!" This absurd declaration would have been but a fair exhibit of the opposing principles on which the war has hitherto proceeded, and an honest confession of our political hypocrisy.
Away with the bonds that fetter the nation's soul! Away with the subterfuges and lying pretences that this war is not waged against slavery! Let the real antagonists meet; let them coats face to face in the deadly straggle, and we shall them see where Liberty will strike. We know where she will strike; she will put the point of her spear on the source of life, on the very soul of the rebellion, and extinguish it, if possible, at a blow. But has she the power? Can she lay hold of her weapons? Is not the nation too faint and weak to feel the vitalizing current, should it begin again to flow? Through our present government, with the cabinet and army constituted as at present, we fear there is no hope of salvation for the country; but let a Fremont be placed at she head of military affairs, and with another blast of the Missouri bugle, the flush of life would once more redden the nation's cheek, the flame of Liberty once more fire her heart, and Freedom's soldiers no longer strike in vain.—American Baptist.

THE PRESIDENTS PROPOSED AMENDMENT. 
This amendment, which by some is thought to promise so much, is seen, on examination, to promise but little that is of substantial advantage to the cause of freedom, and especially, it is unworthy of a place in the supreme, organic law of the United Sates. Its one great defect is, that is does not require the emancipation of slaves and the repeal of slave-laws of any future time. The permission which it proposes to give to such States as may have received compensation for the their emancipated slaves, to refund the money and introduces the slaveholding system, shows that there is no intention to enforce its removal. This amendment, if carried, would simply say to the slaveholders. "Very well, gentlemen, keep your slave institution if you do not we will pay you for the slaves; and then if you ever become tired of your bargain, and wish to have slavery again, only just return the money, and suit yourselves entirely. Understand us, gentlemen, we only propose that you should please yourselves." Now, what are the South at this moment fighting for? Is it not that they may the more effectually uphold and guard their slave system? The desire to do this constitutes the vital essence of their struggle. The President's proposal is to them the 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Very point it issue. Such would be the effect, if not the intention.
Moreover, to place such an amendment in the Constitution would remove one of their principal objections to remaining in the Union. Their complaint is that the Constitution does not, with sufficient explicitness, favor slavery. Put this amendment into it, and then that instrument, that has never yet been blotted with the word slave, would, in plain <illegible>, permit the holding of slaves. This would be the "supreme law of the land." The slaveholder would then be secure in what he calls his rights. What a burning shame to make this the supreme law, and after all our fighting, suffering and expenditures, to consent, in reality, to rivet upon ourselves the Southern chain more firmly than ever! Freemen, awake! Avert this compromise!
If there is any change made in the Constitution, or any addition to it, let it be one which shall secure equal freedom to every inhabitant of every State, now, and for all time. G. E. O. S. — Vermonl Chronicle.

A PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE OF THE GONFEDERATE STATES.
Whereas, a communication was addressed on the 6th day of July last, 1862, by General Robert E. Lee, acting under the instructions of the Secretary of War of the Confederate States of America, to General H. W. Halleck, Commander-in-Chief of the United States Army, informing the latter that a report had reached this government that Wm. B. Mumford, a citizen of the Confederate States, had been executed by the United States authorities at New Orleans for having pulled down the United States flag in that city before its occupation by the United States forces, and calling for a statement of the facts, with a view of retaliation, if tuck an outrage bad really bees committed under the sanction of the authorities of the United States;
And whereas, (no answer having been received to said letter.) another letter was, on the 2d of August last, {1862,) addressed by General Lee, under my instructions, to General Halleck, renewing the inquiries in relation to the execution of the said Mum-ford, with the information that in the event of not receiving a reply within fifteen days, it would be assumed that the fact was true, and was sanctioned by the government of the United State;
And whereas, an answer, dated on the 7th of August last. (1862.) was addressed to General Lee by General H. W. Halleck, the said General-in-Chief of the armies of the United States, alleging sufficient causes for failure to make early reply to said letter of the 6th July, asserting that "no authentic information had been received in relation to
the execution of Mumford, but measures will be immediately taken to ascertain the facts of the alleged execution," and promising that General Lee should be duly informed thereof;
And whereas, on the 28th of November last, (1862,) another letter was addressed under my instructions, by Robert Ould, Confederate agent for the exchange of prisoners, under the cartel between the two governments, to Lieutenant Colonel W. H. Ludlow, agent of the United States under said cartel, informing him that the explanation promised in the said letter of General Halleck, of 7th of August last, had not yet been received, and that if no answer was sent to the government within fifteen days from the delivery of this last communication, it would be considered that au answer is declined;
And whereas, by a letter dated on the 3d day of the present month of December, the said Lieut. Colonel Ludlow apprised the said Robert Ould that the above, recited communication of the 19th of November had been received and forwarded to the Secretary of War of the United States, and whereas this last delay of fifteen days allowed for answer has elapsed, and no answer has been received;
And whereas, in addition to the tacit admission resulting from the above refusal to answer, I have received evidence fully establishing the truth of the fact that the said William B. Mumford, a citizen of the Coufederacy, was actually and publicly executed in cold blood by hanging, after the occupation
of the city of New ORLEANS BY THE FORCES General Benjamin F. Butler, when said Mumford was an unresisting and non-combatant captive, and for no offence even alleged to have been committed by him subsequent to the date of the capture of the said city;
And whereas, the silence of the Government of the United States, and its maintaining the said Butler in high office under its authority for many months after his commission of an act that can be viewed in no other light than as a deliberate murder, as well as of numerous other outrages and atrocities hereafter to be mentioned, afford evidence too conclusive that the 5aid government sanctions the conduct of the said Butler, and is determined that he SHALL remain unpunished for these crimes:
New, therefore, I, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America, and in their name, do pronounce and declare the said Benjamin F. Butler to be a felon, deserving of capital punishment I do order that he shall no longer be considered or treated simply as a public enemy of the Confederate States of America, but as an outlaw and common enemy of mankind, and that, in the event of his capture, the officer in command of the capturing: force do cause him to be. immediately executed by hanging.
And I do further order that no commissioned officer of the United States, taken captive, shall be released on parole., before exchange, until the said Butler shall have met with due punishment for his crime.
And whereas, the hostilities waged against this comfederacy by the forces of the United States, under the command of said Benjamin F. Butler, have borne no resemblance to such warfare as is alone permissible by the rules of international law, or the usage of civilization, but have been characterized by repeated atrocities and outrages, among the.large number of which the following may be cited as examples:—
Peaceful and aged citizens, unresisting captives And non-combatants, have been coufined at hard labor, with chains attached to their limbs, and are still so held in dungeons and fortresses.
Others have been subjected to a like degrading punishment for selling medicines to the sick soldiers of the Confederacy.
The soldiers of the United States have been invited and encouraged in general orders to insult and outrage the wives, the mothers, and the sisters of
our citizens. 
Helpless women have been torn from their homes and subjected to solitary confinement, some in fortresses and prisons, and one especially on an island of barren sand, under a tropical son; have been fed with loathsome rations that had been condemned as unfit for soldiers, and hare been exposed to the vilest insults.
Prisoners of war, who surrendered to the naval forces of the United States, on agreement that they should be released on parole, have been seized and kept in close confinement.
Repeated pretexts have been sought or invented for plundering the inhabitants of the captured city, by fines levied and collected under threat of imprisoning recusants at hard labor with ball and chain. The entire population of New Orleans have been forced to elect between starvation, by the confiscation of all their property, and taking an oath against conscience to bear allegiance to toe invader of their country.
Egress from the city has been refused to those whose fortitude withstood the test, and even to lone and aged women, and to helpless children; and after being ejected from their homes, and robbed of their property, they have been left to starve in the in the streets or subsist on charity.
The slaves have been driven from the plantations in the neighborhood of New Orleans until their owners would consent to share their crops with the Commanding General, his brother, Andrew J. Butler, And other officers, and when such consent had been extorted, the slaves have been restored to the plantations, and there compelled to work under the bayonets of the guards of the United States soldiers. Where that partnership was refused, armed expeditions have been sent to the plantations to rob them of everything that was susceptible of removal.
And even slaves too aged or infirm for work, have, in spite of their entreaties, been forced from the hones provided by their owners, and driven to wander helpless on the highway.
By a recent general order, number 21, the entire property m that part of Louisiana west of the Mississippi river has been sequestrated for confiscation, and officers have been assigned to duty with orders to gather up and collect the personal property, and turn over to the proper officers upon their receipts, such of paid property as many required for the use of the United States army; to collect
<c02>
together all the other personal property and bring the same to New Orleans, and cause it to be sold at public auction to highest bidders—an order which, if executed, condemns to punishment, by starvation, at least a quarter of a million of human beings, of all ages, sexes, and conditions, and of which the execution, although forbidden to military officers by the orders of President Lincoln, is in accordance with the Confiscation law of our enemies, which he has affected to be enforced through the agency of civil officials.
And, finally, the African slaves have not only been incited to insurrection by every license and encouragement, but numbers of them have actually been armed for a senile war, a war in its nature far exceeding the horrors and most merciless atrocities of savages.
And whereas, the officers under command of the said Butler Lave been, in many instances, active and zealous agents in the commission of these crimes, and no instance is known of the refusal of any one of them to participate in the outrages above narrated: 
And whereas, the President of the United States has, by public and official declarations, signified not only his approval of the effort to excite servile war within the Confederacy, but his intention to give aid and encouragement thereto, if these independent States shall continue to refuse submission to a foreign power after the first day of January next, and has thus made known that all appeal to the law of nations, the dictates of reason, and the instincts of humanity would be addressed in vain to our enemies, and that they can lie deterred from the commission of these crimes only by the terrors of just retribution;
Now, therefore. I, Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America, and acting by their authority, appealing to the Divine Judge in attestation that their conduct is not guided by the passion of revenge, but that they reluctantly yield to the solemn duty of redressing, by necessary severity, crimes of which their citizens are the victims, do issue (his my proclamation, and by virtue of my authority as Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the Confederate States, do order—
First. That all commissioned officers in the command of said Benjamin F. Butler be declared not entitled to be considered as soldiers engaged in honorable warfare, but as robbers and criminals deserving death; and that they, and each of them be, whenever captured, reserved for execution.
Second. That the private soldiers and non-commissioned officers in the army of said Butler be considered as only the instruments used for the commission of crimes perpetrated by his orders, and not as free agents; that they, therefore, be treated when captured as prisoners of war, with kindness and humanity, and be sent home on the usual parole that they will in no manner aid or serve the United State-in any capacity during the continuance of this war, unless duly exchanged.
Third. That all negro slaves captured in arms be at once delivered over to the executive authorities of the respective States to which they belong, to be dealt with according to the laws of said States.
Fourth. That the like orders be executed in all cases with respect to all commissioned officers of the United States, when found serving in company with said slaves in insurrection against the authorities of the different States of' this Confederacy.
In testimony whereof I have signed these presents, and caused the seal of the Confederate States of America to be affixed thereto, at the city of Richmond, on the 23d day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two. JEFFERSON DAVIS.
By the President:
J. P. BENJAMIN, Secretary of Slate.

PROCLAMATION OF JEFF. DAVIS.
On the 14th inst., Gen. N. P. Banks arrived at New Orleans, and assumed command there, vice Gen. B. F. Butler, relieved.
On the 15th, Gen. Butler issued his farewell order. announcing his supersedure.
On the 23d—eight days later—Jeff. Davis issued from Richmond his Proclamation herewith given, consigning Gen. Butler and all his commissioned officers to a felon's death—when he shall have caught them.
Mr. Jeff. Davis proposes to kill all " negro slaves " who shrill be captured fighting against the Slaveholders' Rebellion, and all white commissioned officers " when found serving in company with said slaves'"—no matter whether officers of negro regiments or of any other.
Such is the way "the comet" takes "the Pope's bull." Don't he seem to think there's something in it?
Jeff. daintily says " all negro slaves "—but who for one moment imagines that any nice inquiry will be made as to the former status of the negro caught in a Federal uniform behind a Federal musket? There will be no time for such inquiry—no thought but to kill as speedily and painfully as possible. Nobody need be told what the punishment of "slaves captured in arms" and engaged in "servile war" is by the laws of Slave Slates. And our white officers" found serving in company with" them arc to be served the same way.
In other words, the Rebel Confederacy proposes to meet the policy of Emancipation by inaugurating a wholesale murder of prisoners.
Is it well for insurgents to thus aggravate the perils and penalties of insurrection?
When Kentucky wanted to hang Gen. Buckner— who was a double-dyed, forsworn traitor according to all laws, human and divine—she was not permitted to do so. On the contrary, Kentuckians and Marylanders serving in the Rebel armies have been paroled and exchanged by us the same as other Confederate prisoners. And yet, there is no serious pretence that Kentucky and Maryland have seceded from the Union: and if we had chosen to treat them specially as traitors, there was ample ground for doing so.
The first battalion of colored men organized for this war was raised in New Orleans, to fight on the side of the Slaveholders' Rebellion, under the authority of Governor Moore of Louisiana. That battalion became the nucleus of Gen. Butler's (now Gen. Banks's) colored force, now amounting to a brigade of three or four thousand men. Is it a law of civilized warfare that slaveholders and rebels alone may arm and use negroes? Let them show their patent!
Jeff". talks largely of "the horrors" and "merciless atrocities" of a "servile war"—but these atrocities are of his own creation purely. The negroes— whether on his-side or on ours—have thus far shown no disposition to disregard the mort humane rules of civilized warfare. But he steps in, and, charging others with exciting to "merciless atrocities," proceeds to inaugurate them himself! Were the negroes to do their worst, they could not surpass the "atrocities" which he, from his snug fireside, orders to be perpetrated, until the whole land shall be drunk with blood.
He will frighten nobody. On the contrary, the whole civilized world will see in this savage manifesto a new proof of the unspeakable brutality and cruelty inseparable from the slaveholding; system, and will hail it as a striking proof of Rebel desperation. Murder is the last resort of even the most hardened and reckless felon. And, while it is easy to launch a threat of wholesale execution from the Cabinet, soldiers in the field, who arc to be its victims, and who fully comprehend that butchery involves retaliation, will generally do as they see fit about carrying such sanguinary threats into execution.—New York Tribune.
The Hanging Proclamation of Jefferson Davis, which appears to concentrate in itself the combined arrogance, wrath and mendacity of all Rebeldom, is evidently intended, principally, if not entirely, as a rejoinder to President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, the time for the operation of which a now near at hand. It would hardly be thought necessary or politic, even by secessionists, to start a proclamation with the falsehood that Wm. B. Mumford had been executed in New Orleans for baring pulled down the United States flag in that city before its occupation by the United States forces, and to clinch it with an appeal "to the Divine Judge," merely or principally for the purpose of retaliation for an act committed so long ago. To say nothing of the tiger-like savageness of the whole document, that part of the edict which declares all commissioned officers under Gen. Butler to be robbers and murderers, who are to be reserved for execution, is as diabolical and bloody in its conception and declaration as anything which has been sent forth by any government pretending to civilization since the days of St. Bartholomew, and including even the order for that merciless massacre.—Boston Transcript.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR. 
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 2, 1863.
CONCERNING THE LIBERATOR.
The war has not only crippled the circulation of the newspaper press generally, but it has produced such a scarcity in the materials for making printing paper,— owing chiefly to the failure of the cotton crop,—that the price per ream is now more than doubled, with a strong probability of a further upward tendency for some time to come. The consequence must be, universally, either a diminution in the size of the sheet or in the quantity of reading matter, or else a proportionate increase in the subscription price. Another alternative is, speedy extinction. In numerous cases, a stern necessity will doubtless compel the acceptance of the last, especially by weekly newspapers, as comparatively few of these have, hitherto, been able to preserve more than a precarious existence. It was the extra ounce that broke the camel's back: in this case, it is a ton's weight, instead of an ounce.
In common with all other publishers, we find ourselves in a very tight place. Our subscription list has been seriously reduced, by various causes, during the last year; and this, alone, is a source of pecuniary embarrassment. To attempt to go on at the same rates, with this loss, with the enormous advance in the price of printing paper, and with no immediate prospect of extending our circulation, would inevitably terminate the publication of the Liberator at an early day. On the other hand, to increase the terms to $3.00 per annum,—which, supposing our present list of subscribers should remain firm, would barely cover the additional cost of the white paper,—may cause such a further diminution in the number of our patrons sis to hasten the same fatal result. The first course, if pursued, is certain suppression; the second furnishes the only chance-of continuance. In these trying circumstances, we cannot hesitate which to adopt. The price of the Liberator, therefore, at the commencement of the new year, will be enhanced fifty cents per annum, until the market value of printing paper be restored to its normal condition. Other weekly papers throughout the country have been obliged to make a similar advance in their own case.

ENCOURAGING WORDS AND GENEROUS RESPONSES.
The following letters received (among others) since our announcement of the absolute necessity imposed upon us to advance the subscription terms of the Liberator, in consequence of the enormous increase in the price of printing paper, are cheering indications of a hearty and generous spirit of cooperation on the part of our subscribers, and evince au abiding interest in the continuance of the Liberator; for which we gratefully tender our heartfelt acknowledgments.
DANVERS PORT, Dec. 24, 1862. 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,—It was with sorrow of heart that I read your statement in the last Liberator, of the financial condition of our beloved sheet; not because of the small advance in price of its subscription, but because of the low state of Anti-Slavery feeling in the community. To think that the pioneer paper in the greatest of morn I enterprises this world ever saw should languish for support is really too bad! But it must not be, it shall not be so. Dear friends, you who have the love of God and of the oppressed in your hearts, will you not come to the rescue? Let us put our shoulders to the wheel, and give our old friend such a lift as shall make his new year really a happy one. As mountains are made from atoms, I hereby pledge my atom to the support of the sheet that has done so much for us. So, Mr. Editor, you may put me down for five dollars for the next year. I doubt if you have many subscribers who are not better able to give than is the writer. Let all give in proportion to their means, and thereby enable the publisher to send the Liberator to every subscriber at the old price, or less, who signifies to our General Agent that lie is unable to pay more. Friends of the slave, will you respond to this call? Or will you leave the only paper that dares to till the whole truth, (and to let the enemies of truth be freely heard in its columns,) falter and die for support? Talk of severing our connection with the Liberator, because of its enhanced expense! Why, we should as goon think of divorcing ourselves from a dear member of our family, because of the increased cost of living!
JOSEPH MERRILL.
NEW BEDFORD, 12mo. 24th, 1862. WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
RESPECTED FRIEND, —I have read with much interest thy honest and characteristic statement of the financial affairs of the Liberator, and trust that the subscribers will readily and heartily respond to the necessities of the case; at least, so far as the trifling addition of fifty cents per annum is concerned.
Although the affairs of our nation appear to be more and more complicated, my faith in the ultimate freedom of the slave, as well as the firmer establishment of human rights in our land, has never been shaken from the beginning of the conflict.
I am of reminded of what our friend, and the devoted friend of the slave, CAROLINE WESTON, said to me in conversation some sixteen or more years ago, to this end; that, " when the day should come for the consummation of our great object in the freedom of the slave, others would step in and take the laurels and glory of the victory; and that we, abolitionists, must expect only reproach and self sacrifice." How truly is this being verified! But this is also true, that the reward of a good conscience cannot be taken away, and that the sacrifices made by the friends of the oppressed and down-trodden slaves of our land will be remembered and appreciated by the good and virtuous in all coming time.
I enclose three dollars ns my next year's subscription for the Liberator.
With unabated respect and friendly regard for thee and thy family, I remain in the bonds of Christian love, waiting for the grand jubilee of freedom. Thy affectionate friend,
DANIEL RICKETSON.
Auburn, (N. H.) Dec. 21, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON, — Enclosed, please find three dollars to pay my subscription for the Liberator for next year. I cannot bear the idea that the old pioneer sheet shall be suspended. I think that the reading of the paper richly repays me for even the advanced price. Notwithstanding all the favorable circumstances and change of public opinion; that nearly all the periodicals, political and religious, are discussing the subject of slavery pro and con—and there is hardly a speech or a lecture delivered but that slavery is the most prominent topic—and even clergymen frequently introduce it into their sermons and prayers; yet something more radical than most of these is needed. A very large proportion of this anti-slavery or emancipation is void of any fixed moral principle. It is mere military necessity or political expediency.
I do not recollect of ever having seen one word from the lips or pen of the President, as acknowledging that the slaves have any claim as an act of justice upon the government or people. Then, colorphobia, the spirit of colonization, pervades all classes, (not all individuals,) from the President to the last Irishman from Cork; and it needs combating more strongly than is done through most other channels.
I hope that most of the patrons of the Liberator do not feel quite so indifferent about its continuance as the editor does. I hope that they are willing to make pecuniary sacrifices, to curtail expenses somewhere else, if necessary, to sustain the paper and its editor, until the universal jubilee shall be proclaimed. Then it will be needed to combat the prejudice against the black man, and aid in his education and elevation; and to give publicity to such noble letters as that of Miss Forten.
Yours, with much esteem,
BENJAMIN CHASE.
ELKHART, (Indiana,) Dec. 29, 1862. Wm. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—I am an old subscriber to your paper, and therefore know something of its value. It is a Liberator in the fullest sense of the word. It has labored faithfully, manfully and fearlessly to unscale the mental eyes of this people, pouring light and knowledge into their minds, and thereby dissolve the shackles that have so long bound the limbs of the American bondman—not by blood and carnage, but by peaceful and friendly means. It has received the taunts and jeers of politicians, and the anathematised prayers and execrations of the church and clergy. For more than thirty years it has stood the test; and now, as it has reached almost the summit of the mountain, and is about to grasp the prize for which it has so manfully fought, never swerving to tie right hand or the left, shall it be allowed to flounder far the want of a little pecuniary aid! No, that will never, never do. It must survive its pioneer achievements, and the downfall of American chattelism. And at prayers are «f no avail, unless accompanied by corresponding acts,
<c04>
I hereby enclose eight dollars—three of which please receive as subscription for the Liberator for one year; the remainder I donate for the benefit of the paper, for the old pioneer mast be kept in the field. Yours, ever for Truth and Justice,
ISAAC BUCKLEN.
CORNVILLE, Me., Dec. 20,1862.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,—Your notice to the friends of freedom concerning the Liberator meets with a hearty response in every fibre of my system. The pioneer paper must be sustained, no matter what the expense. Neither a diminution in the size of the paper, nor its extinction, can be thought of for a moment. The Liberator for seventeen years has been to me like water to a thirsty soul. It is a true educator. From it, I have learned more than I can express in words. Where is the man or woman naming the holy name of Abolitionist, who would see it suffer for want of help, though the times in future may demand that the price be quadrupled? It must live until every slave in the land is free.
I get my living by the very hardest kind of labor on a farm, and sometimes it is almost impossible to get the pay for the paper; but it is one of the luxuries that I will have. I shall pay the §3 as willingly as the former price.
Yours, for the redemption of man,
SEWARD MITCHELL.
WEST BROOKFIELD, (Vt.) Dec.27,1862. BROTHER GARRISON—I see by the last Liberator that its price this year, or rather next year, is to be three dollars. Slavery is not yet abolished, and, until it is, I think no true Abolitionist can afford to do without the old pioneer sheet; and, above all, he to whom this nation is indebted more than to any other man since the foundation of the American Government, for the vindication of human rights and the defence of universal freedom, should not, at this impending crisis, be deserted or abandoned. No, never! Let us boldly and heroically, like good men and true, stand by him who, under God, is the honored leader and champion in one of the most stupendous moral revolutions this world has ever witnessed; whose 'earnest words of truth and power have at last, after the indefatigable labors of a third of a century, found a response in the hearts of the American people, causing the very earth to quake beneath its mighty tread, and the dynasties and thrones of Europe to shake and stand tremulous upon their uncertain bases.— " The things that cannot be shaken will remain." The darkness that now overhangs this nation will make the succeeding day all the lighter. Let none who have been instructed by the Liberator yield to fear; for from that we all have been taught to have implicit confidence in the omnipotence of right, justice and truth. No, friends, we have nothing to fear, for "the Lord God omnipotent reigneth." There is no strange thing happened. The present state of things is simply the legitimate result of antecedent causes; just what the Abolitionists said would ultimately and inevitably come from the existence and tendency of slavery in our midst. In the nature of things, it could not have been otherwise. Let me exhort all the old patrons of the Liberator to stand by it now in its time of need. It would be ingratitude indeed to forsake it now. We owe it to its fearless, uncompromising and untiring editor, who has done so much for us and universal humanity. Let us, I say again, stand by the Liberator as the foe of tyrants and the friend of man. Let the Liberator live, and stand up in all the vigor and freshness of its youth, a terror to evil-doers, until the 6ong of FREEDOM shall have gone up to heaven from the lips of the last slave on the American soil. Then, with good old Simeon it may say, "Now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." Enclosed are three dollars for the Liberator.
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
[Our friend CLAFLIN belongs to the Abdiels of the pulpit, who, "few and far between," have always been true to the claims of bleeding humanity.]
WATE.RTOWN, (N.Y.) Dec. 29, 1862.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR SIR,—I have read with much interest your statement of the financial dilemma in which the Liberator, as well as most other papers, is now placed; and most cheerfully do I accept the new terms on which you propose to publish the sheet for the coming year. The Liberator has become indispensable to me, and I would much rather pay for two or three copies than have it suspended. You will find enclosed $3 to pay for the Liberator for the coming year. Should the enhanced terms fail to meet the necessities of the case, I hope you will frankly make known the fact in time for your friends to aid you.
With the highest respect, I am, dear sir,
Yours, very truly, E. W. REYNOLDS.
[Rev. Mr. Reynolds is the author of that admirable and widely-praised work, entitled "THE BARONS OF THB SOUTH."]
SPRINGFIELD, (Vt.) Dec. 30,1862. EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR,—I find in your last sheet an appeal to your patrons to sustain the Liberator; or, rather, a well-timed and simple statement of the cause which has compelled an advance in the price, with more than a hint that it must go down if not sustained. Enclosed, please find five dollars, which place to my credit, with the understanding that, should a further advance become necessary before this is run out, I will take my chance, and share my proportion of the burden, until paper is a dollar a pound, and Liberators twenty-five cents apiece; and may God preserve the life and continue the health of its ever-faithful Editor, to witness the last shackle fall from the limbs of the last slave in our land!
JESSE STEDMAN.
GORHAM, Me. 8th Dec, 1862.
MR. GARRISON: I herewith renew my subscription for the Liberator. I like the Liberator better and better for its truthfulness and faithfulness. I am particularly pleased with the "Refuge of Oppression." A great deal of shrewdness is evinced in thus publishing verbatim what enemies say against Abolitionists. It is "holding the mirror up to nature," and often reflects the real character of adversaries far more distinctly than could be done by editorial comment, however graphic the delineation.
Though a member of an Orthodox church, I have generally acquiesced in your rebuke of the Church. With deep mortification and regret, I am compelled to admit that the American Church has been the bulwark of American slavery. I was also a member of the Liberty party and of the Free Soil party, and am now a Republican. Your strictures of these parties have mostly been just. In two of them, there has certainly been more or less of a disposition to compromise with wrong. But the Liberty party was true to its mission. I am not aware that it ever manifested the least desire to compromise. Your objection to it, however, was very natural. The Constitution, which that party avowed its purpose to support, you regarded as itself an unwarrantable compromise—indeed, ns "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell." The party, on the contrary, looking at the Preamble, found in the Constitution all that the most ardent and devoted advocate of Freedom could desire. It did not, therefore, feel conscientiously bound by covert intents or erroneous decisions of pro-slavery courts.
But whatever the true construction, the Liberty party-and the Abolitionists (I use the latter term in its popular as well as true signification) were alike honest; so that your strictures never disturbed mo, since I knew they were made in supposed defence of human rights. And it is a source of gratification that, whether in the church or the political party, in the social circle, or wherever else it has been deemed expedient, I have for the past twenty years or more, to the very best of my ability, defended the Liberator and Mr. Garrison against all unreasonable and unreasoning complaints.
The course of the Liberator in sustaining the government in its efforts to crush this infernal rebellion has been ground of astonishment to many. They had not expected such support, and think it quite inconsistent with former utterances. But they mistake your position. While the Government was in the interest of slavery, as it had mainly been since its organization, you opposed the Government But the moment it placed itself on the side of Freedom, then it began to receive your support, in exact accordance with the measure of its faithfulness to that cause. Very truly, your friend,
C. A. STACKPOLE.
 The Boston (German) Pionier, edited by Karl
Heinsen, bestows the following tribute:-
"Among the papers which in these bad times are suffering most, after having striven most for better ones, belongs the Boston Liberator. In raising for the new year its subscription price from $2.50 to §3.00, it intimates that only by the faithful adherence of its present friends can it be saved from going under. The tendency of the Liberator in various respects, especially in the matter of religion, does not coincide with that of the radical Germans. But in regard to political free-thinking, fearlessness, fidelity to principle, integrity, and lack of prejudice towards 'foreign' enlightenment, it is not surpassed by any American paper. No paper in this country which is-edited in English, stands nearer to the Germans than the Liberator, which, when it has opportunity, affords its readers specimens of German public opinion on the side of freedom by means of excellent translations. We trait that our readers also know how to value this; and those of them whose meant allow them to take an American paper, should not neglect to exhibit their sentiments by subscribing to the Liberator."
<c05>
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The THIRTIETH ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston on THURSDAY FRIDAY, Jan. 29th and 20th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
This Society was organized for the utter abolition of slavery throughout the United States. However great has been the change wrought in public ten time at in favor of that godlike object,—and it has been truly marvellous, in view of the mountainous obstacles in the way of success; however effectual may be the President's Emancipation Proclamation in breaking the chains of the bondmen in such rebellious sections of the country as he has just designated,— and Heaven grant it may be as potent in operation as it is comprehensive in its scope; nevertheless, nothing at tins hour is settled so surely as the continued enslavement of four millions of the inhabitants of the land and while any of these remain to wear the yoke, the primary object and specific work of this Society will not have been accomplished. Slavery in the so-called loyal Border States is as inexcusable, as criminal, as revolting, as unendurable, as pregnant with evil and ruin, as in the rebellious Confederate States, and must be as vigorously and uncompromisingly assailed, until liberty is proclaimed" throughout ALL the land, to ALL the inhabitants thereof."
The approaching anniversary promises to be one of surpassing interest; and it is not doubted that the friends of universal emancipation, in the various sections of the Commonwealth, (and, it is hoped, beyond the limits of the State,) will be encouragingly represented on the occasion. As hitherto, an additional attraction will be presented in the holding of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY on the evening (Wednesday, Jan. 28th) preceding the opening session of the Society.
[Further particulars hereafter.]
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec'y

IN MEMORIAM.
During the past year, an unusual number of the untiring and ever-faithful friends of the Anti-Slavery cause have seen " the last of earth,"—departing to the Spirit-land at the culminating period of their labors and sacrifices, just within hearing of the songs and shouts of the long desired jubilee. Among these we recall the names, first, of the earliest and most venerable—namely:
(1) DAVID MERRITT, Esq., of Salem, at the ripe
old age of 87.
(2) Rev. HENRY GREW, of Philadelphia, aged 80.
(3) ANDREW ROBESON, Esq., of New Bedford,
aged 75.
(4) Col. WILLIAM WHITING, of Concord, Mass.,
aged 73.
(5) DARIOUS P. LAWTON, of East Providence, R. I.,
aged 75.
(6) ZECHARTAH OBER, of Newbury, Ohio, aged 87.
(7) ISAAC STEVENS, Esq., of North Andover, (father of Gen. Isaac I. Stevens, who fell at Fairfax Court House, Va.,) aged 77.
(8) DANIEL ANTHONY, Esq., of Rochester, N. Y., (father of Miss Susan B. Anthony,) aged 69.
Second—the names of those who, though younger in years, were equally steadfast and true—namely:
(1) BENJAMIN S. JONES, of Kennet Square, Pa., for several years the able and uncompromising editor of the Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle, a faithful lecturer in the field, and from his youth warmly interested in the cause.
(2) DANIEL MITCHELL, of Pawtucket, R. I.
(3) JOHN JONES, of Roxbury.
(4) WARNER JUSTICE, of Philadelphia.
Third—the names of those yet younger in years— namely:
(1) GERRIT SMITH HAMBLETON, of Upper Oxford,
Pa. Died at Hilton Head, S.C.
(2) ROBERT PURVIS, Jr., of Byberry. Pa.
(3) RANDALL MANN, of Leicester, killed in battle.
(4) WILLIAM FULLER, of Needham, who died of
his wounds in the battle of Bull Run.
The Rev. Dr. SAMUEL OSGOOD, of Springfield, (Mass.) who recently departed at the age of 77, deserves to be gratefully remembered for his early adhesion to the cause, which he advocated to his cost and with unflinching courage, though for some years past not appearing on the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
WILLIAM M. CHACE, Esq., formerly of Providence, R.I., who died in the city of New York, was particularly prominent and active in the early period of the struggle, doing efficient service in helping to change the sentiment of Rhode Island in favor of the oppressed.
In this connection, the Rev. JOHN W. LEWIS, for many years a respected minister in the Freewill Baptist denomination, who died in Hayti a few months since, and who was identified in complexion and destiny with the oppressed, is deserving of honorable remembrance for his modest and amiable character, his very respectable talents as a preacher and lecturer, and his unceasing efforts to excite sympathy and obtain deliverance for his fettered countrymen.
Within the past year, also, several estimable and thoroughly devoted women, whose pulsations beat responsive to the throbbings of the slave-mother's heart, have also been translated. Among these we record the names of
(1) The venerable MARIA MARRIOTT, of Hudson N.H.
(2) The equally venerable CATHARINE PUTNAM, of Peterboro', N. H.
(3) MARGARET BLYDENBURGH, of Durham, N. H.
(4) LYDIA H. CHASE, of Salem, Mass.
(5) EMMA WILLARD WYMAS, of Worcester, wife
of Major John C. Wyman.
(6) HANNAH WEBB, the beloved wife of Richard D. Webb, of Dublin, Ireland.
(7) HANNAH E. STODDARD, of Fall River.
{8) ABBY FENNO MANLEY, wife of John R. Manley, Esq., of Boston.
(9) LOUISA MAY WILLIS, wife of Hamilton Willie,
Esq., of Boston.
(10) ANNA P. DONALDSON, of Penmaen, Ohio.
The list on both sides could be considerably extended, but this will suffice to remind the readers of the Liberator of the loss sustained during the brief period of twelve months. But the glorious cause to which the departed gave their early or their later years, in the face of popular scorn and often of fiery trials, is immortal, invincible, and we trust ere long to be triumphant throughout the land. Its friends and advocates have never been so numerous, its enemies never so broken and dispirited, as at the present time. Whoever may be called away to another sphere of existence, it bears a charmed life, and no weapon raised against it can prosper. Based upon human nature, demanding simple justice for all men, seeking the welfare of the oppressor and the oppressed alike, divorced from all worldly selfishness, inspired by a divine energy, and upheld by an omnipotent arm, it cannot be vanquished, though all the hosts of hell assail it; and over it death has no power. Others of the early and true are serenely waiting " to be clothed upon " in God's good time, which may not be far off; but, living or dying, they know in whom they have believed, and will remain faithful to the end, ready for every emergency, and through faith overcoming all opposition.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, for November, is before us, with the following article:—1. Christian Individuality. 2. The Austrian Empire in 1862. 3. Poems by A-H. Clough. 4. Assimilation of Law 5. France and Scotland—M. Michel. 6. Popular Prophetical Literature. 7. Syria and the Eastern Question. 8. St Clement's Eve. 9. The American Conflict [For an extract from this last article, which is basely pro-slavery, see "Refuge of Oppression."]
Crosby & Nichols, 117 Washington street.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LECTURE.
The Twelfth lecture before the fraternity was delivered on Tuesday evening, Dec. 23d, by George William Curtis, Esq., of New York. His subject was, ‘The American Doctrine of Liberty." The Tremont Temple was filled, and the eloquent speaker was frequently applauded.
He represented the motive and mainspring of the gigantic war in which this nation is now engaged to be the maintenance of the great, original, Americas doctrine of Liberty; the absolute personal and political liberty of every human being, in virtue of his humanity. In spite of colossal efforts, and stupendous sophistry, used by clergymen and political orators to pervert this idea, he felt sure that it was making steady progress among the people –the great body of the nation.
This American doctrine of liberty as an interest and universal right, is a very different thing from that Athenian liberty, and that Roman liberty, of which scholars talk with so much admiration. Liberty, among the Romans, was only for citizens of Rome, Spartacus, though a man of lofty powers and noble aspirations, being by birth a barbarian and by station a slave, was not a man in Roman eyes, and had no rights which Romans were bound to respect, His rights as a man were ignored and trampled on. But his wild revenge showed his own recognition of those rights, and his scorn of the polished oppressors who would destroy them.
Even British society is only a modified feudalism, a system founded more on class privileges than on human rights.
Our revolutionary fathers took a different ground. They did not argue the principles of the Declaration of Independence, but declared the self-evident James Otis affirmed-" The colonists are men, and therefore entitled to freedom." Richard Henry Lee echoed the Declaration. The Bill of Rights of Virginia says it is self-evident that men are created equal. Who shall dare to call this a "a glittering generality" 
After a brief reference to the eloquent lawyer of Boston whose sophistry stereotyped itself in the phrase above quoted, Mr. Curtis proceeded to say that the equality which underlies our doctrine of liberty is an equality of rights, and that this is unlimited.
Our fathers were not hypocrites. They expected the quiet disappearance of slavery, and they charged their posterity not to forget the maintenance of liberty. But we did forget it; and now God is rendering us the retribution belonging to neglected duties.
The men opposed to us in this war hate the spirit of liberty as well as all outward manifestations on it Are our soldiers as zealous for the right as the enemy are for the wrong? If not, recal them, and send men imbued with the intensest love of true liberty. Only such can effectively flight on the Northern side.
After speaking of the power and the undue influence of public opinion in this country. Mr. Curtis said-He best educated the public mind, who, in spite of opposition, persists in teaching the people what they ought to desire.
After saying that our present contest in not only for liberty bur for civilization, Mr. Curtis spoke of the President, attributing to him the distinguishing merits of Washington and Jefferson, and wishing he had those of Andrew Jackson in addition.
Even we in New England, do not hold the full American idea of liberty. Among us, sex and color still disqualify. It a man is born of the wrong color, we assume that he is rascal. The shameful fact is, that by ill treatment we have done our best to make him such.
Our rights are ours because we are men, not in virtue of any fictitious qualification. Color should no more exclude any one from the rights of citizenship than social position or trade.
Speaking of the prejudice cherished by many Americans against foreigners, Mr. Curtis said he had the fortune to meet with one logical know-Nothing, This man wished that every d-d nigger would kill's d-d Paddy, and them be hung for murder.
The course of that ambitious intriguer, Stephen J. Douglas, seemed to have sprung from the behalf that a long course a practical indifference to natural rights had depraved the intellect of the American people. His system had for its corner-stone a piece of transparent sophistry. Our American doctrine, he said is that the majority must govern, and this is obviously just and right. Very well; apply this principle to the great topic of dispute in our country, and it will plainly appear that the majority in any State have a right to decide whether they will hold slaves or not!
This is doctrine of the sheerest moral indifference, representing livery and human rights as chimeras. This doctrine overlooks and disregards not only the right of minorities, (which are never to be left out of sight,) but the yet more sacred rights of humanity-those which inherently belong to the human being.
The truth is, Douglas cared neither for slavery nor liberty. He was a gambler, playing for the President. He was warned that "though the mill of God grind slowly, they grind exceeding small." He disregarded the warning, and the mill of God crushed him.
Those who would lay a firm foundation in politics must remember that not majorities only, but was have rights, Such is the scope of our American doctrine. The question is. Do we believe it? Are we willing to act upon it? The terrible war that is upon us asks this question; and it must be fairly answered.
We are pledged to liberty. We must gain it. But vainly shall we seek it for ourselves and our children unless we also demand it for the unhappy race whom we have hitherto enslaved.
We have been accustomed to take for grated that the rights of this race might be trampled on with impunity. Like Belshazzar, our nation sat peaceful, powerful and prosperous. We disregarded occasional glimpses of the hand, writing our sentence of the wall, and we made foolish excuses for the postponement of repentance and reformation. But even while we spoke, the slave, like the Afreet emerging from his casket in the Arabian tale, swelled into gigantic proportions, and demanded justice and freedom. An immense, and threatening power revealed itself in the very race we had derided as weak; and from the skies a voice repeated the fearful question-Where is Atel, And thy Brother?

By the lurid light of this war we see our duty, and we read our doom corresponding to the fulfillment or the violation of that duty. Our nation may emerge from this contest like the wriggling worm, destined to permanent debasement, or it may soar like the Eagle, shaking off the chains that have hitherto restrained it
Last Tuesday evening, in consequence of the absence of Rev. J.M.MANNING, poetical readings from popular authors, by MISS EMILY SHAW, were substituted for a lecture, and gave very general satisfaction Miss S. evincing superior elocutionary talent, but lacking in power of voice for so large a hall.
Mr. Slack, the President of the Fraternity, thanked the audience for their attendance, and expressed the satisfaction of the committee at the full success of this fifth series of lectures. He thought the had accomplished their purpose, of giving to the public of Boston a course fully equal both in interest and value, to any of those admirable ones which have been given in previous year. And he held out the pleasing hope that, whenever Mr. Manning should returns to Boston on furlough, he high be persuaded to throw his experience of camp life into the form of a lecture, is which case the Committee would gladly ad that to the course.
It must be admitted that this course has been eminent in excellence and attractiveness. The fraternity lectures have become one of our permanent institutions. They hold a high place among the educational forces of the city of Boston, giving instruction, intellectual and moral, of a very high order, and also being looked for, from year to year, as among the most attractive of winter 
entertainments. -C.K.W.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ
LONDON, Dec 12, 1862.
MY DEAR GARRISON:
I have just returned from Staffordshire, where I have been holding meetings at Stanley, Burslem and Newcastle, upon the Emancipation question in America. In every place, I had large and enthusiastic meetings, and although I heard of many persons with Southern sympathies, and though at every meeting I invited opposition, no antagonist appeared. William Andrew Jackson accompanied me, and at every meeting delivered an interesting and telling address. On the preceding Sunday, he was invited to speak at several Sabbath Schools, and addressed, in all, upwards of three thousand children, besides speaking in the evening to the congregation worshipping at the Independent Chapel. He has written a letter to Jefferson Davis, informing him that he (Jackson) cannot be with him on the 25th inst., on which day it will be necessary for the rebel chief to produce him, to discharge a bond for $1,050 which he has given to the owner of his body.
This evening, I attend a meeting in London, called “To express sympathy with the Anti-Slavery party in America.” It will be addressed by the Rev. Newman Hall, the Rev. J.H. Ryland, and myself. On the 15th I speak at a similar meeting in Spa Fields Chapel; on the 16th at Stratford; on the 17th, at Basingstoke; and on the 19th, at Banbury. After these meetings, I shall have others in the North of England and in Scotland.
I am greatly rejoiced to find that Theodore Weld is again in the field. I have ever deeply regretted the cause of his long silence. His cooperation at this crisis cannot fail to prove very valuable.
I am looking with impatience and nervous anxiety for the appearance of the President’s Message. I have been encouraged by what I have seen in the American papers to believe that it will be satisfactory on the slave question; but I want the assurance of the document itself. My disappointment would be great, and the sorrow of the friends of the slave here most poignant, if it should show any infirmity of purpose in reference to emancipation.
Too much praise cannot be awarded to our unemployed and suffering population in the Manufacturing districts, for the patience and uncomplaining fortitude with which they have borne their privations consequent on the stoppage of the supply of cotton. Many and evil have been the attempts made to stir them to utter a demand for interference on the part of the Government, with a view to the recognition of the rebel States and the opening of the Southern ports. But they have been proof against all temptation, and have found amongst themselves able spokesmen to answer the arguments of the enemies of the North and of the cause of Freedom.
The meeting of the Confederate State Aid Society held the night before last was a miserable affair. The person they employ as a lecturer will not allow a question to be put to him, nor any remark to be made. A policeman is in readiness to remove any person who may attempt to speak.
If you have not yet seen the reply of Prof. Newman to Mr. Gladstone, you will have much pleasure in reading it in the paper sent with this, and will doubtless print it.
Our Emancipation Society has issued a circular to ministers of all religious denominations, urging them to call attention to the President’s Proclamation. I send you a copy, and hope you will approve.
I thank you for printing in the Liberator of the 28th ultimo my address at Leigh. You are at all times at liberty to use my communications as you deem expedient. Though I am separated from you by a wide interval, and am a poor correspondent, I am nevertheless continually with you in spirit, and do what I can to second the exertions made by yourself and your coadjutors in the cause of the slave.
Always, most sincerely yours,
GEO. THOMPSON.

THE PRESIDENT’S ABOLITION PROCLAMATION.
The following circular has been issued to the ministers of all religious denominations by the London Emancipation Society:-
LONDON EMANCIPATION SOCIETY, 65, FLEET STREET, E.C., Dec.9
REV. AND DEAR SIR,-We beg very respectfully to urge upon you the propriety of giving prominence to the subject of negro emancipation in the religious services, which, in this country at least, always herald the advent of a new year. President Lincoln has appointed the 1st of January, 1863, as the day on which he will, by virtue of the powers vested in him, declare slavery to be abolished in the rebel States. That day will form the commencement of a new era in American history-an era in which the whole power and authority of the Federal Government will be employed, for the first time, to effect the overthrow of a system that embodies in itself every iniquity know to man. It is, therefore, we think, a day eminently worthy of special recognition on the part of the great religious communities of England. Every section of the Christian public cannot tail to rejoice in the prospect of the slave’s deliverance, and to pray that Divine Providence may bless the efforts of those who are endeavoring to uproot at once and for all an institution which has sought to degrade to the level of brutes four millions of human beings. We ask then, that, in your New Year’s Services, the bondmen of the Southern States may be specially remembered; and that in every church and chapel throughout Great Britain an aspiration for their speedy release from captivity may rise to a jest Heaven.
We do not appeal to you from any political motive, or for any mere party object. We ask only that, in this crisis of the negro’s late, you will remember them that are in bonds as bound with them. Many among the slaves and oppressed colored people of America are now looking to England for some token of her good will. Let us give it to them at a time when it will excite the deepest gratitude on their part, and exert the greatest influence on the public opinion of the United States, both North and South.
In America, at the present time, the real opinion of this country is grievously misunderstood. There are many in both sections of the republic who imagine that we have departed from the faith of our fathers. The enemies of human freedom, and of the pure religion of Christ, exult in the belief that the spirit Clarkson, of Wilberforce, and of Fowell Buxton, has become extinct in the breasts of their successors; that the immortal principles which were embodied in the Acts abolishing the slave-trade and West India slavery have ceased to be dear to us a nation. This should not be. To allow such an impression any longer to exist, to give color to it by a seeming apathy to the cause of the negro and to the traditions of an illustrious past, is to cast dishonor upon the character and the religion of England. To you, then, we make our appeal; to you who are the successors and even in many instances the colleagues and friends of that noble band of ministers and churches, to whose labors far more than to those of statesmen or political parties the abolition of slavery in the British colonies must be attributed. We beg of you to render now, as far as you may be able, the same service to humanity which you rendered in that great struggle, and, by the expression of your religious feeling in the way we have indicated, to hasten the day when slavery and caste shall cease to pollute the soil of America.
Signed on behalf of the committee,
WILLIAM EVANS, Chairman.
F.W. CHESSON, Secretary.
We copy the following notices from the London Morning Star:
FREEDOM FOR THE SLAVE-A PUBLIC MEETING, to express sympathy with the anti-slavery party in America, will be held at the LAMBETH BATHS, Westminster-road, THIS EVENING,(Friday) Dec. 12 1862. George Thompson, Esq., late M.P. for the Tower Hamlets, and the Rev. J.H. Rylance, A K.C., will attend as a deputation from the Emancipation Society. The Rev. NEWMAN HALL, LL.D., will take the Chair at Eight o’clock precisely Working men are especially invited to attend. Admission free.
FREEDOM FOR THE SLAVE-A PUBLIC MEETING for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the friends of universal liberty in America, in the prospect of the Emancipation of the Slaves of that country, will be held in SPA FIELDS CHAPEL, Exmouth Street, Clerkenwell, on MONDAY EVENING Dec,15. George Thompson, Esq., Washington Wilks, Esq., and the Rev. J.W. Massie, D.D., LL.D., will attend as a deputation from the London Emancipation Society; the Rev. W. Elliott, superintendent of the Countess of Huntingdon’s Mission at the meeting. The Rev. T.E. THORESBY will take the chair at half-past seven. Free admission.
<c02>
TRUMPS THROWN AWAY.
Towards the close of the ever memorable defence of Venice, in 1849, the besiegers had made such progress that their batteries commanded two-thirds of the devoted city, and the inhabitants, crowded into the remaining third, were assailed at once by the Austrian, by pestilence, and by famine. Bat we read that whenever the enemy slackened fire to repair their damages, the Venitian women wept for fear lest the silence should mean negotiation and armistice.
Compare the situation of Venice and of the North after the 22d of September, and let any one say whether we might not justly hare added tears to the thought of the possibilities of the List three months. Two doors stood open for the conspirators of the South, each, as far as human foresight can penetrate, marked, "This way to Victory." There was the opportunity to return, at the eleventh hour, if desired, to a Union and a North more than ever their own. If you doubt it, regard the recent elections, our baffled and wearied army, the entire professions of the President and of the leading Republican presses. Southern pride, or the shrewdness which saw that no victory over conscience could be permanent, and that the conscience of the North was the occasion (not the cause) of the rebellion,—Southern pride or shrewdness and our de-frats in battle saved us from the degradation and ruin of a compromise. The South turned her back upon the olive-branch of conciliation, and closed door number one.
The second remained. It was to free the blacks, and secure the rebellion beyond peradventure. The foreigner would have been won over by the common appeal to his humanity and Ills interests. Unity would have been gained at home. The North, judged by its recorded purpose of restoring the Union as it was, would have appeared as the enslaver of free-men, the oppressor of a people determined to be independent, and morally incapable of subjugation. Amid the threatening murmur of Christendom, we must have had to acknowledge that the Confederacy was the legitimate child of a successful revolution.
Size Deus an causes? Was it God, or chance, that prompted Jefferson Davis to issue his proclamation of December 22d? The slave not only not freed, but subject to every punishment if caught in the armed service of the North! We breathe again, and bless the arm that withheld our victories in the field, lest the humiliation or despair of the slaveholder might culminate in compromise or emancipation.
Thus has the hugest lie of the rebellion exploded of itself. It is, that the war has nothing to do with slavery. What fool at the North has not marked the lie from the outset? What fool in Europe may not mark it now, though he would not listen to Vice-president Stephens, when, to confirm the South in secession, lie declared African shivery to be the "corner-stone" of the new Confederacy,—but hung rather upon the smooth deceptions of Yancey and Slidell? Acts speak louder than words. The Conspirators saw imperiled, through the President's Proclamation, the existence of their State or of their divine institution, "The Confederacy if possible, but Slavery at any rate!" was the voice of the 22d of December. Plymouth Rock will be grateful to its antagonist, because she removed her mask on Forefathers' Day. —W.P.G.

ANTI-SLAVERY EFFORT STILL NEEDED.
If any body of men and women in this country have a right to look upon the present struggle with serene confidence and hope, it is the Abolitionists. They alone enjoy the consciousness that no drop of fratricidal blood attaches itself to their garments. For more than a quarter of a century, they have toiled and plead and suffered that this nation might ' be saved from the fiery ordeal of civil war. The; people were deaf to their reiterated warnings, stoned the prophets and ridiculed the truth. Now the day of fulfillment is at hand, and the choicest lives are demanded as an atonement.
Abolitionists may well rejoice. Not that they feel less than others the horrors of war, or are wanting in sympathy for the sufferers, but because the justice off God U made manifest to their eyes, and their faith in the ultimate triumph of the right is undoubted.
But the end is not yet, and, until the last black man on the continent is lilted into the sunlight of freedom, it is not time for the Abolitionist to lay aside his armor, or abate a single blow of his battle-axe.
True, the hated heresy of immediate emancipation, starting in that small Boston chamber where
"friendless and unseen,
Toiled o'er his types one poor, unlearned young man,”
has in the short space of an average life-time conquered obstacles that seemed formidable as the Andes, And in place of "a negro boy," who was the "only visible auxiliary " of Mr. Garrison that Mayor Otis; could discover in 1831, behold, in 1863, Abraham Lincoln is substituted, and the despised printer speaks through the President of the United States!
For thus much, gratitude and praise! When the liberation of every bondman in the country is effected, when the present bud of promise has ripened into the golden fruit of performance, the distinctive work of the Abolitionist will have ceased. Then it will be time enough to talk of disbanding anti-slavery societies and stopping anti-slavery papers. In that day, the war-worn veterans of the cause will gladly rest in peace. The problem which has perplexed the pro-slavery press so long, i.e., how to abolish the Abolitionists, will then be solved.
Bat the jubilee trump has not yet sounded. A partial proclamation of freedom, wrung from unwilling hands by the stern necessities of war, cannot, must not satisfy. Grant that it is to be faithfully executed, it is not enough. Loyalty to the old Union gives Border State men no moral right to hold slaves; and until slaveholders, whether loyal or disloyal, are out-awed by this nation, this nation will be held an oat-awed by the civilized world.
I Again, what guaranty have we that the present: proclamation is given in good faith? Seward, who, since the inauguration of Lincoln, has studied only to betray freedom by a compromise, still leads the Cabinet. Democratic generals with pro-slavery antecedents control our armies. The man who issued Order No.3 is the appointed officer to execute the military proclamation- Let us not be too sanguine. With no heart in the great work which has fallen to their hands, what can be hoped from Seward and Halleck? Unexecuted, the proclamation is a blow against the North instead of the South. Void of effect, it will be another proof of the impotence of the Republican Administration, and Northern Democracy can ask no better rallying cry than this "abolition failure' to marshal their seditious cohorts and sweep from power the present Government, whose immense resources and available strength are only equaled by its infirmity of purpose and feebleness of execution.
With uncertainties like these hanging over the nation's fate, the mission of the Abolitionists is by no means ended. Before God relieves us from our scourge, the conscience of the people must show more signs of awakening than are visible at present. We give up slavery with the same reluctance that a drowning man relinquishes his grasp of the bag of gold which is dragging him under. A selfish sacrifice solely for preservation is no atonement for a century of injustice. Repentance and reparation most precede forgiveness and peace.
The Abolitionists will therefore increase, sot relax their efforts. They urge the necessity of the same assistance which has been tendered in former years. They pray the people not to cherish the delusion that abolition is an accomplished fact. Give liberally of your store to the treasury of the only American Society that new forgets the equal brotherhood of the slave. Circulate with renewed zeal the anti-slavery papers and tracts. So may the "good time coming" be hastened, and the salvation of the nation's heart as well as its form of government be assured.
CREDO.
<c03>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
A Letter from a Soldier touching Proclamation—The Wants of the Emancipated—Seymour thee Representative of the Five Points-The Democratic Party a Representative of “the sum of all villany.”
Cooperstown, (N. Y.,) Dec. 4, 1862. DEAR GARRISON—I send you as extract from a letter, just received from a nephew is the army, who U Assistant Quartermaster of a division, and has daily and hourly opportunities to know and relieve the wants of the self-emancipated slaves who find protection within our lines in the slave Slates. He it a noble young man of 23, and enlisted to fight for liberty against slavery. A brother of his was shot, and his body lies in the slavery-cursed soil of Tennessee. As soon as his brother fell, this one took his place. If this one falls, another brother stands ready to fill his place. The noble mother and father said—" Some! homes and hearts must be made desolate. They may as well be ours us others." God bless them for their. I self-abnegation! Some hearts must bleed, some homes must be made desolate, or slavery will rule the nation and continent. But hear the testimony of my brave and noble nephew, touching the Proclamation and its results:—
"I rejoice, with you, in the Proclamation of our Executive. That Proclamation is destined to render Abraham Lincoln's memory of long duration. His name, together with the great philanthropist of Russia, will be immortal.
"But of one thing I am fearful. Indeed, I see It already—i.e., the people of the North are not preparing for the Proclamation. They are not making a commensurate effort to prepare for the freed slaves. Let me tell you, unless some preparation it made ere the first of January for the emancipated slaves we shall see a reign of starvation worse than Ireland ever saw. I foresee that event thus: In this city, the colored people who escape from slavery to our lines are now dying of starvation I Scores of contrabands daily arrive. They flock within our lines. We protect them; we render their freedom secure; but, alas! freedom cannot supply them food. So, in many instances, they die!
"We have a Contraband Depot here, consisting of one house—quite a large one. The house is filled to overflowing, and the street, for rods, is literally filled with them. I have seen 500 men, women and children at that Depot. Frequently they come into our lines in gangs of over one hundred: when a large number congregate, they are sent away—where I know not. In other places, the freed slaves are starving to death. To sleep together in the streets, by hundreds, as they do, would surely kill white people.
"Now, the North must awake to the great trust of supplying the wants of the poor, despised, long-suffering slaves, or scenes of terrible suffering must ensue. I could tell you many instances that have come under my own observation that have touched me deeply, and would rejoice your heart: one will suffice. As I was riding by the Contraband Depot, not long since, I overtook an old slave and his wife, just as they arrived at the house from their bondage to a traitor. A girl of 15 came out of the door and met them, and instantly recognized in the man and woman her parents. They had been parted five years. You can conceive of the meeting—I cannot describe it."
What, indeed, can the North do to meet the events of the coming year? Millions of chattels will, I trust, be raised to men and women, millions of slaves into free men and free women; and certain it is that no effort will be spared by the kidnappers and traitors, and their Democratic allies in the North, to make the condition of those emancipated slaves as wretched as possible; and then they, and the English allies of slavery and treason, will urge that starvation and suffering as an argument against the policy of emancipation. They will do all they can to hedge up the way of these free men to earn their food and raiment, and then urge the starvation and nakedness that are produced by their own satanic hatred, as a reason against the Administration which freed them. What can the friends of freedom, of Christ, of God and Humanity, in this and in other lands, do to aid those innocent and long-suffering victims of American Democracy and American Religion to earn a comfortable living till the hot wrath of their kidnappers, North and South, shall have had time to exhaust itself?
By the way, the Democrats, since the official report of the election in this State, are glad to keep dark—those of them whose sense of shame and decency is not quite dead. It turns out that Horatio Seymour, as the Governor elect of the Empire State, is simply and solely the representative elect of the 2743 groggeries, the 279 brothels, 170 places of resort for thieves, burglars and ruffians, and 105 gambling hells located in and around the Five Points in New York City! Seymour's majority in the whole State—including New York city—is 10,489). His majority in the twelve wards, embracing the Five Points and its precincts and dependencies, is 10,983! Wadsworth having only 1081 votes in all these wards, and Seymour 12,664—being a majority over Wadsworth of 10,983—some 500 more than in all the State, these wards included. Never—in the history of popular elections—in this or in any country—can there be found a fact so significant of the character of a political party and its candidate as this! It is simply a fact, attested by the official returns of the election, and by the police records of the above named wards and election districts in New York, that the Democratic party comes into power in the Empire State, the ally of kidnappers and rebels—simply and solely as the representative of the above enumerated groceries, brothels, gambling hells, &c., in the Five. Points of New York city and its dependencies. These brothels, groggeries, hells, and resorts of thieves and burglars were wheeled into the ranks of the Democratic allies of kidnappers and rebels by Isaiah Rynders and Fernando and Ben Wood, who took up their abode in the Five Points, with a view to this end! Why should not the party which, for fifty years, has represented slavery in the nation, now be the representative of the groggeries, brothels, and gambling hells of New York city? It has been nothing else for fifty years but the representative of a huge nation of brothels, in which are confined, without marriage, and in concubine and prostitution, lour millions of men and women. It has been the mere representative of that "sum of all villany" and pollution, American slavery. It is fitting that the same Democrat; party should now come into power in New York State as the representative of the Five Points in New York.
Many voted for that party, and the "sum of all; villany" and pollution which it represents, as did the I Baptist deacon, to whom I alluded in my last—to put down Abolitionism. Many voted for it simply because they were so besotted with their partyism that they were willing to sacrifice their souls, their liberty, their manhood, their God on the altar of their party.
SLAVERY, THE CAUSE—ABOLITION, THE CURE—of rebellion and civil war, and all the evils that come from them to this and to other lands. This is my one theme in all my lectures—the Proclamation, its bearing on the SLAVES, the us, Enslavers the REPUBLIC, the CONTINENT, the WORLD.
I have done and am doing what I can to prepare all with whom I come in contact to aid the Administration to give vitality to that Proclamation. Twenty-seven days more must elapse before the set time arrives, but the real day of its power is come—and it came when the slaves learned of its existence. I am engaged lo lecture once a day, and sometimes twice I and thrice a day, between this and Christmas. Then I shall wend my way to Boston, to reach there, if I can, Wednesday, Dec. 31st. Many have gnashed their teeth, and made all sorts of threats, because I have held up the Empire State as an Abolition Society; and because I have proved to them, to their own satisfaction, that, by virtue of their citizenship in this State, they are members of a radical, rabid, practical ABOLITION SOCIETY!
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
MR. WELD AT PLYMOUTH. Our Old Colony readers will see by the notice in the appropriate column, that Mr. Weld is to attend a meeting next Sunday at Plymouth. We learn from Abington that his addressee there on Sunday last, and also on Monday evening, were of the most thrilling interest, and that the strongly solicited to visit other towns in that neighborhood at his earliest convenience.
<c04>
ESSEX COUNTY A. S. SOCIETY.
A quarterly meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society was held in the Town Hall, Danvers, on Sunday, Dec. 21st.
The meeting was called to order by John Cutler, one of the Vice Presidents of the Society.
Joseph Merrill was chosen Secretary pro tem.
C. L. Remond, Theodore D. Weld and Parker .Pillsbury were chosen a Committee on Business.
Isaac W. Roberta and Lizzie El well were chosen a Committee on Finance.
The meeting was addressed by Mr. Pillsbury in his usual argumentative and earnest manner. He thought there was no hope of salvation for us as a nation, unless by genuine repentance and works to accord.
Voted to adjourn to 2 o'clock, P. M.
Met agreeably to adjournment.
Parker Pillsbury presented the following resolutions in behalf of the Business Committee:—
1. Resolved, That a Union made with slaveholders, and continued over the prostrate forms, the outraged rights, the crucified manhood of half a million slaves, with pledges and guarantees under which the inhuman system has fearfully enlarged its territory and multiplied its victims, was a Union accursed of God from the beginning, and sure to be soon overthrown, unless delivered from that element of certain destruction.
2. Resolved, That our present bloody and desolating war is but a fulfillment of the words of the immortal Jefferson, "I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever."
3. Resolved, That while slavery lasts in the land, shielded by the army and approved by the government, the war is but a sacrifice of our young men on an altar more relentless than Juggernaut, and in a cause which invokes in vain the sympathies of mankind, or the aid or approval of the God of the oppressed.
4. Resolved, That with trembling anxiety and hope we wait the approach of the new opening year that is to be, to millions of blacks, "the year of jubilee," under Presidential Proclamation, or of blank despair through a failure to execute it: and we hasten to register our hearty approval of that measure, not only as an act of justice, too long delayed, and a sign of contrition and penitence on the part of the government and nation, but also as the only possible escape from utter national destruction, under the just judgments of God.
Mr. Pillsbury sustained the resolutions in a speech of great power. Like Jeremiah of old, he seems to be specially inspired to call the people to repentance.
On motion, it was voted to lay the resolutions on the table.
The meeting was then addressed by that venerable apostle of liberty, Theodore D. Weld, on the hindrances of truth.
To say that the address was able would be tame. It was sublime. Every word was a moral mirror that exhibited our frailties in their true light, but no pen but the author’s can do it justice. He was listened to with the greatest attention.
At the close of the address, it was voted to adjourn to 7 o'clock.
Met agreeably to adjournment. Mr. Weld opened the meeting with an address on" The Lying Pretences of the Rebellion." It was listened to by a large audience, in breathless silence, for nearly two hours. It was a masterly argument of iron-linked logic, showing up the iniquitous course of the South in the most scathing manner. He completely demolished that popular humbug, State sovereignty, as defined by the Democratic party. It ought to be delivered in every city, town and parish in the United States.
Mr. Pillsbury then briefly addressed the meeting, showing by facts indisputable that the great mass of the people of the North have not much to boast of over the South, as we continued to fellowship her until she broke from us, and the nation, as such, finds no fault with her to this day, only that she will no longer allow us to participate in her crimes, and we are ready to connive with her again in breaking the hearts of God's poor, if she will cease her attempts to break the Union.
It was voted to adopt the resolutions presented by the Business Committee.
Voted to adjourn three months at the call of the officers of the Society.
JOSEPH MERRILL, Sec'y pro tem.
Wendell Phillips gave a highly effective and felicitous discourse at Music Hull, on Sunday last, on the President's plan for colonizing the colored population of this country in some other land—demonstrating its inhumanity, needlessness, and injurious effects upon the interests of the whole country. An immense audience was present. Mr. Phillips will again occupy the desk at Music Hall on Sunday next.
The eloquent discourse, on "The Advent of Justice," delivered by E. H. HEYWOOD, Esq., some time since, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, may be found on our last page. Of course, it will repay a careful perusal.
ARRIVAL OF GEN. BANKS AT NEW ORLEANS.—General Banks and his expedition arrived safely at New Orleans on the 14th ultimo. He took command of the Department of the South, relieving General Butler, who is ordered to report at Washington. The first movement of General Banks was upon Baton Rouge, which fell into hands on the 17th, without serious opposition. It is stated that Gen. Butler is to be entrusted with an important command elsewhere.
Gen. Butler, prior to leaving New Orleans, gave a reception at City Hall, where hundreds of citizens and officers waited upon him.
Gen. Butler also issued a farewell address to the citizens, in which he says he leaves with proud consciousness of carrying with him the blessings of the humblest loyal man, even in the cabin of the slave, quite content to endure the sneers and curses of the rich. He concludes by saying that mouths of experience and observation have forced the conviction that the existence of slavery is incompatible with the safety of ourselves and of the Union.
On the 24th Gen. Banks issued an address, to which was appended the President's proclamation of emancipation.
In his address Gen. Banks, after rehearsing the objects and effect of the President's proclamation, calls upon all persons, citizens or slaves, to govern themselves accordingly. All unusual public demonstrations will be for the present suspended, and the Provost Marshals are enjoined to prevent any disturbance of the public peace. Slaves are advised to remain on the plantations until their privileges are definitely established, resting assured that whatever benefit the government intends will be secured them.
Attention is also called to the act of Congress forbidding the return of slaves by the army. The war is not waged for the overthrow of slavery, bat to restore the constitutional relations between the United States and each of the States. If slavery is to be preserved, war must cease and the former constitutional relations again be established; for no military man, in the event of the continuance of the war, will counsel the preservation of slavery. The continuance of the war will leave no other permanent track of rebellion, but the emancipation contest, in public as in social life, strengthens and consolidates brotherly affection. It is a baseless nationality that has not tested its strength against domestic enemies. Success of local interests narrows the destiny of a people, and is followed by secession, poverty and degradation. The triumph of national interests widens the scope of human history, and is attended with peace, prosperity and power. It is out of such contests that great nations are born.
Gen. Banks concludes thus: "Let us fulfill the conditions of this last great trial, and become a nation, a grand nation, with sense enough to govern ourselves, and strength enough to stand against the world united."
PUBLIC SENTIMENT IN NEW ORLEANS. A New Orleans letter in the New York World remarks—" It shows something of a change in public sentiment here when the newspaper can publish, as they do, a call for recruits in the 'John Brown Guards.' A bookstore window in Exchange alley displays lithographic portraits of Wendell Phillips and Charles Sumner, and the glass is untracked."
Claiborne F. Jackson, the fugitive Governor of Missouri, is said to have died at Little Lock, Ark., on the 8th ult.
<c05>
THE PROCLAMATION.
Three Million of Slaves set Free!
"GLORY, HALLELUJAH!”
WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1863.
By the President of the United States of America.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas, on the 22d day of September, in the year of oar Lord 1862, a Proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing, among other things, the following, to wit:—
That on the 1st day of January, in the year of oar Lord 1863, all persons held as slaves within any State or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforth and forever free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persona, and will do no act or acts to repress such persons, or any of them, in any effort they may make for their actual freedom; that the Executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate the States and parts of States, if any, in which the people therein respectively shall then be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any State, or the people thereof, shall on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the United States, by members—chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such State shall have participated—shall, in the absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such State and the people thereof are not then in rebellion against the United States.
Now, therefore, I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, in time of actual armed rebellion against the authority and government of the United States, and as a fit and necessary war measure, do, on this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and in accordance with my purpose so to do, publicly proclaimed for the full period of one hundred days from the day first above mentioned, order and designate as the j States and parts of States wherein the people thereof respectively are this day in rebellion against the United States, the following, to wit: Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, except the parishes of St. Bernard, Plaque-mines, Jefferson, St. John, St Charles, St. James, Ascension, Assumption, Terre Bonne, Lafourche, St. Mary, St. Martin and Orleans, including the city of New Orleans; Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia, except the forty-eight counties designated as West Virginia, and also the counties of Berkley, Accomack, Northampton, Elizabeth City, York, Princess Ann and Norfolk, including the cities of Norfolk and Portsmouth, and which excepted parts are for the present left precisely as if this proclamation were not issued.
And by virtue of the power and for the purpose aforesaid, I do order and declare, that all persons held as slaves, within said designated States and parts of States, are and hereafter shall be free, and that the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons; and I hereby enjoin upon the people so declared to be free to abstain from all violence, unless in necessary self-defence. And I recommend to them in all cases when allowed, to labor faithfully for reasonable wages; and I further declare and make known, that such persons of suitable condition will be received into the armed service of the United States, to garrison forts, positions, stations and other places, and to man vessels of all sorts in said service. And upon this act, sincerely believed to he an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate-judgment of mankind and the gracious favor of Almighty God.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-seventh.
(Signed,) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATION BY GEN. SAXTON.
A Happy New Tear's Greeting to the Colored People in the Department of the South.
In accordance, as I believe, with the will of our Heavenly Father, and by direction of your great and good friend, whose name you are all familiar with, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, on the 1st day of January, 1863, you will be declared "for ever free."
When in the course of human events there comes a day which is destined to be an everlasting beacon-light, marking a joyful era in the progress of a nation and the hopes of a people, it seems to be fitting the occasion that it should not pass unnoticed by those whose hopes it comes to brighten and to bless. Such a day to you is January 1, 1863.
I therefore call upon all the colored people in this Department to assemble on that day at the Headquarters of the 1st Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers, there to hear the President's Proclamation read, and to indulge in such other manifestations of joy as may be called forth by the occasion. It is your duty to carry this good news to your brethren who are still in slavery. Let all your voices, like merry bells, join loud and clear in the grand chorus of liberty—" We are free," "We are free,"—until, listening, you shall bear its echoes coming back from every cabin in the land—“We are free," “We are free." R. SAXTON,
Brig. Gen. and Military Governor.
We have delayed putting the Liberator to press, this week, in order to place before our readers, at the earliest moment, the Proclamation of President Lincolns, issued January 1st, 1863, carrying oat the admonitory one of September 22d, 1862, declaring the immediate emancipation of all the slaves within the limits of Rebeldom—amounting in number to THREE MILLIONS! It will be hailed with joy and thanksgiving by the friends of freedom and human brotherhood throughout the world. It is a great historic event, sublime in its magnitude, momentous and beneficent in its far-reaching consequences, and eminently just and right alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, as well as imperatively called for by the fearfully imperilled state of the country. THE PEOPLE will sustain it—the army will receive fresh inspiration—mad all Rebeldom be filled with consternation in view of their inevitable doom. But we have neither space nor time to add anything more.
EMANCIPATION JUBILEE. The grand demonstration in this city, yesterday, at the Tremont Temple, was probably the only public celebration of the kind in this section of the country. The Proclamation of freedom was not received at the meeting until just previous to the adjournment last evening, when it was read by Charles W. Slack. The joyous enthusiasm manifested was beyond description. Cheers were proposed for the President and for the Proclamation, the whole audience rising to their feet and shouting at the tops of their voices, throwing up their bats, and indicating in every conceivable manner symptoms of gratification that the hour of deliverance had at length arrived. When the cheers had somewhat abated, the whole audience stood up and joined In singing the jubilee song, "Blow ye the trumpet, blow," and then followed a beautiful prayer of thanksgiving by the Rev. Mr. Waterston, which moved many to tears, and was frequently interrupted by shouts, of “Amen!” “Glory to God in the highest!” “Hallelujah!” &c. The whole scene was one remarkably striking and affecting. After the meeting at the Temple, a large number wended their way to the Twelfth Baptist Church, where they joined in prayer and congratulations, and partook of a repast which had been there prepared.—Boston Journal of Friday morning.
<c06>
MEETING AT PLYMOUTH. –There will be a meeting at Plymouth, Plymouth, (in Leyden Hall) on Sunday next, Jan 4th, to be addressed by Theodore D. Weld and Parker Pillsbury. Three sessions may be expected: morning, afternoon and evening, at the usual hours.
WENDEL PHILLIPS. Esq., will deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eight Congregational Society at Music Hall, on Sunday next, Jan 4th.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed on 695 Washington Street, 2d Door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References- Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D. office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
Persons disposed to give employment to freed salves, till occasionally coming among, us, both men and women can apply to Edmund Jackson, 22 Chatham Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, Edmund Jackson, or at the Society’s Office, 221 Washington Street.
E.H. HEYWOOD’S Post-Office address is Princeton, Mass.
MARRIED—In this city, on Christian Day, by Rev. John Phillips, George Washburn Smalley, Esq., of New York, and Miss PHEBE GARNAUT, of Boston.

IN MEMORIAM.
In the obituary notice of the late venerable Zechariah OBER, published in last week's paper, reference was made to his faithful, testimony against the Fugitive Slave Law, he being 76 years old at the time of its enactment. That testimony was given in the Liberator, April 25, 1851, in the following emphatic manner:-
" How long, I ask, how long shall this nation be cursed with rulers that violate every rule of justice, set their claims above high Heaven's laws, and make this a nation of bloodhounds to catch the poor panting fugitive, and return him to hopeless bandage? Shall we, shall this nation, say—' It is the law of UM land—we must obey it'? Servile doughfaces will do it; but those who fear God, and are determined to obey his laws, although devils rage and rulers threaten, will not fall down and worship the image which king Darius has set up fur the overthrow of freedom in this land.
0, ye Bostonians! Where is the spirit of freedom, that caused you to give Sims into the iron grasp of ferocious tigers! Hell rejoices; Heaven mourns! Shane on them! Shame, as eternal shame most, ere long, be the reward of these modern Judases, who will consign a fellow-man a to hopeless bondage. Is the slave law in Boston to be paramount to the higher law, which forbids the returning, of him who has escaped from his master again? Will not the hands of the traitors be greatly strengthened by this s deed of villany? I would almost say, if such deeds are to be done in Poston, 'Up' get ye from it, lest the Lord destroy it for its wickedness!"
DEATH OF THEODORE PARKMAN.
THEODORE PARKMAN, the Color Sergeant of the 45th Massachusetts, who was instantly killed at Whitehall, N. C., though belonging by all the affinities of blood and principle pie to Massachusetts, was not personally known in the community beyond the circle of relatives and immediate friends. How much he was beloved, how sadly and long he will be missed and mourned within that circle, this is not the place to say. The hearts that sympathize the most with bereaved kindred mutt keep their sorrow sacred from what would be intrusive and distressing publicity.
But we may, even whilst we grieve, proudly tell the simple story of a modest and noble young man, whose early death has come as the result of his intelligent and conscientious convictions of duty.
The eldest child and only son of the Rev. John Parkman, he was born in Paris, and at the time he fell was in the prime of early manhood. He was educated at Columbia College, New York, and a few years since went to Germany, accompanied by his father's family, to finish his studies as a practical chemist. He returned to Boston in the autumn of 1861.
Educated by precept and example to believe in the right of all men to be free, and in devoted attachment to republican institutions, he soon felt the imperative obligation to give himself to the service of his country; though his whole nature and all his tastes were averse to the glories and horrors of war.
He endeavored to fit himself for efficiency as a soldier, and when the nine months' men were called far he enlisted in the 45th. How calmly and steadily he bore the flag in his strong arm, as the regiment marched down State street, many to whom he was a stranger may have noticed. There was an unostentatious determination in his bearing, and a smiling good-bye for the friends who recognized him. In the spirit with which he took his departure he bravely served and nobly fell.
This is all that need be said. Since the conflict began, the land has lost those far more distinguished and far more widely known than Theodore Parkman. Except as his death gives him one, he has no public record. But no purer, a more affectionate or more loyal soul than his baa) taken in flight amidst the tempest of the battle, to the bettor world of perfect peace.—Bottom Transcript.

MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Second Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies,
AT 92 GRAND STREET, NEWBURGH, N. Y.,
ON MONDAY, JANUARY 5th, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral
Science, Rhetoric, &c.
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS L. E. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages.
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
PROF. T. F. PERKINS, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISS PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the cure of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will ha given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercise will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year will be divided into three terms: two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60; per year, $165.
References- Rev. T. J. Sawyer, D. D., Clinton N. Y.; Rev. S. W. Fisher, D. D., President of Hamilton College, Clintons, N. Y.; De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Utica, N. Y.; Rev. A. D. Mayo, Albany, N. Y.; Henry Bigelow. M. D. Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis. M. D-, Boston, Mass; Prof. H. B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N. J.; Rev. E. H. Chapin, D. D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig, D. D., Blooming-Grove, N. Y. dec19-3w 

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
The next Term of this Institutes will commence on Wednesday, January 7, 1863, and continue Fifteen weeks. For particulars, please address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, A. B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass. Dec-24, 1862. dec26-28

A GOOD CHANCE TO MAKE 
$50 to $100
PER MONTH, AND EXPENSES.
AGENTS WANTED, immediately, to sell J. T. Lloyd’s A cheap and elegant Maps in Maine and New Hampshire. J. T. Lloyd’s Maps of the United Stated, Map of virginia, and Map of Southern States. Sent to peddlers and others, without delay, to any part of Maine or New Hampshire, by express.
Address H. J. L. STANWOOD & CO., Brunswick, Maine, with stamp in closed. dec5tf
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW.
No. 6, TREMONT STREET, BOSTON Jan.1, 1863. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
PRESIDENT LINOOLN’S PROCLAMATION OF EMANCIPATION
The Voice of Freedom swells the blast-
Our country shall at last free!
Stand out in summer warmth, ye hills!
Earth, ‘neath her ice-ribbed armor, thrills
To welcome Liberty!
No-more her cotton fields shall blow,
To mock the slave’s long patient toil,
Bursting with wealth he ne’er may know-
Nor unpaid hands the rice-plant grow
Within the dank, unhealthy soil.
No more the sugar-cane shall wave
Derisively upon the field,
Where ceaseless work dug many a grave;
No pitying hand stretched forth to save-
No thought, except how large the yield.
No more the mother with a kiss‘
Her babe to other hands shall give,
Fearful her ‘customed task to miss,
Urged onward by the whip’s fierce hiss;
Living to delve, delving to live.
No more shall piercing wails be heard
Where sundered are the holiest ties,
And miscalled Christians stand around,
Bidding as though ‘twere horse or hound,
With stony hearts and tearless eyes.
Shine forth, O Sun, with summer gleams,
While winter rules the lakes and hills!
In frozen hearts the pent up streams
Have caught the warmth of freedom’s beams,
And life with new-found vigor thrills!
Shine down, O Moon, upon our land!
Henceforth your rays behold no slave!
No cow’ring forms despair unmanned;
Erect and free, thank God, they stand,
Finding new hope this side the grave.
The Voice of Freedom swells the blast-
Our country shall at last be free!
The sport of foreign foes no more,
Proudly her Eagle learns to soar,
Looks on the sun as ne’er before,
The sun of Liberty!
Salem. L.L.A.V.

From the Taunton Gazette.
OHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR,-1862-3,
Our Christmas dawns on bloody times,
The battle-clarion wakes the blast;
The funeral-drums throb thick and fast,
And drown the merry morning chimes.

Yet keep, O land, your festival,
In memory of the Man who came,
The Man Divine, to bear our blame,
And breathe His blessings over all!

He reigns not yet the Prince of Peace:
He came to bring on earth a sword:
Till men love Freedom’s Gospel-word,
The sound of war shall never cease.
‘Twas Liberty He came to bring:
When lie ascended up on high,
He captive led captivity,
And made the world with freedom ring.
This glorious gift He gave to men:
The stronger from the weaker steals;
But, hark! A clang of triumph peals!
The lost shall be restored again.
Behold, O army of the Lord!
The Presence that among you stands!
Most clean, most pure, must be the hands
That close on victory, His award.
O nation working His behest,
O army raised to wage his war,
Accept the end He called you for,
And soon the land shall be at rest.
Give freely as of old He gave:
Your fathers owned the boon from Him;
Before the golden hour grows dim,
Stamp it with FREEDOM for the slave.
Ye hear, ye children of the free;
And where an ancient Man bath stood,
Ye plant, and water with your blood,
Your Christmas Tree of Liberty.
The Christ child smiles its branches through,
With heaven’s clear smile on black and white:
The Tree has filled the land with light,
And cooled its wounds with balm and dew.
Dark faces, you no more shall be
Darker with shadows of our hate-
Receive our greeting-gift, though late,
A Happy New-Year! and be Free! L.L.

From the New York. Tribune.
HYMN FOR THE HOUR.

I.
The Angels of Freedom are calling;
Their music is borne from the sky;
The chains of the bondman are falling;
The jubilee morning is nigh.
Now chant ye the mighty evangel,
And hasten the beautiful Angel
Hath come from the Father to thee.

II.
There is not a bosom but pineth 
To burst from all slavish control;
To bask in the brightness that shineth
To-day from the Infinite Soul.
Make way for the life-bringing Angel,
And hasten the spirit to free;
For liberty’s holy evangel
Hath come from the Father to thee.

III.
The stars in their glory are singing;’
The race of oppression is run;
For slaves into heroes are springing,
Christ comes in the liberty Angel;
He hastens the spirit to free;
And speaks through the holy evangel
That comes from the Father to thee.
H.M.J.

From the American Baptist.
THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.
“We look forward with bright anticipations to the First of January, 1863, as the day of Jubilee for our country.”
-Anti-Slavery Standard.
“On the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free.”-President’s Proclamation.
This is, truth, our Year of Jubilee.
Full eighty years have passed since Britain’s yoke
Was lifted from our neck, and we were free-
Free, both on land and wave; and we have brought
The first-fruits of a nation’s harvesting.
But when the last pulse of the year dies out,
Then dies away the last sad, plaintive wail
From out the crushed and bleeding bondman’s hearty.
All quickly changes wail into a shout
And song of glorious triumph. Merry bells
Will ring out welcomes then, in joyous tone,
To usher in a nation newly born
With the New Year!
Methinks, o’er such a scene
Angels would bend with new, ecstatic bliss.
And as their songs were heard by human ears
O’er Bethlehem’s silent vales, when, lowly born,
The world’s Redeemer came in humble guise-
So now, when Right shall triumph over Might,
And lowly menials feel their shackles drop,
While they erect in conscious manhood stand,
Shall one full, grand, exultant anthem burst
Alike from human and angelic choirs,
Of “Glory to God on high; on earth, good will;”
And peace, triumphant, spread her sheltering wing
O’er this united land. God speed the day!
December, 1862. R.B.T.
<c02>
AN AUTUMNAL AUGURY.
RESPECTULLY INSCRIBED TO WILLIAM C. NELL, ESQ.
At every gust the painted leaves
Fail lifeless on the golden sheaves—
With Autumn’s sad wail, my heart grieves.
For sunny Southern lands are red
With blood of martyrs, who have bled,
That Freedom jet may rear its bead.
I see the eagle proudly soar
O’er battle awoke sod fields of gore,
Free as the sea that laves our shore.
Prophetic may the symbol be,
of our great nation's destiny—
When all men shall be truly free!
Boston, Oct. 23,1862. W. DEXTER SMITH, JR.

The Liberator.
THE ADVENT OF JUSTICE.
A Discourse delivered in music Hall, Boston, Sunday, Nov. 16.1862.
BY E. B. HEYWOOD.
The shiver of joy and distrait, occasioned by the expected advent of justice to our national affairs, is one of those mingled sensations of hope and fear, with which both individuals and communities approach an untried experience. But the electric strength usual to men in revolutionary periods—the vigorous wing of truth, rising from the ashes of falsehood—the tragic beauty of right in conflict with wrong—the glad flight of pure souls, vanishing, like summer clouds, into the serenity of heaven—the foliage of Autumn, like the dolphin, decking itself in the most varied, delicate, gorgeous hues, every tree a Joseph in his coat of many colors, to welcome a so-called death—the sweetest note of the swan its last expiring sigh—through all change and decay, essential law asserts an imperishable force, and oppressive, transient forms are shed by the inherent, expansive, immortal life.
This shuddering dread of the dissolvent progress of reform, this black dismay in which we bemoan the entrance of our friends upon the spirit life, this hard faced worldliness and cut-throat scramble of his and mine to get a " living "—all these evidence an infirm faith in the immortality of truth and the soul; that we do not live by bread alone; that while in the wrong we are creatures of dust, and crushed before the moth, in the right we are omnipotent, and God's hand is but the extension of our own. Wise in the common adage, "A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush," the mischief of our social life is too much conference with flesh and blood; a choice of appearance to reality; of the shell to the egg; of the visible and. perishable to the unseen and eternal. You say that a man lives in a certain house, yet only his avoirdupois weight lives there, his body boards there; his soul transcends the sensuous, the material, in divine relations, radiates the particular in the universal. Did character vote and hold office instead of clothes—could we lay off our bodies at the door of the church, as the Orientals did their shoes—we should enjoy better relations to man, and draw nearer the Paternal Spirit. But if Truth is supported in proportion as she deserts herself, if it is the coat which joins the church, and not the man—fashion, not integrity—if government builds on falsehood and despair; if society objects, not to the sin, but to your getting found out, as it would seem; why should not brute success be baptized, justice voted out of the Union, and the grog-shop be mayor?
Nevertheless, God lives, and his laws are never broken. Plato said that the worst thing which can befall a man, after he has committed a crime, is not to be punished for it. But Nature has made punishment the surest thing in the matter; she has ordained her laws to execute themselves; that through us, or over ns, truth always has its sway; that the sinner is the most finned against; that every transgression has a reflex influence, a back stroke, a kick in the gun; that leaping from a precipice does not break the law of gravitation, but it breaks yon. The minister who apologized for slavery did not preach God out of the world, but the devil into the church—opened a path to hell, not to heaven. The statesman who "puts iniquity into the statute book puts gunpowder under the Capitol." The laws of disease and crime are more beautiful and impressive than those of health and virtue, because, " honored in the breach more than in the observance," they protest against evil habits, are guide-boards lurid with pain and alarm—"This road to sanity." Are you addicted to vice, to liquor, to profanity or licentiousness? The soul hangs out its signals of distress on every line of your countenance; and no plea of poverty or temptation, no perfume of respectability or high connections, nothing but repentance and a new life, can save you from the beast you are. A civil war or a sore finger warns us not to do so again. The rascal often out-preaches the saint—as, among the Spartans, drunken helots were the best temperance lecturers.
When we swerve from the path of law, allow any disturbing influence to divert us from the natural orbit, or switch us off on a side track of selfishness, Providence takes care that we land amid the wreck of all partial interests, and are shut up to ruin or reformation. So few are proof against ease and luxury, so few survive the misfortune of inherited wealth, that Nature usually tosses the second or thin! generation back lo the had and the handcart, while graduates of the spade and the lap stone go up to the Exchange and the Senate. No doubt fine ladies and gentlemen of ancient Greece feared to soil their delicacy by contact with the russet scholar and roughshod reformer of their day; yet now it is quite plain that the Beacon street and State street of Athens, its wealth and fashion, were die mere soil to raise Socrates and Plato. I care little for little transient upper tier of society, honorables, doctors of divinity, mayors, governors, but wish to stand well with Irishmen and Negroes. I would like to despise a reputation in Wall street or Washington, but am exceedingly anxious to be on good terms with children, mountains, birds, flowers— with the unmodified permanent forces of life, strength, innocence, beauty, humbleness—for if the oak, the infant and the violet are with you, who can be against you? If bankruptcy teaches you self-reliance, it is a good bargain. A Grecian bequeathed all his fortune to his children, on condition that they would grow up fools, for if they were wise men, they would not need it. I know a young man, who was sad one day, and lost his appetite, because he had no money to mend his shoes with—but recovered on meeting cheerful {aces going barefoot. Men in a tight pinch, who achieve great conquests over the difficulties that environ them—Cincinnatus at the plow—Locke producing "The Conduct of the Understanding" in a Dutch garret—Goldsmith writing “The Vicar of Wakefield " to pay his board bill—Girard of Philadelphia climbing from a sixpence to millions—Garibaldi making candies at Staten Island, to light Italy to unity and progress—Theodore Parker making a huckleberry his first stepping-stone to fame,—how such brave souls entrance us in the distance, careful as we are never to live by faith!
Still runs the beatitude, Blessed are ye who get into a tight pinch. When we are brought up on a round turn, compelled to wrestle with difficulties, front disaster, it is then, if ever, we are cured of trifling, learn the omnipotence of faith and purpose, ally ourselves to natural forces, and have the chapter of accidents in our favor.
“He always wins who sides with God,
To kin so chance is lost;
God’s will is sweetest to him when
It triumphs at his cost."
It is this oblivion of material interests, and martyr devotion to ideas, which inspire the tragic significance of the crisis in which it is our good fortune to live, and make the nation quake like Sinai beneath the tread of Inflexible Justice. Men never serious before, now espouse principles, argue principles at the mouth
<c03>
of cannon, lire and die for principles. The Sooth, who we had thought were pirates in white kids and patent leather, by their dauntless heroism, their sublime self-sacrifice, their energy as marvelous as terrific, justly excite the admiration of the world, and deserve the triumph of any but an infamous cause. The North, who held their dollar so near the eye as to bide the universe, now fling wealth, party, church, a Union idolized as divine, all on the altar of faith. Summoned to the battlefield, the people, these "dumb, driven cattle," in pathetic devotion, open their veins, by their own vitality, to reanimate the drooping State —the same people who had fattened so long upon the life of the defenceless, whose eyes were so dimmed with the blood of the innocent that they could not discern justice—now, in these very "little ones," in the execrated Negro, welcome not merely "the romance of our history," but the redeemer of the Republic.
As I waited in a rail station, the other day, of the iron horses which careered snorting past, one was labelled "Olympus," another "Saint Louis,"—a namesake of Grecian mythology and the medieval church, Heathenism and Christianity drawing in the same team, and both at work for commerce. Their joint whistle struck the key-note of this age—low utility, material gain. We degrade the inspirations of the past, tunnel the mount of beatitudes, drag the gods down from Sinai, Patmos, Olympus, and harness them as mules. In the absence of large views, "great events do not inspire great ideas"; our celebrity rests on trade, manufactures, industry, not on thought, conscience; confident that all men arc eligible to the State Prison, to Congress, to the gallows, we doubt if all men are eligible to truth and freedom; think white men sprang from the head of the Creator, and black men from his feet. We ask of a moral reform, "Is it safe, is it expedient, is it profitable?" not, "Is it true, is it right?" "Will emancipation promote the growth of sugar in the West Indies, of cotton in the States; will it save the Union?" Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven, and cotton and sugar shall be added unto you.
It must be confessed, however, considering the serious social ills which we undertook to cure, since all foreign nations have opened their sewers in this direction, that our civilization has shown indestructible vitality, and conquered surpassing obstacles. Was it Talleyrand who said, "To travel a thousand miles in America is to live a thousand years in history"? Inheriting monarchy, papacy, feudalism, prelacy, chattel slavery; herding together Irish, French, Italians, Germans, Chinese, Negroes; tolerating all the diverse and antagonistic political and religious opinions which, for ten centuries, have plowed Europe with revolution,—nevertheless, the hunted and forlorn ideas which landed on Plymouth Rock in the name of liberty, hurling retribution upon this slave-holding government to-day, are the pledge of human redemption here, and the world over.
Honesty and justice are the only safeguards of society; and launching trustfully on the people, good sailors will remember that terrestrial course is safely guided only by celestial observation. Anchoring in first principles, regarding nothing fixed but Natural Law, standing for the right of every man to himself and to a healthful legitimate growth, the authority of our government, the pledge of its expansion and permanence, the American idea, resides not in traditional prerogative, in conventional decrees, in material enterprise, in hero worship, Mr. Carlyle's wisest man-theory, or the spread-eagleism of national vanity; but only in those moral principles essential to social life. To lift up the oppressed and pull down the oppressor, to abash vice and crown virtue in the court of Truth, to decree fair play, and mould society unto "the scheme of God,"—herein is the commission of an American to rule. Civilization is a growth; the steep and toilsome ascent of society to the plane of fixed ideas; while its incidental and temporary exponents, ethics, government, institutions and the like, the garments which nations assume or cast aside in their onward career, in obedience to the increasing stature, must be refitted for larger life, or left behind for the next arrival in the cradle. Governments are valuable, and to be respected, only as they express and serve the highest thought and volition of the age. "A coat, which does not fit, is not a good coat, though it were made for the Apollo Belvidere."
The war method, on the contrary, puts force above ideas, believes in the fist, not in the soul, makes nations mere fighting cocks, which flap their wings and crow lustily in defence of their "honor," and then claw out each other's eyes and hearts for "glory." We talk of "first class powers"; aglow with visions-l of mere material supremacy—commerce whitening every sea, navies
—“bidding nations quake, 
And monarchs tremble in their capitals;"
of armies whose embattled tread shakes the globe;— we forget that Truth alone is the first class power. Palestine for its religion, Greece for its knowledge, Rome for its justice, Germany for its insight, such are the only first class powers. The glory of that little island in the northwest of Europe is not that a handful of its merchants hold two hundred millions of Asia under their feet; not that Gibraltar, Corfu, Canada, Australia are outposts of an empire whose morning drum-beat circles the globe; the glory of England is in Magna Charta, La timer and Sidney, Fox and Wilberforce; in that she lies stood for civil liberty, for religious liberty, for Negro liberty. What visions of martial splendor entranced the Jews as they saw in the Messiah the "Lion of the tribe of Judah," who should lead them to universal conquest! But they crucified Jesus because his kingdom was not of this world; and the mailed legions of Cesar went that way to sneer at the faith of Abraham, and leave Jerusalem a heap of ashes;—to-day, of imperial Rome and arrogant Judea, naught remains but that despised Cross, and Christendom kneeling before it! And in the crisis of a nation's fate, when the foundations of society are broken up, and institutions and States are adrift in the tempest, when the clearest vision dims, and the wisest hearts throb with fear—not merely imperative " military necessity," but what is richer than wealth, stronger than numbers, more victorious than armies with banners, humanity, justice, religion, thunder in the ear of the President, "Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free."
The barbarism which wrestled with and threw the empires of Alexander and the Caesars, “horned as a fiend and haloed as a saint," enthroned on the crashed hearts of God's poor, slavery for two generations ruled this republic with a rod of iron;—politics debauched; the pulpit dumb, or barking at the heels of honest reform; the press bribed to falsehood; the courts in chains; brilliant jurists scoffing the axioms of human rights as "glittering generalities"; great orators impudently treading the gospel of humanity under foot as a "rub-a-dub agitation"; free speech mobbed in the streets and bludgeoned in the Senate; the stars and stripes trailed in the mire of the slave-hunt, and every where the harbinger and aegis of oppression,—
"Nothing bat Richelieu! Armies, Church, (State, Laws, Were bat mirrors to multiply his beams.
He did not strike the blow—but o'er your heads Upon the gossamer thread of his caprice Hovered the axe."
Of coarse, human nature, always democratic, always anti-slavery, would not long brook such Insolence. Religion, literature, free labor, civilization, all rallied in the great battle of I860, to affront the Slave Power with "Thus tar, and no farther." As was well said, "With the keen sense of the savage, Slavery, laying its ear to the ground, heard, in those ballots falling for Abraham Lincoln, the fatal tramp of many centuries, the mastering, for liberty, of the ages, which take no steps backward." And, whether the leaders of the parties were ignorant or simply reticent of it, the deep, solemn, all the more real, because silent and unconscious purpose of the grand uprising which floated Mr. Lincoln to the Presidency, was not merely to restrict, but to overwhelm and blot out slavery. The inevitable logic of history and the moral sense of the world concurred in this event For this, Luther
<c04>
Milton, Sidney, Fox, Clarkson—for this, Otis thundered, Washington fought, and Warren fell— for this, Lovejoy died at Alton, and the Inspired conscience of woman, with the plodding thought of ma, for thirty years, endured the cross, and despised the shame, to lift up the protest of religion in the highways and byways of the people—for this, the blood of freemen sealed Kansas holy ground, and the bravest of the Puritans went to heaven from a Virginia halter—for this, Ellsworth, Baker, Lyon, Putnam, hundreds of thousands dead, and countless Rachels, joyful in tears, if their loved and lost do but consecrate America to liberty and progress!
And it will be done. In rain do politicians—those black ants scurrying about on this burning brand— endeavor to preserve both the flames and the wood; in rain do treasonous editors ding to this root of bitterness as stock in trade for a future rebellion, suspend the sword of Damocles by one more thread of compromise; in rain do foreign despotisms wish to prop their tottering fortunes with the ruins of democratic hopes;—the knell strikes, the ministers of justice move, behind then stalks the headsman—the retribution of slavery swift, terrible, annihilating, will be a heritage of warning and dismay to all future aggressors upon the rights of man!
Politics is a representative, not an original element of society, and political revolutions usually have their root in moral revolutions. Slavery, essentially despotic and turbulent, must be arrogant and destructive: cannot sleep while a brother lives; like Robespierre, mast cut off heads, or lose its own. The method of dealing with it is plain. The frozen serpent, brought home and warmed to life on the peasant's hearth, bites his children. Shall he get more reptiles, or henceforth believe in "no union with snakes"? To say that Abolitionists are responsible for this rebellion is to say that geologists are responsible for earthquakes; that Otis and Adams were responsible for George III.; Luther for the Pope; Paul and Jesus for Pilate and Herod. I have as little respect for the brain as for the heart of the man who makes that argument. The Abolitionists were but the heralds of this Olympic game, the executors of God's Providence. This collision of two social antagonisms is in the nature of things: older than Mr. Seward, older than Mr. Garrison. Before this Government crested forth on the refluent wave of the Revolution, before this continent from the ocean rose, beautiful as Venus from the Grecian sea, from the councils of eternity, this "irrepressible conflict" was foreordained to begin, and to cease with the wrong which provoked it. Tell me of a crime without a criminal; tell me of two hills without a hollow between them; tell me of a stick with but one end; but tell me not of a struggle for slavery which can be met by anything else than a struggle for liberty!
Mr. Lincoln may recede, but freedom never; for back is the only direction in which a just cause cannot go. The President marches under "sealed orders" and his Proclamation is the decree 6f fate, rather than the act of any man. A memorable incident in the progress of a great idea, if honestly and bravely enforced, it will justly gild his name with immortality. But its treasonous offer of terms and compromise with slaveholding rebels, and its heartless and immoral pledge of the rights of a race for a form of government, poorly commend it to the unbiased moral sense; while, without the inspiring force of justice, such a measure will be impotent on the rebellion of Jefferson Davis against the Federal Government, because it is impenitent of the rebellion of the Federal Government against Almighty God. The nature and spirit of the old compact with slavery yet essentially unchanged, the Constitution still remains "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," to be speedily amended or forever annulled. Nowise recognizing the nation's crime against the negro; proposing to free slaves of rebels only, not slaves; holding out compensation, honor and emolument to the slaveholder, and banishment, nakedness and infamy to his victims; our Pharaoh, hardening his heart, boldly announces to the country and the world that he will not obey God, except on compulsion; will not let His people go, except under the pressure of "military necessity"; makes emancipation a strategy, a dodge, a trick, not a right; prefers the favor of Kentucky to the favor of Heaven, and betrays Jesus in the bondman for "thirty pieces" of a Union irrevocably shattered by Divine retribution. What then? Is God defeated? Oh no! Through the Union or over the Union, inevitable law takes its course. The anguish and gloom of this hour—disaster treading on the heel of disaster—a million Americans upon each others' throat—cities sacked—States plowed with fire and drenched in blood—the death-angel from the battlefield darkening millions of Northern and Southern homes—and a social convulsion, carrying earthquake, agony and dismay to nations abroad,—all these proclaim that God remembers our sins, though we forget them; that justice is the only sure thing in human government, and by this sign alone do men conquer.
We have committed crimes which cannot be forgiven, and through many retributive years must work out our own salvation with fear and trembling. Men talk of peace, of peace in sin; of peace by smothering-volcanoes and hushing up earthquakes. Yet America will never find peace until she finds it in the peace of death to slavery. The independence of a confederacy, whose origin and purpose was oppression, war upon the race, is not pence; a return to the old Union, of fire with gunpowder, is not peace; nor is victory to the Federal arms and military rule installed upon the ruins of Slave States immediate peace. The devil of tyranny never departs from the body politic, except by foaming, laceration, and great convulsion. The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge. Deep seated diseases permit only a gradual convalescence; hence American society, for some time, will be chronic conflict. Slavery is doomed, but it will die hard, dragging after it the falsehood, the mistakes and crimes of centuries. If emancipation should triumph under the shadow of swords, it will require at least a general ton of thought and discussion to teach ex-slaveholders good behavior, and put the nation on the platform of equal rights.
The war power, however, the rampant ascendancy of brute force, the subversion of all rights, is to be distrusted. "The rights under the war power" I well talk of the rights under the slave power, the rights under the lying power, the rights under the theft power! I hare no favors to ask of that insolent, undemocratic usurpation. The right of emancipation existed before, is superior to, and will proceed in defiance of the war power. But emancipation is not so good a thing that we may wrong an enemy to secure it Fellow-transgressors, heretofore, with these secessionists, their mere breaking of the joint league of sin, and refusal to the North of further participation in the profits of the common iniquity of slave-holding, does not constitute oar voters the divinely commissioned agents to exterminate them. What the reason and moral sense of the Abolitionists long ago announced as just, politic and inevitable, an enlightened expediency, if not political necessity, may yet decree—the temporary separation of these States.
The progress of the cause is indeed marvellous. It took a half century for British freedom to pass from that little knot of Quakers in a small room of a back London street, to utterance from the British throne. But, with a problem infinitely more vast and complicated, many of you yet bear the still, small voice of conscience issuing from "an obscure garret" a Boston Mayor could not find, which now swells into the demand of many States, to thunder from the Capital the decree of emancipation! And his great purpose accomplished, his noble life long yet to be spared, rounding into a beautiful, serene old age. Garrison will join Wilberforce at God's right hand, with four million broken letters as proof at one of good apostleship and a redeemed republic!
Two years ago, even under the shadow of Banker Bill, the word – insurrection" scarcely ventured on pallid lips. The prayer of the most luxurious and
<c05>
conservative pulpits of Boston to-day is, that the blacks may forge their fetters into a words, and hew their way to liberty. And for once, at least, to the prayer of the “South-Side” Church, Music Hall responds “Amen!” But to the honor of free institutions, no school of anti-slavery moralists or politicians ever proposed or intended to submit this question to the arbitrate of the sword. How many yean you labored and prayed that this cap might pass from us! It was only after persuasion, self-sacrifice, and even degrading concessions; after thousands of our citizens in one-half of the Republic had been outraged, slain or exiled for their manhood; after war was made upon the Government, the sea covered with pirates to murder peaceful merchants at twenty dollars a head, and the armies of slavery were massed and surging against us,—that the long-suffering, patient, magnanimous North said: "Let those who take the sword perish with the sword!" All honor to Mr. Lincoln for his noble and humane maxim for the conduct of the war, worthy to greet the nations in letters of gold from the dome of the Federal Capitol: "We are fighting to establish order, and with order liberty; the liberty of the conquered will remain as intact as
that of the conquerors."
History has few passages which reflect more honor upon human nature than the uprising of this great people, in time of peace, to risk ease and wealth, peril the very fabric of society for justice to a despised, oppressed race. If Europe boasts of one nation which fights for an idea, America responds with a score of imperial, opulent States voting for an ideal And, levelling up, to find common sense, not down, aspiring to be first men, then Americans, may we never forget that, now as heretofore, thought and conscience are the only possible basis of free institutions. The first step from that line traverses an abyss, and whoso founds government in the blood of enemies, founds it on a lake of fire! The soul is greater than the fist, and the scent of blood, rousing savage instincts, obtrudes the age of the brute into the age of man. Nothing could he more disastrous than, as is hinted in some quarters, a larger infusion of the military element for the safety of democratic institutions. As well might a reformed drunkard institute delirium tremens to promote health! Standing armies are incompatible with democratic freedom; and it is a grave question whether, avoiding as far as possible the historic tendency to arms, the North, already poisoned by two generations of slaveholding domination, will survive this deadly infusion of military despotism, now invoked to " educate" the South into equal I rights. The President deserves the thanks of the country, and of popular freedom everywhere, for his late emphatic rebuke of incipient insubordination of the military to the civil authority, by removing an intractable and inefficient, though distinguished commander.
The safety of America is not to educate her citizens to war, but in avoiding the causes of war; in removing the injustice, the dishonesty, which alone induced the present conflict. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? A hot dispute among a parcel of children in one of our streets the other day was about to effloresce, in fists and clubs, when a little Irish girl struck up,—
"Sticks and stones may break my bones,
But names can never hurt me,"
and dissolved the quarrel. Ragged ruddy, a mere slip of poverty, nourished by the heavenly manna which slides from the roofs of five-storied affluence, in explaining to me how slip quelled turbulent boys, from those infant, outcast lips there fell precepts which statesmen might well heed. If the free North had nut dodged hard names, if they had not feared those who kill the body more than those who destroy the soul,—in French phrase, if we had had the courage of our opinions, stood to the guns of thought and example, upheld liberty as a natural, inalienable right, this slave question never would have passed from words to blows.
But, false to the principles which made us a nation, we tied the millstone of State bondage around the negro's neck in '87, gave op one-half the Federal domain to slavery in 1820, the whole in '54, making our soil free only to slave hounds, and by the Chief Justice as our chief Judas, declared that "black men have no rights which white men are bound to respect." Hence this war, like all other wars, comes from beneath, not from above; from hell, not from heaven; is the outgrowth of falsehood and oppression, not of truth and liberty. Hence the crime and the blunder of being driven into a conflict at arms with the South, —the only thing for their barbarous despotism they can do well, the only thing, thanks to our advanced democratic civilization, we do ill. This cry of intervention is not wholly inspired by sordid material interests. As Gasparin, who inherits the heart of Lafayette and approaches the brain of De Tocqueville, says, "Behind corn and cotton are men, women and children, miseries great and rapidly increasing." Behind politics, and trade also; behind the sweat of industry, and the velvet and purple of ease and power, is a feeling, hidden, silent, yet inextinguishable, and to ripen into aggressive, invincible, world-wide conviction—a feeling that war, all war, this, is wrong, unreasonable, unchristian and barbarous. And he who willingly fans a conflagration which threatens all guarantees of life and liberty on this continent—he who prolongs it one moment, or sacrifices one soldier's life in deference to a foul injustice which sold women and children from the marble steps of the Capitol—will be damned to an infamy, in comparison with which Arnold was a patriot, and Cain an apostle of love!
Nor does this crisis invalidate the efficiency of the moral method, the method of discussion and example, to which so many of your lives have been religiously consecrated, or disprove the sublime
"faith that Truth alone is strong
In the endurance which out wearies wrong;
With meek persistence baffling brutal force,
And trusting God against toe Universe."
Nay, rather, it establishes that faith. For this "red rain makes the harvest grow," only because agitation had sown the seeds of progress. It is precisely this moral force method—the tongue sharper than the sword, the pen, which carries further and kills more than rifled cannon, this "incendiaries"—which has wrought the Republic to a white heat, so that one Wow from the Executive may stamp it with liberty forever! It is political freedom born of religions Protestantism—the claim of equality before God in the sixteenth century vindicating its sincerity in equality before the law in the nineteenth century—this Puritan conscience counterpoising an empire, its armies. its wealth, its politics, its churches, its statesmen and jurists, its scholars and theologians—making every man the savior of his brother—getting Abraham Lincoln to make the laws, and John Brown to make the songs—which reins the wrath, as well as the reason of men, into its service, and yokes South Carolina with Massachusetts to drag forward the car of Emancipation;—this "fanatical" conscience, which conquers alike by peace and war, by victory and defeat, in prosperity and adversity; which pervades, inspires, and uplifts a great people for an act of national justice—the same people who, but yesterday, cursed their noblest martyr as "justly hung," now following that martyr's soul, as a pillar of fire, through the red sea of a great deliverance!
Of the final triumph of Northern ideas, either by the Federal arms, or by temporary separation, and the surer, more beneficent progress of natural causes and mutual interests; that liberty is the central light and life around which this now jangled constellation of States must ultimately revolve, no one doubt. Let editors storm and orators declaim, the American people would not restore the Union “as it was" if they could; nor could they. were they weak, immoral, or reckless enough to attempt it. Proud, luxurious, heartless, trampling the weak and scoffing the “higher law”; happy, if scourged by retributive justice, treading in the steps of suffering humanity, we may wear a path for the race. Like a shell thrown from a mortar at night, along a brilliant track the old Union shot up to the entranced gaze of the world, to
<c06>
fall and burst with carnage and ruin through the land! But to a repentant, humbled, regenerated people, upon this Apocalypse of our history, a new Republic descends from God out of heaven, wherein dwelleth righteousness!

THE BEST WORK FOR CANVASSING AGENTS.
Harper’s Pictorial History OF
The Great Rebellion In THE UNITED STATES. 
MERRS. HARPER & BROTHERS have commenced the issue in numbers of a complete HISTORY of THE GREAT REBELLION IN THE UNITED STATES. The work has been for many months in course of preparation, by a writer every way qualified for the task.
The Introduction contains a clear and succinct account of the formation of the confederacy of the states; the formation and adoption of the Constitution of the United States, and the establishment of the National Government; the origin, development of the and progress of the doctrines of Nullification and secession, and the various phases which they assumed until their final culmination in the Great Rebellion.
The History comprises a full account drawn from the most authentic sources, of all the Events of the war; the intrigues of the Southern leaders at home and abroad; the gradual defection of one section; the great Uprising of the People for the maintenance of the National Life and Existence and the rapid creation of an immense Army and Navy; and the Battles by Land and Sea.
The ILLUSTRATIONS comprise Portraits of all those who have borne a prominent part in the struggle; Maps of the different localities; Plans of the leading actions; views of every scene of interest, and of the most important Battles. These Illustrations are mostly form drawings take on the spot artists deputed for that purpose to company every division of our Army and Navy.
Every facility at the command of the Publishers has been employed in the preparation and execution of the work; and they confidently believe that it will from the most trust worthy and valuable history which can be prepared of THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR THE AMERICAN UNION.

Mode and Terms of Publication.
The work will be issued in Numbers, each consisting of 24 pages of the size “Harper’s Weekly,” printed from clear type, upon fine papers, and will probably be completed in about Twenty Numbers.
The Numbers will be issued at intervals, if possible, of about three of four weeks.
The price of each Numbers, which contains matter equivalent to an ordinary volume, will be Twenty- five cents.
The Illustrations in each Number are alone worth the price asked. Men out of employment, especially

SICK OR DISBLED SOLDIERS,
can find no other works so sure of ready sale and good profit, for further particulars apply to the publishers, HARPER & BROTHERS, dec 19tf Franklin Square, New York.

WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
Manufacturers And Dealers In 
EUROPEAN And FANCY FURS, 308 Washington Street, 308 Opposite BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer.’ <illegible>
154 Washington St, 5 doors South of Milk St. October 24. 6cm 

THE SCIENTIFIC AMEERICAN. THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a new volume on the first of January, It is published weekly and every number contains sixteen pages of useful information, and from five too ten original engravings of new instructions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly it its columns.
No person engaged on any of the mechanical of manufacturing pursuits should think of “doing without“ the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per weeds; every number contains from six to ten engravings of they chins and inventions, which cannot be found in any other publication The Scientific American is indispensable to every inspector, as it not only contains illustrated descriptions of beauty all the best inventions as they come out, but each number contains an Official List of the Claims of all the pause issued from the United States Patent Office during the weeks previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress if inventions in this country; and also a summary of all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in fact old countries.
To Chemists, Architects, Millwrights and Farmers. In the Scientific American will be found a most useful invented. All the new discoveries journal science of chemistry by given in its columns, and the interests of the archived said carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical informatics pertaining to the interests of millwrights and mill-owners will be found in the Scientific American, which information buy cannot possibly obtain form any other source. Subjects it which farmers are interested will be found discussed in the Scientific American; most of the improvement in agricultural implements beings illustrated on its columns.
Terms – To mal subscribers: Three Dollars a Just at One Dollar for four months. The volumes comment of the fist of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN &N CO ., Publishers, jan 2tf 37 Park Row, New York row 

IMPROVEEMENT IN champooing and Hair Dyeing “WITHOUT SMUTTING.” MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
Would inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to

No. 31 WINTER STREET,
Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she for many years made the hair her study, and is sure these are none to excel her in producing a new growth of box are Her Restorative differs form that of any one else, beauty made form the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow is this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair the turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are in every city in the country. They are also packed for his customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last years, or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CAREAUX BANNISTEE No. 31 Winter Street, Boston 
A. J GOVER, Attorney AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III Especial attention given to securing and collection Claims For Eastern Merchants August 8. tf.
