THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING 
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F WALLCUT GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAR, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letter relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents perline.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRIOSN, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 9. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1627.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE ABOLITION TRAITORS.
The leading Abolition traitors of Massachusetts gave sent to their treason Friday of last week, at the meeting of the State Anti-Slavery society. They were for making the ware one for the emancipation of the <illegible> and for arming the slaves and stirring them up to murder, rapine and arson. The chairman in a speech urged that the black soldiery would fight with desperation for the cause dear to the Abolition heart. Wendell Phillips urged the raising of money to pay a hundred Abolition lecturers to traverse the loyal States, and preach an Abolition crusade. In four years. He said, an Abolitionist would be wanted for President at Washington or Philadelphia or wherever the future seat of government might be! HE was sure the west might be depended on for Fremont, who could be President in four years. If he had been supplanted as Major General. As for McClellan, he should deplore his success if the present government policy was to be continued! He was grateful to Beauregard for arraying an army in front of Washington; for in so doing. He was giving Congress the power to abolish slavery.
Another rabid traitor, named Foster, was for more than the more emancipation of Sambo. He (Foster) was for installing him in the Senate house, and admitting him into the social circle, on full equality with the whites. He insisted that the negro must be taken whole, wool and all. If the North was not to do this it would be better to fight on the Confederate side! He could not, or would not, support the Government in its present policy. He had endeavored to dissuade young men from enlisting in such a cause, and would continue to do so. Carried on as the war now is, it but a fight for slavery!
Such was the burthen of the treasonable mouthing of avowed Abolition traitors at the capital of Warren. It was recently the boast of Greeley, that no anti-slavery man had yet felt the rigors of the Government prison. Why are such of them exempt as openly express a wish for the success of the Southern rebellion, unless its suppression is to result in the negro millenium?- Springfield (Ill.)
Register

TRAITORS.
If there is any one class of men in this country who deserve to be denounced as the blackest traitors and the most unscrupulous enemies of the Republic, it is the abolitionists. It was supposed that when the dire result of all their wicked work became manifest, some slight feelings of remorse might prompt them at least to remain silent. But they are glorying in the great evils of the country, and gloating over the shattered ruins of this once happy nation. Are not these men traitors? But for seccessionists in the North. we should never have heard of secessionists in the South. Upon whom, then, shall the vengeance of an injured people fall most heavily? Surely upon the instigators of the rebellion-upon the wicked and insidious men who, with the serpent's wile and with the serpents cunning, stole into the Eden of national life, poisoning and pollution the springs of peace and perpetual. It is vain for the abolitionists to deny the charge. They have preached, and prayed, and written rebellion for many years and they have it at last. But let them not delude themselves with the idea that, in all the noise and excitement of war, their part in bringing it on will forgotten and overlooked. It required no extraordinary shrewdness to that, of the twin evils, slavery and abolitionism, the latter is incomparably the most mischieveous. Slavery with out abolitionism had been a tolerable evil,-with it, it has destroyed the union. The war against the Union began when abolitionists first proclaimed the government unholy and taught men to despise its laws. It was treason of the basest kind that slowly and steadily lessened public confidence in the government and at last defended those who openly broke their country's laws. Such treason should not go unpunished; for we repeat that it has done the country infinitely more harm than even the formidable armies of the South. It is clear that the abolitions-the secessionists of the North Should be imprisoned and made war upon equally with their co-workers. The secessionists of the South. The difference between them is solely geographical; and if we had our way of it, we should have every utterer of abolition sentiments treated as a rebel and an <illegible>, and forever banished from the society of loyal and good Americans. Let not the impudence of these traitors protect them, but let all the enemies of the country share alike, and be counted guilty of the heinous crime of treason.-Evansville(Indiana) Gazette.

"GARRISON."
The performance by William L. Garrison, "the Nestor of the Abolitionists," went off, in Washing ton Hall, on Monday evening. The audience was not large, and those present many of whom were from out of Greenfield, we presume the majority were impelled to attend by a curiosity somewhat like that, which, though not commendable, always prevails to see notorious villain, and to bear the "dying confession" of malefactors on the follows. He took his text from the Democrat of last week. We are glad we gave him of good a one. And the manner in which he winced, and writhed, and fumed, indicated that, though hardened to a degree almost incredible he is not entirely callous. He can be reached; and we think the puncture we gave him did him some good. After the effusion of bitterness and wrath which followed, he may be more comfortable, though he can never be entirely at rest, so long as it is true that "there is no peace to the wicked," and that traitors always have been and ever will be, followed by the execration of a betrayed country. As for our part, we have confidence that we shall survive the visitation of Mr. Garrision's wrath; that what his audience could endure, will not kill us. In fact, we can truly say that we consider abuse as more desirable than praise from a ribald reviler of the Constitution, a calumniator of Washington, and a persistent vilifier of the Church and Religion.- Greenfield Democrat.
In view of the diatribe against the Democrat on Monday evening, a friend has suggested for our comfort, that it was impossible for Garrison to denounce us with virulence exceeding that which he has exhibition in his denunciations of the Constitution of the United States; and that the time and blows devoted to us were undoubtedly diverted from the constitution and the country.-Ibid.
Garrison was vehement the other evening in his denunciation of Democratic party. And well he might be if opposition may be consider-
<c02>
ed as any cause for denunciation. The Democratic party was the last and most formidable obstacle to the accomplishment of his infernal designs against the constitution and the Union. And it was not till, by his efforts and the effort of others more or less like him a the North, aided by their natural or unnatural allies, Jeff Davis, Yancey, Mason, Slidell, and others of the South, all aiming to destroy the Constitution Which is the life of the national government, the Democratic party was divided and rendered powerless, that the country was brought into its present condition. We have no hesitation in asserting and we are ready to maintain the position, that had the principles of the Democratic party been adhered to and sustained in their integrity by the people, and faithfully applied and followed in the administration of the government, the peace and prosperity of the United States would never have been interrupted by the terrible calamity of civil war. Ibid.

THE EMANCIPATIONISTS AND THE BORDER STATES.
It is easy to understand how men who are more for the emancipation of the slaves than the restoration of the Union-whose hatred to slavery exceeds their affection for the Government-can seek every occasion of reviling and insulting the Border States; but it is not easy to understand how those who really ensure the restoration of the Union can deny to these States any of their constitutional rights. And we do not believe that the sincere friends of the Union do. There is not a hearty and hopeful Union man in the country who does not bless the day when the powerful and vigorous State of Kentucky was saved from rebellion, and who does not regard with special admiration the heroic men who threw themselves into the breech and the thwarted the deigns of the Rebel leaders. Moreover, there is not a loyal man in the land who would deprive these Border State heroes of single right to which they are entitled under the Constitution. They have been denounced and maligned by Abolitionists because they insist upon enjoying the constitutional privileges, whilst these Abolitionists have never accomplished a hundredth part of the actual labor that these despised Border States men have. They have born the heat and burden of the day, and the Abolitionists talk of rewarding them for their exertions in behalf of the Constitutions by depriving them of their constitutional rights. 
Whenever we heat a man railing at the Border States, and wishing that they had taken part with the rebellion, we have no hesitation in setting him down as a disunionist, independence of all the slave State than that the Union should be restored with the rights and institutions of the State unimpaired.- Harrisburg Patriot and Union.

PREDICTIONS.
The Chicago Times make the following predictions:-"If at any time during the past nine months we have felt the slightest faith in the Unionism of the Republican party, or we should rather say, the Republican leaders, such faith is utterly gone now. They are against the Union-the old Union- and mean that it shall nor survive. It has been their purpose to destroy it from the beginning. With them the war has been an anti-slavery crusade from the beginning, and the have designed to hold only such State in their Union as should be subdued and abolitionzed at the same time. It, when Virginia and North Carolina and Tennessee shall be subdued, the difficulties of carrying the banned of abolition into the cotton states shall seem insurmountable, these Republican leaders will clamor for peace and Southern boundary line of 36deg. 30 min. Or if, at any time, they shall be convinced that the end of the war will not be to destroy slavery in any of the State, they will clamor for peace and separation upon any line that shall then be held by the Federal armies. We make these predictions and ask the reader to note them. There is but one Union party, (The democratic party,) and will be bur one; and upon the unity and vigor of that, and upon the resumption of power by it in the Northern States, depends, vastly more than upon the operations, of the armies in the field, the salvation of the Union."

RESOLUTIONS
Adopted by the Democratic State convention held at Indianapolis, January 8, 1862.
Whereas, the Democratic party having, from the date of its organizations been in favour of the maintenance of the Union and the preservation of the Constitution, and seeing in the present condition of the country the deplorable effects of a departure from its time-honored and conservative principles, and the triumph of sectionalism; and firmly believing that the Union and the Constitution can be preserved alone by the restoration of that party to power; we invite all true Union men to united with us in sustaining its organization and carrying out its principles. Therefore 
Resolved, 1. that we Re-affirm and endorse the political principles, that, from time to time, have been put forth by the National Conventions of the Democratic party.
2. That we are unalterably attached to the Constitution, by which the Union of these State was formed and established; and that a faithful observance of its principles can alone continue the existence of the Union and the permanent happiness of the People. 
3. That the present civil war has mainly resulted from the long continued, unwise and fanatical agitation, in the north, of the question of domestic slavery, the consequent organizations of geography party, guided by the sectional platforms adopted at buffalo, Pittsburg, Philadelphia, and Chicago, and the development thereby of sectional hate and jealousy, producing (as had long been foreseen and predicted by us) its counterpart in the South of secesssion, disunion and armed resistance to the general government, and terminating in a bloody strife between those who should have been forever bound together by fraternal bonds; this bringing upon the whole country a calamity which we are now to meet as loyal citizens striving for the adoption of that mode of settlement best calculated to again restore union and harmony.
4.That, in rejecting all propositions likely to result in a satisfactory adjustment of the matters in dispute between the North and the South, and especially those measures which would have secured the border slave State to the Union, and a hearty co-operation on their part in all constitutional and legal measures to procure a return of the more Southern State to their allegiance, the Republican party assumed a fearful responsibility, and acted in total disregard of the best interest of the whole country.
5.That, if the party in power had shown the same desire to settle, by amicable adjustment, our internal dissensions before hostilities had actually com-
<c03>
menced, that the administration has recently exhibited to avoid a war with our ancient enemy, Great Britain, we confidently believe that peace and harmony would now reign throughout all our borders. 
6.That the maintenance of Union upon the principles of federal Constitution should be the controlling object of all who profess loyalty to the government-and in our judgement this purpose can only be accomplished by the ascendancy of a Union party in the Southern State, which shall, by a counter revolutions, displace those who control and direct the present rebellion. That no effort to create or sustain such a party can be successful which is not based upon a definite settlement of the questions at issue between the two sections; and we therefore demand that some such settlement be made by additional constitutional guaranty, either initiated by act of Congress or through the medium of National Convention.
7. That the Republican party has fully demonstrated its inability to conduct the government through its present difficulties.
8.That we are utterly opposed to the twin heresies, Northern sectionalism and Southern secession, as inimical to the constitution; and that freemen, as they value the boon of civil liberty and the peace of the country, should frown indignantly upon them.
9.That in this national emergency, the democracy of Indiana, banishing all felling of passion and resentment, will recollect only their duty to the whole country; that this war should not be waged in then spirit of conquest or subjugation, nor for the purpose of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or institutions of States, but to defend and maintain the Union with all the dignity, quality and rights of the several State unimpaired, and that as soon as these objects are accomplished, the war ought to cease.
10. That we will sustain with all our energies a war for maintenance of the Constitution and of the integrity of the Union under the Constitution; but are opposed to a war for the emancipation of the negroes, or the subjugation of the southern States.
11. That the purpose avowed and advocated by the Northern disunionists to liberate and arm the negro slaves, is unconstitutional insulting to loyal citizens, a disgrace to the age, is calculated to retard the suppression of the rebellion and meets our unqualified condemnation.
12.That the total disregard of the writ of habeas corpus by the authorities over us, and the seizure and imprisonment of the citizens of loyal States where the judiciary is in full operation, without warrant of law, and without assigning any cause or giving to the party arrested any opportunity of defence, are flagrant violations of the Constitution, and most alarming acts of usurpation of power, which should receive the stern rebuke of every lover of his country, and of every man who prizes the security and blessings of life, liberty and property.
13. That liberty of speech and of the press are guaranteed to the people by the Constitution, and none but a usurper would deprive them of these rights; they are inestimable to the citizen, and formidable to tyrants only. And the attempts which have been made, since our present unfortunate troubles, to muzzle the press and stifle free discussion, are exercises of despite power against which freedom revolts, and which cannot be tolerated with out converting freemen into slaves.
14. That the seizure of Slidell and Mason, on board a neutral vessel, on the high seas, was either in accordance with international law, and so legal; or else in violation of such law, and so illegal. If the former, we lament that our nation has been humiliated by their surrender, under a threat; if the latter, it was the duty of the administration at once to have disavowed the administration at once to have disavowed the act of their office, and instead of incarcerating the captives in Fort Warren, to have immediately repaired the wrong by placing them, as far as practicable, in the same condition in which that officer had found them. In either event, the action of the administration was vacillating and cowardly, and degrading to the dignity of a great nation.
15. That the action of the Republican party as manifested in the partisan character of all appointments of the Administration to civil office; and in holding party caucuses by the Republican members of Congress for the purpose of impressing upon the legislative action of that body the peculiar dogmas of that party, have demonstrated that their professions of "sacrificing party platforms, and party organizations, upon the altar of their county," are but so many hypocritical and false pretences by which they hope to dupe the unwary into their support; and we warn all loyal persons, as they love their country, not to be deceived thereby.

CONNECTICUT DEMOCRACY.
The following resolutions were adopted at the Democratic State Convention, held at Middletown, Connecticut, on the 12the February:-
Whereas, The Democratic party, having form its organization been the party of the Union, faithful and true to its best interests, maintaining its dignity in war and in peace, against the assaults and insinuations of foreign and domestic foes; and 
Whereas, The present deplorable condition of the country results from a departure from its time-honored and conservative principles; and
Whereas, We fully believe that the Union cannot be restored until the principles and spirit of Democracy prevail in the Administration of the Federal and State Governments, and that the triumph of the Democratic party offers the only reasonable hopes of awakening the dormant Union sentiment of the South, Which can be aroused only by the assurance of safety and equality in the Union; therefore,
Resolved, That the present extraordinary condition of our national affairs, in which we have been involved through the pernicious counsels of fanatics, urgently calls upon every Democrat to again rally under the time-honored banner of that political organization which has, in war as well as in peace, in prosperity and adversity, ever proved faithful to the union, the Constitution, the Government and the laws, and which banner we will continue to blend with the glorious stars and stripes.
Resolved, That resting their organization upon the patriotism of its well-tried principles, and still renewing their unswerving fidelity to the Constitutional Government, which they have for more than three-quarters of a century unflinchingly upheld, (whether assaulted by Northern abolition or Southern secession,) the Democracy of Connecticut earnestly appeal to all conservative citizens to unite with them in sustaining the president in all constitutional efforts to suppress the rebellion, restore the Union, and to defend our country against all foes, whether at home or abroad; and we invite the cooperation of all who are opposed to the revolutionary element which is now making war upon the President and the gallant General McClellan, for the purpose of converting the war against seces-
<c04>
sion and rebellion into a struggle for the emancipation of slaves, in violation of the obligations of the Constitution.
Resolved, That in all propositions likely to result in a satisfactory adjustment of the matters in dispute between the North and the South, and especially such measures as would have secured the border States to the Union and a hearty cooperation on their party in all constitutional and legal measures, and procure the return of the seceded States, the Republican party assumed a fearful responsibility, acted in utter disregard of the best interests of the whole country, and stamped itself as wanting in patriotism, and destitute of that sound political principle which should actuate a party having in its hands the destinies of a great people.
Resolved, That the Republican party, who promised a restoration of the honesty and purity of the Washingtonian administration, has, in the disclosures of fraud and corruption brought to light by the Congressional Investigating Committee, shown a demoralization not only unknown before in the States, but unheard of and unprecedented in the history of the nation.
Resolved, That the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, and the arrest of freemen without due process of law in States where there is no pretence of a military necessity therefore, is inconsistent with the principles of a free government, and is' utterly condemned by the Democratic party of this State.

RHODE ISLAND DEMOCRACY
The following resolutions were adopted at the Democratic State Convention, held at Providence, R. I., Feb. 20th:-
Resolved, That the Democracy of Rhode Island stand to-day upon their ancient platform; that they are for the country, and nothing less than the country-for the Union and the Constitution, without conditions or higher law reservations; and against all encroachments upon State or individual rights-against the irresponsible exercise, by public servants, of powers not delegated in the Constitution -against oppression of every description-against sectionalism in all its aspects-against underground railroads and John Brown raids-and finally, and especially, against all attempts by the Federal Government to subjugate States, or divert their governments or people of any of the powers or privileges which they have heretofore exercised or enjoyed.
Resolved, That the so-called "Right of Secession," claimed by many politicians and citizens of States now in arms against our Federal Government <illegible> consistent with all government, and a denial of the fundamental principles of all Democratic Republics. It is just as false to-day as it was only a few years or months ago, when it was claimed, by Northern Abolitionists and at least one Northern Legislature, and should be condemned and opposed by all good men, at all times, as tending to the abrogation of law and the inauguration of civil war. And denying the right of Secession, we declare that the present rebellion against federal authority, and the attempt to overthrow, by a resort to force, the best government which the sun ever shone upon, is both unreasonable and criminal-an indefensible violation of all the pledges which citizenship implies, and such an outrage against humanity and civilization as even the aggressions and menaces of Northern Abolitionists, during thirty years of vengeful warfare upon Southern institutions, cannot justify or palliate.
Resolved, That the effort now being made to divert this war from its original purpose, as proclaimed by the President and Congress seven months ago-the maintenance of the Federal Constitution and the preservation of the Union's integrity-and to turn it into a war for the emancipation of slaves and the subjugation of the Southern States, or their return to a territorial condition, is an effort against the Union, against the Constitution, against justice, and against humanity, and should be promptly frowned upon by all the friends of Democratic institutions. It is unworthy of loyal citizens, and can find support only with sectional fanatics, who have no love for the Union or desire for its restoration, and whose highest patriotism is an unnatural and unrighteous hatred of the citizens of sister States. And whereas, we perceive gratifying indications that President Lincoln is resisting and will continue to resist this treasonable effort, it is further resolved, that in such patriotic resistance he is entitled to and does and shall continue to receive our cordial sympathy and unfaltering support.
Resolved, That to bring the present war to a final and happy conclusion, and secure a union of hearts as well as a union of hands, it is absolutely necessary to reassure the misguided people of the South that we mean no warfare upon their rights, and are actuated by no spirit of revenge; to disavow, in the language of Gov. Sprague, " any other wish than that of bringing together these now belligerent States, without the loss to any one of them of a single right or privilege which it has heretofore enjoyed;" to show, by our acts as well as by our professions, that our whole purpose is to preserve our government just as it came to us from the hands of our fathers-to regard all the guaranties of the Constitution, whether to States or to the people of States-and to become once more a powerful and prosperous nation, and a harmonious and happy people. And that, to this end, it is the duty of the Democratic party, not only to preserve its distinctive organization, but to demonstrate, by honorable and patriotic measures, both its determination and its power to withstand and render harmless the assaults of Northern sectionalists upon constitutional liberty.

If, in an evil hour, the Administration should yield to the determined efforts of a sectional party, and become the instrument in their hands, which the anti-slavery leaders wish to make it, it would not merely have betrayed the trust reposed by the Constitution in its hands-but it would, by a practical abrogation of that instrument, have abdicated its authority and its claim to the support which is now so nobly rendered; it would verify the false predictions of the instigators of this monstrous rebellion; it would supply the enemies of the Union with a justification of their course, even while it suppresses them.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
We give in another column a communication on New Grenada as the country for the negro, written by a gentleman from whom we should be glad to bear often, who has held official position in Spanish America, and who is most competent to judge of the merits of the case on which he treats. The design of the article is patent on its face; and yet indirectly it establishes another point-the wide difference between the white and black races, fully confirming what nature in its divine arrangements declares, that the home of the black is within the tropics, and the home of the white in the temperate latitudes; and he who would join and amalgamate what nature puts asunder, but wars with the economy of God, and all his efforts most in the end come to naught.-Newburyport Herald.
<c05>
Selections.
DEMOCRATIC TREASON.
Resolved, That we denounce Northern Abolitionism and Southern Secession as the cooperating sources of our present calamities.
The above denunciation will be found in the Secesh Platform, enunciated by the Pierce fuglers at the Democratic State Convention held in Concord on the 8th ultimo. It is interesting as being the severest utterance that Burke, Bingham & Co.. who, under Pierce, controlled the Convention, could bring themselves to make against the accursed rebellion, and the Southern traitors who have raised it against the Government, and have brought upon our country all the. horrors of civil war. Yet it is worthy of. notice how considerately tender it is, even in its severity, of "secession." That "numerous and highly respectable body of delegates were so very candid, not to say patriotic, as to make "secession " only a secondary " source of our present calamities"! Jeff. Davis could not have asked for anything more from Pierce and other friends in this State. Of course, be is willing to make all due allowance for latitude, and to take into consideration the fact that sympathy with him and his rebellion must be cautiously expressed in New Hampshire. Jeff, is perfectly willing to let his Democratic friends give "secession" a gentle love-pat, just for the looks of the thing, if they will only give "abolitionism" the hard knocks with a will.
But what is meant by "abolitionism," in the common Democratic parlance of the present day? It means that hatred to human slavery, which is a natural instinct of the human heart. It means hatred of a system of oppression that disgraces and degrades labor, barbarizes society, and divides it into odious castes of "gentlemen" and "mudsills" and generates despotic ideas, inconsistent with the existence of a free and republican form of government. It means hatred of the "sum of all villanies," the contemplation of which made even Southern statesmen, in the early days of the Republic, tremble when they remembered that "God is just." It means opposition to the nationalizing of an abominable system of wrong, which the fathers of our Government left as a local evil with the hope and expectation that it would be speedily removed. It means opposition to the spread of an unmitigated curse over all our fair territorial domain. It means this hatred and opposition to slavery, and to its unholy and persistent aggressions, peaceably and law fully expressed by a free people, in argument and at the ballot-box. This is what Southern rebels and their Northern sympathizers call "abolitionism." This is what they stigmatize as the prime "cooperating source of our present calamities." Not a word of condemnation nave they for the abominable wickedness of slavery, which has culminated in rebellion; on the contrary, they intimate, with more or less distinctness, that they prefer its perpetuity to the salvation of the country in the present struggle. As to touching slavery, they cry out that it must not be done; for is it not shielded by "Constitutional guarantees"? Not a word of hearty condemnation have these covert traitors of the North, for the open and armed traitors of the South. They politely suggest that " Hon. Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States." and his fellows, cannot be entirely excused, perhaps, for conspiring and rebelling against the Government; but, after all, did they not have almost provocation enough for their course from the " miserable," " wicked," " traitorous " " abolitionists," who have had the audacity to dislike slavery, and to carry their dislike to its eternal perpetuity and universal extension to such a "fanatical " pitch, as to go to the ballot-box, and drive the Democracy, controlled by the said Davis and his sort, from power? This is the "Democratic" position, in this State, on the war and its "sources "-" cooperating," or otherwise.
Considering, then, what that "abolitionism" is, which is the burden of Democratic denunciation: considering, too, what "secession" is, and what it has brought upon our country, let us try the foregoing resolution of the Democratic platform, by the test of analogy.
Suppose that, during the early struggle of Christianity with Paganism, when the peaceful Gospel of Truth became the occasion of bitter strives among men, with tortures, imprisonment and death, a " highly respectable body " of professed disciples of the Saviour had assembled, and adopted the following resolution:-
Resolved, That we denounce these new doctrines of Jesus Christ and the superstitious errors of Paganism as the cooperating sources of our present calamities.
Would men thus resolving have been deemed worthy of bearing the Christian name? Would they not have been condemned as Iscariots in disguise, under the sentence of him" who spake as never man spake"-" He who is. not for me is against me"? Especially would not this have been their fate, had these " respectable," sell-styled Christians delighted to make and reiterate with bitter sneer-"These are your Christian times-your Christian troubles"?
What would have been thought of a " highly respectable body " of professed Protestants, in some of the bloody wars waged by the Popes and their adherents against Protestantism and Liberty, that should have passed such a resolution as this?-
Resolved, That we denounce the reformatory teachings of Luther, and the lost for dominion of the Papal See, as the cooperating sources of our present calamities.
Would not the Protestantism of "highly respectable" individuals thus denouncing have been branded as all a sheer pretence and a traitorous sham? Could not the Pope have rightfully claimed them as in his interest, especially had they taken every safe opportunity to say, "This is only a miserable Lutheran war"?
Supposing, once more, that, during the dark hours of the Revolution, a " numerous and highly respectable body" of professed patriots had met, and passed the following resolution:-
Resolved, That we denounce American resistance and British tyranny as the cooperating sources of our present calamities.
What would have been the fate of such denouncers? Would they not hare been reckoned as Tories, and treated accordingly? Would the Stark of those days-a Stark in nature as well as in name-have been found standing as a "standard-bearer" upon a platform with such a plank in it. We throw not. Nor would he have been caught endorsing the "respectability" of such spurious patriots. He would rather have been found helping bang or banish them: especially had they persisted in carting upon their patriotic neighbors the continual taunt, "This is your Yankee war. You might have ' compromised,' and paid the tax on tea. But you would n't' yield an inch.'"
<c06>
What shall we say, then, when, in these latter days, in the midst of a deadly struggle between a noble and beneficent Government and fell and relentless Rebellion, a " highly respectable body of delegates," calling themselves loyal men, meet here in the capital of New Hampshire, and deliberately resolve, in substance, as follows?-
Resolved, That we denounce peaceable, legal and constitutional opposition to the aggressions of the Slave power upon the rights of freemen, against the dictates of justice, humanity and Christianity, and the best interests of the nation-otherwise "abolitionism "-and rebellion involving a happy country in all the horrors of civil war, for the establishment of a " Confederacy " whose corner-stone shall be Slavery -otherwise, "Secession"-as the cooperating sources of our present calamities.
Are men thus resolving, and who stand upon such a platform, and who continually reiterate, "This is a d-d Black Republican Abolition war," fit to be reckoned as loyal to their Government and their country? No, they are traitors-covert, cowardly, black-hearted traitors! Let them be marked, watched and shunned as Traitors!-Concord (N.H) Independent democrat.

THE DOUGHFACE WAY TO SAVE THE UNION
As the war drags and the prospect of quelling the rebellion becomes darker, the Times grows bolder, and its special backers more insolent. The last position it has assumed is. that the "Abolitionists" caused the war, and are responsible for its continuance. Give the South its "rights," says the Times, and there would be no war. This word "rights" is one of the slang phrases in the slaveocratic vocabulary. It simply means-accede to the demands of the slaveholders. Let them extend slavery wherever they please, over the territories, over Mexico, over the free States, over the whole continent. Re-open the African slave trade so that they may have plenty of slaves at cheap prices; adopt the Montgomery Constitution; depose Lincoln and elect Jen. Davis or Mason; turn the Government over to the oligarchy unconditionally; put a muzzle on free speech and a free press; hang every man who says aught against the peculiar institution: make it treason to call slavery wrong, and a test of holding office, the taking of an oath that the candidate believes it to be right and of divine origin. Do these things, and there will be no farther war, no more secession; all will be love and harmony, and every man, North and South, can wallop his own niggers to his heart's content. This is the doctrine. This is the remedy for the nation's disease. In this way the Union can be saved and peace restored. Let the country adopt the doctrine of the rebel Vice-President Stephens, that slavery should be the corner-stone of the nation, as he declares it is to be of the rebel Confederacy. Let the people accept the maxim of John C. Calboun, that " slavery is the most safe and stable basis for free institutions in the World," and agree with the last Democratic candidate for Vice President, that " capital should own labor," and accept the opinion that "some men are born with saddles on their backs, and others booted and spurred, to ride them by the grace of God." And finally, let all the people subscribe to the proposition of a distinguished rebel Senator, that" they would spread the blessings of slavery, like the religion of our divine Master, to the uttermost ends of the earth," and the rebellion will instantly come to an end of its own accord; not another gun would be fired, nor another life lost. Only let us of the North adopt these atheistic and atrocious sentiments which animate the revolt against the Government, and peace will be instantly declared, and the broken Union straightway reunited.-Chicago Tribune.

CAUSE OF THE REBELLION.
It is strange that any man of intelligence can be in doubt as to the cause of the Southern treason. Yet the senators and representatives of the Border States with one voice reiterate the statement, that slavery is only a remote cause, if one at all. Hon. Garrett Davis of Ky., a very talented, and in most respects a very noble man, takes a determined stand against rebellion-his whole soul burns with patriotism and vengeance against treason-and yet be protests that slavery is but a very insignificant cause of the trouble! He speaks severely of the traitors, but charges equal guilt, upon those who teach that all men should be tree, and claims that Beecher, Greeley. Phillips, and Sumner, should be hung upon the same tree with Davis and Co.!
What confused and biased state of mind that must be, which deals in such great absurdities as characterize Mr. Davis's speech in the senate! What shade of moral midnight hat fallen upon these men who hold property in man! Can it be possible that they can review their speeches without crimson blushes of shame mantling their cheeks? According to their arguments, love of slavery is not inimical to peace; but love of liberty has done the mischief The repetition of the self-evident truths of the Declaration, and the preaching of the golden ride, have provoked the trouble. 0 Tempora! 0 Mores! 0 cursed satan of slavery, to pervert the minds of great men, and make them foolish! The essence of all their reasonings is this: " Slavery is a just and beneficent institution; it would never have made any trouble but for the zeal of northern fanatics, who persist in preaching men's right to liberty: by this means, the South has been enraged, the Church has been divided, animosities have been engendered, and ambitious men have taken advantage of it to work rebellion. The fact, that where there is the most slavery, rebellion rages with the most violence, results from the speeches and writings of Northern fanatics in behalf of Utopian ideas of liberty. We are in favor of hanging traitors and abolitionism as equally guilty, upon the same tree."
What can "cure such blindness? How can their eyes be opened? We were assured a short time since, that Kentucky was about to take the lead in emancipation, and that the general government must make no move against slavery until then. How these new senators blast all such hopes! They assert that the loyalty of their own States is conditioned upon the protection of slavery; and if the Government is likely to crush the sole enemy of our peace, they will secede. Poor miserable patriots these!
But one step will cure them-one blow will open their eyes. Strike quickly, heavily, fatally, and let slavery perish forever, and the chain will be broken, the nightmare dissipated.-Dover (N. H.) Star.

Dr. George Cross, recently released from imprisonment at Richmond, was taken to be a chaplain by the rebels, and many women came to see him as the monster who had prayed " that h-<illegible> fire and <illegible> might be showered down upon the whole Southern Confederacy, and destroy all the Secessionists, root and branch, and that speedily and without the benefit of clergy." He told them he had not prayed in that style, but they refused to believe him.

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitant thereof."
"I lay this down the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that stale of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAU IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRD with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and what your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress hat power to carry on the war, and must carry it ON, according to LAWS OF WAR; and the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and Municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."- J.Q. ADAMS.
34
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FIDDLING NERO AND BURNING ROME!
The first Ball ever given at the White House came off last Wednesday evening. The Cabinet, both Houses of Congress, many of the army officers, foreign Ministers, leading citizens, &c., to the number of FIVE HUNDRED, were present with their wives and daughters. The ladies were dressed in the highest style of fashion and extravagance, especially Mrs. Lincoln. The gentlemen were generally very plainly attired. About twelve o'clock, the supper-room was thrown open, and exhibited one of the finest displays of gastronomic art ever seen in this country: a temple of Liberty, a fort and war-steamer, admirably moulded in candy, and a ton of turkeys, ducks, venison, pheasants, partridges, &c., all exquisitely prepared by Maillard of New York at a cost of thousands of dollars. While the country is shaken as by an earthquake by the mightiest and most unnatural civil war recorded in history, and on the eve of bankruptcy and ruin; while it is even now a question-a fearful one-whether we are to be henceforth the free people of a free nation, or whether we are to become the subjects of anarchy, a second Mexico-we say, that while these direful calamities are threatening our very life as a nation, such an extravagant and foolish display in shocking. At any time, such mimicking and aping of European courts is disgusting in the Capital of a Republic; but at such a crisis as the present, such a wanton display of extravagance and indifference on the part of the Administration is an outrage to the interests and feelings of the people. It is tempting a kind Providence to our destruction. What will be thought in Europe of such frivolity? How forcibly and unpleasantly it calls to mind the fiddling of Nero at the burning of Rome! That same night, while in Washington all was wanton and gay, the hunted Unionist in our bloody border-land stole in secret from his den, and, aided by the glimmering moonlight, looked once more upon the ashes of what was once his happy home. That same night, wounded volunteers died in the hospitals for want of care and comfort, and our noblest sons and brothers pined in the loathsome horrors of a southern prison, and sighed hopelessly for release; while on our western frontiers, the houseless mother clasped her starving babe, and the prairie wolf gnawed ravenously the bones of the loyal dead. And still with bands playing and streamers flying, and the noble old ship of State tempest-tossed, and drifting along the very verge of an abyss, the "august wisdom of the Capital" are merry with wine, jolly and indifferent, toasting and feasting, dancing and capering about the White House goose with devil-me-care imbecility, as though life were intended for a pastime-CIVIL WAR an agreeable tableau. Shade of Belshazzar!-Ashes of Nineveh!-Golden Calf of Aaron! come forth: ye are wanted in Washington!-Adams Transcript.
MRS. LINCOLN'S BALL.
"The first Ball ever given in the White House came off to-night," says the Tribune's correspondent of Thursday last. We have read of the crews of sinking ships, when all hope had fled, throwing off all restraints, human and divine, and mingling their revolting orgies and mad carousals with the avenging spirit of the tempest, which was hurrying them to a swift and sure destruction. Are the incumbents of the high places of trust and power mad or demented, that, in this dark hour of our history and our hopes, they desert their posts of duty to inaugurate the reign of Fashion, and worship at the shrine of Folly? Or was this a shameless funeral wake over the unburied remains of a defunct Union?
"Most of the Senators and Members of Congress and Generals of the Army were there," says the reporter. Faithless betrayers of a people's trust, was it for this that you were sent to Congress, or placed in command of our armies? Are we incurring an expenditure of two millions of dollars per day, and sacrificing hundreds of lives, that you may congregate and riot at our expense?
Again, says the reporter, "The supper was set in the dining-room, and is considered one of the finest displays of gastronomic art ever seen in this country. It was prepared by Maillard, of New York, and cost thousands of dollars." And this was while Secretary Chase was urgently importuning Congress to adopt some measures to replenish an empty treasury.
Again, says the faithful chronicler, "the tables fairly bent under the expensive luxuries heaped one upon another." Only one week before, Mr. Wilson had stated, in his place in the Senate, that "he had seen certificates from sick soldiers that they had actually to go to the swill-tubs, to enable them to live in the hospital at Alexandria".
Is the White House to be made the scene of disgraceful frivolity, hilarity and gluttony, while hundreds of sick and suffering soldiers, within plain sight of the dome of the Capitol, are left to suffer for the bare necessaries of life, unattended and uncared for? There must be a moral malaria in the atmosphere of Washington, which stupefies the intellect and dims the perceptions, while it dries up or poisons the fountains of human kindness, in all who enter its transforming circle. Slavery and Treason still live and flourish there. Sampson was shorn of his strength by a woman of the Philistines. The White House may have its Delilah; who can tell?
SHARPSTICK. 
-Jeffersonian Democrat.
THE WHITE HOUSE FESTIVITIES.
We will not be guilty of such disrespect towards President Lincoln as to suppose him responsible in any other way than a passive, if not virtually enforced acquiescence in those misplaced festivities of the White House which have lately shocked the sensibilities of the nation. It was bad enough for Mrs. Lincoln to make an ostentatious parade of her gayety at fashionable watering-places last summer. The nation has drawn no favorable augury from her intimacy with the family of James Gordon Bennett, and the evident relish with which she has received the fulsome flattery of the infamous sheet which he edits. But these things were generally borne in silence. It was not until this crowning act of inaugurating in the climax of the nation's agony, the recent scenes of rout and revelry at the White House, that the press has been compelled by its sense of duty to speak out. This it is now doing, and with no uncertain tone. It comes from all quarters, and from journals representing every variety of sentiment.
A member of Congress from this State, who has already done his country signal service in exposing frauds for which this same social influence surrounding the White House is said to be largely responsible, is reported to have "freed his mind" as follows:
"Two or three days since, Mr. Lincoln sent word to Mr. Dawes, through a brother member, that he (Dawes) had done more to break down the administration than any other man in the country, by his speech exposing the corruptions of contractors and others. Mr. Dawes sent back a message in reply to the President. "Tell him," said Mr. D., "that nothing that I can do will break down his administration so rapidly as this dancing-party given at the time when the nation is in the agonies of civil war. With equal propriety might a man make a ball with a corpse in the house".
The concluding expression of Mr. Dawes, though startling, can hardly be called extravagant. The last dollar was paid from the national treasury, and the nation stood face to face with its hundreds of millions of debt unprovided for, on the day of this unseemly festivity. Our wounded and diseased soldiers were suffering, dying, amidst the hardships of the camp, while the contractors who had wronged them out of most of the limited comforts which the necessities of their situation permitted were parading amidst the splendors of the social pageant-Corr. of Roxbury Journal.
HOW TO BE A PATTERN.
If Mrs. Lincoln would study humanity instead of French; practise benevolence instead of dancing; visit the sick soldiers who have sacrificed home and happiness to defend the Capital of the nation and the White house against a hostile enemy, instead of gallanting the Halls of that mansion on the arm of a European Court snob; if she would spend her money for the benefit of the families of the soldiers who have already yielded up their lives for the cause of the Union, on the battle-field, instead of squandering ten or twenty thousand dollars in a single night for the entertainment of men and women of questionable virtue, she would then be entitled to the homage and respect of the nation; would become an example to be patterned after by the opulent everywhere, and would cease to be an object of reproach and disgust to all high-minded, democratic, American men and women.-Richmond (Indiana) Independent Press.
<c02>
THE SLAVEHOLDING DESPOTISM.
The following extract is taken from the meritorious work just published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston, entitled "The True Story of the Barons of the South, or the Rationale of the American Conflict, by E. Winchester Reynolds, Author of the 'Records of Bubbleton Parish. &e., &c."
The development of the slaveholding despotism has borne such fruit as no man foresaw who consented to tolerate its growth. The effects of the system have been so palpably retributive as to evince a Divine agency working out its destruction, if not the destruction of those leagued with it. We are too much in the habit of estimating the evils of slavery with exclusive reference to the negro race. Its direct and obvious effects upon the slaves themselves are doubtless revolting enough; but the most terrific effects of the system appear, not in its results to the negro, but in its results to the white man. Slavery may not be an obvious injury to every individual slave; but we maintain that it is an obvious injury to every individual master,-to every free family,-to every State, and to the very LIFE of the Republic. Forty years ago, actuated by commercial selfishness, and by our antipathies to the African race, we supposed that the perpetuity of slavery would damage nobody but the helpless negro. But behold how God has punished our cruelty, and confounded our expectations! The African race in America has passed through a baptism of fire; but it has multiplied as the Israelites did under the oppressions of Egypt. It has become a more civilized and mighty race, drawing from its taskmasters more mental vigor and greater relish for freedom, from year to year, till it has become a terror in the land, no longer to be trusted, hardly to be restrained.
While God has thus been strengthening the servile race, he has been weakening their oppressors. While the negro has been rising toward civilization, the white man of the South has been sinking into barbarism. Ignorance and superstition, cruelty and vice, violence and anarchy, reign paramount in the slaveholding States. There never was seen such a sudden and wholesale relapse of great communities into hopeless barbarism. The records of the social life of those States have been, for some years, like pages gathered from the annals of the tenth century. Such violent despotism over private judgment,-such sanguinary sway of Lynch-law,-such subjugation of cities to brutal mobs, and of States to revolutionary anarchy,-such swaggering pretensions to "honor" and "chivalry," united with crimes that only the hangman can properly punish,-such spectacles, which make up the every-day life of the South, almost persuade a man that he is reading a chronicle of the Middle Ages, and not an American newspaper reporting contemporaneous events.
As little did we foresee the effect of slavery on the safety and integrity of the American government. When it clamored for protection, we never thought it would aspire to rule. When it aspired to rule, we never thought it would conspire to ruin the Republic if it were voted out of power. But such is the nature of the system, that it makes every thing it touches subservient; and, soon as it comes to be resisted, breaks every treaty, defies every consequence, and malignantly stabs the nation that has warmed it into power. Itself based upon injustice, rapine, and cruelty, it is not conciliated by fair play, restrained by considerations of social well-being, or affected by the prospect of boundless carnage. It is a creature of lust, aggression, and violence, and its legitimate influence is always fatal just in proportion to its power and opportunity.
With the nature and tendencies of slavery so clearly disclosed as they now are in the state of Southern society, and in this most wicked rebellion, if there is an American freeman who can apologize for it any longer, it must be a case of infatuation utterly without parallel. And if this bloody quarrel, which slavery has ruthlessly provoked, is ever settled without rooting the deadly curse out of the land, we shall bequeath a new quarrel to our children, and untold calamities to mankind.
We were willing to tolerate slavery from a fallacious sense of constitutional obligation; and we would even violate conscience to keep the faith our fathers were believed to have bound us by. But, since slavery was not content with being tolerated, but insisted on being our dictator,-since she will be our autocrat or our destroyer; and since she has taken down the sword and summoned as to mortal combat,-away with all forbearance, and all compromise, and let the wicked harlot die. She has released us from the old compact, whatever that may have involved; and God be thanked for the madness of despotism that has broken the dangerous bond. She has exasperated every freeman by seventy years of insolence,-by seventy years of broken faith and culminating crimes,-and now, by the just God in Heaven, and by the holy instincts of freedom, let her perish by the sword she has compelled us to draw!
We have endured everything from slavery that human nature can endure, because our temper is forbearing, our manners pacific, and our pursuits compatible only with peace. We have consented to be a reproach to civilized nations, because of our complicity in this great wrong. We have consented to bear more than our just proportion of the burdens of government, and have received less than our just share of its emoluments. We have submitted to have our citizens mobbed, imprisoned, and hung, for no crime but that of being born in a free State, and loving their natural birthright. We have endured insults and aggression, fraud and violence, in the halls of Congress, and in our own free cities. We have given up the weak to the fangs of slave-hunter, and seen the mark of the beast set upon the forehead of our most illustrious men. All this has not been enough. Slavery has demanded more; and when we refused to grant more, she seized her wicked bludgeon, and tried to demolish the fabric of that fair Union which had sheltered her treasonable head. Now let her have what she has invoked. Let it be war to the death. Let the monstrous aggressor find no shelter, henceforth, under the flag she has profaned and betrayed.
We compassionate the Southern people, so hopelessly involved in the swift-footed vengeance that must sweep their land. They are not radically more guilty than ourselves; only the diabolical system that has possessed them so long has inoculated many of them with its own malignity. We feel like making great allowance for the bad schooling those people have suffered from. So deplorably has slavery enervated their moral principles and darkened their sense of right, that they no longer realize either what they do or what they are. They are the saddest victims of their own oppression. They are like drunkards besotted by. their cups, and madly clinging to the terrible vice that has ruined them. O, for their sake-even more than for our own-let us swear eternal hostility to the system that has perverted a noble people, and turned a fruitful land into a howling desert! True, we must bear the sword against them,-for their salvation and ours we must still appeal to the God of battles,-but, as Heaven is our witness, compassion shall temper the warfare they have provoked; and our vengeance fall only upon that villanous despotism which has brought discord between us, and upon those who deliriously espouse its fate.
Nor need we fear that a war of emancipation and subjugation-(for this war must involve the subjugation, if not extirpation, of the Southern Barons)-will permanently alienate the rebellious States from the Union. Such apprehensions are refuted by the experience of other nations. There are few wounds inflicted by the sword upon the transitory sentiments of races, which time does not benignantly heal; and a quarrel, fought out with lusty vigor, often ends in cordial friendship. All this has been repeatedly proved, from the days of the Roman empire downward; and in no country more plainly than in Great Britain, where the most virulent civil wars have left no darker memento than a few suits of battered armor laid up at Westminster, or a broken image on some cathedral shrine.
ANOTHER OF JOHN BROWN'S MEN GONE. The special correspondent of the New York Tribune, writing from Roanoke Island, and giving an account of the recent conflict there, relates the following incident:
"Orderly Sergeant C. H. Plummer of the 51st New York, was on the gun-boat Pioneer, lying mortally sick with typhoid fever at the time of the battle. Late in the day a boat came off from the shore, and news of our success was communicated to those in the cabin. Plummer, whose life was just hanging in the balance, turned to the chaplain, and asked, "Is our side winning?" On being told that it was, he smiled, gasped out the words, "Thank God!" and died. Plummer's real name is Charles Plummer Tidd, and he was one of those famous nineteen men who captured the State of Virginia at Harper's Ferry a little more than two years ago."
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28,1862.
LETTERS TO GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LETTER II.
MY DEAR FRIEND AND COADJUTOR:
I have expressed my profound astonishment, that, among the professed friends of freedom and progress in England, there should be any division of sentiment as to the cause, nature and object of the Southern rebellion, and the right and duty of the Government, under the Constitution, to exert all its power to suppress it. This division, I am confident, could not exist, if they would make an analogous case on their own soil. Suppose that England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales were originally colonial dependencies of France; but, in consequence of the oppressive treatment of the mother country, they had been compelled to declare their independence, and, after a long and bloody struggle, they had obtained its recognition. To secure their liberties, they found it necessary to enter into "solemn league and covenant" with each other, and to form their national and State governments upon a common basis-making the Federal Constitution "the supreme law of the land," and the voice of the majority decisive in the election of their officers. Suppose that Ireland, in consequence of her "peculiar institutions," had insisted upon having extraordinary privileges conceded to her, by which she had been enabled to control the government and shape its policy to promote her special interests, for more than half a century. Suppose that, during all that period, while she was enjoying every recognized right and privilege throughout the republic, she was perfidious to all her constitutional obligations and duties-denying the guaranteed right of freedom of speech and of the press on her soil, applying lynch law in numberless instances to the citizens of England, Wales and Scotland found within her limits, and continually bullying and insulting the whole country. Suppose that, partly to prevent an open rupture, partly for lack of true courage, and partly from selfish considerations, the other portions of the country had allowed her to have her own way, "like a spoiled child," till, at last, in order to have a vestige of liberty and equal political rights left in the land, it became necessary for them to break from her thraldom, and to take the reins of government legally into their own hands, in order to subserve the interests of freedom. Suppose that a Presidential election was made the trial of strength between the parties, at the ballot-box, as by law provided; that Ireland had entered into it professedly in good faith, nominating her own candidate, and agreeing to abide the verdict of the people; and that, being defeated, she had raised the standard of rebellion, and proclaimed her independence-treacherously seizing upon all the national property and defences within her domains, and endeavoring to get possession of London itself, from which to issue her imperial decrees. And suppose, finally, that her avowed object for taking this traitorous course was to make that system of human bondage, which is "the sum of all villanies," the corner-stone of her new government, and to overturn all the institutions of freedom. Under such circumstances, what would the people of England, Scotland and Wales say, if, while their own government was exerting its constitutional authority to put down the rebellion, and to preserve the unity of the country,-not for purposes of "conquest" or oppression, but to promote the general welfare,-those claiming to be the friends of freedom in other lands should declare that they could see no essential difference between the contending parties; that it was a mere political struggle, in the decision of which the civilized world had no interest; that Ireland had a right to secede, and steal what she could, and the British Government had no right to <illegible> her; and that, in fact, she was "more sinned against than sinning," and therefore should be permitted to take her course? I need not attempt to depict the astonishment and indignation they would express in such a contingency.
It is no defence to quote the words of the American Declaration of Independence-" All governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed"; for, surely, that political axiom was never meant to justify or extenuate perfidy, robbery, lynch law, and a long catalogue of bloody crimes! Besides, the South had helped to make the American Constitution, and it was shaped expressly so as to secure her approval; she voted to make it supreme over the whole country; she registered her oath to support it; under it she had found peace, security, and the largest indulgence; in the disposal of its offices and emoluments she had obtained vastly more than her fair proportion; no change had been effected, none even proposed, in its letter or spirit, adverse to her interests; yet she shamelessly violated her plighted faith, causelessly lifted the heel of rebellion, impudently insisted that she had been grievously insulted and outraged by the North, wreaked her diabolical vengeance upon all within her reach who dared to advocate the old Union, and instituted a bloody reign of terror for the reign of constitutional liberty!
Granted that there are cases in which "rebellion" is laudable, and "treason" a sublime duty-rebellion against the iniquitous decrees of a fiercely despotic power, and treason against the powers of darkness. Granted that "resistance to tyrants is obedience to God." But the South has rebelled against no such decrees, and she is playing the traitor in order to establish the dominion of the devil, and to enlarge the boundaries of hell. Her spirit, contumacy, aim, effort, are all infernal. Justice is trodden under her feet; humanity bleeds under her murderous lash; liberty she dreads, abhors, and banishes from her soil; mercy she derides, and philanthropy she laughs to scorn. Honest, free, compensated labor is not to her taste; she delights in plundering the needy, in imbruting the helpless, in stealing and buying and selling fathers and mothers, husbands and wives, parents and children; and her fury "burns to the lowest hell" when she is rebuked for her infamous conduct, and admonished to put away her iniquities. In her domains are the habitations of cruelty; in her skirts is the "blood of the souls of the poor innocents." By a divine decree, her system of chattel slavery is sinking her lower and lower in the scale of civilization, impoverishing her resources, turning her fertile soil to barrenness, nourishing every form of sensual indulgence, filling her brain with madness and her heart with murder, promoting violence and lawlessness among all classes, and making pandemonium the fitting symbol of her actual condition. It has so thoroughly demonized her that appeals to reason, to justice, to the law of eternal rectitude, are not only inoperative, but they seem to inflame her passions, and to stimulate her to the perpetration of still bloodier crimes. She is an outlaw in the universe of God.
This is not to deal in vituperation: it is truthfully, though inadequately, to describe her character and situation. Promise what she may, there is no reliance to be placed upon her word: she delights in lying and perjury. All her accusations against the North are the basest of calumnies, coined and circulated for the worst of purposes. She is so cursed by slavery that she is insensible to shame, recreant to every sentiment of honor, and dead to every appeal of conscience. Her rebellion is the culmination of her slaveholding wickedness: it has been characterized throughout by that satanic spirit which deems it incomparably "better to reign in hell than serve in heaven."
These things being so, my dear friend, do you marvel at my astonishment that there should be found in England a disposition,-in some cases even in the Anti-Slavery ranks,-to defend the right of the South in dismembering the republic, and setting up a confederacy based expressly upon CHATTEL SLAVERY; and, consequently, to represent the American government as seeking her subjugation by despotic power, in vio-
<c04>
lation of the doctrines embodied in the Declaration of Independence, and for no higher purpose than the conquest of empire? This indicates a strange obliquity of vision, or a surprising want of accurate intelligence. As well take the part of the wolf against the lambof the highwayman against his victimof the murderer against the man who is endeavoring to defend his life. The government is innocent of wrong in this case, except that of dealing with the rebellion too forbearingly, and hesitating to strike the only effective blow that can be struck for its suppression. The South is wholly, inexcusably, horribly in the wrong, in all her declarations and measures, her methods and objects, from first to last. Of course, I do not believe that the great body of the intelligent and moral people of England are disposed to countenance anything like lawlessness on the part of the South: but, at the same time, it is certain that they have not given that earnest sympathy and cordial approval to the American government in its attempt to restore the peace and unity of the republic, which the friends of freedom here had a right to expect.
I have not, thus far, made any reference to the connection subsisting between the government and Southern slavery, under the Constitution, because that is a distinct matter, to be determined by another standard. The first question to be settled is,Has the South any justification for her revolt on the ground of oppressive and unconstitutional treatment on the part of the government? Certainly, none at all. Whatever the words "factious," "seditious," "rebellious," "treasonable" mean in their worst sense, is applicable to her case; and, therefore, wholly aside from the question of slavery, every lover of order and public tranquillity is bound to pass sentence of condemnation upon her, and to desire her humiliation and defeat in every encounter with the government.
It is objected abroad, that the government forfeits its claim to respect and sympathy, because it allows the fugitive slaves of loyal masters to be given up, and refuses to make this a war for the abolition of slavery. But is it any worse, in these particulars, than it was before the rebellion, when it obtained the hearty recognition and good will of the British people? Surely, my position, as an abolitionist, in relation to the government, for a quarter of a century, will shield me from the suspicion of desiring to extenuate or overlook its constitutional complicity with slavery; but this is certainbad as the Constitution is, it has at last become so intolerable to the Southern slave-traffickers that they will no longer live under it, and they make it a capital offence for any Southern man to profess allegiance to it. An avowed Unionist among them stands in as great peril of his life as though he were an "ultra abolitionist." Let him dare to unfurl "the Stars and stripes" as the flag to , which he owes loyalty, and they will either smother him in its folds, or hang him to the first lamp-post. When they are ferociously eager to shoot President Lincoln and every member of his Cabinet, and declare eternal hostility to the Union, common sense dictates that the government is none the less, but all the more, to be favorably regarded by the friends of freedom on that account, whether at home or abroad.
Having thus disposed of the GOVERNMENTAL aspect of this question, in order to show that the abolitionists are fully justified in the course they are pursuing, and also that the friends of freedom in Europe ought to be united in sustaining the American government in its efforts to crush this slaveholding rebellion, I shall next proceed to consider its ANTI-SLAVERY bearings.
Your attached and faithful friend,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq.
A gentleman in St. Louis, Missouri, writes as follows:
"Opinion here seems to be in a transition state. Men discuss slavery as freely as in Boston and our worst pro-slavery paper [The Republican] is not more malignant than your Boston Courier. The slaveholder in St. Louis, and throughout Missouri, who have any attachment to the system, are either Rebels or only quasi Union men. The strength of rebellion in the different counties of the State is in almost exact proportion to the number of slaves."
"Thornton Gunisley, an old citizen, who had been assessed under military order as a rebel, died a few weeks ago. He was a slaveholder, and is said to have been a participant in the slave-burnings here, some twenty years ago. He had a full black slave, named Stephen, I think, whom he emancipated upon terms, several years since. He employed him as overseer in a large manufacturing establishment, in which three hundred white men were at times employed. He gave him $1000 per annum, and latterly $1500. This looks as if Stephen had some capacity to take care of himself."
"Upon Fifth street, in a central part of the city, stands a building known as Lynch's Slave Pen. It is now used for a military prison, and not a few slaveholders have been confined in the very dungeons built to keep slaves."
NASHVILLE SURRENDERS AT DISCRETION!Nashville is in possession of the Federal forces. Governor Harris, according to a Cairo dispatch, has called in all the Tennessee troops, and a strong reaction among the people has taken place. This news confirms the statement of Colonel Lee, of Massachusetts, one of the returned prisoners from Richmond, who was privately informed by a prominent citizen of Richmond, on Saturday evening, that Nashville had fallen without a struggle. A despatch from Cairo, dated Feb. 25th, to the Chicago Tribune, says"Nashville was yesterday occupied by 20,000 troops under General Buell. The Federal flag is now flying over the State House. The Tennessee Legislature adjourned on Saturday week, and met again at Memphis."
THE CONFEDERATE CONGRESS. The Confederate Congress assembled at Richmond on the 18th inst., and elected Thomas S. Bocock, of Virginia, Speaker. On the 19th, the Electoral votes for President and Vice-President were counted. The total number of Electoral votes was 109, all of which were cast for Jeff. Davis for President, and Alexander H. Stephens for Vice-President, of the so-called Confederate States.
 An article in the Richmond Whig calls the Jeff. Davis Administration the most lamentable failure in history, and suggests that the best service that Government can render the country is to surrender the helm of state to abler and better hands.
The farce of inaugurating Jeff. Davis as President of the Southern Confederacy took place at Richmond on Saturday last, in desecration of Washington's birthday. His inaugural address is very lugubrious.
A proclamation issued by Jeff. Davis sets apart Friday, the 28th inst., as a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer. The audacious hypocrite!
GREAT FIRE IN BOSTON. The fire on Monday night was among the most disastrous that ever occurred in Boston. It raged from 10 o'clock at night till 3 o'clock in the morning, the wind blowing a furious gale from the Northwest, with a blinding snow and hail storm at the time. Two firemen were killed, and one badly wounded. The entire range of buildings on Sargeant's Wharf; the buildings on the North side of Eastern avenue, from Commercial street to the water, including the East Boston old ferry slip, and the large six story building known as the Eastern Exchange Hotel, is among the property destroyed. The total loss is half a million of dollars, although some of the estimates are much higher than this.
The last number of the Anti-Slavery Standard contains a full report of a very able and impressive speech made by PARKER PILLSBURY at the recent State Anti-Slavery Convention at Albany, N. Y.; and though we are overwhelmed with matter of every kind "beyond all telling," and though the speech will occupy an entire page of the Liberator, we shall try to make room for it in our next paper. Its admonitory words, sharp criticisms, and solemns warnings cannot be too seriously heeded at the present critical period.
<c05>
REV. J. SELLA MARTIN'S FAREWELL TO ENGLAND.
On Thursday evening, January 30th, a most interesting meeting took place in the handsome Congregational Chapel at Plaistow, (England,) of which the Rev. John Curwen is Pastor. The object was to take a final leave of the Rev. J. Sella Martin, of Boston, (U. S.) previous to his departure from England. A numerous gathering attested the respect and esteem in which Mr. Martin was held by the friends of freedom in England, for which the inhabitants of Plaistow mustered in great strength; the evening trains from Fenchurch street brought down a great number of Mr. Martin's city admirers. Among the numerous influential gentlemen present were the following:Harper Twelvetrees, Esq.; Jabez Legge, Esq.; Taylor Curwen, Esq.; Josiah Woodhams, Esq.; John Noble, Esq., of the Middle Temple; Joseph A. Horner, Esq., F. R. S. L.; George Herbert Thompson, Esq. (editor of the Tower Hamlets Express); J. Lonsdale, Esq.; J. Warmington, Esq.; Mr. Madison Jefferson (a gentleman of color); the Rev. John Curwen, and several city merchants and friends from the metropolis.
On the motion of Mr. CURWEN, Harper Twelvetrees, Esq., was unanimously called upon to preside.
The CHAIRMAN, who, on taking his seat, was most enthusiastically greeted, said it gave him extreme gratification to preside at a meeting like the present, although the pleasure which he experienced in being there to mingle his voice with the expressions of esteem and goodwill towards Mr. Martin which would be uttered that evening, was sadly marred by the prospect of so speedily losing his presence in this country. He was glad that Mr. Martin had chosen Plaistow as the spot for taking public leave of his friends in England, for in no part of the country did he believe Mr. Martin would be more affectionately remembered than there. (Cheers.) Mr. Curwen, the beloved pastor of the church in which they were assembledwhose large-hearted humanity was so distinguishing a feature in his characterhad introduced Mr. Martin to his congregation, and taken him by the hand. (Loud cheers.) It was the kindly sympathy of Mr. Curwen that had drawn from their friend that story of his wrongs which was at once so painful and so interestinga history which, in his unobtrusiveness, he had till that time forborne to mention, but Mr. Curwen had elicited from him the fact that he had a sister with two children who still lingered in the fetters of slavery, for whose wrongs his heart was bursting, and whose redemption it was his earnest desire to procure. On inquiry, Mr. Curwen found that a sum of 400 was required to accomplish the manumission of Mr. Martin's relatives, and he at once set on foot a subscription, and induced Mr. Martin to make public the narrative of his own sufferings as a slave. (Hear, hear.) The sum required had been raised, and Mr. Martin was now going back to America to complete the purchase of his sister's freedom. (Tremendous cheering.) Oh, what a joyful meeting there would be between those long parted relativesmight the blessing of Heaven be upon it! (Renewed cheering.) It was no wonder then, that Plaistow held a foremost place in the affections of Mr. Martin; for although the required sum had not been all gathered in that neighborhood, yet it was the first place in which the undertaking had been set on foot, and its contributions were proportionately the largest of any place in the kingdom. (Cheers.) Having given expression to his own feelings of affection and admiration for Mr. Martin, whom he characterized as one of the most eloquent of orators and best of men, Mr. Twelvetrees resumed his seat amid loud and general applause.
The Rev. JOHN CURWEN read letters expressive of the most earnest sympathy and friendship for Mr. Martin, from the Hon. Arthur Kinnard, the Rev. Thomas Binney, (the contribution from whose congregation was upwards of 85,) Samuel Morley, Esq., the Rev. C. Scribe, of Barnet, and the Rev. Samuel Garrett, of Bloomsbury. Mr. Curwen, in an eloquent speech, compared the evils which the friends of Abolition in these days had to contend with, to the difficulties which had to be overcome by the Parliamentary party in the days of Cromwell, and reminded them how that great commander had rebuked the lukewarmness of his followers, and exhorted them to energy and action. To be thoroughly imbued with the spirit of liberty was the great thing. That was the spirit by which Garibaldi had been actuated, and without it he never could have conquered as he did. (Loud cheers.) He announced that the contributions received for the liberation of Mr. Martin's sister and her children was 474 10s. (Cheers.) Mr. Martin had only asked for 400, but he had forgotten the personal expenses which he would have to encounter, and they had therefore determined to raise about 500, in order that there might be something at Mr. Martin's disposal to provide for his sister's requirements after her recovery from bondage. (Hear, hear.)
JOHN NOBLE, Esq., of the Middle Temple, was next called upon by the chairman, and was received with great applause. Having expressed the sympathy which he felt with the object of the meeting, Mr. Noble made reference to the occasion on which he had first made the acquaintance of Mr. Martin, and the impression which his eloquence had made upon him at the time. He had next met him at the house of that great friend of the slave, George Thompson, (cheers,) where the meetings of the National Anti-Slavery League were held. He had been glad to find that Mr. Martin was the friend of William Lloyd Garrison, the chief of the true and real advocates of freedom in America. (Loud cheers.) He gave Mr. Martin the highest praise for having invariably placed the wrongs of his race in a more prominent position than his own individual claims. Mr. Noble then proceeded to eulogise Mr. Martin in an eloquent speech of some length, concluding by the expression of a sincere hope for the future prosperity of Mr. Martin, his relatives, and family.
Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN then rose, and was received with the most rapturous applause, which lasted a considerable time. Silence being restored, he observed that he usually went to a meeting with something of an antagonistic spirit, as there was always something with which it was his purpose to combat; but here he had nothing to fight against, for all were friends, and the topic was one of sympathy with himself. He had therefore no arguments to use, and as Mr. Curwen had laid an injunction upon him that he was not to indulge in acknowledgments to Mr. Twelvetrees or himself, he was deprived of his next beat weapon. (Laughter.) He must, however, give some expression to his feelings of gratitude for all the kind things which had been said of him that night; and he must be permitted to make the acknowledgment, that it was through the kindness of Mr. Harper Twelvetrees that he became acquainted with Mr. Curwen, and the meetings were held in Plaistow and other places which resulted in the raising of the purchase-money for his beloved sister's freedom. (Loud cheers.) He desired also to give utterance to his thanks to the National Anti-Slavery League, at whose hands he had received much kindness. Previous to the establishment of that body, there had been but one recognized society for the propagation of anti-slavery principles in London. It was an old antiquated affair, the members of which met but once a year for the purpose of instituting deputations, that did nothing but sprinkle rose water on the feet of a few conservative lords. (Laughter.) They had offered him a donation if he wanted money, it was true; but when he asked for their aid in coming before the public, they gave him no assistance. Of a very different stamp was the National Anti-Slavery League, and very different were the men who composed it. It included in its ranks the true and tried friends of the American negrosuch men as George Thompson, Harper Twelvetrees, John Noble, Joseph A. Horner, and the Rev. W. H. Bonner (cheers); and it was to them that he was indebted for the favorable introductions to the English public which he had received. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Martin then proceeded to speak is reference to the visit of Messrs. Slidell and Mason to England, stigmatizing the latter, especially, as the author and
<c06>
advocate of the accursed Fugitive Slave law, and as the torturer of the heroic John Brown, when he lay captive, wounded and bleeding. He compared the reception of Frederick Douglass in England and the reception of Messrs. Mason and Slidell at Southampton, pointing out the difference, and saying he thanked God for it. Of Mr. Yancey, he declared that for two or three days the Star had had hold of him, and what they had left of him was too dirty for him(Mr. Martin) to touch. (Laughter and cheers.) Mr. Yancey had been throughout his life a consistent advocate of slavery; he had not only gone in for the maintenance of the laws by which the Northern States had been used as the instruments of the abominable system. but for the repeal of the Federal laws which prevented the re-opening of the African traffic for the purpose of enabling the Southern States to gain an ascendancy over the North. But Yancey was not only a preacher, but a bully. He would meet the man who had defeated him in debate, and beat him over the head with a bludgeon. He was the great advocate of Heenanism, or, if they understood the term better of Sayersism. (Hear, hear, and laughter) <illegible> was not so consistent as Mr. Yancey; for when he had been present at a Bunker Hill celebration, he had asserted the principles of the Union, but when he got back to Virginia he began plotting secession. He had at one time done all he could to irritate Great Britain, but now he came to treat with her for sympathy of a great slaveholding community. He (Mr. Martin) had heard it said that the Southern Commissioners were instructed to offer that, in the event of England recognizing the Confederation, all children born of slaves after the signing of the treaty should be free. This, with the stoppage of the African trade, would be, in effect, virtually to abolish slavery; and it was <illegible> to suppose that they would ask Great Britain to recognize a Confederation avowedly built on slavery, for the purpose of getting rid of slavery. He did not believe any such offer would be made by the Southern States. Their great bribe was free trade, and he feared that though the English people would see through the fallacy of the thing, some legislators might be disposed to fall in with the notion that by recognizing the Confederacy they would promote free trade. He argued that free trade could not long exist in a slaveholding country; that even in the article of cotton, planters who had to buy slaves at great cost could not compete with planters who employed free labor at small but remunerative wages, and could invest their capital in the cotton production. He refuted the imputation that Secretary Cameron and Gen. Fremont had been dismissed from their posts by the North on account of their anti-slavery principles, and declared that the feeling in favor of abolition was growing stronger throughout the United States, and confidently anticipated the speedy and permanent downfall of slavery. Throughout the whole of his impassioned and eloquent address, Mr. Martin was listened to with the greatest attention, and most enthusiastically cheered on resuming his seat.
 After some further remarks from Mr. CURWEN.
 Mr. HERBERT THOMPSON addressed the meeting and spoke of the extreme satisfaction with which he had listened to Mr. Martin's eloquent address. Who could listen to such a splendid proof of talent, and not feel how grossly untenable was the argument that a race like that to which Mr. Martin belonged was inferior to the other races of mankind?(Cheer.)He was glad to be there that night, to wish Mr. Martin God speed across the Atlantic, and he knew well that if his father (Mr. George Thompson) had been in town, nothing would have prevented him from taking part in the proceedings of that meeting. (Hear, hear), He thanked Mr. Martin for the mention of his father, and begged to assure him that, in his own breast, the love of freedom beat as high; and while God spared his life, he would endeavor to follow in the footstep of his father, as the unswerving, unrelenting enemy of all restrictions upon human liberty. (Loud cheers) 
Mr. JOSEPH A. HORNER next rose, and in a short but admirable speech bore his testimony to the strong attachment which Mr. Martin's sojourn in England had created for him in the breasts of all true friends of the good cause. He begged to make a statement to the meeting which no previous speaker had referred to. It was, that the American Government had on the previous day, through their Ambassador. Mr. Charles Francis Adams, granted to Mr. Sella Martin what was never granted to a colored man before[a mistake]a passport as a CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES. (Loud and general cheering.)
After a vote of thanks to Mr. Twelvetrees for presiding, the meeting terminated.
A DIFFERENT ESTIMATE. The scurrilous attacks of the Greenfield Democrat are sufficiently answered by the following candid notices:
Garrison had a fair house as to numbers, and a highly respectable house as to those present to hear his views upon the war, on Monday evening. He stated among other things, that he thoroughly sympathized with and sustained the government in struggle with the Slave Power, and that nothing gave him so much pain as to hear of any disaster to the Union cause. He, however, thought that the government had not yet got upon the right track to end the rebellionthat it might be ended in thirty days if liberty would only be proclaimed to every slave of the rebels. He also gave his views of an article in the Greenfield Democrat, in which he was denounced, and that his hearers should be marked, as giving aid to <illegible>. His remarks upon the editor of the Democrat and his article were very severe, and elicited the loud applause of the house. In fact, no part of his address was mere loudly applauded than that which denounced the man who could pen or publish such an article. He contended that he did not know what the first principles of democracy werethe liberty of speech and the press.Greenfield (Mass.) Gazette and courier.
MR. EDITOR,The citizens of Greenfield and vicinity, during the past week, have enjoyed a rich <illegible> feast, in the form of lectures, from three distinguished literary men, viz., William Lloyd Garrison Rt. Rev. Bishop Clark, of Rhode Island, and Bayard Taylor. Our Democratic friends. I see, have <illegible> to speak in brief, of the addresses delivered by the two latter gentlemen, while the orator of Monday evening is honored with several distinct article within the editorial department. 
Of course, it will be useless for me, after such distinction has been awarded the illustrious man, to other more than a passing tribute of gratitude for the privilege of listening to the eloquent and soul-stirring words of the noble reformer, who so nobly "stands up <illegible> the right;" and taking the Bible for his guide, with the "golden rule" for his text, goes forth to proclaim liberty to all mankind, for "whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
Even the Democrat might well sit at the feet of the great "Nestor," and learn lessons, not only of wisdom, but of true courtesy and kindness, of which judging from certain articles of late, there seems to be a great deficiency in that quarter.
-Ibid. HUMANITY
NO MORE RETURNING FUGITIVE SLAVES BY THE ARMY. In the U, S. House of Representatives on Tuesday last
Mr. Blair, from the Military Committee, reported a bill establishing an additional article of war for the government of the United States army, to the effect that all officers in the military service are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective commands for the purpose of restoring fugitives from service or labor escaping from those who claim such service or labor to be due to them, and any officer found guilty by court martial of violating this article shall be dismissed the service. 
Mr. Bingham of Ohio moved an amendment so as to include not only officers, but any person in the naval or military service of the United States.
After a lengthy debate, Mr. Vallandigham of Ohio moved to lay the bill on the table. Disagreed to- against 87. 
Mr. Wright of Pennsylvania moved to adjourn. Disagreed to27 against 95. 
The Question for postponing the bill until the first Wednesday in March was disagreed to51 against 73.
 The main question was ordered, when Mr. Johnson of Pennsylvania moved to adjourn. Negatived-II against 78. 
Mr. Bingham of Ohio introduced an amendment which was agreed to, prohibiting any person connected with the army and navy from returning fugitive slaves.
The bill finally passed 83 to 42.
 In this decision the people will heartily concur. It should have been made at a much earlier period; but it is still imperatively called for.
FEBRUARY 28.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I have recently forwarded the following to the New York Tribune. But the Tribune is so fearful of weakening an imbecile and profligate Administration, I have little faith that it will dare allow me the utterance. It does appear to me that the Tribune is in small business-is wasting its energies, hindering the people, and preventing development, while employed endeavoring to strengthen such feeble knees and to stay up such trembling hands-to say nothing worse of this desperate case it is manipulating upon.
O. S. M.
For the New York Tribune.
"MRS. LINCOLN'S GRAND BALL."
In two or three consecutive numbers of the Daily Tribune, of late, there have been particular and special editorial appeals for contributions to the United States Treasury-at least loans-on however large or small a scale. The case has been represented as an approach to an important crisis, and desperately needful. In one of the same papers was a report of the <illegible> of a poor Irishman and his wife, feeding hungry soldiers, the woman refusing pay lest it should burn her pocket. In one of these same numbers was a reporter's account of a nocturnal carnival, under the name of
"Mrs. Lincoln's Grand Ball.... The first ball ever given in the White House.... Over 800 invitations were issued.... Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln stationed themselves in the centre of the East Room, and received <illegible>.... For one hour the throng moved in a current; and when the rooms were full, the Marine Band, stationed in their usual position, began playing operating airs of the finest description at eleven.... A large apartment was thrown open about twelve o'clock, with an immense punch-bowl in the centre and sandwiches, &c., around it... The supper was set in the dining-room, and is considered one of the finest displays of gastronomic art ever seen in this country. It cost thousands of dollars. The bill of fare was: [Here upwards of thirty dishes are described.]... The tables fairly bent under expensive luxuries heaped one upon another." At twelve, the dining-room was thrown open for inspection, and guests passed in and viewed it, preparatory to the demolition of the artistic pile. About eleven, Gen. McClellan and lady and Gen. Marcy and daughter came in. All the border State <illegible> and Members were present with their ladies, and most of the Members and Senators from the Northern States.... Nearly all the Generals in the army were there.... The ladies were dressed to the height of fashionable extravagance."
The New York Herald describes lady Lincoln's dress thus-which it styles "simple and elegant":-
"A magnificent white satin robe, with a black flounce half a yard wide, looped with black and white bows, a low corsage trimmed with black lace, and a bouquet of cape myrtle on her bosom. Her head-dress was a wreath of black and white flowers, with a bunch of cape myrtle on the right side. The only ornaments were a necklace, ear rings, brooch and bracelets, of pearl."
When a million of husbands, sons and brothers, under the doings and dictates of a barbarous institution, a relic of barbarism, are marshaled in the field of massacre and murder, thousands of them rotting and dying of disease, other thousands maimed and mangled, agonizing in the hospitals-to say nothing of the other thousands still, in preferable conditions, shot down, bayoneted down, butchered down, trampled down, any way got down, to immediate death; wives, mothers, daughters, sisters, lovers everywhere in trembling anxiety, agony and anguish; everybody-except the most unfeeling and inhuman, hardened and made such by that inhuman institution-in doubt and dread as to the future; in short, when our nation is convulsed with painful forebodings, and plunged in an abyss of horrors and frightful exposures, by its slavery and its slavery's war, it is less strange that so weak a woman as has got up this costly and dissipating carnival should have acted her part in the matter, and that she should have been sustained in it by "all the border State Senators and Members, and their ladies," and by nearly all the Generals" who have hitherto conducted our war, than that she should have had the countenance and sanction of "most of the Members and Senators from the Northern States," and that the report of the abomination should have found place in the Tribune without denunciation, without rebuke, without the least criticism. Is this the fitting time to get up the "first ball ever given in the White House," and at the expense of thousands on thousands of dollars'
Last March, the inaugural ball, under the conductorship of Secretary Seward, was said to have cost twenty-five thousand dollars. Since that time, hundreds of millions of the people's earnings and thousands of the people's lives have been squandered, chiefly to keep in safety the place where these midnight revelries, and midday rioting to match, are carried on. Will the readers of the riotings in Rome, in the days of her decadence, tell me how far we fall short of having returned to those barbarous abominations, of which we have read with amazement, not thinking or dreaming but that our development had carried us thousands of years ahead of the possibility of subjection to such experience!
It is worthy a woman whose sympathies are with slavery, and with those who are waging war, ruthless, bloody, brutal war, in behalf of slavery, against the rights and liberties of the human race. It is not worthy of man or woman with ears open to the wails of the bereaved throughout the county. It is not worthy of woman or man with susceptible heart-with sympathetic heart-with heart of woman or man. At such a time, and under such circumstances, it is not a fit performance for women or men fit to be in power, fit to be exemplars for, fit to be rulers of, a moral and humane people.
ORSON S. MURRAY.
Foster's Crossings, Warren Co., Ohio, Feb. 10, 1862.
While I was copying the foregoing, the following came to hand, in the Tribune for February 11:-
"We must decline publishing any of the numerous letters sent us in depreciation of what the writers characterize as a 'ball' or a 'dance' at the White House, recently. Our reasons are briefly these:- 1. We do not judge for others at what time or in what manner they shall entertain their friends; 2. Our columns are pre-occupied with matters which seem to us more momentous; 3. There was no ball and no dancing at the time and place in question."
It appears that "numerous" others, among the readers of the Tribune, were with myself, unfavorably impressed by its report of this banqueting and revelry among our rulers, during this time of anarchy and ruin. The reasons rendered by the Tribune, for the suppression, are entirely insufficient. They are no valid reasons at all. They are no reasons. They are very bad pretexts.
The Tribune does "not judge for others at what time or in what manner they shall entertain their friends." 'Did not the Tribune "judge for" the wife of Daniel E. Sickles "in what manner" she might "entertain" her "friends" in Washington! And who will pretend that the example, or the influence any way, of her entertainment, under the circumstances, harmed human interests a thousandth part as much as this entertainment given by Abraham Lincoln's wife, and received by "most of the Members and Senators from the Northern States," with the sanction of such papers as the Tribune? Has the Tribune nothing to say by way of "judging for" Gen. Stone and others of his sort, as to the "manner" in which they may "entertain their friends," the Southern conspirators? As to "the time" -suppose Sunday to have been chosen by our banqueters and revelers, would the Tribune, as a religionist, have had nothing to say by way of judging in the case? And what is Sunday to this day of national calamity? Or suppose it to have been the day of the Bull Run battle, or of the Ball's Bluff battle, with full knowledge of the processes and results of those battles-as there was full knowledge of the misery and suffering all over the land, in consequence of slavery and slavery's conspiracy-at the time of this entertainment. It has been abundantly declared, and never, that I have seen, contradicted, that the wife of Abraham Lincoln is in full sympathy with slavery and its conspirators. It is not to be believed that a woman with other sympathies would have given such an entertainment at such a time.
<c02>
The Tribune's second pretext for suppressing the sentiments of its readers in "numerous letters sent in deprecation of this demoralizing entertainment, is: "Our columns are pre-occupied with matters which seem to us more momentous." But they were not pre-occupied with matters more momentous than to afford that disgusting and corrupting affair a flattering, sanctioning, encouraging report.
The Tribune's third text is: "There was no ball and no dancing at the time and place in question." But the Tribune does not say that the entertainment-the nocturnal revel-was a different thing in detail from what its own reporter made it to be in its own columns, under the head-"Mrs. Lincoln's Grand Ball." Now, suppose that, when "the Marine Band began playing operatic airs of the finest description," and "Mr. Lincoln gave his arm to Miss Browning, and Mrs. Lincoln, with Senator Browning and others, soon followed, and they passed through and through the different rooms," they had taken a "quick-step," a "double quick"-had "hopped" a little - how much would it have added to the objectionableness of the performance? With the rational, nothing. And the Tribune is careful not to tell us whether or not it would in that case have "judged for" them that they had thus transcended bounds of propriety. The Tribune will some day have occasion to see that it has made too "momentous" a "matter" of sustaining an Administration whose sympathies are with "loyal slaveholders" -slaveholders loyal to a Union that is slavery's guarantee, according to the showing of Senator Seward; and the manifestations of all wily and inveterate slaveholders. O. S. M.
A PLEASANT NARRATION.
I will tell you "a merry toy," as old Jeremy Taylor was wont to say. I was lately introduced to a Mr. Bird, who lives in the vicinity of Boston. My heart warmed towards the stranger at the first glance; for he looked like a mountain of good nature, lighted up with sunny streams of fun. The volume of his voice was in proportion to his bulk. It was worthy of old Stentor, of Homeric renown. Our conversation turned upon slavery, of course; for that is the hinge upon which all conversation turns now-a-days. Jeff. Davis has converted the entire Free States into a great Debating Society upon that subject. Apparently, it was the only good use the Lord could put him to.
"I want to tell you," said Mr. Bird, "what first set me to thinking about slavery. Some years ago, I had thoughts of going down South to teach music. Looking over the Southern papers to see where such teachers were wanted, I happened to light on this advertisement:-"Runaway, my man John, a tall, stout fellow, with light hair and blue eyes. He is a good blacksmith and a bright fellow, and will be very likely to try to pass himself off for a white man."
"By golly! " said I to myself, "here's a description of me! only my name's Joe, and that fellow's name's John. I served my time at a blackmith's, and I'm bright enough, any how, to try to pass myself off for a free man. I went to the glass, and took a good look at myself to find out whether I was a nigger or not. Thinks I to myself, if such looking fellows as I am are advertised as runaway slaves, it will be about as well for me to keep clear of the nigger-driving States. So I went to Vermont to teach a singing-school. There I found a fugitive slave working round among the neighbors; and I told 'em about my being advertised for as a runaway slave, and how I had reckoned it was best to change my name to Joe, and I hoped they wouldn't any of 'em betray me. Many a good laugh we had over it. When my school closed, and I was coming home, I told the fugitive I calculated to go down South one of these days, and then I should inform against him, and make some money by it. He looked me right in the face and grinned, as if he did not believe one word I said. "You won't do no such a ting," said he; "I know you wont." Now, I took that for a compliment. I should think I was a bad-looking sneak, if he had thought I looked like a chap mean enough to do such a job."
"I don't think it proved any astonishing sagacity in the fugitive," replied I. "If I were a runaway slave, I would trust you with the secret, after a look at your face. It is plain enough that nature never made you for a bird of prey."
So ended my conversation with Mr. Joseph Bird. I hope there are many more birds of the same feather." L. M. CHILD.
AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE MISSION SCHOOL AFFAIRS AT CHATHAM, C. W.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I wish to call your attention, and the attention of the friends of the Refugees in Canada, to the Mission School established, and now in successful operation, at Chatham, C. W. I do this because friends in New England have contributed towards purchasing the lot, now nearly secured for its use; and because a handful of mischievous persons in Chatham,-under the tutelage of personal enemies of the managers of the school, and persistent persecutors of myself, because of my known and active opposition to this greatest calamity to the colored people, next to slavery, the Haytian scheme,-have published through the Chatham Argus, the Toronto Globe, and the Pine and Palm, a series of maliciously false and designedly injurious resolutions, to myself personally, and to the school in general.
The Mission School in Chatham is now one of the public fixtures and necessities of the community, especially to the colored people. The limited room at our command is now crowded with pupils. Upwards of four hundred persons testified their approbation of its management, of the course adopted by the Trustees one of whom by appointment is I. D. Shadd, and of the agent, by setting aside the resolutions offered against it on the evening of December 16th, and passing resolutions unanimously in favor of it, and all concerned with it.
Viewing this assault in the light of a personal attack, I should not trouble you to entertain it for one moment; but now that two Haytian attempts at stifling discussion in Canada, by deliberate published misrepresentation, have failed, it is not meet and it must not be, that, by the same agency, united with others, the Mission School at Chatham shall share the fate of the Wilberforce and Dawn schools, ruled and ruined as they were by the aid of J. C. Brown and others, parties to the present mischief. Besides, friends in America and England have smiled approvingly upon the Chatham effort. They are now warned to withhold the means needed now to prosecute the work, on the ground that funds, heretofore received by me, have been applied to purchase private property;-good grounds for suspicion and severe censure, if true. As our work is not a small one, and as a party, the party publicly accused, I publicly demand; an investigation into the charges, by well-known Abolitionists-said investigation to take place at Chatham during my absence-not to take place in the Bureau of the Pine and Palm at New York, nor by one James Redpath, but by Abolitionists, black and white, or black or white; not by my personal, unrelenting, unscrupulous and bitter enemies and defamers, the occupants and familiars of the Western Branch Bureau, under one J. N. Carey and frau, at Windsor, but by the men and women whom I am charged to have fleeced. Honest, upright Abolitionists in the United States and Canada, let them, or any of them, go to Chatham, put themselves in communication with our trustees, and our colored and white friends there, and there learn, first, whether those resolutions were ever in any meeting; whether any against us ever passed; whether sixty-five children are or are not now instructed; whether I. D. Shadd can or does hold the Mission property as private property; whether I ever deeded or caused to be deeded one foot of the Mission School property as private property. I demand this; the cause of education among the refugees and others of us demands it; truth, justice and honor among Abolitionists demand it.. Else let clamor cease, and our work prosper.
MARY A. SHADD CARY.
<c03>
A GRATIFYING CHANGE.
NEWTON CORNER, Feb. 22, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON,-The celebration at this place, to-day, was, in part, a pleasant surprise to a great number of our citizens, especially so to such as really love their country, and hate her sin.
This village lies buried to the top of her highest steeple in a calm, luxurious atmosphere of commerce. No gusts or flashes of anti-slavery thought, from pulpit or platform, have heretofore been allowed ruffle its depths. The Bible and the Constitution, properly interpreted, have stood like mountains on the right hand and on the left, and the storms, born of "antislavery abstractions," have passed harmlessly over our heads.
But, to-day, came a change. A large audience met. After some excellent words from the chairman, the platform was held for a short time by T. D. Adams, Esq., Principal of the High School at Newtonville, and most nobly did he acquit himself. I am familiar with anti-slavery sentiment, but it seemed to me that what I heard to-day was sweeter, truer, deeper than any I had heard before.
Perhaps it was the time and place gave it the charm, as pure water has a value in the desert that it lacks in the city; but the charm was there, and. many felt it.
Mr. A. saw no peculiar beauty in the flag of our country, unless it represented the sentiment of freedom for all-rich and poor, black and white. He said it was a rule in ethics, that a good principle can only be known and estimated by contrast with its opposite or evil principle; therefore, it is our duty to teach the evils of slavery as well as the benefits of freedom. He knew what perfect liberty all enjoyed to speak of freedom; he knew, also, no such liberty was permitted in regard to slavery. This is wrong. Mothers must teach their little ones, teachers tell their scholars, and pastors instruct their flocks, in the evils and tendencies of chattel slavery; and let no father undo the lessons his children have been taught: then we will in time know and value freedom as we should.
Many a well-disposed merchant held a dollar so close to his eye that it hid a moral principle, and in his blindness he asks for charity when he hears the slaveholder rebuked. Mr. A. had no Sympathy with the charity that would save the property and cover the sins of the master, while it ignores the sufferings and wrongs of four millions of slaves.
He feared the reconstruction of slavery. There was a lurking danger in this sudden submission of the rebels. Mr. A. eloquently urged the audience to use every talent and all their influence to aid their country in this crisis, and forever rid the Republic of a power that God's own finger writing on the wall of every nation for five thousand years had pronounced the greatest enemy to the prosperity and happiness of mankind.
Mr. A's eloquent remarks met with hearty applause, and the deep gratitude of many, for his bold and manly words.
I need not say, the one thing needed to send this speech home to the hearts and consciences of such as could "hear and understand " was not wanted. The lightning had done its work, and many a dusty old idea lay in fragments around; and the speaker who followed Mr. A. bestirred himself with zeal to set things right. But sarcasm, invective and frantic appeals to the Bible, though well supported by applause, did not seem to me to mar in the least the beauty and truth of Mr. Adams's words, but rather tended to strengthen an idea fresh in the mind of the audience, that a good principle can only be known and valued by contrast with its opposite or evil principle. M.
In the Liberator of the 17th ult., mention was made of the death of Moses Brown of Pembroke,-fallen in the prime of youth, and possessing qualities of mind and brain which gave promise of eminence and usefulness as they ripened into the maturity of manhood. Fitting words of grief and eulogy, prompted by the tenderest sisterly affection, accompanied the sorrowful announcement. The following, from the Plymouth Rock, is a further tribute to his memory, from the polished pen of a youthful co-laborer of his in the "delightful task"-to the lamented deceased, especially-of rearing "the tender thought," and training it to usefulness. The attractive homestead of the "venerable patriarch," (father of the deceased,) to which such appropriate allusion is made, has long afforded shelter and succor to the flying and panting fugitive, forsaken by the Church and pursued by the State, and bestowed kind sympathy and hospitality upon the often weary and worn anti-slavery lecturer, whom nothing but the most persevering energy, holy zeal and heroic fortitude could sustain amidst the almost universal indifference and opposition which he has had to encounter.
With the hallowed home associations and influences of which young Brown was the fortunate and rare recipient, he could scarcely fail of being a youth of manly bearing and high aims, as evinced in the subjoined tribute to his memory by one who seems to appreciate his worth, and, like many others, mourn his early departure.-Y.
DEATH OF MOSES BROWN.
Just by the wayside, where the old Boston road enters the quiet town of Pembroke, stands a well-preserved specimen of the thrifty farmer's mansion of the last century, the residence of a venerable patriarch, wearing the garb of peace, whose head is silvered o'er with the sacred locks of three score and ten; yet, with the strength of manhood, he walks with body erect, and intellect vigorous as in the days of yore. Last week death, for the first time, invaded the sacred sanctuary of that peaceful home, where all the graces and amenities of life have been so highly developed, and plucked from their fond embrace the youngest of a large family of children, the "Benjamin" of that honored sire, who, resisting the pressure of time, now bends low with sorrow and grief. For the first time, the old mansion door has swung slowly on its hinges to admit the funeral throng of real mourners, and close behind the lifeless form of the tall and graceful youth whom none knew but to love and admire. Truly, the order of nature is reversed in that family history, and the freshest plant is plucked by the roots from the garden of home, while the full and ripened sheaf is still left to be whitened by a few more suns. "Death loves a shining mark, and cruelly disappoints all in his selections, in which the last shall be first, and the first last."
In the death of Moses Brown there seems to be indeed a mysterious Providence. From his youth up to early manhood, he has borne a character of remarkable purity of thought, word and deed, in which was perfected all those genial elements of grace and amiability which bound him as a peculiarly confidential and trustworthy friend, to all with whom he came in contact in the ordinary intercourse of social life, and made him most cordially welcome in every home and social circle.
But few young men had a higher appreciation of the value of education and mental culture. Especially was his interest ever alive to the welfare of public schools, giving his time and efforts as a member of the School Committee of his own town, and by a constant attendance on all associations tending to promote the interests of general education.
With such an experience, such a character and record, it surprised none who knew him that his last hours were made glorious by a peculiar realization of the Divine presence and support, in calmly contemplating his approaching dissolution. Remarking often upon the same, and expressing a holy resignation to the will of God, he passed from earth to heaven.
But he has not gone far from the home he loved so well. Fond recollections of his virtues, and sweet thoughts of his kindness, will ever keep him in the minds of the broken home circle. His memory will ever be freshly enshrined on the altar of a pure and lasting friendship, and his peaceful exit prove an incentive to those who loved him, so to live that they too may die the death of the righteous, and their last end be like his. A.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for March, contains the following contents:-1. The Fruits of Free Labor in the Smaller Islands of the British West Indies. 2. A Story of To-Day. 3. Mountain Pictures 4. The Use of the Rifle. 5. Agnes of Sorrento. 6 Methods of Study in Natural History. 7. The Southern Cross. 8. Concerning the Sorrows of Childhood 9. The Rehabilitation of Spain. 10. A Raft that no Man made. 11. Fremont's Hundred Days in Missouri. 12. Birdofredom Sawin, Esq. to Mr. Hosea Biglow. 13. Taxation. 14. Voyage of the Good Ship Union. 15. Recent American Publications.
<c04>
THE LATE RANDALL MANN, OF LEICESTER.
Massachusetts Twenty-fifth Regiment.-Killed-Randall Mann, corporal, Co. H., of Leicester.
Such is the announcement, in yesterday's papers, of the death of a noble and brave young man, whose loss has come with a terrible weight upon some hearts here, and which is generally felt among us as a great loss to our town. I trust I may, without intruding on private grief, say a few words in his honor; and which, perhaps, may help to convey to his afflicted friends something of the sincere sympathy in their sorrow which is largely felt here. He was eminently worthy of a place in the respect of the anti-slavery community, and would have been glad, I am sure, to know that the readers of the Liberator should be assured of the interest he felt, living and dying, in their labors. For several years past he has been a subscriber to the Liberator, and a thoughtful, intelligent, and conscientious friend of the anti-slavery movement.
At an early period in life he was left an orphan, and was taken into the family of an uncle and aunt. In that family he grew up, regarded as a son by the parents, and as a brother by the other children. From boyhood he gave evidence of possessing a thoughtful mind and a good heart, superior to the narrow ideas and prejudices which control so many; and they, who knew him best, testify to his upright character, his conscientious regard to duty, and his trustworthiness in all matters confided to him. Such a young man, in the existing circumstances of our country, could hardly fail to be an abolitionist. Not being one of those who condemn a cause unheard, because others traduce it, nor corrupted by prejudice against a portion of his fellow-men because God hath created them of a darker hue, and, fortunately for himself, finding in his home an atmosphere favorable to humanity and the love of freedom, he grew steadily up into that great cause which aims to render justice to all in our land, to save our country from the destroying effects of a false democracy and a false religion, and to diffuse instead the benign influences of true Christianity, and of a just regard to all men's rights.
 The outbreak of the Southern rebellion found him thinking deeply on the question of American slavery, and the course then taken by the slaveholders and their Northern allies justified to his mind all that the Abolitionists had foretold, and equally justified his own reflections and conclusions. He was not, as I judge by some interviews with him, so much excited by the doings of the slaveholders during the winter of 1860-61, as were the most of our people; but every anti-slavery conviction and principle of his nature became deepened and confirmed. And when President Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers to defend the capital and government from the murderous hands of hypocrites and knaves, unmasked at last, he was among the very first to offer his services, calmly, but with a resolute purpose which was not to be changed. For gladly would friends, to whom he was dear and his life important, have dissuaded him, at first, from enlisting in the war. But they found his mind fixed. It was not self-will, nor love of adventure; he knew, he said, there was no sport to be looked for; and when reminded of the hazards of sickness, maiming, and loss of life, he said he had considered them all. And when they saw that it was a matter of principle with him,-that he sought to act as duty required,-they ceased to object, and gave him all the aid and sympathy they could. He went. The first active service to which he was called was that at Roanoke Island, where he received a mortal wound.
Such losses are the severest to which the North is called in this war. The loss of money, the weight of debt, heavy as these are and are to be, are not to be named in comparison with the loss of such young men, who, for conscience' sake, turn away from all the endearments of home, and offer themselves a living sacrifice upon the altar of Freedom, Justice and Humanity! Surely it will be accepted at his hands as good and faithful service! And "though to the unwise he seems to die, yet he is in peace"; and "being made perfect in a short time, he has fulfilled a long time." In his case we may fitly use the oft-quoted lines of Collins:-
"How sleep the brave, who sink to rest
By all their country's wishes blest!
When Spring, with dewy fingers cold,
Returns to deck their hallowed mould,
She there shall dress a sweeter sod
Than Fancy's feet have ever trod.
By fairy hands their knell is rung,
By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
There Honor comes, a pilgrim gray,
To bless the turf that wraps their clay;
And Freedom shall awhile repair,
To dwell a weeping hermit there."
May we who remain carry on the conflict with slavery, that "sum of all villanies," as bravely and as perseveringly as did our young friend. So shall his great and generous sacrifice, and that of many another of like spirit, not have been in vain. M.
DIED-In Pepperell, Feb. 13, Capt. VRYLING SHATTUCK, aged 87 years.
The deceased was of that primitive class of men capable of much endurance: and never was there a robust constitution more severely taxed. His sufferings were beyond patient endurance; and for a long time before his death, his constant prayer was, "I want to die-why can't I die?" Death had no terrors for him. He had suffered much, and enjoyed much. The measure of his experience was full. He had builded his home, and reared sons and daughters, who, in their turn, were reproducing his life anew, and travelling the ground that he had trod: and nothing more seemed left for him to do this side the grave but to suffer wearisome days and more wearisome nights. With no fear of death, no fear of future consequences, with his arms full of years, and a clean record, he leaned back upon his dying pillow, and, laying his bony fingers upon the filial arms which had never wearied in his service by night or by day, in strength or in weakness, and with a wishful eye and inarticulate voice, seemed to say, Bear me, bear me gently over the turbid stream where my loved ones await me. Then slow and labored came his breath until his life went out, and he found in death that boon which lift refused him; and is gathered unto his fathers-not as the young grain falleth before the hail, or the fragrant clover before the mower's scythe-like a shock of corn fully ripe, and white for the harvest. He honors the grave, and the grave not him. But travel back who will, the long highway of his life, and find who can, the waymark which he has stained with a lying tongue, a hypocritical tear, or a fraudulent hand. Lay the ear closely down to the frozen ruts of eighty-seven autumns, and hear, if you can, one complaining accent charging him with keeping back the laborer's hire, or rewarding the services of others with adulterated qualities, unjust numbers, light weights, or stinted measures; rake open every unmarked grave where widows and orphans sleep, and give to each a tongue, and then inquire if he ever devoured their houses, or fraudulently ate their bread, and as an offset made for them long prayers? and every tongue will proclaim an anthem of praise to his memory, and a blessing upon his soul. The deceased seemed to excel in public and private honesty, which gave shelter and protection to a large field of generous virtues.
Although educated in the ecclesiastical and political schools that prevailed in this region at the commencement of the present century, he was not to be hoodwinked by demagogues, nor beguiled by the sophistry of priests. The passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill was the baptism through which he passed heroically on to the anti-slavery ground, and ever afterward kept the faith; and, amid opposition of Church and party, hurled his anathemas in the faces of a government that boasted of its freedom, and shamelessly stultified itself in enslaving millions of its subjects; and while the pulpit that he helped to sustain was drunk with cowardice, or flippant with the foulest atheism in defence of the towering wickedness of the Government, he gave all his favor to those men who most faithfully rebuked the highhanded treason against God, the common Father of all nations of men. From this period he dated a sort of new birth-a regeneration-and the old democratic cloak was ever afterward so narrow that he could not wrap himself up in it, and his church raiments were out at the elbow and out at the knee.
He hated dissimulation, hypocrisy, and vain conceit. Justice was, with him, the beginning and end, the ruling character of his life, and with an iron will he executed its highest behest; leaving to all his neighbors and townsmen an example of uprightness, in which we, with his children, claim a common freehold. A. H. W.
DIED-At Inagua Island, Feb. 7th, where she was wrecked on her passage home from Hayti, ALMIRA CRANDALL, youngest daughter of the late William and Sally P. Harris, of Canterbury, Ct. Though of a colored complexion, she was very kindly taken care of by an English lady but neither this care nor the best medical skill could save her from the grasp of the fell destroyer. She lingered three days, and then expired.
<c05>
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES December 16 1861.
Mr. WILSON asked, and by unanimous consent obtained, leave to bring in the following bill; which was read the first time, and ordered to be printed.
FEBRUARY 13, 1862.
Reported by Mr. MORRILL with amendments, viz.: Strike out the words within [brackets] and insert those in italics.
A BILL
For the Release of Certain Persons held to Service or Labor in the District of Columbia.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That all persons held to service or labor within the District of Columbia, by reason of African descent, are hereby discharged and freed of and from all claim to such service or labor; and from and after the passage of this act, neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except for crime, whereof the party shall be duly convicted, shall hereafter exist in said District land subjection to service or labor proceeding from such cause shall not hereafter exist in said District.]
SEC. 2 And be it further enacted. That all persons loyal to the United States holding claims to service or labor against persona discharged therefrom by this act may, within ninety days from the passage thereof, but not thereafter, present to the commissioners hereinafter mentioned their respective statements or petitions in writing, verified by oath or affirmation, setting forth the names, ages, and personal description of such persons, the manner in which said petitioners acquired such claim, and any facts touching the value thereof, and declaring his allegiance to the government of the United States.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted. That the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint three commissioners, residents of the District of Columbia, any two of whom shall have power to act, who shall receive the petitions above mentioned, [and who shall] investigate and determine the [legal] validity and value of the claims therein presented, as aforesaid, and [who shall] appraise and apportion, under the proviso hereto annexed, the value in money of the several claims by them found to be valid: Provided, however, That the entire sum so appraised and apportioned shall not exceed in the aggregate an amount equal to three hundred dollars for each person shown to have been so held by lawful claim.
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That said commissioners shall, within nine months from the passage of this act, make a full and final report of their proceedings, findings and appraisement, and shall deliver the same to the Secretary of the Treasury, which report shall be deemed and taken to be conclusive in all respects, except as hereinafter provided; and the Secretary of the Treasury shall, with like exception, cause the amounts so apportioned to said claims to be paid from the Treasury, of the United States to the parties found by said report to be entitled thereto as aforesaid, [the lawful holders thereof,] and the same shall be received in full and complete compensation: Provided, That in cases where petitions may be filed presenting conflicting claims or setting up liens, said commissioners shall so specify in said report, and payment shall not be made according to the award of said commissioners until a period of sixty days shall have elapsed, during which time any petitioner claiming an interest in the particular amount may file a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, making all other claimants defendants thereto, setting forth the proceedings in such case before said commissioners and their action therein, and praying that the party to whom payment has been awarded may be enjoined from receiving the same; and if said court shall grant such provisional order, a copy thereof may, on motion of said complainant, be served upon the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall thereupon cause the said amount of money to be paid into said court, subject to its orders and final decree, which payment shall be in full and complete compensation, as in other cases.
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That said commissioners shall hold their sessions in the city of Washington, at such place and times as the President of the United States may direct, of which they shall give due and public notice. They shall have power to subpoena and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to receive testimony and enforce its production, as in civil cases before courts of justice; and they may summon[s] before them the persons making claim to service or labor, and examine them under oath; and they may also, for purposes of identification and appraisement, call before them the persons so claimed. Said commissioners shall appoint a clerk, who shall keep files and complete record of all proceedings before them, who shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations in said proceedings, and who shall issue all lawful process by them ordered. The marshal of the District of Columbia shall personally, or by deputy, attend upon the sessions of said commissioners, and shall execute the process issued by said clerk.
SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That said commissioners shall receive in compensation for their services the sum of two thousand dollars each, to be paid upon the filing of their report; that said clerk shall receive for his services the sum of two hundred dollars per month; that said marshal shall receive such fees as are allowed by law for similar services performed by him in the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia; that the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause all other reasonable expenses of said commission to be audited and allowed, and that said compensation, fees, and expenses shall be paid from the treasury of the United States.
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That for the purpose of carrying this act into effect, there is hereby appropriated from the treasury of the United States a sum not exceeding one million of dollars.
PROHIBITION OF THE COOLIE TRADE.
IN THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, December 4, 1861.
Mr. Eliot, of Mass., on leave, introduced the following bill:
A BILL
To prohibit the "Chinese coolie trade" by American citizens in American vessels.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That no citizen or citizens of the United States, or foreigner coming into or residing within the same, shall, for himself or for any other person whatsoever, either as master, factor, owner, or otherwise, build, equip, load, or otherwise prepare, any ship or vessel, or any steamship or steam vessel, registered, enrolled, or licensed, in the United States, or any port within the same, for the purpose of procuring from China, or from any port or place therein, or from any other port or place, the inhabitants or subjects of China, known as "coolies," to be transported to any foreign country, port, or place whatever, to be disposed of, or sold, or transferred, for any term of years or for any time whatever, as servants or apprentices, or to be held to service or labor. And if any ship or vessel, steamship or steam vessel, belonging in whole or in part to citizens of the United States, and registered, enrolled, or otherwise licensed as aforesaid, shall be employed for the said purposes, or in the "coolie trade," so called, or shall be caused to procure from China or elsewhere, as aforesaid, any subjects of the government of China for the purpose of transporting or disposing of them as aforesaid, every such ship or vessel, steamship or steam vessel, her tackle, apparel, furniture, and other appurtenances, shall be forfeited to the United States, and shall be liable to be seized, prosecuted, and condemned in any of the circuit courts or district courts of the United States for the district where the said ship or vessel may be found, seized, or carried.
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That all and every person so building, fitting out, equipping, loading, or otherwise preparing, sending to sea, or navigating, as owner, master, factor, agent, or otherwise, any ship or vessel, steamship or steam vessel, belonging in whole or in part to citizens of the United States, or registered, enrolled, or licensed within the same, or at any port thereof, knowing or intending that the same shall be employed in that trade or business aforesaid, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act, or in anywise aiding or abetting therein, shall be severally liable to be indicted thereof, and, on conviction thereof, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding one year.
SEC. 3 And be it further enacted, That if any citizen or citizens of the United States shall, contrary to the true intent and meaning of this act, take on board of any vessel, or receive or transport any such persons as are above described in this act, for the purpose of disposing of them as aforesaid, he or they shall be liable to be indicted thereof, and, on conviction thereof, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding one year.
SEC. 4. And be it further enacted. That nothing in this act hereinbefore contained shall be deemed or construed to apply to or affect any free and voluntary emigration of any Chinese subject, or to any vessel carrying such person as passenger on board the same: Provided, however, That a "permit" or certificate shall be prepared and signed by the consul or consular agent of the United States residing at the port from which such vessel may take her departure, containing the name of such person, and setting forth the fact of his voluntary emigration from such port or place, which certificate shall be given to the matter of such vessel; but the same shall not be given until such consul or consular agent shall be first personally satisfied by evidence produced of the truth of the facts therein contained.
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That all the provisions of the act of Congress approved February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and forty-seven, entitled an act to regulate the carriage of passengers in
<c06>
merchant vessels, and all the provisions of the act of Congress approved March third, eighteen hundred and forty-nine, entitled "An act to extend the provisions of all laws now in force relating to the carriage of passengers in merchant vessels, and the regulation thereof," shall be extended and shall apply to all vessels owned in whole or in part by citizens of the United States, and registered, enrolled, or licensed within the United States, propelled by wind or by steam, and to all masters thereof, carrying passengers or intending to carry passengers from any foreign port or place without the United States to any other foreign port or place without the United States; and that all penalties and forfeitures provided for in said act shall apply to vessels and masters last aforesaid.
SEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That the President of the United States shall be, and he is hereby, authorized and empowered, in such way and at such time as he shall judge proper to the end that the provisions of this act may be enforced according to the true intent and meaning thereof, to direct and order the vessels of the United States, and the masters and commanders thereof, to examine all vessels navigated or owned in whole or in part by citizens of the United States, and registered, enrolled, or licensed under the laws of the United States, wherever they may be, whenever, in the judgment of such master or commanding officer thereof, reasonable cause shall exist to believe that such vessel has on board, in violation of the provisions of this act, any subjects of China, known as "coolies," for the purpose of transportation; and upon sufficient proof that such vessel is employed in violation of the provisions of this act, to cause such vessel to be carried, with her officers and crew, into any port or district within the United States, and delivered to the marshal of such district, to be held and disposed of according to the provisions of this act.
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That this act shall take effect from and after six months from the day of its passage.
This Bill passed both houses of Congress as now printed. Mr. Eliot deserves special thanks for the zeal with which he has prosecuted a measure so humane and important.
EXECUTION OF NATHANIEL GORDON AT THE TOMBS.
Nathaniel Gordon, the slave-dealer,. suffered the highest penalty of the law at fifteen minutes past twelve o'clock Friday noon, in the yard of the city prison. Up to a late hour on Thursday night, no man under sentence of death bore up with greater hope than Captain Gordon; and we may say, that, almost up to the hour of execution, there seemed to be a glimmering of hope pictured in his countenance, yet he was doomed to disappointment, and has suffered the horrible penalty for the crime he has committed. During Thursday he was attended by his spiritual advisers, the Rev. Dr. Corbit, Rev. Dr. Camp, and the Rev. Dr. Bingham. He would frequently tell them that he was ready to die, and would soon after talk as if he expected a commutation of sentence from the President.
It is evident that he based his hope upon the statement of the United States District Attorney, C. Delafield Smith, whom he charges with having promised to procure him a pardon. Between six and seven o'clock in the evening, his wife and mother-in-law, with his little one, called at the Tombs, to take a final farewell of him. The unfortunate woman bore a haggard look, and had evidently eaten but little for a long time, every moment of her time for the past two weeks having been devoted to securing the assistance of influential parties in endeavoring to prevent the execution of her husband. As she entered the cell of her husband, she fell tainting on the floor, and had to be carried out into the reception room, where, by the assistance of the prison physician, she soon recovered, when her husband was brought out to her.
The scene that here took place, their last moments together, no pen could describe. She would talk for a few moments, and then get so overcome that she would faint, and it would be some time before she could recover. When the fatal moment came for her to leave the massive walls of that dismal prison, she with one shriek fell headlong at her husband's feet. Gordon raised her in his arms, imprinted a last farewell kiss upon her burning brow, and was then removed from her sight never to meet again on earth. He fondly embraced his child, and kissed and kissed it until the keeper was compelled to remove it; and then, with a trembling step, he returned to his cell in company of his spiritual advisers. At nine o'clock he entered into prayer with the Rev. Mr. Camp, and was then left alone in charge of the keepers for the remainder of the night.
Until four o'clock he lay upon his couch, but did not manifest any desire to sleep. About four o'clock the keeper went to his cell, and discovered him in great agony, and suffering intense pain; he immediately called assistance. Dr. Hodgman, the prison physician, being at hand, he soon discovered that Gordon had taken poison. Drs. Limons and Wood were also called in, and the stomach pumps applied, which, after a lapse of an hour or so, soon placed him out of danger by the removal of the poison. On examination it was found that he had taken strychnine, and at one time it was feared that the gallows would be cheated of its victim. When questioned in regard to how he obtained it, he said that it was put into a cigar, and brought to him by a friend; it was about twenty grains, and placed in the point of a cigar; watching his opportunity, he bit the end of it off, and swallowed it all, and threw himself upon his bed to die. He had not taken the poison over five minutes when discovered.
As he walked toward the gallows, he was the picture of despair. With a trembling step he reached the fatal spot, and seemed hardly able to support himself. The rope was immediately adjusted around his neck, and he then spoke a few words to the Rev. Mr. Camp, and at fifteen minutes past twelve o'clock the fatal signal was given, and the unfortunate man's spirit passed away, it is to be hoped to a far better world. His neck was not broken, but he died almost without a struggle. He hung until twenty-five minutes past twelve, when the physicians pronounced life extinct.
At thirty minutes past twelve he was cut down, and placed in charge of some of his friends, who will have him privately buried.
Before dying, he wrote a letter to the two mates of his vessel, who are confined in the City Prison, also one to his wife.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce, 21st inst.
CRISPUS ATTUCKS CELEBRATION.
The Ninety-Second Anniversary of the Martyrdom of the colored American, CRISPUS ATTACKS, " the day which history selects as the dawn of the American Revolution," will be commemorated at Allston Hall, on Wednesday evening, March 5th, by a series of Tableaux, historical, mythological, classical, humorous and dramatic-represented by a select volunteer company of young ladies and gentlemen, masters and misses. The whole entertainment to be interspersed with appropriate vocal and instrumental Music from the Boston Quartette Club and other favorite performers.
Tickets 25 cents each, to be obtained of R. F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street; Saxton & Bowen, 233 Washington street; S. S. Hanscom, 74 Cambridge street, and at the door. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock; exercises to commence at half-past 7 o'clock.
For particular, see Programme.
Boston, Feb. 25, 1862. WILLIAM C. NELL.
We hope Allston Hall will have a crowded assembly on the evening here advertised, not only for the historical interest of the occasion, but because the worthy and indefatigable projector of the celebration has exerted himself to make an attractive and pleasing entertainment, and is deserving of liberal encouragement.]-ED. LIB.
AARON M. POWELL, Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
New Rochelle, N. Y., Friday evening, 28.
Pleasantville," Saturday " Mar. 1.
MISS SALLIE HOLLEY will give a lecture on American Slavery in the Methodist church in Palmyra, N. Y., on Friday evening, March 7th.
LEOMINSTER AND FITCHBURG.-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in
Leominster, Saturday even'g, March 1.
Fitchburg, Sunday even'g, March 2.
-at 7 o'clock.
E. H HEYWOOD will speak on "The War," In East Cambridge, Sunday evening, March 2.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION AT HYANNIS.-There will be an Anti-Slavery Convention at Hyannis, on Saturday and Sunday, the 15th and 16th of March. Cape Cod, hitherto, has never needed arguments, or even appeals, to crowd its largest halls, where the cause of Humanity and the Slave was to be the theme. Further particulars next week.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak at South Abington, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock. Subject-Natural Antagonism, or the Irrepressible Conflict. Text-"What God haft put asunder, let not man put together."
WENDELL PHILLIPS win deliver a discourse at Music Hall, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, on Sunday forenoon next. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
MAKE NO CONCESSIONS.
Virtue to our purpose binding,
God and Justice ever minding, 
Let us all for Freedom battle, and crushed liberty restore.
Free and clear of all aggression,
Face this wicked, mad secession,
Standing firm against rebellion and concessions evermore.
Why to traitors all so tender?
Why to rebels more surrender?
Sumter's guns have killed concession, and to freedom ope'd the door.
Massachusetts, take your station!
Show your strength, and save the nation!
Liberty against all tyrants we must guard forevermore.
Shade of Washington, inspire us!
With thy patriotism fire us!
Till a rebel in our borders shall be heard of nevermore.
Shade of Jackson, speak and shame us!
Let the world defame and blame us!
If we falter now, we're conqueredbranded cowards evermore!
Tell me what we gain by waiting,
And our chances ail berating?
Long we faltered, dodged, and doubted, "leagued with
bell" from shore to shore.
Now's the time! be men, and know it!
Now's the time! the traitors show it!
Strike and crush the rebel monster! bind him fast forevermore!
Halt no longer, dreamingtrembling!
Try no more our poor dissembling!
God, and Truth, and Justice owning, doubting neither evermore!
Stand aback, you prone to kneeling!
Back, you traitors, prone to stealing!
Let God speak, then do his bidding, minding that forevermore!
We have rights! Shall we suspend them?
Nobut gallantly defend them,
Though Secession threatens vengeance if we don't its gods adore.
Rights of men we now must stand on!
Truth and Justice ne'er abandon!
Come what may of "South-Side" swearing, that's our
place forevermore.
Standing here, no threats shall move us;
Only so can God approve us;
Here the universe will aid us to lost liberty restore.
Here we'll stand till wrongs are righted,
Hopes renewed that these have blighted,
Till the world regains assurance of our Justice evermore.
Piled with insults hard to swallow,
Propositions hard to follow,
We demand the wrongs retracted, and repeated nevermore.
Till that's done, make no concessions!
Turn no ear to such expressions!
Till the traitors meet their merits, silenced here forever-more.
All our good to them is evil;
Phillips, Beechereach a devil!
Higher laws are but pure nonsense, which they wickedly ignore.
Void of honesty and reason,
They rebellion nurse and treason,
Calling God to help sustain them and their bondage evermore.
If concessions now are wanted,
No such favore can be granted;
Such would damn us all forever, damn as few were damned before!
No inch yielding, stand unflinching!
Show no fear of threats or lynching!
Hit the monster 'twixt the eye-brows! lay him low forevermore!
No conversions longer wait for!
Ne'er a victory be too late for!
Make short work of all "Plug Uglies" in or out of Baltimore!
Put straight through the iron horses!
Never mind the breaks or losses!
Whip the rebels all contented to stay whipped forevermore.
Liberty and Justice calling
Loud to save their temples falling;
Up and crush the foes who threaten till their madness they deplore!
No use now to doubt and falter,
Bring the traitors to the halter!
There shot off their barb'rous nonsense, threats and slang, forevermore.
Stand on technics here no longer!
For each day the foe grows stronger!
Doubtful courage no more harborsee it doubted nevermore!
Sumter's guns have broke th' enchantment,
Ope'd the door to Scott's encampment:
Rise and rush from this hour's dreaming to new life forevermore!
Once for all this lesson teaching,
That from Maine to Texas reaching,
Our old flag shall wave in triumph, and be scouted nevermore.
Fight we must till foes are routed,
Let that fact no more be doubted,
Fight till our star-spangled banner greets no slave forevermore.
No one falter! no one quiver!
No one palter! no one shiver!
Hesitate no moment longer to demand and hold the floor!
Strike, and crush the slave defender!
Die we may, but not surrender!
Sink ourselves past all redemptionblotted out forevermore!
Shame no more our sires and mothers!
Let us prove all men are brothers!
What they left us let us cherish, and depart from nevermore!
To the breeze our flag unfurling
To all knaves defiance hurling
od and Justice, first and foremost, be oar motto evermore.
Billerica, 1861. DANIEL PARKER.
For the Liberator.
A GLORIOUS VICTORY!
It is a glorious Victory;
There's rejoicing in the street,
And a gay, glad smile of triumph
Lights every face we meet.
So many thousand prisoners,
So many thousand slain;
Husbands, and sons, and brothers,
Cut down like o'er-ripe grain.
It is a glorious Victory:
Weak woman's heart, be still!
Or join in th' jubilation
It is nothing now to kill.
We count oar cause as holy;
And though men be reaped like grain,
If FREEDOM follow after,
Not one has died in vain.
Oh! through the smoke of battle
Breaketh the morning light?
Will FREEDOM follow after?
Will Might give place to Right?
If this be so, join, heart and voice,
Join in the gladsome cry,
That's sounding through our streets to-day
"Hurrah!-a Victory!"
And yet, and yetO, blame me not,
With tears my eyes are wet-
Mine is a woman's hoart, and, oh!
I cannot quite forget
How many wives and mothers
Wait with suspended breath,
This quiet winter morning,
For news of life or death.
How many will clutch the paper,
To read therein their fate,
Only to lay it down again,
Heart-broken, desolate.
<c02>
Some of our own,-for well we know
Many of our brave men
Who went to the field of battle
May never come again.
And others-wives of Rebels,
But loving, it may be,
With just such love as mine for one
Who is all the world to me.
O, I am not disloyal;
But down in my heart so deep,
There is pity e'en for Rebels:-
I must weep; yes, let me weep!
And yet, if our poor country
Through blood shall be made free,
Amid my tears I'll shout it,
"Hurrah!-a Victory!"
Sherborn, Feb. 18, 1862. E. D. Morse
The Liberator.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
An admirable speech was delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, Jan. 15th, by Hon. John A. Bingham of Ohio, urging an emancipation of the slaves by act of Congress. The speech of Hon. George W. Julian of Indiana, delivered in the same place on the previous day, has made upon us an impression no less favorable. It is entitled, "The Cause and Cure of our National Troubles," and it deals with this subject with a thoroughness and fidelity equal to those of our own speakers and writers. As we have not spared to speak, on the numerous occasions demanding such notice, of the short-comings and vices of the Republican party, and as that party still needs sharp reproof for its failure to demand that the power now in the hands of its President be used in the interest of freedom, it is at once a duty and a pleasure to honor those of its members who are faithful in the performance of their duty.
In an age and country where not only direct apostacy is common, but where deficiencies of various sorts deform the speech and action of most of those who side with the Government and against the rebellion, it is worth our while to take special note of the thoroughness of this speech of Mr. Julian, delivered when the House was in Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union.
He commenced with a recognition of the fact that this is one of the grand judgment-days of history; that the tremendous conflict in which we are now engaged must be interpreted, by one who believes in a providential government of the world, as the voice of the Supreme Ruler, calling this nation to account for its sins, and teaching us, through the terrible lesson of civil war, that injustice shall not prosper; and that the speech and action of every man, in such an appalling crisis, should be inspired by his deepest moral convictions.
He proceeds to rehearse the evidence of our complicity with the gigantic crime which has brought this terrible retribution upon us. Slavery is the cause of the rebellion, and the rebellion is the act of the slaveholders; but the growth of slavery to a point where it could conceive and execute the idea of rebellion has been the fault of the North, and could not have taken place but for the series of concessions which we have made to it in the course of the last seventy-five years.
We gave it three large States, carved out of the Territory of Louisiana. At its demand we purchased Florida, and waged the barbarous Seminole and Florida wars. We assisted in expelling the red man from six or eight States of the South, at the cost of many millions, to make room for slavery there. We consented to add an empire to slavery in the South-West, in the annexation of Texas. We united in the prosecution of the Mexican war, well knowing that the extension of slavery was its object. Under the threat of disunion in 1850, we abandoned the Wilmot proviso, and agreed that the Territories of Utah and New Mexico should be received into the Union with or without slavery, as their people might determine. We assisted in the enactment of the infamous Fugitive Slave Law. The Missouri compromise, made to pacify slavery, was overthrown at its bidding by the help of Northern votos, while the Dred Scott decision was the work, in part, of Northern judges. Our hatred of the negro has cropped out in black codes in the Free States which rival in villany the worst features of the slave laws of the South. We have allowed slavery to expurgate our literature and mutilate the school-books of our children, while even the grand instrumentalities of the Church-its Tract, and Bible, and Missionary and Sunday-School Associations-have submitted to its unhallowed surveillance. We have consented to the suspension of Constitutional rights, in the Free States, through the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, so far as the trial by jury and the habeas corpus are concerned; and in the Slave States, so far as the rights of locomotion and free speech pertain to our own citizens, whom we meekly permit to be driven out by mobs, tarred and feathered, or hung like criminals, without cause. We have permitted both Houses of Congress, the Executive and Judiciary Departments of the Government, the Army and Navy, and our Foreign Diplomacy, to be controlled by this rebel interest, with the power all the while in our own hands to have done otherwise. Slavery has ruled the Republic from the beginning, and upon its rebel altar our public men of all parties have offered their sacrifices.
Even the Republican party (Mr. Julian proceeds) has not been wanting in tokens of forbearance towards the slave interest. While emphatically avowing an anti-slavery policy to a certain extent, it has been still more emphatic in disavowing any purpose to go beyond its self-imposed limits. Nothing could exceed the persistency, emphasis and fervor with which its editors, orators and leaders have disavowed the intention to interfere with slavery in the States of the South. They have protested perpetually against "abolitionism," as if slavery had the stamp of divinity upon its brow. Their course has been marked by so many denials, disclaimers, deprecations, virtual apologies to slavery, that multitudes have joined the organization, less through its known anti-slavery purpose, than the disavowal of any such purpose by those who have spoken in its name. Its chosen President is a cool, cautious politician, of conservative antecedents, who solemnly assured the leaders of the rebellion, in his inaugural address, that their constitutional rights were perfectly safe in his hands. He declared himself in favor of enforcing the Fugitive Slave Act. He expressed his willingness to see the Constitution so amended as to tie up the hands of the people, forever, against the right to interfere with slavery in the States of the South; and so systematically did he seem to go down into the valley of humiliation, that some of his own party friends pronounced the first six weeks of his administration to be simply a continuation of the policy of his predecessor.
The breaking out of this rebellion, even in the midst of such concessions to slavery, is a demonstration (Mr. Julian declares) of the fact that slavery and freedom cannot dwell together in peace. Slavery itself has wrought that very timidity and lack of manhood in the North, through which it has managed to rule the nation; it has paved the way for treason by feeding upon the virtue of our public men, and demoralizing the spirit of our people; and the crimes and horrors thus developed cry out against it, demanding its utter political damnation. Therefore the popular demand now is, or soon will be, the total extirpation of slavery as the righteous purpose of the war, and the only means of a lasting peace.
The rebels nave demanded a "reconstruction" on the basis of slavery. Let us give them a "reconstruction " on the basis of freedom. Let us convert the rebel States into conquered provinces, remanding them to the status of mere Territories, and governing them as such in our discretion. Under no circumstances should we consent to end this struggle on terms which would leave us where we began it. Let
<c03>
us see to it that out of this war shall come a permanent peace. Let us demand "indemnity for the past and security for the future."
After showing that the Constitution itself recognizes the war power of the Government,-and quoting John Quincy Adams to show that, under this power, not only the President, but Congress, has the right to interfere with slavery in any way and to any extent,- Mr. Julian declares that no consideration should now withhold our suffrage from the proposition to "proclaim liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof"; and that our failure to give liberty to four millions of slaves would be a crime only to be measured by that of putting them in chains if they were free.
Mr. Julian is one of those worthy representatives of the rights and interests of the people, who refuse to give up to party "what was meant for mankind." He returns to the exposure of the shameful complicities of the present Administration with slavery, and shows how not only the President, but the Secretaries of State, of War, and of the Interior, the Attorney General, both Houses of Congress, and various Generals in the army, have spoken and acted as if slave property were more sacred than any other property; more sacred even than the very life of the nation! And he manfully asks, in view of these things- "Is not this a practical espousal of the rebellion by the Administration?" "Is it not time for the people to speak?"
He denies the assumption, now so commonly made, that if the slaves of rebels are set free, slavery itself must necessarily fall. He maintains that the total extirpation of slavery will be our only security against future trouble and discord. And, expressing his willingness (as a means of facilitating a settlement of our troubles, and securing a lasting peace) to pay to every loyal slave-elaimant, on due proof of loyalty, the fairly assessed value of his slaves, he yet plainly declares that he would not do this as compensation, since no man should receive pay for robbing another of his earnings, and plundering him of his humanity.
After answering, well and ably, several popular objections, Mr. Julian declares his conviction that emancipation will be wise, safe and profitable, both to master and slave. He would give the victims of oppression not only freedom from chains, but freedom to work out their own destiny, without interference by compulsory colonization or otherwise. And he ends as he began, with a recognition of the fact that the path of duty is the path of safety; that, under God's government, we may confidently trust ourselves to the consequences of doing right; and that, in this season of great national trial, we can hope for the smiles of our Maker only through our practical recognition of liberty, justice and humanity.
The fact, that Mr. Julian adds, that the denial of all this is made the basis of our policy, and the test of our statesmanship, is, in his judgment, the most deplorable sign of our times.
The columns of the Liberator have often expressed our deep conviction of the reality and importance of the truth last stated. The number of opponents of slavery in our nation has greatly increased, and is greatly increasing. But this enlargement of numbers springs, almost exclusively, not from a recognition of slavery as a sin, but only as a nuisance. If the despotism which has ruled-which still rules- our country would only proceed in a quiet and orderly manner as before, (that is, with no more infraction of quiet and order than the occasional seizure of a fugitive slave at the North, and the occasional lynching of a Northern man at the South,) the mass of these new comers would be perfectly and heartily acquiescent. They are not in the least disturbed by the consideration that slavery is inhuman and unjust! Any trouble which it brings merely to " niggers," and to the friends of "niggers," they bear with absolute serenity and composure. But when slavery proceeds to interfere with their trade-to seize their forts, arsenals, mints and custom-houses-to threaten the seizure of their capital-to summon a portion of their number to arms, and to burden the whole with heavy taxes, for defence against its further aggressions-then it occurs to them that slavery must be put down.
The voice of-this large and increasing party has lately found utterance in a new organ-The Continental Monthly-which has the merit of stating with perfect plainness its ideas and its wishes. Making strong and hearty opposition to slavery, demanding its complete overthrow as the needful policy of the North, it contemptuously repudiates the idea of being supposed to do this on principle, or to care in the slightest degree for the claims made by justice and humanity in the premises. Stigmatizing these claims as "the jargon of abolitionism," and assuming the interests, the rights, and the destiny of negroes, slave or free, to be utterly unworthy of regard, it announces its conviction that the interests of the white race demand the overthrow of slavery, and urges the necessity of carrying on the war in such a manner as to accomplish this purpose.
Even on these terms, it will be an immense gain to have slavery eradicated, and to have that frightful source of progressive demoralization cut off". But what a prospect does it open for our future, when our efforts for the body of reform are accompanied by a repudiation of its spirit! when we execute the compulsory movement of turning away from crime, in a manner that shows us still devoted to sin! when we propose to gain the solid advantages of reformation, without going through the distasteful process of repentance!
It is righteousness, not selfish policy, that truly exalteth a nation. If the aggravated and long-continued sins of these United States are not washed away by repentance, if the reparation due to her oppressed poor be not fairly paid, any semblance of prosperity which she may yet gain will prove but temporary, hollow and delusive.-C. K. W.
ANTI-SLAVERY AT WASHINGTON.
Washington,(D. C.) Feb. 6,1862.
EDITOR LIBERATOR,-But few of us New Englanders have any idea of the intensity of the "Irrepressible Conflict" as it is going on at this great political capital of the nation. Whether in the Senate Chamber, in the hotels, in the lecture-room, in the concert hall, or in the street, or even in the camp, you are sure to be apprised of the great conflict between freedom and slavery, that we hope must soon culminate in the entire abolition of the slave system.
Yesterday, 1 sat in the gallery of the Senate Chamber, and heard Charles Sumner deliver his manly speech in favor of the expulsion of Senator Bright from the Senate; and I was prouder than ever of our New England, as I heard him expose the treacherous designs of the slaveholding rebels. Although the rebel Senators have left the Senate, yet Union(?) Senators from the border States are as bold and defiant as ever in asserting the rights of slavery to protection under the Constitution-just as if slavery was not at this moment in open rebellion against the Constitution! It was very evident that, among the spectators, a large majority were ready to applaud the sentiments of Senator Sumner; yet I could see many who gave evidence of their approval of the most violent proslavery sentiments.
At the Smithsonian Institute, last week, R. W. Emerson was enthusiastically applauded while he uttered his most anti-slavery views, and the chivalry of Washington stood aghast while such sentiments were openly avowed and heartily cheered by such a vast audience in the city they once thought secure against such Northern fanaticism.
Last evening, we were again apprised of the conflict in this city between freedom and slavery as we attended one of the concerts of those true friends of freedom, "The Hutchinsons," who were a few days since driven, by order of a Federal General (who is oat of his place) from camp, for singing one of those beautiful songs of Whittier which depict so truly the wrongs of the slave. We were listening to the same words when a few hisses were heard from some one-perhaps a pro-slavery Unionist-whose ears were more
<c04>
accustomed to hear the shrieks of the slave than their songs of freedom; but in an instant such an overwhelming outburst of applause arose as to completely drown all murmurs of disapprobation. Their singing is doing a good work here.
Among our soldiers in the camp, I find the same conflict of opinion as everywhere else. I was happy to find that most of our officers, as well as soldiers, are in favor of striking a blow direct at the cause of the rebellion. They wish to see justice done the slave as well as the rebel. Yet many wish to quell softly the rebellion, without interfering in the least with the "divine institution."
I believe there is no other such field for labor as this city and vicinity. This is the centre of action for the continent; and within the next few weeks, direction will be given to a course of events that may settle, for a century at least, the destiny of the American people.
 There are many here who are awake to the importance of the crisis; and among the agents now at work endeavoring to establish a noble public sentiment worthy of the times, not the least is the Lecture Association at the Smithsonian Institute. Cheever, Emerson, Greeley, and others like them, have done a good work. And Wendell Phillips is needed here. Let him come-the power of his eloquence, as I heard him a few days ago at Music Hall, would do much to awaken a public sentiment that is to overthrow the base system of American slavery, and let this portion of our country, by nature so beautiful, so rich in agricultural and mineral wealth, so long cursed by the most impoverishing and degrading system of bondage the world ever knew, awaken to a new life as the air resounds with the glad huzzas of freedom. And you, too, ought to come, and awaken here, as you have elsewhere, a more generous feeling for humanity.
Never since the commencement of the Anti-Slavery struggle was there so much need of earnest, determined action as now. The problem is soon to be solved, whether slavery or freedom is to be the basis of our government. In less than a single year, it may be decided. The more I see of Washington, the more I regret the folly of those who located the capital of the nation in such a place as this-in a community whose main ambition is to uphold and perpetuate the institution of slavery. What might have been our government, had the capital been located in one of our free States, surrounded by the healthy influences of education and enterprise! J. H., JR. 
CONDITION OF THE FUGITIVES.
FORTRESS MONROE, (Va.,) Feb. 16, 1862.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
I came here last Friday morning. Had a fine voyage in the steamer Adelaide from Baltimore-one of the regular line of boats which leaves that city daily, at 5 o'clock, P. M., for this point. The moon shone brightly, and the water of the Chesapeake was as smooth as a mirror. On board were two rebel officers, going down to be exchanged. I left Baltimore, intending to go down to Roanoke Island, to volunteer my services as nurse, or assistant, to the wounded in the late battle; but on reaching this place, I found that but few had been wounded, and General Wool thought there was assistance enough already on the spot; so I do not go down.
There are about 3000 fugitive slaves at and around the Fortress. The best thing that can be said for them is, that they are still slaves, having merely changed masters. The men are compelled to work for the Government, and those formerly free are paid one, and sometimes two dollars per month, besides rations and clothes; but those formerly slaves are not paid anything but clothes and rations, and some of them have worked five months without these from the Government.
The fact is this:- Almost every officer in authority here is a pro-slavery, negro-hating tyrant. This is particularly the case with those who have the immediate control and supervision of the fugitives. Gen. Wool calls them "vagrants," "contrabands," or "refugees." I willingly apply the first of these titles to his under-officers here, but will never use it or the term "contraband" to indicate men of color.
Rev. Mr. Lockwood, agent of the American missionary Society, is doing a good work here, in teaching and preaching among the colored people. The same Society has also sent out a Mr. Hyde and Mr. Hardcastle, who are now teaching colored schools. The latter gentleman being in ill health, will soon return North.
I would suggest that some of the money left to the Anti-Slavery Society be expended for schools at Port Royal; not that I think the work of this Society is nearly accomplished, but that it may be facilitated in this way. The more intelligent these men become, the less valuable they will be as slaves, when they are delivered up to their former masters, as they will probably be, if a majority of our army officers can have their way.
I will say to Abolitionists that they must not think of laying off their armor. Their <illegible> has but just begun. In case of a settlement of hostilities without emancipation, the persecutions of Abolitionists will be renewed with greater vigor than ever. Things work slowly for good, but the right will one day prevail.
I must do the Government the justice to say that the quarters and rations of its slaves are about the same as those allowed its soldiers. A hospital has been built for them, and a friendly physician employed. The physician of the old hospital refuses to let him take the charge of the new one. Colored men have sickened and died here, without the attendance of a physician, when there were three here, having plenty of leisure.
I am happy to mention that Prof. Brown, of the New York Medical College, now Brigade Surgeon in Camp Hamilton, makes no distinction of color. He has visited many that otherwise could have had no medical treatment.
Yours for the Right,
J. M. HAWKS.
P. S. Monday, Feb. 17. In a letter to you yesterday, I stated that some of the slaves had not had rations, although working for the Government. This is .incorrect. They who work are furnished with rations, and most of them with clothes. But they are not paid even a dollar in six months. The Government slaves will be worse treated than ever before, by the hunker negro hounds, kept in office to pacify the Union sentiment in the border States. J. M. H.
SMART DARKEY. The Leavenworth Conservative tells of a contraband who came over there from Missouri; but after staying a time, left and returned to his master, telling most pitiful stories of the manner in which be was used by the Abolitionists, and accordingly was pointed to by masters as an example of what befell negroes who ran away. The result was, that our darkey obtained unusual privileges, and in a short time re-appeared in Leavenworth, conducting a train of fourteen contrabands. The visages of some of the secesh must have become elongated to an unusual degree, when they learned the result of this operation.
That arch-traitor and charlatan, Lieut Maury, was not long since proposed as a candidate for the honor of being chosen a corresponding member of the French Institute. His claims were referred to a Committee of eminent savans, who reported unanimously that the public reputation of Mr. Maury was the work of writers who knew nothing of the subjects they discussed.
To New York city the South owes $159,-800,000; to Philadelphia, $24,600,000; to Boston, $7,600,000; to Baltimore, $19,000,000. The entire indebtedness to these four cities is $211.000,000; and it is estimated that there are about $90,000,000 more due to the rest of the loyal cities and the States of the North, making a total of $300,000,000. In dry goods alone, Boston lost $2,000,000.
FRENCH WIT. Le Journal Des Debats in commenting upon the Trent Surrender, says:-
"England speaks as if not only her national honor had been satisfied, but a great weight taken off her chest."
PURCHASES OF FIRE ARMS. The total amount expended by the Government in the purchase of fire arms since the beginning of the rebellion is twenty-two million dollars.
<c05>
HERALDRY.
The past having been a week of wonders, the New York Herald must, of course, appear conspicuously in some of the acts. His eminence, as usual, is a very bad one. The news of Gen. Stone's arrest and confinement in Fort Lafayette had scarcely startled the good people from the quiet into which they had settled, when another telegram repeated the delightful shock by the grateful news that Dr. Ives, one of the chief correspondents, if not editors of the Herald, had been arrested and sent to Fort Mc Henry as a spy, and for threatening to bring the influence of his paper against the government, if they did not allow him to know the privacies of the War Department. The general delight of the people had not subsided, when forthwith there comes a second dispatch, announcing that Chevalier Wikoff, another Herald correspondent, was arrested for having prematurely made public the President's message, and refused to tell who gave it to him. Of course, the attention of the people was not directed to the men who were thus seized, but to the Herald, with which they were connected. Nobody knew who they were; all knew the Herald, whose representatives they were. Every one regarded the Herald as the traitor and spy. Thus, had Bennett himself been seized, it would have been little less evidence of the status of that Satanic sheet. The attention of the public was the more especially called to the arrest, by the fact that it has every week been demanding that Greeley and Sumner and the leading Abolitionists should be sent to Fort Lafayette, for giving aid and comfort to the rebels by their emancipation doctrines; when lo! he himself is seen looking through the bars! Haman dangling from the very gibbet he had erected for the offensive Mordecai, who ever sat in the gate, refusing reverence to men in power!
Every true Union man has known from the beginning of the war, that the Herald was traitorous at heart; that all its sympathies were with the traitors; that it was precisely the same in its nature, habits, and principles; that it set out with them, with palmetto flag in hand, urging New York to secede, and was only foiled and kept under the national flag, as were Maryland and Delaware, by force; yet so long had government tolerated it, and so great had been the favor shown it, that when the blow fell, all were amazed. Even the Herald itself was taken by surprise; for it had begun to consider itself quite out of danger, and as we learn from Dr. Ives's letter, written from Fort McHenry, he was urging at Washington that Mr. Stanton and others should make the Herald the medium of all their communications to the people; that everything they wished the public to know, should first appear in the Herald. What brazen audacity! But, "what a fall was there, my countrymen," from being the organ of the President and Secretary of War, to the humble attach of Fort McHenry! It was amusing next morning to see the altered and plaintive tone of the bully of the day before. Every line was as deferential and modest as you could wish. There was evidently a wholesome fear that Dr. Bennett was not much more secure than Dr. Ives.
The arrest of Stone and the Herald representative has awakened, if possible, more confidence in Mr. Stanton and the present administration, than even the success of Burnside, and the taking of Fort Henry. If there is a traitor on this continent, in or outside of rebeldom, an enemy of this nation, one who hates freedom, truth and right, that man is James Gordon Bennett. There is no one living, who would aid in ruining this country sooner than this man; and if there has been any one worthy of a traitor's cell since the rebellion began, it is he. How Mrs. Lincoln could have invited him to her festivities is a mystery to all who love their country. What! invite a man who, to say nothing of his moral standing, only flung the national flag from his window to save his office from being demolished by an indignant crowd! Trust such a man! As well confide in Mason or Slidell, Davis or Floyd, when taken captives at the bayonet's point. There is not an issue of that paper which does not contain the virus of secession and rebellion. How surprising that any respectable man can be found, if such there is, who makes it the staple of his reading! There are some irresistible inferences to be drawn from well settled principles, in connection with this Herald. A man is known by the company he keeps. It is well known that all who have been seized and sent to our forts as traitors were readers of the Herald. All who opposed Mr. Lincoln's call for 75,000 troops were readers of the Herald. The Herald has always been the organ patronized by the rebels.-American Baptist.
GEN. FREMONT.
The Editor of the Troy Times, writing from Washington a day or two since, after an interview with Gen. Fremont, says: "Gen. F.'s vindication of his official acts, during his memorable one hundred days in Missouri, is in possession of the investigating committee of Congress. That committee unanimously agree that his defence is complete in all respects, that he has refuted all the calumnies of his persecutors, and demonstrated his personal integrity as well as admirable military tact, judgment and capacity. They will report accordingly, and the General will be awarded another and an important command. But this is not sufficient. Gen. Fremont's defence should be published. THOMAS'S tissue of slanders had a free circulation, notwithstanding the publication afforded aid and comfort to the enemy. Personal justice as well as considerations of loyalty demands that the triumphant refutation, calm and dignified as it is, and pervaded with a spirit of unselfish patriotism, shall now be officially published to the country. A man possessing the sterling qualities of Fremont cannot be crushed by obloquy.
When the Pathfinder is again at the head of a division of the army, the public will hope that energy and determination are to take the place of torpor and apathy in the war against rebellion. There are hundreds of thousands who feel that he is the victim of the most venomous malice on the part of a class of old school army officers and new school army contractors, whose purposes the Administration was shrewdly made to subserve; and who will not cease to believe, that, had he been permitted to remain in command of the Department of the West, instead of the slow and profitless operations that have been carried on there, we should have had a brilliant and dashing campaign, leaving us in possession of Columbus and Memphis, and freeing Arkansas from the grasp of the rebels. The course of Gen. Fremont has been from the first magnanimous and noble; such as only a man possessed of the elements of true greatness and heroism, and conscious of the strength of his cause, could have pursued. When he is again put in the field, the hearts of the people will go with him, and their hopes will follow him."
The Washington correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard (says the American Baptist) often gives us glimpses of the state of things at the Capital which we find in no other paper, and we have observed that his statements are generally reliable. The following in regard to Gen. Fremont will, we hope, be found as correct as it is gratifying:
"Gen. Fremont will emerge from the trial which he has sought, or if that is not accorded to him, from the fiery persecution to which he has been subjected by his enemies, unharmed, and with his reputation without a spot upon it. He has undergone a trial such as few of our public men could endure. The attack upon him came at first from his professed friends. A man can endure a great deal from his enemies. Charles Sumner has proved this. But Fremont was stabbed by men who approached him under the guise of friendship. What he has suffered, few will ever know. To be disgraced as he was, or at least so far as it was is the power of Mr. Lincoln to disgrace him, at the bead of the fine army he had created, must have been terrible to a man of nice feelings and an ardent spirit. But I can safely say to you that John C. Fremont, one year from to-day, will occupy a higher and nobler place in the hearts of the American people than be ever has occupied. His case has been most thoroughly examined here within the last few weeks, and I venture to predict that when all the facts come before the American people, they will wonder, will be filled with amazement, that Gen. Fremont has borne the cruel treatment bestowed upon him. so meekly and with such lofty calmness. It is to be feared that the publication of all the facts, which will hereafter be made, will seriously damage the administration, and thus in an indirect manner aid the rebels. You an aware that almost everybody who attempts to expose knavery here, is charged by the administration with willingly aiding secession!" 
There is no name, mentioned approvingly before public assemblies, that elicits such enthusiastic applause as that of Fremont.
<c06>
AN INFAMOUS PROPOSITlON.
The infamous proposition, started in the State Convention by Mr. Bartley, of Gallatin county to expert the negroes from this State, regardless of their wishes in the premises, was, after discussion, beaten by a vote of 21 ayes to 46 nays. The proposition was not to prohibit the immigration of negroes to the State, but to drive out those already here, and entitled by law, the usages of civilization, and the plain commands of Christianity, to protection. A more monstrous proposal never disgraced a deliberative body in Illinois; and, for the honor of our State. we are glad to announce that it was summarily disposed of. It had not the poor excuse which is urged in defence of like acts of atrocity in Missing pi and Arkansas. We in Illinois have, thank God no slaves whose obedient servility to their masters may be corrupted by the examples of freedom in individuals of their own race; we are in no danger of insurrection from the men who toil in the work be or the field; secure from the contaminating in through which are, in the slave States, debasing the but not elevating the black race, we have no visits of amalgamation or corruption of blood: and Mr. Bartley's motion, conceived without the <illegible> power of any present or prospective public or private danger, is not only unnecessary, but inhuman cowardly, and to the last degree disgraceful. <illegible> is now, owing to her despotic black laws, occupying a position for which many of her sons, other States and in foreign lands, have been obliged to hang their heads with shame; and the fact as welcome as it is astounding, that the representatives of two sevenths of her people should, in Convention which is preparing the fundamental law which shall be to all the world the synonym of the people advancement in the knowledge of justice and humanity, dare to support by their votes a proposed which is more tyrannical than anything for which Austria and Naples have been held up to the jurgation of all civilized mankind, gives us no assurance that the beastliness of past legislation is to amended. Yet this proposition is labelled "Democratic," and the men who vote for it will themselves on every stump in their respective districts for the fidelity with which, as maker of a Constitution, they guarded and established the rights of man! If anything could be more disgraceful the avowal of a willingness to commit so <illegible> a wrong, it is the pretence that the men who make the avowal ever had or ever can have any connection of what Democracy is. In Heaven's near what is there in the presence of a few negroes matter what they are, which should impel any twenty-one men in the Convention to endeavor to <illegible> out the very corner-stone upon which all real freedom must rest-the equal right of all men to liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Mr. Bart would be puzzled to answer.- Chicago Tribune.
PROF. BUTLER.
Professor Clarence Butler, late of Texas, <illegible> yesterday in Welles Hall: in the afternoon the religious wants of the age, and in the evening on the national crisis, with our duties and responsibilities. The institution of slavery received terrible scathing in the latter discourse, being declare the only cause of our political troubles, and the present attitude of the seceded States a rebellion against the progress of the age and of civilization generally. Those troubles, furthermore, might be considered a just retribution on the North for haring countenanced and fostered the system so long. He advocated an edict of emancipation as best only for the blacks, but also for the whites of sections; and demanded both by the progress the age and the cause of human rights generally The professor is small in stature, of a nervo-billions temperament, with a very energetic and rapid delivery, and commanding the use of language in most remarkable degree. His discourse in the after noon, both oratorically and rhetorically considered could hardly be surpassed. He is English by birth and has been eight years in this country as a teach in the Southern States. After serving three years professor of English literature in a military <illegible> at Bastrop, Texas, in April last, he was ordered is the confederate service; and, on refusing, was by lynch law, and condemned to death for being to the South. Just as the sentence was to be executed, the President of the college, at <illegible>, interfered and saved his life, though the us would not release him till he had been tarred and feathered, in addition to robbing him of all he posessed, save his watch which they failed to Through the kindness of a friend he reached veston, where he sold his watch for enough to his passage to Cairo and land him pennyless. Since that, he has paid his way in a measure by lecturing for which he has gifts few can equal.-Lowell <illegible> Citizen, Jan. 13.
A COLORED ORATOR.
One of the features of our Queen City is the Sunday Night Discussion held at our <illegible> Church in this city. All sides are invited to attend and all views are heard thereat. The church every Sunday evening crowded to its utmost <illegible>, listening now to a warm debate upon the right and propriety of immediate and unconditional emancipation. A queer scene occurred there long ago. An Englishman had sustained the negative of the question, arguing with great <Illegible> against emancipation. He had a great many <illegible>, &c., about emancipation in the British lands and. of course, quoted largely from Anthony lope (whose book on the West Indies is the complete romance ever imagined by that professional writer of fiction.) When he had spoken, and various others, the best speakers of our city. perhaps, had responded or sided with him, and the meeting had reached its hour of adjournment. colored man arose, and asked the meeting to what he had to say a few moments. The novelty of the thing startled every one. It was <illegible> that a large number of those present were proslavery, not a few being from Kentucky. But the majority demanded that he should be heard, and he came to the stand. But how shall I express you the power and effect of this colored man's speech? Never were a set of white faces so completely eclipsed before. Any one speech that had been made was conceded by all to be to this only a boy's debate compared with Webster's reply Hayne, Such elegance of expression; such <illegible> mastery of his subject; such complete <illegible> with all the facts and figures; such <Illegible> of style and pronunciation; such serenity and self-possession, which could not be betrayed into any violent remark: such wit, felicity and vigor carried the audience by storm. The negro tried to but, though the hour of adjournment had passed when he began, the large audience would not permit him to stop, but sat breathlessly listening to his every eloquent word, and would have so sat an hear longer. When he ceased, round after round of irrepressible applause, in which even the pro-slavery men united, told that this eloquent speech had told upon the hearts and heads of alt present.
The man who had been criticising the Africans severely turned pale, then purple, then red: for the power of the colored man's first five minutes laid his fabric in ruins. Every heart in the audience had whispered, That is one of the race of which we are here considering whether it shall be treated as cattle." It was a triumph which the slavery men of this city will long remember. The name of this young colored man is Peter Clark, and I trust the friends of the slave in the East will one day hear him for themselves.-Cincinnati cart of the Anti-Slavery Standard.
Death of a Colored Soldier at ANNAPOLIS. One of the casualties at Annapolis, resulting in the death of John Thompson. (colored.) aged about 20 an attendant on one of the Surgeons of the 24th Massachusetts Regiment, occurred Christmas Eve, which is a merry time among the blacks, when crackers, squibs, pistols, &c., are be off. On returning to camp, one of his (Thompson's) companions prematurely discharged a <illegible> and the ball penetrated Thompson's back near the spine, passed through the abdomen, and lodged under the skin above the navel. He was taken into a house, and he asked for his employer, who was summoned, and who remained with him white living. He was unwilling that any one else should do any-thing for him. He lingered without pain, and was rational until the next day, when he died. He was kind and faithful, and was liked by all, and was considered one of the best lads in the service. His brother, a few years since, broke through to, the Back Bay, and was drowned, and their mother is now a lone widow.-Traveller.
