THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
TERMS -Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.

WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World or Countryman are all Mankind,
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.

VOL. XXXIII. NO. 23. BOSTOM, FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 1863 WHOLE NO. 1687.

<c01>
THE STATE OF THE COUNTRY.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Delivered before the Sixteenth Ward republican Association at the Cooper Institute New York,
MONDAY EVENING, MAY 11.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:-I understand! this is a ward meting-the Sixteenth Ward of New York, the banner Ward for Radical Republicanism. (Applause.) A very respectably sized meeting for a Ward meeting. (Laughter.) I am glad for the first time in my life, to be adopted into the politics of New York city, and to address a Ward meeting in behalf of justice and liberty. The text of my address the lesson of the hour, it seems to me, is: Patience and Faith. Possess your souls in patience, now as having already attained, not as if we were. steady perfect, but because the whole nation, as one man, has for more than a year set its.face Zionward. Ever since September 22d of last year, the nation has turned its face Zioinward, and ever since Burnside took the helm of the vessel, it has moved toward that point. (Cheers.) Now, a nation moving, and moving in the right path-there is no reason for doubt, there is no occasion for despair; we have found out at last the method, and we are in earnest. Patience, the passion of great souls, makes conquest certain. When the human heart is once capable of this greatest courage, no matter mater what maybe the cloud on the horizon, no matter how slow the motion, either official or national may be; now and then God lifts the cloud, so as to show us the blue sky behind; no matter how dark political mistake or treachery may lower, the moment comes when the North says that it is all a phantasmagoria, and behind, the great heart of the nation beats true to its destiny. (Cheers)
When I stood on this platform four months ago, men said: "You us not be surprised if blood flows in the streets. Traitors are trying to take the great Capital of the North out of our arms, and the Democratic party of the State is behind them." But one fine morning there was cautious hesitation in the leading Democrat of Albany, and the Mayor of New York defeated him on his first move. (Cheers.) When the counties came to be represented, the leaders found an army with officers, and no rank awl file. And the Goliah of Connecticut" Copperheads has been killed, not by a stripling, but by a girl. (Applause.) Or, if we must add to her skill, that of Gen. Hamilton, of Texas, the eloquent champion of the Union, why, then we can! almost say that out of the months of girls and slaveholders. God is perfecting liberty. (Applause.)
No, I have no doubt, no despair. Gradually, one after another, the shams of the North fall away. It is to be a long fight, no local struggle-only one part of the great battle going on the world over, and which began ages ago-only one grand division, one army corps doing its duty in the great struggle between free institutions and case institutions, the world over. Wherever caste lives, wherever class power exists, whether it by on the banks of the Thames or the Seine, whether by the side of the Ganges or the <Illegible> there the South has an ally as certainly as the surgeon's knife gives pain when it tone is the living fiber. (Cheers.) And against this mighty marshalling of everything that is strong in human selfishness, the Democracy of the North does battle. Now, that Democratic element in the North is strong enough, were it one and united have crushed all its foes on this continent in twenty days There never was a rime since the commencement of the struggle when, if the North had been a unit, the war might not have been <Illegible> in three months; and so ended, it would have slavery where it found t. But the North has ever been a unit. With the North as a unit, democratic, intelligent resolved, in earnest, the South never would have risked the struggle. But she knew that the North was divided into three great parties. One was routine, West Point, too lazy to think. (Great applause.) I resolve hunkerism Into indolence and cowardice, too lazy to think, and not daring to think. The man of the past is the man who got his ideas before he was twenty, and had rather think as his father thinks, than take the labor of thinking himself; he is a hunker, and he will die such. (Laughter.) And the North had a second element, the race hatred of the negro, phobia, and the Saxon contempt of the black blood, disgust with the question of the negro. hatred of him as another race, contempt of him as a slave, and weariness of the question. Outside of that was the Democrat of the North, in the manhood sense of the term, the man who believed in the manhood of his brother, the world over and was willing he should have hisrights. Against such a North the South rebelled-a North with one of its hands tied up by negro hatred, and the other by constitutional scruples, and West Point on its shoulders bunker had with the body of the people; that North rallied water and her sons with ever-growing willingness for the great battle betwixt Democracy and slavery, betwixt God and the Devil, for the world and the century. The Government was equally in to dark, equally undecided equally uncertain what course to pursue, and for a long time we stumbled. Why? Well I think, because our rulers were educated. Whigs. The old Whig party, good as it was in many respects, virtuous in many of its impulses, correct in certain of its aspirations, had one great defect; it had no confidence in the people, no trust in the masses; it did not believe in the conscience or the intelligence of the million; it looked out upon the world as in a Probate Court, of which the educated and the wealthy were the guardians. And so when our rules entered on the great work of defending the nation in its utmost peril, they dared not trust the country to the hearts of those that loved it. Your President as in Washington, doubtful what he might do, how far he might go. Month after now a little step, and now another, surprised that at very step the nation were before him, ready to welcome any word he chose to as say, and to support any policy he chose to submit, so that matters of vexed dispute, matters of earnest doubt, the moment the bugle gave a certain sound, have passed into dead issues. You know that when the rebellion first broke out, no man dared speak out touching the negro. The South fought to sustain slavery,

<c02>
and the North fought not to have it hurt. But Butler pronounced that magic word "contraband," and summoned the negro into the arena. (Applause.) It was a poor word. I do not know that it is sound law. Lord Chatham said, " nullus liber homo " is poor Latin, but it is worth all the classics. Contraband is a bad word, and may be bad law, but just then it was worth all the Constitution, (applause,) for in a moment of critical emergency it summoned the saving elements into the national arena, and it showed the Government how far the sound fibre of the nation extended. When Fremont (loud and long-continued applause,)-why won't you ever let me go on when I name Fremont? (Laughter.) I say when he pronounced that word emancipation on the banks of the Mississippi, the whole North, except the Government, said Amen! (Applause.) The Government doubted, till the 22d of September, 1862. But the moment the Government pronounced the word, the measure floated into a dead issue, and nobody worth minding now doubts or debates about the emancipation of slaves. It only shows you how strong the government is, if it will only act; how certain the heart of the people is to support it, if the government will only trust. If Mr. Lincoln could only be made to accept the line of the old huntsman song,
" Sit close in the saddle, and give him his head,"
he could carry 30,000,000 of people with him over every harrier to victory and peace. (Loud applause. ) I believe, therefore, in ultimate success, because every act of the government is more than endorsed by the intelligence and virtue of the people-the virtue of the people. That is the only point at issue. To-day your city roars with the tumult of welcome for returning soldiers. They come back not empty handed, but bringing hope and victory on their banners. Those soldiers will find not Virginia eaten over with barrenness, not starving people, not empty treasuries; they will find a North untouched-so much money that we have not to go abroad to ask for it, (applause.) so much wheat that we could feed the world, such ample munitions of war that your traitor merchants smuggle it to Carolina, (sensation)-an untouched North, while the South, mustering all her white men and all her sympathizers the world over, has not yet even touched the garnered treasure V of Northern strength. We have not yet put forth the first beginning of our power. In Scripture phrase, truly there has been a biding of our power. It' we fail, it will be because we deserve to, because we have not virtue enough to prefer the end to the means.
There is no question but have the conscience and intelligence of the North. Now I believe in those because thus far the government has never asked for anything <Illegible> of the people has not both given and endorsed. There is my ground of hope. I do not believe in Southern exhaustion. There may be starving men at the south, starving households, ill-clad soldiers, but there is no such exhaustion as approaches despair. The South has not yet begun to play her last card. The moment she feels exhaustion, she will proclaim liberty to the negro. The moment her cause touches is downfall in the judgment of its leaders, she will call the black into her ranks-call him by some proclamation of gradual emancipation, which will gather to her side the heartiest sympathy of the English aristocracy.
England never was an anti-slavery nation. Her ruling classes never accepted emancipation. England herself never cordially and unanimously accepted immediate abolition. As O'Connell well said, the scheme of immediate emancipation was carried over Parliament by the conscience of the middle classes, and they do not rule in England. To-day that party in the contest which offers England gradual emancipation will offer her all that her judgment approves. Before the South permits her flag to stagger, she will write on it gradual emancipation, and secure the House of Commons to her side. The moment she utters that word, I shall admit that she feels weak in the knees-never till then. There is no exhaustion yet that touches a traitor. The men that rebelled are the slaveholders-rebelled under the pretence of slavery, with the real purpose of killing republican institutions, and founding aristocratic institutions in their place. Slavery was the point to be protected, and the pretence that rallied the rebellion. But, now that it is afoot, its leaders throw off the mask, and without concealment avow fiat home that their object is to put this belt of the Continent under the control of aristocratic institutions, for the perpetuation of that -system, among others, which they love. That element has yet felt no exhaustion, and with that element I have no plea of conciliation. I am for conciliation, but not for conciliating the slaveholder. Death to the system, and death to the master, is the only motto. (Applause.)
 There is a party for whom I have ever the right hand of conciliation, and whenever the foot of military despotism is lifted from that party, I believe that in the South itself we shall be surprised at the weight, strength, and number of the men who still love the Union. There is a party for whom I have conciliation, and this [taking by the hand a beautiful little girl of five years old, with a fair complexion and light auburn ringlets] is its representative. In the veins that beat now in my right hand runs the best blood in Virginia's white races, and the better blood of the black race of the Old Dominion ("applause)-a united race, to whom, in its virtue, belongs in the future a country, which the toil and labor of its ancestors redeemed from nature, and gave to civilization and the nineteenth century. (Applause.) For that class I have ever an open door of conciliation-the labor, the toil, the muscle, the virtue, the strength, and the democracy of the Southern States. This blood represents "them all-the repentant master, when he sees matters in their true
light the slave restored to his rights, when at last, for the first time in her history, Virginia has a government, and is not a horde of pirates masquerading as a government.
 No, the South has not yet felt the first symptom of exhaustion. Get no delusive hope that our success is to come from any such scarce. This war will never be ended by an event. It will never come to a conclusion by a great battle. It is too deep in its sources, it is too wide in its influence, for that. The great struggle in England between Democracy and nobility lasted from 1640 to 1660, taking a king's life in its progress, and yet failed. The great struggle between the same parties in France began in 1789, and is not yet ended. Our own revolution began in 17 75, and never till the outbreak of the French revolution concentrated the attention of the monarchies of Europe was this country left in peace. And it will take 10 or 20 years to clear off the scar of such a struggle. Prepare yourselves for a life-long enlistment. How is the government to be held up in such a struggle? By our educating the mass, and the opinion of the mass for the great function to which Providence has summoned them. The government looks to the people for its initiative. Lord Lyons said in his dispatch to Earl Russell: "The Republican government dare not

<c03>
initiate a policy; it looks outward, and asks what its opponent will consent to." That is now the condition of the government. Hence the necessity of outspoken, perpetual, constant education of public opinion.
I do not believe in the government at Washington-I believe in the nation, I believe in events, I believe in the inevitable tendency of these coming ten years toward liberty and Union. But it is to be done as England did it in 1640, by getting rid gradually, man by man, of those who don't believe in progress. but believe in the past. And as man by man of that class retires, and we bring to the front men who are earnest in the present, victory, strength, and peace are to be the result. Now, for the present, I believe in Hooker. (Loud applause.) Men say he has fault-faults which some of his predecessors did not have. (Laughter.) Perhaps he has; but in my opinion, a diamond with a flaw is better than a pebble without. (Applause.) I do not set one defeat against him. I think, as Lord Bacon says, that a soldier's honor should be of a strong web which slight matters will not stick to. I believe Hooker's is of that kind. He means to fight; he knows how to fight; and those two are new elements at the head of the army. [Great merriment, and three, cheers for fighting Joe Hooker.] How pleasant Hooker's campaign has been! Instead of that cradle lullaby we used to hear a year ago, the news comes to us now that all is not quiet on the banks of the Rappahannock. [Applause.] On the other side there are three elements. Lee means to fight, and knows how to fight and he is deadly in earnest. The government, when it sent Hooker to I the front, sent a man who means to fight, who knows how to fight; and when this week it summons Sigel to his side, [loud applause,] it puts earnestness to the front also. [Renewed applause.]. I look upon it as the first drop of the coming shower. We have had men who neither knew how to fight, nor meant to fight-of no ability. Now we have ability to match the other side. We yet lack earnestness, ideas, and a willingness to sacrifice everything, a readiness to accept the issue, courage and industry in thinking. We have now two Generals-in-Chief. They both live in Washington, The sad news reaches us to-day that one means to take the field. [Laughter.] Lincoln and Halleck-they sit in Washington, Commanders-in-Chief, exercising that disastrous influence which even a Bonaparte would exercise on a battle if he tried to fight it by telegraph a hundred miles distant. But now it is said one of them means to take the field. Heaven forbid! [Applause.] The difference between Halleck and Fremont is just this; one has not learned anything since he graduated at West<Illegible> does not want to. He does not mean to undertake the <Illegible> indolent to go about to examine a new idea. It is enough for him that it was not in the text books when be graduated. [Laughter.] Battles were not fought so when he was taught, and it' he is beaten according to the books, he is willing to be beaten. [Laughter.] The German commanders complained of Napoleon, when he first launched into the battle-field, that he violated all the rules. Now Halleck's Missouri rival occupied the nineteenth century, and thought out the issues for himself-bad the labor of meeting a new contingency. He went to the head of the army a living man-not a dead printed book.'
I am beyond likes and dislikes. The day is too serious for antipathies and likings. All these men are nothing but dead lumber, to be thrown into the chasm, that the nation, over the path their bodies make, may march like an army with banners to liberty and peace. [Applause.] But never will this rebellion be put down while West Point rules at Washington. [Applause.] It does rule. That second Commander-in Chief cuts off everything that outgoes his own routine. There are two great classes in the army and in the State; one is represented by such a man as Halleck, who hates negroes, spurns novelties, detracts ideas, rejects everything but red tape. The other is represented by Hamilton, Butler, Phelps and Fremont. [Applause.] Sigel is in the field, and I hope he will drag in the rest. [Applause.] The cook takes an onion, and peals off layer after layer till she gets to the sweet, sound heart of the vegetable. So you will have to peal off Seward and Halleck, Blair and Chase, [laughter,] till you get to the sound, national element of civil and military purpose, the intense devotion to victory, the entire belief in justice, which can cope with Stonewall Jackson. [Applause.] Never till then shall we succeed.
I have compared Gen. Halleck and Gen. Fremont. You may take another parallel. One is, Seward and another is Butler. Seward does not believe in war, but in diplomacy or compromise. He has prophesied again and again that this war, like the divisions of former times, could be quieted in sixty or ninety days. He thought so; if he had not, he never would have risked his fame as a statesman upon the prophecy. He said by the voice of a regular army officer in the cabin of that ship that went down to dismantle Norfolk, when foreign-bred soldiers begged the American officers to stop and give them three hundred men to save two thousand cannon from the armies of the Confederates, and guaranteed to take that place, and hold it three or six months, with 200 men-one of his class took a gentleman into the cabin, and said, " You don't understand this thing; this is not a war, it is a quarrel: we have had a dozen of them; we shall get over it in sixty days." Seward believes it yet; he receives commissioners; he sends Frenchmen to Richmond, to note terms; he sends letters abroad, dealing with rebels as equals, in fact. Butler is the first man that ever hung a rebel (loud applause)- and it ought to be recorded on his grave-stone. If I were a politician and a General,! would not live an hour until I was his twin. (Laughter.) Let it go down to history that one-third of the nation burst into insurrection, and there was but one man, and he a Democrat, that dared to hang a felon. ("Loud applause.) He said to Louisiana, " England calls you belligerent. Fine word! You marshal armies and give commissions. AH I know is, you are felons. If we take a Frenchman, we shoot him; if we take an Englishman, we shoot him; if we take a Louisianan, we hang him." (Applause.) The whole significance of the Department of the southwest was in that gallows. The world may dignify the insurrection as it pleases, but to the Government it is felony punishable by the gibbet And when he said to the merchants of New Orleans, every inch short of the gibbet is pure grace, he represented the only theory that will ever conquer the rebellion. A Government in arms against criminals who have wasted its treasures and filled 250,000 of martyred patriot graves, rebels, not belligerents. Now, in these two distinctions between Halleck, routine, and Fremont, Phelps, Butler, realities, is the distinction between the future in military affairs; in the differences between Seward, the politician, and Butler, the Government, is the change needed in civil affairs. Why, if Seward is a Republican, God grant us a Democratic successor! (Laughter.) I want somebody to occupy the Presidential chair who believes in the Government, and in the people, who will act without casting his

<c04>
eyes over his shoulder to sec how far the people will support him. We want leaders that initiate-that actuary lead.
Friends, my belief is, that you and I arc bound to separate an expecting, imperative public opinion, which shall compel the Government to the adoption of such measures and such men. I say such men; because, though I believe in events, which are stronger than Cabinets, and are bearing us onward whether we will or not, I believe also in men as harmonizing the issue of events. Let me make the Generas, and I don't much care who makes the proclamations. Only let me put at the head of the advance-in the columns of the Union, certain men whom I could name, and the Cabinet at Washington may shut themselves up, and go to sleep with Rip Van Wintkle, till 1872. (Laughter.) For I know those, one blest of whose bugle horn were worth a million of mom-only put them in The heart of the rebellion where our armies ought to be. For the present, I believe in Hooker, and I believe in his success. But when'tis done, what of it? Gratify the North- startle Europe. So far good. But what is Virginia if she is ours? Barrenness-exhausted by two years" war-neither army able to get a pound of suitenance from her acres. It will take two years to make her a sell-sustaining State. What is Richmond? You might as well take Syracuse. You night as well fling a hundred thousand men upon Worcester. Jeff. Davis can pack up twice as much as belongs to him in a carpet-bag, and carry it away. (Laughter.) The town is-a hospital. The yellow flag might be put there over every house, and we have to sustain rather than be sustained, when the United States flag floats above it. Besides, I do not like to fight on the impression of the wheel, and let the enemy rest on the hub. (Laughter.) I am no anaconda fancier. (Laughter.) I would be at the hub. I would put. men, whose names you know too well, among the black masses of the Carolinas and Mississippi, and fight outward, grinding the rebellion to powder. That would come-leave Virginia to fall into our hands. Why, nothing keeps her from gravitating to us but the army. The slave system was dead there, practically, before 1861. Nothing but Confederate forces keeps her Southern. And now she never can be Southern. To hurt the rebellion by bringing the negro into the war, does not mean merely troops; it means localities. When we bring the negro into the war, we fight on his home, in the Gulf States where he ought to fight. The heart of the rebellion is where the negro is. It is there where our army should stand; if victorious, the bottom of the tub is out. And you know whose name the slave cherishes like a household word in every <Illegible>whose bidding he will rise to the stars and stripes.
Will the slave fight? Well, if any man asks you, tell him no. Will he work? If any man asks yon, tell him no. But if he asks you whether the negro will fight, tell him yes. [Applause.] If he asks you whether the negro will work, tell him yes-work even for patriotism without wages, as he has worked at Fortress Monroe, the United States promising him $10 a month, keeping the first $3 for any stray contrabands that might join him, taking the second $4 for clothing the contraband himself, and the other S3 Uncle Sam keeps. [Laughter.] Will he fight? Ask Higginson. He says in one of his private letters, that when he carried that first regiment to St. Mary's, one soldier got seven buckshot in the back of his neak, and unlike some white volunteers, afraid of the hospital, he got a comrade to dig them out with a jack-knife, and went on to the next battle. [Laughter.] Another, wounded in the left arm, afraid of the hospital, kept it secret 48 hours, until the swelling and pain were too great to be borne, and at last he owned up sick. A third, injured in the leg, bore it in silence for the sake of fighting one more skirmish, and then, when they sent him on picket duty, and he could not stand, owned up and went to the hospital. [Applause.] Do you think those men will fight? Another, with most ludicrous carelessness, went into the skirmish forward a dozen rods, fired, fell back, forward again, but it was noticed that he moved very awkwardly. When the skirmish was over, it was discovered that in order to increase his scanty rations, he had picked up a live goose when he entered the fight, and held it all the time between his legs. [Great laughter.]
I had the pleasure, the other day, of speaking to Gen. Butler for the first time in my life, thanking him for New Orleans, and I asked him his experience with the negro. Said be, when McClellan was on the peninsula, I felt that I was very scant of men, and the army at Corinth might be down upon me at any day, and I said to the government, Send me men if yon expect me to keep New Orleans; and they answered, We can't spare you a man, but you must hold New Orleans. I sent back word, Then I will go to Africa. He sent to the officers of the old New Orleans colored regiments, and said to them, "Will you fight for us?' "Willingly," they answered. "Then give me a regiment." In ten days they gave him a thousand men, and brought him their commissions as line officers. Said he, " Would you like to be Colonel or Major? " " No, sir; give us white men." " Then," said the Major General, "give me another regiment," then another, and, in ninety days, four regiments and a battery; and then noticing a mulatto Captain, worth half a million, speaking five languages, welcoming him to a banquet at his own house of seven courses served on silver, he thought such a man had too much interest in New Orleans to defend it as a Captain, and offered him a Major's commission. The Captain answered: " No matter where I fight; I only wish to spend what I have, and fight as long as I can, if only my boy may stand in the street equal to a white boy when the war is over." [Applause.] Well, your New York brother went down there, and; thought he was not good enough to associate with. How that regiment was recruited you know-perhaps not in the Sixteenth Ward-those Zouaves who demanded the mustering out of officers, and almost of men, before they would fight. Now I tell you my opinion -a Yankee, and just from the hub-I don't relieve that there was one man in that Zouave regiment fit to associate with the negroes of New Orleans; for the man that went down to the second city of the Union, and had it in his heart to refuse to stand side by side with its sons to defend its-soil is not worthy to associate with them. [Cheers.] That is the negro, the more of them the better, the only future for oar army. The President said to us of Massachusetts, some three, months ago, " I know. I am going to lose 300,000 men in tie Summer; I mean to supply their places with blacks." " Good," was our answer.. " Good, because it is good policy,' not because you need it Pat Butler and Fremont to the front, and the North-west will give you all you want." [Cheers.] " Well," he said, " do you think so?" And he said, " I mean certain Massachusetts men shall go down to New Orleans, and carry 150,000 guns with them." Why have they not gone? Gen. Hamilton goes to Boston a slave-holder, and says on our platform, "I am glad that my slaves are <illegible>, if it saves the Union." And, by the way, to go back a moment, if loyal men will surrender their slaves and save the Union, don't you

<c05>
suppose disloyal men will surrender theirs to save the Confederacy? Do you suppose the South will stop before she puts on to her banner Emancipation? Gen. Hamilton has the promise of the government at Washington over and over again, that he may go and shut the back door of the rebellion, out of which the traitors mean to fly when they are beaten, and through which Vicksburg gets her strength to-day. Why don't he have it? Your own great fellow-citizen goes to Washington under the pledge of the President, too much in a hurry to allow him to leave Washington for six hours, stays for a week, and comes back without a commission. Why? Because Abraham Lincoln is not President of the United States; because behind him, curbing his purpose, making Conditions that baulk his designs, making him doubt the purpose and the strength of the North, standing round him in civil and military positions, are men who do not mean that this battle shall be bravely and gallantly and promptly fought through. Cromwell never succeeded until the Long Parliament sloughed off every man who believed in the House of Lords, and left nothing but Democrats behind.
We shall never succeed until we slough off everything, that believes in the past, and bring to the front everything that believes there is but one purpose- that is, to save the Union on the basis of liberty [Cheers.] I believe that the President may do anything to: save the Union. He may take a man's houses, his lands, his bank stock, his horses, his slaves -anything to save the Union; the government may make every slave a free man, no matter where he is, in Kentucky or Louisiana, now or to-morrow, with compensation or without. Military necessity opens the door, but the moment Abraham Lincoln enters it, there is but one duty under the Constitution, that is, to execute justice betwixt the master and the slave. There is but one thing the government can't do to save the nation, and that is, to make a free man into a slave; everything else is within its-power. I doubted somewhat when I heard the news from the Rappahannock, until I saw that reverses had taught the nation where its strength lay. Until Sigel was called to Washington, I doubted whether the government was being educated in its pathway. The moment he went, I saw sunlight be-hind the cloud. [Applause.] God grant us so many reverses that the government may learn its duty I God grant us that the war may never end till it leaves us on the solid granite of impartial liberty and justice [Cheers.] What we have to teach Washington is, that this is the full purpose of the million, and under it and in it is the certainty of success- the millions, not <Illegible> utterly impartial-neither President, nor Cabinet, nor Senate. Peel off Seward, peel off Halleck, peel off Blair, peel off Sumner-yes, Massachusetts Senators as well as others. I will tell you why. When the government called on New England for a negro regiment, and we went from county to county urging the blacks to enlist, one Massachusetts Colonel dared to say, down in South Carolina, in the face of the enemy, that he had rather be whipped without negroes than conquer at their side-a Massachusetts Colonel in that hour of emergency and critical issue. His case within twenty days went before the Senate of the United States, and the very week that his apology was filed in the War Office at Washington, Massachusetts Senators begged their reluctant, brothers to make him a Brigadier General. Yes, Massachusetts Senators, thoroughly informed, and put upon their guard, insisted, against the repeated remonstrance of their fellow Senators, on rewarding the mutineer. ["Shame!"" shame!"] A private, ignorant, uneducated, just mustered into the service, mutinied in the streets of Boston, and Col. Lowell shot him, rightfully. [Cheers.] A Massachusetts Colonel mutinied in the face of the enemy, and a Massachusetts Senator made him a Brigadier-General. Such Republicanism will never put down the Rebellion.. Never until we welcome the negro, the foreigner, all races as men, and melted together in a common nationality, hurl them all at despotism, will the North deserve triumph, or earn it at the hands of a just God. [Applause,] But the North will triumph. I hear it. Do you remember in that disastrous siege in India, when the Scotch girl raised her head from the pallet of the hospital, and said to the sickening hearts of the English: "I hear the bagpipe, the Campbells are coming," and they said; "Jessie it is delirium." "No, I know it, I heard it far off." And in an hour the bagpipe burst upon their glad ears, and the banner of England floated in triumph over their heads. So I hear in the dim distance the first notes of the jubilee rising from the hearts of the millions. Soon, very soon, you shall hear it at the gates of the citadel, and the Stars and Stripes shall guarantee Liberty from the Lakes to the Gulf. [Continued applause.]

SPEECH OF HON. HENRY B. STANTON,
Delivered at the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, at the Cooper Institute, TUESDAT EVENING, MAY 12.

MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:- I cannot dream of anything, hardly, that I was less likely to do this evening, than to address you. In England, at the close of a plenteous and dainty feast, made up of many rich courses, they always furnish the guests, at the last moment, with a bit of very dry cheese and dry, bread, thinking, as they say, that it Helps "digestion. I suppose that is the reason winy I am introduced here to-night. (Laughter.)
I have sundry reasons for not addressing you. You want to bear the Hutchinsons again, and so do I. It is late, and you wish to go home, and so do I Another reason why I did not wish to address you was, that I was not technically a member of your Society!, yet "I have another. I am a man of progress, and the American Anti-Slavery Society is getting but of date. (Laughter and applause.) Why, Wendell Phillips, compared with his fellow-citizen, Benjamin F. Butler, is a Hunker, and Wm. Lloyd Garrison, compared with my fellow-citizen, Daniel S. Dickinson, is a Conservative. (Laughter and applause.) I cannot talk to people nor about things of the past. I have done discussing slavery. When the gun is aim with mathematical precision at the target, I would as soon talk about taking aim as to talk abbot slavery. The gun is pointed at the heart of this; rebellion, the core of which heart is slavery, and now do not let us talk about taking aim, but load and fire as fast as we can. (Applause.) 
Fellow citizens, pardon me a few words more; and I speak with alt solemnity. We are involved in a gigantic and desperate struggle, and the only way out is the way through. (Hear, hear, and applause.) I will not suggest a compromise of our national difficulties merely because it would be wrong. I will not suggest; a compromise, merely.because heretofore every sectional difficulty has been adjusted. to the South, while now they most be adjusted to please the North. But I have to tell you that peace cannot be attained by compromise in any form, because compromise cannot possibly faring peace. Suppose we attempt to adjust our present difficulties as we attempted to adjust those of the past. How, for in-

<c06>

stance, would peace fare in Congress? With Keitt and Priory and their compeers, championing the one side, and Grow and Lovejoy, and; their coadjutors, the other; they could not go through with the election of a speaker without a revolution. I am placing the argument, you see, on the lowest possible ground; the ground of expediency. Look to the Senate Chamber under your reign of a compromise peace. Davis arid Wade; Benjamin and Trumbull. Mason and Fessenden, Toombs and Phillips, for he may yet have to go as low as that (applause,) are sitting lace to face, Why dirk would be drawn, and revolvers pointed, before they would have closed their first debate. So much for compromise. Now, as to another mode of settlement-a division of the Union. For a brief period after secession began, I encouraged the idea that we had been so long harassed and cursetl by these infamous wretches below the Potomac, that it was well they, had withdrawn from the free North; and I was willing they should link themselves to the semi-barbarians of Central America, or the filibusters of Cuba, or to any people they might choose, so that we were rid of them. But reflection soon taught me that separation would not bring peace, but, on the contrary, that every mile of the dividing line, whether it ran between the free and the slave States, or along the magic parallel of 36 deg. 30 min., would blaze with war within a year from the hour it was traced. (Applause.) Division would only intensify the motives and causes that have initiated the pending quarrel. We must remove them by drying up their source, if we would have peace. History warns us to beware of border quarrels. Look to England and Scotland before their union. Their border forays, which crimsoned their history, their romance, their poetry, for five centuries, would be but the stillness of the Sabbath day when compared with the tempest of fire and blood that would rage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, if North and South divide, leaving the original causes of the conflict not only unsettled, but intensified a thousand fold by this bitter war. I repeat, therefore, that the only way out is the way through. (Applause.)
Still a word more. We are to have a long war. I do not know that we shall ever see the end of this horrible, conflict, until we have thrown our last available man and our last, spare dollar into the controversy. For there is one thing certain: Jeff. David and his compeers are id earnest-terribly in earnest. You have got (to use a street expression,) " to wipe them out," and plant a new race in their stead, be- fore you-can have peace. (Applause-"That's so.") Fellow-citizens, it is in this point of view that the contest, magnifies. The war is to be relentless as well as protracted. There are to be more vacant chairs around our domestic altars-more weeds worn by sisters, mothers, brothers, fathers; before we reach the end. Can we go through? Yes! We have not yet touched their rim of our resources. As to our resources of men and material, they are abundant to carry us successfully through. Living as I do, in Wall street, among bankers and brokers, I know there is no nerve so full of determination just now, as the golden nerve. The fact is patent to the bulb and bears of the London Exchange, that, since Congress adjourned, the people of this country have subscribed seventy-five million dollars to their treasury; to carry on this war; and this assures me that we shall go through. (Applause.)
Another question begins to occupy my mind. Is not where we shall colonize the emancipated negroes, but where shall we send some fifty thousand, white rebels? Before we can have solid peace, there must be an exodus of a portion of the Southern traitors. Hence," I am opposed to shutting the Texan door into, Mexico. Leave it open, for we must be rid of one class of these felons. I am not a man of blood; therefore, 1. would tender to them expulsion, rather than strangulation. Sir, there is hardly hemp enough in the West, or timber enough in the East, to hang all who would need to be hung, if we are to look to the scaffold for permanent peace. But the incorrigible rebels, down event to the third grade, must mount the; gibbet, or flee beyond the seas. I would give them the benefit of the latter alternative. They may seek response under the shadow of the thrones of their friends Victoria, or Napoleon, or, with the consent of the arch-fiend, they may hide in the bottomless pit, and consort with devils, if they prefer-but they must not stay here-go somewhere they must. (Applause.) In seeking peace, therefore, the highest considerations of morality, as well as the lowest dictates of expediency, demand that we continue this conflict, however long and bitter it may be, until the country rests upon a solid, permanent peace. Let us, then, register our vow in high heaven that this war shall no cease until from the oaken forests of the Northern lakes, to the spice groves of the Mexican gulf, and from the iron-bound coasts of the Atlantic,. to the golden strand of the Pacific, there shall exist but one republic, inhabited by one people, yielding to the sway of one Constitution, and displaying to the nations one flag, and until the sun as he rides over this, wide domain shall neither rise upon a-tyrant nor set upon a slave. (Loud applause.)
GENERAL ROECRANS.
We are glad to see the following noble sentiments from the pen of Gen. Rosecrans. They were written to the editor of the Catholic Telegraph of Cincinnati, in regard to a discussion, which has been going on there. Rosccrans has always been a Democrat, and these words will inspire new confidence in him throughout the country.'

MURFREESBORO, April 27th, 1863.

MY DEAR FATHER EDWARD:-The rebels grabbed the last letter I wrote you, but they will draw little consolation from its contents. I am happy to see the splendid stand you took in the Telegraph against slavery, with- its horrors, barbarities, and base immoralities. Slavery is dead. Nothing car resuscitate it. To learn this fully, you should pay us a visit. There is not a negro in the South who does not know he is free." Around here they have squatted on the plantations, and refuse to work for any one out themselves They hare sown little crops of 
their own, and the masters have ceased to exercise any control over them.
It is heedless for me to say that I applaud every sentiment you have expressed in the Telegraph, I am heart and hand with you in this cause. Slavery is doomed, and those who would now uphold it will be held up in a very short time to public odium and execration. No statesman will vindicate it, my friend an progress will stretch forth a hand to break its fall, no lover of humanity and religion will grieve for its overthrow. I have lived long enough in the South to see Its working, Its disgusting features, debasting the higher principles of our nature, warring with religion, and patronizing vice and immorality. Almighty God has certainly ordained its destruction in this country, where it has been more offensive and immoral than in any other, and until it is utterly extinet, this war cannot, from the nature of hostilities at as early a day as possible; therefore, I am in favor of the President's Proclamation.

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, far the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OP THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It Is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commander! of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 5, 1863..
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Thirtieth New England Anti-Slavery Convention assembled at the Meionaon in Boston, on Thursday, May 28th, at 10 o'clock. A. M.
EDMUND QUINCY, President the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, called the Convention to order, and the Committee of Arrangements reported the following organization of the Convention:-
For President,
SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, N. Y.
Vice Presidents.
EDMUND QUINCY, of Massachusetts,
JOHN T. SARGENT, of Massachusetts,
EBEN'S D. DRAPER, of Massachusetts,
BOURNE SPOONER, of Massachusetts,
JOHN BAILEY, of Massachusetts,
PETER LIBBEY, Maine.
BENJAMIN F. HUTCHINSON, New Hampshire.
ASA FAIRBANKS, Rhode Island.
Secretaries.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Boston,
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester.
Business Committee.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, HENRY C. WRIGHT, ANDREW T. FOSS, WM. WELLS BROWN, E.H. HEYWOOD. GILES B. STEBBINS, ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, CATHARINE A. F. STEBBINS.
Finance Committee.
JAMES N. BUFFUM, LEWIS FORD, ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, DARIUS M. ALLEN, DANIEL S. WHITNEY.
The vote was taken, and the persons beforenamed were chosen as officers of the meeting.
A note from WENDELL PHILLIPS, speaking of the sudden death of his youngest brother, the evening previous, was read to the Convention. The Convention, sympathizing in his loss, could not be otherwise than sorely disappointed at the prospect of not seeing and hearing Mr. Phillips in the Convention.
On motion of Mr. QUINCY, (and seconded,) the Convention then unanimously voted to adjourn to 2 o'clock, P. M., in order that all present might participate in the glorious sight, upon which all Boston is this day looking,—the march of the 54th (colored) Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteer Militia through the city, to embark for the seat of war,—the first regiment of colored men which has marched from the Free States, at the call of the Government, to bear a part in the overthrow of the Rebellion which Slavery's accursed lust of power has set on foot.
AFTERNOON. The Convention was called to order a few minutes after 2 o'clock, by ASA FAIRBANKS, of Rhode Island, one of the Vice Presidents.
Rev. Mr. SAVARY, of West Newton, offered a very appropriate prayer, with the earnest thanksgivings of the meeting for what our eyes have seen to-day.
Mr. MAY, in behalf of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, said that no time would be occupied in a formal report of the progress of the cause, since this Convention met a year ago. He would only point to two events which had marked, and would ever grandly distinguish, this year. The first, the President's Proclamation of Emancipation to Three Million Slaves, in the rebel States ; the second, the march through the city of Boston to-day, with the unanimous applause of the crowds of citizens which filled the streets, of the first Regiment of Colored Men which has yet gone from the Free States to the war. For the first, he said, from his heart, God bless Abraham Lincoln, and all who had held up his hands in the issuing of that Proclamation ; and God forgive (if that be not too daring a prayer) those, in his own Cabinet and elsewhere, who had done so much to hinder and to thwart that glorious measure!
HENRY C. WRIGHT said that the duty of every man was to do anti-slavery work, each in his own manner. He had endeavored to do so, for thirty years past. He was on the Common, this morning. He felt proud of the exhibition there. He cried, and laughed, and shouted with joy. He was not a military man, but he never saw such a satisfactory military display. But the most cheering sight was the assemblage of all Boston to see this negro regiment, to see the ladies of Beacon street waving their handkerchiefs to them, to hear the applauses that were given them on all sides.
Twelve year ago, be had offered a resolution in an anti-slavery meeting, that the negro was the only name under heaven whereby this nation can be saved. It now seemed that that prophecy was in process of fulfilment.
He, individually, believed in the making of war by ideas rather than bullets. And he proposed still to labor by the diffusion of ideas. A vast work was yet to be done in behalf of the colored people, for the freedom of some yet remaining slaves, and for the help and progressive development of all.
Rev. Mr. TRASK, of Fitchburg, was soon to leave the city, but he wished to hear his own voice in this meeting first, and congratulate his old friends on the glorious day now in progress. Emancipation is now to make unwonted advances, both with the colored man and the white man. He bade God bless the Convention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, being vigorously called for and applauded, said that compelling an unprepared man to speak was very much like compelling a soldier to volunteer. He would, however, not refuse the request of the meeting.
We all seem to be in agreement to-day. We are all rejoicing in so much as has now been accomplished for freedom, and see cheering signs that more is to follow. And none of the signs of the times are more auspicious than the spectacle we had all (he supposed) that morning been witnessing.
He had taken a very deep interest in this arming of the colored people. He was interested in it as an abolitionist, and also as a peace man, paradoxical as that might seem. The uniform elevates the colored man in the social scale, and increases his self-respect, because it is a recognition of his manhood and his citizenship by the Government. What would peace gain if men who will fight for other things would not fight for liberty? The way to peace, permanent peace, as things are now, is manifestly for the conflict to go on, until liberty shall become universal. When we get this liberty, we shall have peace. Slavery and war go together. They have always gone together. While the former continues, the latter will always follow in its train. It is plain, then, if the rebellion is to be effectually crushed, the war must continue until slavery is exterminated.
I am glad to see the men of the North who will not accept my pence-views, acting earnestly in their own way in support of my liberty-views. Let by-gones be by-gones. Let as not look back to what men have said or done, bat let us joyfully and earnestly unite with all who now oppose slavery, and combine in an effort to rid this country of it forever.
Hon, HENRY WILSON, Senator of Massachusetts, being recognized in the audience, was loudly and persistently called for; he at length came forward, amidst the loudest cheers. He said he had been more accustomed to deny friends than to shrink from foes. He knew not what he could saw now. Events were speaking for us. No words could express his emotions as he looked upon that regiment to-day. They were required to go to fight in this war because the white men of the North were regiment to their duty. Burns bad been sent back to slavery from Boston, marching down State street guarded by U. S. soldiers. That was sad. But he had the comfort to-day of seeing a noble regiment of colored men, marching over the same ground under
<c02>
the stars and stripes, and on their way to flight those slaveholders who are now in the attitude of rebels. He had seen the march of this regiment without a whisper of opposition or reproach. The people were getting on to see that their position must be changed before they could deserve or obtain victory. Heretofore, we deserved defeat. We are now begin­ning to take the right course, and the Slave Power is beginning to be broken. But more is to be done. Three millions of slaves have been freed, but a million remain to be freed, and much is to be done by all of us in behalf of their rights, and the welfare of the whole colored race.
Mr. Wright asked if Mr. Wilson understood that the slaves referred to in the Proclamation were by it made legally free.
Mr. WILSON said the order was a military order, but that, under the circumstances, no force could be added to the Proclamation, even by a law of Congress. The order declared the slaves now, henceforward and forever, free. And the President would be eternally disgraced if he attempted to recall it. It was his mani­fest duty to see it executed in full.
He wanted the true men of the North to say to the loyal men of the South, that, at all events, that Procla­mation must and shall be enforced. If the Anti-Slave­ry men of this country do their duty, though months and years of trial may yet be before us, we shall as­suredly triumph.
J. N. BUFFUM  rose to introduce to the meeting an Englishman, Rev. Mr. Calthrop, who has taken an active part in that country in the discussion of the great contest in which the United States are now in­volved, and always in behalf of Freedom and denunci­ation of the causes and aims of the Slaveholders' rebellion.
Rev. Mr. CALTHROP made a very animated and in interesting speech, in the course of which he said:
Before a promiscuous audience of Americans, might be somewhat embarrassed in speaking; but have no feelings of that sort before an Anti-Slavery audience. I am not here to say that England is a re­publican country. It is not. But I can assure you that England is Anti-Slavery. There are no more pro-slavery men in England now, than there are no more in Boston.
Men felt there that when Lincoln was elected a great Anti Slavery victory had been gained. Englishmen felt enthusiastic in favor of the North. This enthusiasm was first checked by the diplomatic in­struction to Mr. Adams, that no promises were to be made, and no discussion entered upon, by him, in re­gard to the relation of the Government to slavery.
The second check was when the slaves of a rebel Colonel were returned to him.
The third was when the action of Fremont against slavery was overruled, and Fremont himself displaced by the Government.
The provisionary Proclamation of September 22d began to mend matters, and the Proclamation of January 1st produced an immense change.
Even in the meetings in opposition to the North, the speakers took no pro-slavery ground, but only said that the North was as pro-slavery as the South.
At a London meeting in favor of the North, he had made a five-minutes' speech an hour and a quarter long, and found the people disposed to continue a course of Anti-Slavery action. An Exeter Hall meeting was resolved on, and in time was held. He feared the hall would not be filled, but he himself had great difficulty to get in. A second hall was opened, and immediately filled. A third, and then a fourth meeting were or­ganized in the street.
What the English people bad come to those meet­ings for was not to be convinced, but to demonstrate English feeling on the subject; to send a voice across the water in favor of liberty.
Emancipation and Union was the sentiment of all these meetings.
In the midst of the Exeter Hall meeting, a tele­graphic message came from Bradford, (where Mr. Forster, their M. P., was addressing them,) asking what Exeter Hall thought. It was telegraphed back
that Exeter Hall wont for Emancipation and Union,
and the same message was sent to another meeting, addressed at the same time by George Thompson. (Immense applause.)
Another large and influential meeting was soon af­ter addressed by Rev. Newman Hall, who stood second to no other man, the speaker thought, in able defence of the cause of America on the basis of liberty and justice.
Since then, public meetings have been held in every considerable town in England with success, while the single secession meeting which was attempted in Yorkshire was a failure in every sense. Rev. S. Mat, Jr. invited Rev. Mr. Calthrop, in the name of the Convention, to attend our meeting tomorrow in the upper Hall, where his interesting and eloquent statements in relation to English feeling and action might be given to an audience of thousands, instead of to one thousand.
Mr. HARDMAN, of Lowell, (lately a Lancashire operative who had spoken with George. Thompson at one of the English meetings in favor of the North,) expressed his great satisfaction at having, this after­noon, heard two gentlemen for whom he had long had a great respect, Mr. Garrison and Mr. Wilson.
In the many meetings he had attended in England, the objection made to the North was, that they were pro-slavery as well as the South. It was not that the English were pro-slavery, but that they did not find the Northern Americans sufficiently anti-slavery.
Mr. GARRISON said he heartily rejoiced to hear his idea confirmed, that the heart of the people of England is with us, favorable to freedom and favorable to this country. The aristocratic principle, there, no doubt, sympathizes with the aristocratic principle here; but the masses of the people, in public assemblies, have, welcomed the movements of President Lincoln against slavery. They hesitated for a time, because they did not understand why the abolitionists supported the Government and the Union, which they hail previous­ly opposed. They wished to see the Government more plainly for freedom first. Then came the Proclama­tion of September, and then that of January, and now we have England with us. We will have no war with England.
Henry C. Weight said he desired to ask Senator Wilson, and it would be a gratification to many in the Convention if he would at this time answer, whether in his judgment the act of rebellion was not itself an act of emancipation in all the rebel States; also, whether the present administration, has not done many acts, essentially anti-slavery in character, and what those acts are.
Mr. Wilson was again called to the platform by the general voice of the meeting. He came forward, and said he would answer these questions to the best of his ability, holding himself always ready and bound to answer the interrogatories of the people. To the first question he said he had no doubt whatever that the rebellion forfeits all the property, and the lives also, of the rebels. He then proceeded to state to the Convention, in a clear and business-like manner, the series of anti-slavery acts and measures done and en­acted by the President and Congress daring the past two years:-
They have emancipated 3000 slaves in the District of Columbia.
They have abolished the slave code in that District; abolished the pro-slavery courts there, and established another in which the colored people of the District are admitted to all rights and privileges enjoyed by any.
They have established a High School for colored children in that District.
They have forever prohibited slavery and establish­ed permanent freedom in all the Territories of the United States.
They have passed the Homestead law, one of the strongest movements in favor of freedom.
They have established it as a settled rule of the Government that no officer may surrender a slave, not assume person to be a slave.
<c03>
They have established the role of confiscation of the slaves of rebels.
They have settled that rebels are to take no advan­tage by the Fugitive Stare Law, even while that law remains unrepealed.
They have commenced the raising of negro regiments for the army.
Their Enrolment Act (commonly called the Conscription Act) puts black and white people on the same footing.
Under the lead of Charles Sumner, they have recognized Hayti and Liberia, and formed an alliance with them.
They have formed a treaty with England, estab­lishing a mutual right of search in opposition to the foreign slave trade.
They have passed sentence of death upon a slave trader, and executed it
On September 22d, 1862, they proclaimed prospec­tive emancipation to the slaves of rebels.
On the 1st of January, 1863, they proclaimed the actual freedom of 3,000,000 slaves.
Besides these acts of the general Government, we may point with satisfaction to the following:-
The Governor of Delaware has recommended eman­cipation in that State.
Maryland is substantially loyal, and is moving on­ward towards emancipation. Missouri will soon be a free State. Western Virginia is already a free State. Very many voters in Kentucky and Tennessee favor emancipation in those States.
I admit, said Mr. Wilson, that the Government has not done all it should have done, not all it will do. We need not talk now about the Constitution, but stand firm in doing our duty against the rebels, and slavery must perish.
Mr. Wilson concluded amidst great applause. Adjourned to 71/2 P. M.
EVENING. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
Mr. INNIS, of Salem, contrasted the present times with those some thirty years ago, in which he first espoused the anti-slavery cause.
John C. CLUER said that nine years ago this week we had a procession in the streets of Boston,-the military force of the city, and its whole police force be sides, escorting and forcing a solitary colored victim, a fugitive slave, to the vessel which was to bear him back to slavery. To-day the entire police force o' the city turns out to pioneer and escort one thousand colored soldiers to march to the defeat and overthrow of these very slaveholders to whom poor Anthony Burns was sent back! There are some who say they see but a small progress. He thought this was proof of a wonderful, vast progress. He spoke of the simple fidelity with which the hard-working toilers of Great Britain had refused to countenance any measure or policy which showed any favor to slavery, even though it promised to give employment and food to them­selves.
A beautiful song, "There's no tuck word at fail,' was sung by Mr. Asa B. Hutchinson and his children. Wm. wells Brows said-This is a proud day for this country, and for that class of its people to which I belong. We have lived a humble life, having no historians except the abolitionists. We have been op pressed at the South, and despised at the North. The literature of the country has ignored us, except when it abused us. But a new time has come. We are now beginning to be a people. At the beginning of this war, men maintained that they were fighting only against the rebels, and not against the niggers. Now, things have changed. The people have been forced to take a different position, and I am glad of it. Early in the rebellion, many colored people in this city went to the State House, and offered their service f or the war. They were scornfully told that the State had no work for negroes to do. The whole country took the same course with the colored people, and the army even refused the services of the slaves of rebels. I thank God that this policy has failed. The nation has been driven from one stand to another, and he finally been forced too see that the only successful policy is the employment of black men. The white men are as brave as the black, but they have not the same heart, the same deep interest in this cause.
We have had, to-day, a sight such as I never expected to see in the free States. The colored regiment who have marched forth today understand that they run greater risks than other soldiers.
These men go to the South, not only to put down the rebellion, but to destroy that system of slavery which caused the rebellion. We are to have a new Union. And the black man is one of the forces which are to produce it. I thank God that the black man has this opportunity of redeeming and elevating himself. Let no one think that abolitionism is over. A great work is still to be performed. While the soldiers are fighting in the South, let us be watchful to do our part in the North.
Another song by the Hutchinson family was given, and received with applause. It was dedicated to the 54th Massachusetts regiment, and is called "Ever be happy, ever be free."
Edmund Quincy, Esq., spoke especially, and in terms of high commendation, of the administration of Gen. Benjamin F. Butler, in New Orleans,-a man who had shown the highest talent and true greatness in the conduct of affairs there. He passed to speak of the undoubted valor and determined bravery of the colored troops who are now coming into our armies.
Mrs. Jacobs, from Alexandria, Va., (better known to many persons as "Linda," in the book of that name,) once herself a slave, and for many months past a su­perintendent of the aged and sick slaves, who had fled to Alexandria, was invited to the platform with two little orphan colored girls, whom she had brought with her. The sight was evidently a touching one to the audience. It was stated that she purposed coming again to Boston, in course of the summer, with more of the orphan girls, for whom she desired to obtain homes. Persons in the audience at once offered to take the two girls then present.
Frederick Douglass, being seen in the audience, was called for, and came to the platform, and spoke of the improved and improving, but by no means yet just and rightful position of the colored man under the United  States Government. He said he felt inexpressible pleasure in again taking a place on the platform of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention-the freest platform in the world.    He would speak briefly, having given his time and strength, to-day, to the 54th regiment.
It had been officially told him that the 54th was the best drilled and the most sober regiment that has ever left the State, and that there had been less desertion from its lines than from any other.
This is our day, the black men's day, as Mr. Quincy well remarked.
By and by, Massachusetts will take another step, and not only put a musket in the black man's hand, but put the badge of office on his shoulder.
We formerly argued against slavery. Now, emancipation is coming, and another question appears, What shall be done with the slaves? Where shall we, the colored people, stand? Shall we be wholly free, an equal at the ballot-box, at the jury-box, and at the cartridge-box, with the white man? Our children are not admitted to be apprentices, clerks, journeymen, and they grow up without ambition or aspiration. There is much prejudice and injustice against us yet remaining. My own son, an invalid soldier, was to­day set upon and beaten down to the pavement. (A voice-" It is true; I saw it.") After all, there is something mean in white men asking colored men to fight for them, under the existing circumstances. Still, I am not in favor of having the first black regi­ments commanded by colored men; because under oppression and calumny, the negro has lost confidence in himself, and may not do justice to His own powers. To obtain foil discipline, order and efficiency at once, white officers are necessary. Now, however, some
<c04>
m in the 54th regiment have become capable of demand, and advancement should be open to them.
Ir. G.T. DOWNINO wished to obtain from the Conviction an expression of its opinion whether the <illegible> people should be treated as an inferior people by <Illegible>, to be held in subjection to all white races. The <Illegible> asked the Convention if, in their judgment, <Illegible> equal rights of colored people, as men and as <Illegible>, ought to be practically and thoroughly acknowledged in future, to say Yea,-when an instant and <illegible> Yea burst seemingly from every mouth; <Illegible>, when those of a contrary opinion were desired to <Illegible> Nay, from the crowded audience there came not tingle Nay.
The President of the Convention, Rev. S. J- MAY, <Illegible>:
Some time in the year 1834, I came to Boston to send an Anti-Slavery meeting. The Hon. Mr.-, one of the most prominent citizens of the <illegible> at that time, was a particular friend of my <Illegible> father, and had always manifested for me a <Illegible> kind regard. I had heard that he was much <Illegible>, because I had become an Abolitionist; and at he wished to see me, that he might convince me <Illegible> my folly. Of course, I presented myself at his door, <Illegible> was soon ushered into his presence.
He earnestly pressed upon me the authority of the <Illegible> of our Republic, and the compromises of the Constitution, which they in their great wisdom <Illegible>. Finding that I believed in a higher law, he <Illegible> upon me what he called the <Illegible> of our undertaking, because of the natural, great inferiority of the negroes.
To all this, I replied- "Sir, what is it that we ask, that we demand of you and of our countrymen? Not that you shall consider and receive ignorant negroes is intelligent men, or vicious negroes as virtuous men, or poor negroes as rich men. We are not so foolish, Sir, as to ask or expect this. But we do insist that all men, whatever may be their complexion, though they be as black as my coat, ought to be allowed all opportunities and means to become as wise, as good and as rich as they can; and that at any time, and any where, and by all persons, they ought to be acknowledged to be just what they have become-our equals, if they have become equals-our superiors, if they have become so. It is mean, Sir, in us-a meanness beyond a parallel, to deny them every privilege, and then despise and oppress them because they are inferiors."
"My deluded young friend," he said, with great warmth of manner, "if you should bring me a black man, who was the wisest of the wise, and the best of the good, and the richest of the rich, I would not acknowledge him to be my equal."
"Then, Sir," said I, "you would deserve to be laughed at, for he would be your superior. Wise, good, rich as you are, you are not equal to the richest, wisest, best There is Rammohun Roy, the learned and excellent Brahmin of India, who is soon to visit this country. He is as much a colored man as are very many of the inhabitants of this land, whom you so reject and despise; how shall you regard and treat him?" "I shall pay him no respect," was his prompt and angry reply,-" I shall not seek, I shall avoid his company." "Then," I rejoined, "you will be a great loser; for Rammohun Roy is one of the most remarkable men of the age."
This was the last conversation I ever had with the Hon. Mr.-. It broke our friendship. I was given to understand that he did not wish ever to see me again.
Such was the revelation made to me, in the outset of this Anti-Slavery Reform, of the intensity and bitterness of this prejudice against color. It is not, however, a consequence of the natural, necessary inferiority of colored persons. That has never been established, and never will be. It is the natural consequence of our cruel, wicked treatment of them. We naturally hate, and try to despise, those whom we have oppressed, or in any way seriously injured.
Let us give to our colored brethren a fair chance to become what God has made them capable of being. Let us interest ourselves in their improvement, and <Illegible> we feel towards them as we do towards all whom we wish to benefit and bless.
One other sentiment, Mr. Mat said, he wished to utter to the Convention; it is that the colored people of the South are entitled to possess the soil of the South (great applause). Mr. MAY stated very ably and conclusively the reasons for assigning at least a large portion of the land of the South to this long oppressed population.
The Hutchinson family sang another song-The Old Ship of State-a little son of Mr. H’s, but six years of age, bearing a part. Great applause followed, and the Convention adjourned to Friday, at 10 A. M., to meet in the Tremont Temple.

FRIDAY.
The Convention assembled this morning, according to adjournment, at Tremont Temple, the President in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Rev. JOHN BLAIN.
The President spoke of that day of small things, the original formation and early efforts of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and of the discouraging circumstances in Church and State which then opposed its movements. He contrasted with these the cheering events which now show unlooked-for progress in the movement against slavery ; and he pointed out the necessity of keeping our hands and hearts united in urging forward the work yet to be done.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON spoke of the pro-slavery influences yet existing in the daily press of this city, referring not only to calumnious and grossly false reports of what took place in the meetings, but misleading notices of the place and time when and where they were to be held. The report in the Post not only reversed the facts by calling the attendance "meagre" and the speeches "tame," but mentioned four or five distinguished persons as speaking in those meetings, who had not at that time been even present. The Trascript and Traveller both had misstated the time and place of the meetings of the Convention, although each had in its columns an advertisement which stated both correctly.
Mr. Garrison made favorable mention of two photographic prints recently produced, commending them to the favorable notice of the audience. One, "The Watch-Night," by Mr. Carleton, the other, a representation of the frightful scars caused by whipping on the back of a Louisiana slave.
The Business Committee retired for consultation, and the President of the Convention read extracts from the morning's Post and Advertiser, relative to the proceedings of yesterday.
'Mr. PARDEE referred to Theodore Parker's statement of a philosophic trinity, Truth, Justice and Love." He had thought; as he saw William Lloyd Garrison on this platform, that he was the impersonation of this trinity. He said there was another trinity; the Emancipation Proclamation; the arming of slaves to fight, at once for their own rights and for ours; and the naturalization of the negro, by giving him the lands forfeited by rebel slaveholders. The government of this country should stretch out to the colored people a protecting hand. And the first step in this process is to help those who would be free, themselves to strike the blow.
Rev. DANIEL S. WHITNEY, of Southboro, referred to a meeting which he had just attended, the worthy pious brethren in which "did not know what to do." [A difficulty, be it observed, in which these brethren have found themselves, any time, for thirty years past] It seemed to him that our present duty is even more to ourselves than to the negro. We must free ourselves from an immense amount of prejudice yet remaining against this race. We should think less of nationality, composed as we are of all existing nations, and follow the dictates of justice and humanity.
He thought that this great war was a carrying out of the Gospel precept-" Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good."
<c05>
The Hutchinson family then sang, to the great satisfaction of the audience, the song- "If I were a voice."
The Business  Committee, through their Chairman, Mr. Garrison, then reported the following series of Resolutions to the Convention:
1. Resolved, That the patriotic history of Massachusetts does not record a more honorable and meritorious act than that of being the first State in the Union to enroll a regiment of colored volunteers for the defence of our common country, and its free institutions.
2. Resolved, That the enthusiastic manner in which Boston welcomed that regiment, yesterday, on its way to the seat of war, by such popular demonstrations of good-will and heartfelt have not been exceeded in the case of any of the preceding fifty-three regiments that have received her benediction, indicates a wonderful change in sentiment, and will go far towards redeeming her tarnished character in the past, for having so often "bowed the knee to the dark spirit of slavery," through commercial cupidity or a mistaken idea of patriotic duty.
3. Resolved, That the highest patriotic credit is due to his Excellency, Governor Andrew, for the courage, energy, and untiring zeal he has displayed in the organization of that regiment; and for his touching and manly declaration, when presenting the various flags designed for it,-"I shall follow you, Mr. Commander, your officers and your men, with a friendly and personal solicitude, to say nothing of official care, which can hardly be said of any other corps which has marched from Massachusetts. My own personal honor, if I have any, is identified with yours. I stand or fall as a man and a magistrate with the rise or fall in history of the 54th Massachusetts regiment. In striking a blow for their country's flag-their country's flag now as well as <Illegible>-I trust it will prove the last blow needful to rend the last shackle which binds the limb of the bondman in the rebel States."
4. Resolved, That to no part of Rebeldom can Massachusetts so appropriately and significantly send that regiment as to South Carolina, their destination, the stronghold of slavery, and the heart of the rebellion; and if, in her rage and agony, the Palmetto State shall cry out, "Will the line stretch out till the crack of doom? " the reply of the old Bay State will be, " It will stretch out till the doom of all slavedom is sealed, the rebellion crushed, and the personal rights and liberty of every man are recognized and secured from sea to sea."
6. Resolved, That while the Government may hare intended nothing invidious or prescriptive, on its part, but only deemed it a politic and prudential course, for the time being, in permitting only white officers to be in command  of colored regiments, this Convention protests against the continuance of any such distinction, both as a matter of principle and as a measure of sound expediency ; believing that it serves to retard enlistment, to perpetuate an unnatural caste, and to, stifle high and honorable aspiration in the mind of the  common soldier; and we respectfully ask of the Government to reward men according to their merit, and  as they shall prove themselves brave and competent, without any reference whatever to complexional differences.
6. Resolved, That Senator Toombs, of Georgia, having failed to call the roll of his slaves on Banker, Hill, is hereby notified that that roll may yet be called on his own plantation by Massachusetts colored volunteers, duly empowered to enforce the Emancipation Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln.
Whereas, by a proclamation of Jefferson Davis, and also by a decree of the Confederate Congress, the savage threat age threat is made, that all captured officers of loyal colored regiments shall be instantly shot, and the soldiers handed over to the State authorities to be subjected to chains and slavery, or to the infliction of the most revolting cruelties; and whereas, the Federal Government has taken no official action upon this murderous purpose, thus encouraging those traitors and assassins to believe that they may proceed to execute their threat with comparative impunity; therefore,
7 Resolved That until the President or General Halleck as acting Commander-in-chief of the army and navy, shall notify the Confederate Cabinet, that rebel officers and soldiers shall be held as hostages for the safety and fair treatment of the officers and soldiers of colored regiments captured in battle, according to the rules of war, it will be a cruel and cowardly act to ask or to compel the latter to take the field, with such a fate impending over them.
8. Resolved, That while it is alike the necessity and policy of war to take life, confiscate and destroy property, and do as much injury to the enemy as possible, we rejoice to know that, whatever ruin and desolation the Confederate States may bring upon them themselves by their treasonable course, in emancipating all the slaves within their limits an act of justice and beneficence has been performed by the Federal Government  which will repair every breach, restore every path, build up the waste places, raise up the foundations  of many generations, substitute light for darkness, restore peace, promote the general welfare, and fill their borders with abundance and happiness, to an extent now inconceivable-thus returning good for evil, and blessing for cursing; and inasmuch as all the bereavements, woes and horrors which have followed in the train of this war, on both sides, are to be charged to slavery as the sole cause and object of the rebellion, this Convention earnestly submits to President Lincoln, and to Congress, the sacred duty of providing for its immediate abolition in such portions of the country as were exempted from the operation of the Proclamation of January 1st, 1863; that thus no aid or comfort may be derived by the rebels from that exemption, no nest-egg of treason and civil war reserved for future incubation, no snares or pitfalls contrived for our army in the Border States, no hindrances thrown in the way of a speedy and effectual suppression of the rebellion, no ground or cause left for inevitable sectional strife and division, no possibility provided for future slaveholding concession and compromise ; but that " every yoke " being broken, in obedience to the Divine command, all parts of the republic may be one in spirit and purpose, its peace like a river, and its prosperity like the waves of the sea.
9.Resolved, That as the friends of freedom universally, while gratefully remembering the noble words and important votes of many of the Senators and Representatives in the last Congress-a Congress which has crowned itself with imperishable laurels for its anti-slavery legislation in accordance with the claims of justice and the duties of the hour-we feel that the thanks of the country are preeminently due to CHARLES SUMNER and HENRY WILSON for their indefatigable and successful efforts to procure the abolition of slavery in the District of Colombia, the recognition of the independence of Liberia and Hay ti, and the formation of a treaty with Great Britain for the suppression of the foreign slave trade, in addition to other highly important measures-thus sustaining and enhancing the historic renown of Massachusetts as the pioneer State  in the cause of civil liberty, and of our common humanity.
10.Resolved, That while thus desirous of "'giving  credit to whom credit is due," this Convention cannot  refrain from expressing its surprise and regret that these honored Senators of Massachusetts should have allowed any entreaties on the one hand, or apologies on the other, to induce them to sanction the elevation of a Massachusetts Colonel to the position of a Brigadier-General, immediately after the utterance of the most contemptuous expressions towards the colored soldiers in the army of the Golf, and welcoming defeat without them rather than victory with them; that If an example so mutinous was promptly dealt with by the arrest of the mutineer, and somewhat atoned for by his humble apology subsequently, still, no sufficient justification could be found for his promotion to <Illegible>  higher command; and to have allowed him to retain his colonelcy would have been an act of extraordinary forbearance and magnanimity on the part of the Government. 
<c06>
11. Resolved, That this Conventions cordially responds to the recent declaration of Post-master General Blair, in regard to the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, that "it places the government in 3 position FROM WHICH THERE IS NO RETREAT. The proclamation to the slaves to weaken the enemy commits the nation <Illegible> to make good the pledge by the UTMOST EXHIBITION OF POWER. It not only creates an obligation to the bondmen whose action it is meant to control, but it is an implied pledge of honor to the foreign powers whose conduct it is designed to influence. That measure, which, as Commander-in-chief, the President rightfully adopted under the Constitution and in accordance with national law to obtain the cooperation of a whole race of people, and which involves both life and freedom in its results, when proclaimed, was beyond revocation by either the civil or military authority of the nation. The people once <Illegible> in the rebel States can never again be recognized as such by the United States. No judicial decision, no legislative action, State or National, can be admitted to re-enslave a people who are associated with our own destinies in this war of defence to save the Government, and whose manumission was deemed essential to the restoration and preservation of the Union and its permanent peace."
12. Resolved, That the Government is manifestly showing a lamentable want of earnestness, energy and efficiency, in conducting the war for the suppression of the rebellion, by displacing or leaving unemployed such brave and indomitable Generals as Fremont, Butler, Phelps, Sigel, and Hamilton of Texas; that this inexplicable and extraordinary conduct, on its part, is widely subjecting it to the suspicion that it does not mean to strike a final and fatal blow at the cause of all our national divisions and sufferings; and that nothing would be so acceptable and inspiring to the loyal people of this country as the immediate recall of those Generals to such posts of honor and trust as they are entitled to fill by their merits.
13. Resolved, That the peculiar dangers which now threaten our cause from the artful plottings of able and unscrupulous politicians in every part of the country for its overthrow, demand of its friends the exercise of unusual vigilance and the utmost possible exertions in its behalf; and we therefore earnestly recommend to the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society the expediency of holding at least fifty popular Conventions, the present season, within the limits of the New England States, and to call upon the public for a special fund for this purpose.
Major HOYT, from Kansas, claimed for that State the priority of formation of a negro regiment by authority of the State. Mr. Garrison replied that facts were what the Committee wished to received and report, and that if the honor in question belonged to Kansas, who should have the credit of it.
Mr. TOOHEY, of New York, wished to suggest to Abolitionists the property of refraining from unjust reflection on the Irish race; he thought it fair to ask, in their behalf, a consideration of the circumstances under which the ill manners and morals of some Irish men have been formed. The Irish and the negroes have both suffered from, and been deteriorated by, the same cause, oppression. This fact should be remembered in our judgment of them. When Mr. Toohey came to cite the cases which called forth his animadversion, it appeared they had occurred elsewhere than in this Convention.
Mr. Garrison said he was glad that we had is Irishman, on our platform to avow himself an Abortionist, and to hid us God-speed. But that gentleman broadens himself too much when he proposes to shield before the Irish population in this country, who have been, as a mass, priests and people, political leaders and followers, the very bitterest enemies of the Anti-Slavery cause. Almost universally, they have exhibited an infernal spirit in regard to the colored population. We know the causes which have made them such; we know that they are the tools of priests and politicians, and that the ignorance of the mass of them leaves them a prey to such men. I re­gret that they have forgotten their own sufferings <Illegible> Ireland, and that they so readily join the haters of the negro. I regard them with pity, not with anger; but my indignation blazes when I think of the intelligent priests and politicians who are deliberately cheating them, and making them tools to accomplish the selfish purposes of these leaders.
A debate here took phase between Mr. Toohey, Mr. Cluer, and others, in regard to the facts respecting race and the pertinency of their introduction ob the Anti-Slavery platform.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER took the <Illegible> amid calls for "Douglass" from a portion of the <Illegible>
Mr. Foster made objection to the <Illegible> of interrupting the meeting by calls of a portion of the audience for favorite speakers, when another <Illegible> possession of the floor.    He would willingly <Illegible> Mr. Douglass to the platform, though he was <Illegible> at having heard him say, last night, that the work, the abolitionists was finished.  No assumption could be more incorrect.   He showed that the continued ad­vocacy of Anti-Slavery was needed, by quoting the atrocious sentiments avowed, in his presence, in Dem­ocratic political meetings, as the intention of the party whenever they should return to power. Whenever that party regained the ascendancy, the very discussion of Anti-Slavery ideas would be prohibited by law; every desired concession would be made to the share holders; and the utmost possible subserviency, every way, would be shown by the dominant party in the North.
Too much importance, he thought, had been attached to the cheers and the waving of handkerchiefs when the colored regiment passed through Boston yesterday. In point of principle, not one inch of progress had been made in this community. The very people who cheered and waved would refuse to take the hand of a negro, or admit him into their pew.
A million of men yet remain in slavery, the Administration keep them there, and the Courts rule the Fugitive Slave Law to be the law of the land We are body, maintaining principles. We oppose slavery, not the slavery of 4,000,000 only.
The President interposed correction in behalf of the Government-referring to the Abolition of in the District of Columbia, and to in prohibiton in all Territories. On the score of principle, Mr. Foster continued, our Government stands just where it always stood.
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER asked leave to relate an incident in support of what Mr. Foster had said, the case of Rev. Mr. Gordon of Illinois.
Mr. FOSTER-The men who warn us of danger are always unpopular. In my view, the danger to our cause was never greater than now. We have no law here in America but the popular will of the existing hour. If the copperhead party gain power, they will put their heel alike on the negro and the Abolitionist. The only safety for us is to diffuse sound Anti-Slavery principles, and to labor vigorously now in diffusing them.
[Mr. Foster here read a Resolution which he had written, relative to the holding of sundry coventions in various parts of New England the coming season. It was referred to the Business Committee, and is the closing one of the series presented by that Committee.]
Mr. G. T. DOWNING raised an objection.
Mr. MAY referred to the case of Mrs. Jacobs, and the orphan children she has in charge the orphan children she has in charge.
Mr. Downing felt that he represented a large number of colored persons who regret the proscription of colored men as officers in the formation of the negro regiment. Much is yet to be done regarding the rights and the elevation of the free colored man, and he wished to see the Abolitionists more prominently working for it.
FREEDERICK DOUGLASS interposed, referring to the colored Regiments found existing by Gen. butler in New <Illegible>, having colored officers, and enrolled by him in the service of the U.S. Now we hear that Gen. Banks is re-organizing these on the Massachusetts plan giving them white officers.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Mr. Downing resumed; declaring his conviction that, at present, the 54th Regiment would be more efficient with white officers than with colored ones.
The Hutchinson's then sang the John Brown army hymn
Adjourned to 23/4 o'clock.
AFTERNOON. The Convention re-assembled in the Tremont Temple, the President in the chair.
ANDREW T. Foss, of Manchester, N.H., came forward and spoke in vindication of the early principles and positions of the Abolitionists, as now admitted to have been taken without fanaticism, and without folly. The past being secure, what is to be the future course of the Society? Our work is far from being done; may,
<illegible>. perhaps the severest struggle is yet to come. The danger of compromise is still imminent. Jeff. Davis's refusal to admit of any terms from Northern copperheads alone saved us from it a short time ago. Too recent is the memory of the lengths to which the Republican party was willing to go in conciliating slavery, to prevent reasonable fear of a return of Democratic rule. Our future work is our old work-of educating the people from school-houses and churches and the latter are now at length open to us); not otherwise can we save the nation from the clutch of the Democratic party, which, if it could be reinstated in power, would repudiate every anti-slavery act and pledge of the Government. In attempting to convert Democracy, we do really recruit for Republication. It was Theodore D. Weld and Anna E. Dickinson, confessedly, who saved the New Hampshire election, and, through that, the nation. The portion of S.S.Foster in that victory was also not slight.
In speaking of England, Mr. Foss said he was grateful to all English Abolitionists; but the must hold the people of England responsible for the acts of their Government. Theirs, therfore, the credit of the Alibana, 
the Florida, and other piratical cruisers against our commerce. He hoped a demand would one day be made on the British Government for every dollar destroyed by these pirates; and if justice could be in no other way obtained, he hoped it would be by war. The British Government he regarded as hypocritical in its fault-finding with our conduct of the war. It could not compare with our own, which had done more for humanity in the short time of Mr. Lincoln's administration than any other on the face of the earth. He confidently anticipated living to see the jubilee, and, beyond that, life was indifferent.
E.H.HEYWOOD offered on his own responsibility the following resolutions:-
Whereas, the unrestricted and impartial criticism of public men and measures is indispensable to the security and growth of free institutions; and military power, despotic, irresponsbible and anarchical in its nature and tendency, should always be held in strict subordination to the civil authority; therefore,
Resolved, That the custom of arbitrary arrests, within States not in rebellion against the Federal Government, for offences unknown to American law, and in contempt and defiance of the civil process, is a dangerous and abusive stretch of Executive power, unwarranted in the constitution, and utterly subversive of popular Freedom.
Resolved, That while we have no sympathy with the principles of the Hon. C. L. Vallandigham, and reject with abhorrence his immoral and useless methods of conciliating the rebellious Slave Oligarchy; neverthless, we must regard his arrest and trial, by a self-created and irresponsible military tribunal, for the lawful exercise of the undeniabel and sacred right of free speech, as unjust and ill-advised; an act,. however well meant, deserving the censure of every loyal citizen, and which the Administration should promptly disavow and condemn.
The resolutions were received with applause and hisses. Mr. Heywood said the resolutions were intended simply to represent his own sentiments, and he did not purpose to make them matter of controversy. To be consistent, the Convention must reprehend every action which sought to check free speech, more especially when it is at the cost of civil liberty. If they endorsed impliedly, by a rejection of his resolutions, the arbitrary act of General Burnside, that endorsement would prove a millstone about the neck of the Anti Slavery cause for years to come. He abborred Mr. Vallandigham's sentiments, but would meet him or any rebel sympathizer in the loyal States on equal grounds of debate. He proceeded to argue that Gen. Burnside had no jurisdiction in the State of Ohio, which was not yet under martial law. He demanded the same free speech for our adversaries that we claim for ourselves. It was not a question of opinions, but of a common right. Indict by legal means, therefore, if you will. This course is expedient alike for the administration and the Abolitionists.. Time may bring a reversal of authorities, and then where shall we be if we deny the right of criticism now? Argue down Copperheadism, as was done in Connecticut. A government cannot hope to have law respected, which.does not respect law itself.
 Mr. FOSTER said the introduction of this resolution in favor of Copperheadism was inappropriate to an Anti-Slavery meeting. So long as the Government confined its violations of law to the sons of Satan, be would not find fault. But let it keep its hands from the angle Gabriel! He moved that the resolution be rejected.
Messrs. REMOND, BUFFUM. and FOSTER severally debated the disposal of the resolution.
Mr. HEYwood, in explanation, denied its irrelevancy to an Anti-Slavery meeting. What more becoming our gatherings and our struggle than the support port of free speech? Expose, not smother, treason. be to the full extent of the law against Copperheadism but keep within the law. The case of Vallandigham was one of constructive treason. The arresting party was a mob in epaulettes.
On motion of Mr. FOSTER, the resolution was then <illegible> on the table by a decisive vote.
Mr. GARRISON read the resolution in regard to colored officers for colored regiments.
Lt. Col. BILLINGS, of the 1st S. C. Union Regiment of colored men, said that the greatest honor of<illegibel> this war were not those of the epaulette, but of thought. The men upon this platform could be traced as the causes of the fruits of the present hour; and great was the compliment in the charge of being the cause of this war.
Col. B. proceeded to give some of his experience as an army chaplain. The subserviency of our officers at the South to the rebels was incredible. He had heard his fellow-officers in a former regiment cursing Greeley and Abolitionists, to make themselves acceptable to rebels under a flag of truce. Finding himself in distasteful company,. Col. B. abandoned his chaplaincy, and went into the colored regiment. Far different was the reception of the officers of the 54th yesterday, in these streets, from that which the officers of the 1st S. C. Loyal Regiment suffered the first month from privates and from chiefs. However, out of 16,000 blacks capable of serving, one regiment was formed by volunteers. Col. B. described the results of the expedition up the St. Mary's river by the black regiment. The plantation on which they encamped at Port Royal was the scene perhaps of more cruelty than any other. The 1st South Carolina had won a reputation inferior to no regiment in efficiency and precision. For two weeks, without reinforcement, it held Jacksonville, Florida, which it had possessed against twice its number.
Col. B. narrated some striking instances of the bravery and coolness of these troops at the place, in their engagements with the enemy. He said-he must be excused for thinking that the negroes would fight. Apropos of colored commissioned officers, he said that the universal feeling among the soldiers of the 1st South Carolina regiment was , that they did not want them; they objected to have a colored man”Play the white man over them.”Col. B. mentioned gratefully the attention of the colored soldiers towards himself, when wounded lately among them.
<c02>
H. C. WRIGHT asked what was the feeling of the colored soldiers in regard to the threats of the rebels, in case of their being taken prisoners.
Col. B. responded-They feel determined NEVER 
TO FALL ALIVE INTO THE REBELS' HANDS. . And yet he 
wished the Government at Washington had the mag­nanimity to protect the blacks, by avowing retaliatory measures for any wrong done to them. Hostages were held in reserve by the South Carolina regiment on their last expedition, and would have been executed. There is no use of conducting this war on peace prin­ciples.
The question was asked if there was no aspiration in the colored soldiers at the South to become one day officers.
Col. B. said he did not believe that they looked so far ahead. Sufficient unto the day is the good or evil thereof.
Mr. DOUGLASS thought they had the same feelings of their brethren in Hayti and Brazil.
Mr. REMOND spoke of the obstacles to enlistment, arising from this denial of commissions to colored men. At least, the colored men of the North had as­pirations, if those at Port Royal had not.
Mr. DOWNING asked, why not train the blacks at the South to obey black officers?
Col. B.-That is just what we are hoping to do. 
Mr. DOUGLASS rose to an explanation. He had no connection with the interruption of the meeting this morning, by calls for himself.
The Chairman asked Mr. Douglass to repeat or elucidate his position of last night, that, for the present, he was content with white officers; which he did at some length, explaining that he looked foward to a limit, and that was the development of real merit. The United States have commissioned two black offi­cers, surgeons, and is so far ahead of Massachusetts. It has also asserted its intention to protect these offi­cers at the cost of every”Plug-Ugly”in Baltimore, if need be. We must not yield to the prejudices of other men. We must encounter them, and annoy 
them, until they are called upon to give a reason for themselves, when they must vanish.
He closed by investigating the. idea of a black na­tionality, and the rights which are to be demanded at the close of the war.
Mr. DOWNING went for the enlistment of Ameri­cans, black and white, side by side, to be officered by men of merit; also, irrespective of color. He said that Massachusetts had not gone to the full extent of her power in this matter of giving commissions.
Young Master Hutchinson sang, very expressively, a song-The Loyal Soldier Boy to his Mother.
WM. W. BROWN spoke in relation to the discussion of the afternoon. He testified to the difficulty he had found in some recruits, to be commanded wholly by white officers. He knew of men in the 54th, who were not inferior to their white officers. He believed in the capacity of black men to command, and to obey their own color. He based his faith on the example of the people of Hayti. There is need only, on our part, of a practical test of bravery, and the blacks will be 
ready enough to follow those of their number who thus distinguish themselves. Gen. Butler, indeed, found a company in Louisiana, under black officers entirely, and there was no difficulty whatever. For one, he, Mr. B., while accepting the half loaf, would not cease to strive for the whole. He defined the grounds on which, with all the present disabilities of his race, he still urged and assisted in their enlistment in the army of the United States.
Mr. ROBERT MORRIS (a colored lawyer) said he had never been brought up with the idea of in­feriority to any person. He said we ought not to have sent off the 54th, without a single black officer. The young colored men of Boston applied to the State House in the matter of commissions, and were denied. He had left the Executive chamber, determined not to lift a finger for that Regiment, and he had never asked and never would ask any man to enlist in it. Surgeons and chaplains of their own color were alike refused to the 54th. Whatever be the state of mind of the slaves at the South, the intelligent young black men of the North know their rights, and will not sub­mit to a curtailment of them.
Mr. GARRISON said the last named position seemed 
to him an absurd one-i. e., that because all that was 
just was not yet granted, therefore nothing should be 
taken, and a position chosen entirely aloof. He 
showed the immense steps already taken by the gov­
ernment in the matter of arming the blacks. He 
thought much indulgence was due the government, in 
its very difficult.position. It must be remembered 
that the Northern house is divided, and this division 
is the check-rein upon the Administration. He be­
lieved that when merit appeared in the ranks of the 
colored regiments, it would ultimately be commis­
sioned. Yesterday was an occasion of great exaltation 
of both black and white in this city. The question 
was, whether, on the whole, the government had not 
done well, and made great progress in the right direc­
tion.
	Adjourned to 7 1-2 o'clock.
EVENING. At the Tremont Temple. President in the chair.
The Hutchinsons sang the song,”We wait beneath the Furnace Blast.”Receiving much applause, and an encore, they again came forward and sang,”Emanci­pation's Coming."
The series of resolutions reported to the Conven­tion was then brought before the meeting, and it was voted to take action upon them at this time.
Upon being put to vote, the resolutions were adopt­ed without a dissenting voice.
JOHN S. ROCK, Esq. (a colored lawyer) said our oc­cupation was almost gone. Instead of indulging in complaint and criticism, we are compelled to be amaz­ed at the strides the nation is making. We are still in the midst of trial, but only thus comes out the pure gold of the republic. Peace and compromise are each impossible. There,can be but two parties, one for and the other against the republic. There is no question but that the rebels must be subdued or annihilat­ed. It is asserted that this is a negro war, and that emancipation is equally contrary to law and nature.
The fact of emelgamation, resulting from social equal­ity, is groundless. Affinities are not to be regulated by statutes; they adjust themselves. But the fear presupposes an uncommon attraction on the part of the blacks! One million mulattoes at the South, where no slave woman is protected, are a sufficient answer to the charge of amalgamation against the abolitionists.
It is not surprising, considering the early repulse by the government of the proffered aid of the blacks, that two years after there is some backwardness. Yet many, meanwhile, have entered the navy, and have otherwise served the country, sufficiently to seal for­ever the lip of slander, and put prejudice to shame. Too many drawbacks still remain. The word”white”still exists in our statute-books. Protection is sparing­ly bestowed by government. We do not seek com­missions in colored regiments, for the place alone, but in duty to our self-respect. We will not reject what the government holds out, but we must aim at more.
 There are good grounds for encouragement The District of Columbia is free, the colored man is recog­nized as a citizen, and slavery in the reconquered States at an end. Mr. Lincoln has not been all we could expect, but he is honest as far as he is enlight­ened, and seems to be the man destined to unite the Republic.
G. B. STEBBINS, of Rochester, said that while”white”was not synonymous with”loyal,”the black had only to point to his complexion to dispel every doubt of his loyalty. In this transition-hour, all things good and bad come to the surface. Davis, Toombs, all the leading conspirators, have not changed their natures with in five years, but have simply revealed themselves. And this development will continue till the last fetter is broken. In the West, this conflict of opposing elements is especially conspicuous. There also are some of the brightest conversions to the side of justice.
<c03>
In the midst of our gratulations, which are natural and proper, we must not forget the vastness of the work yet lying before us. Some dangerous headlands have been weathered in safety, but others loom up in­distinct and formidable. There is no room to be lax; every nerve must be kept strained. We cannot dis­cern the sure and settled in the midst of this breaking up of old conditions and. confusion of policies. Till we do, we must go on, with good courage, as hereto­fore. The avenues are wider than ever; more ready, than ever are the people to listen. ...The West is fully, up to any anti-slavery word uttered here at the East,. There response is., Be firm, and we'll stand by you! Their loyalty to the country results from their loyalty, to liberty.
Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE said he liked the motto of this platform for thirty years,”Say what you will, and be criticised!”It is better than-”Hold your tongue, and be praised!”Amasis, king of Egypt, slighted those oracles which, in his boy­hood, had excused his wrong acts as a prince, but fa­vored those which had not feared to tell the truth of him. Great credit to those who have been faithful in time past at every crisis, and charity if they seem to have faltered. Actions ought to be judged by people, as well as people by actions.
He agreed with Frederick Douglass, that a work remained after emancipation. One labor follows an­other, as one summit another in climbing a mountain. Our special efforts must next be directed against the prejudice of color. Perhaps we overrate the difficulty, of this task. It was the fundamental assumption of the Colonization Society, that this prejudice is insur­mountable. Shall we fall into the same error? Pre­judice against race has always depended upon the fact of the degradation of the hated party. The Normans, for two hundred years, looked down upon the Saxons, as we look down upon the blacks-”they did with them,”says Thierry,”what they would.”Two hundred years ago, the English regarded the Irish, (according to Macaulay,) as beings utterly inferior to themselves. These are examples of now obsolete prejudices. What is needed to accomplish the same thing here in regard to colored races, is to have every man exhibit his abhorrence of this hateful, senseless feeling. Great help was lent us by the 54th regiment, yesterday. Let us hear that 50,000 black men have mastered Charleston, and the last shred of prejudice will disappear.
Memory to day recalls those spirits, now absent from its platform, whence we are permitted to behold the magnificent prospect opening before us. We re­member Love-joy, shot down at Alton; Morris, of Ohio, the first great convert from the Democratic party; Birney, the converted slaveholder; Slade, from whom Lewis Hayden learned his idea of liberty; Horace Mann', Robert Rantoul, John Quincy Adams, Dr. Channing, Theodore Parker, John Brown. Where are all these to-day? They might almost be expect­ed to burst, to-night, the veil that separates them from us, and join in the general exultation. Among the living, let Cassius M. Clay, too, be remembered, and that other heroic Kentuckian, Mattie Griffith.
All hail to those-good men and women-who have gone before us! All hail the living and the dead, who have labored for this great consummation!
Mr. Clarke paid a handsome tribute to Senators 
Wilson and Sumner. At the house of the latter, he {
(Mr. C.) first met John Brown, who with reverence 
took down and regarded the coat in which our Sena­
tor was stricken down by the assassin hand of Preston 
S. Brooks, of South Carolina. That was John Brown's 
tribute to Mr. Sumner. Mr. C. closed with quoting 
and applying to Gov. Andrew, the lines of Words-'
worth.,”The Happy Warrior."	
Rev. A. A. MINER, of Boston, said we could learn much in these times by studying that common sub­ject, human nature. No human party has ever been beyond criticism. Scarce any one does a thing which he could not have done better. So of the government of this nation. It has done many things badly, com­mitted many blunders and mistakes. One of the greatest was the President's confiding the safety of the country to his foes. The country has not yet the courage to confess its sins and repent, and in conse­quence we have had flagellation after flagellation. We edge up reluctlantly to our duty, giving here and there a trifling concession to liberty, and after all only acknowledge military necessity as our motive. It took us two years to learn even this necessity.
But however we may criticise him, we are to be saved by the President, if not by the shortest way, perhaps by the best.
The speaker said his hopes were not based on Sumter, or on any gains or reverses at Vicksburg, but were founded on principle. The rebellion began when the first slave was enthralled. It now; but breaks out from concealment. As the heavenly system of plan­ets did not accommodate itself to the various theories of astronomy, but these to it, so by degrees we ap­proach a knowledge of those principles of liberty which abide forever. At first, we sought in the Con­stitution to make the lion and the lamb lie down together, and slavery grew till the last hair was split, and it was death or victory. To-day we are rid of compromise, and must either conquer or be conquered. My hope, said Mr. M., is in God himself, who,”Vicksburg or no Vicksburg, is ever armed, ever ready, almighty.
A song-"The Flag of our Union forever,”-was here given with excellent effect, by the Hutchinsons.
 Mr. GARRISON expressed a feeling common to the whole Convention when he regretted the absence of Wendell Phillips, prevented by domestic affliction from taking his accustomed part in these meetings. The cause, fortunately, does not rest on persons. It goes on triumphantly, spite of all opposition, and the hour is full of hope and promise.
By request, the Hutchinson family repeated the John Brown Army Hymn. 
The Convention here gave a unanimous vote of thanks to Mr. and Mrs. ASA HUTCHINSON and their children, for the great assistance and pleasure they have afforded to the Convention by their beautiful and appropriate songs.
The total cash collections by the Finance Committee of the Convention amount to $376,66. A more particular acknowledgment, and a list of pledges, may be expected next week.] 
The Convention, soon after 10 o'clock, P. M., adjourned sine die.

SAMUEL J. MAY, President.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Secretaries.
CROMWELL ON DESTRUCTIVE CONSERVATION..In a speech to Parliament in 1656, the great Protector, de­fending his administration, touched upon a doctrine which is popular just now with the friends of seces­sion and the enemies of the national life, and exposed. its fallacy, almost as if by anticipation: 
"If nothing should ever be done,”said he,”but 
what is 'according to law,' the throat of the nation 
may be cut while we send for some to make a law! 
Therefore, certainly it is a pitiful beastly notion to 
think, though it be for ordinary, government, to live 
by law and rule; yet, if a government, in extraordi­
nary circumstances, go beyond the law, even for self-
preservation, it is to be clamored at, and blattered at. 
When matters of necessity come, then, without guilt, 
extraordinary remedies may be applied. And I must. 
say, I do not know one action of this government, 
no, not one, but it hath been in order to the peace and safety
of this nation."	
Madison, in one of the Federalist papers, gave 
utterance to the following sentiment, which is partic­
ularly applicable to the”Rights of the People”shriek-
ers of the present time:-
"The vigor of government is essential to the secu­
rity of liberty; in the contemplation of a sound and 
well-informed judgment, their interests can never be 
separated; and a dangerous ambition more often lurks be­
hind the spacious mask of zeal for .the rights of the people, 
than under the forbidding appearances of zeal for firmness
and efficiency of the government."
To..COREESPONDENTS. Try to observe the scrip­tural injunction-"In patience possess your souls.”You shall have a chance according to our space.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE REBELLION RECORD, Part XXXI is embellished with steel portraits of General David! B. Birney and General E. D:. Keyes., and completes the fifth volume of this invaluable series,. The Diary and Documents are carried down to Oct 10;,1862, from which the new volume will begin and embrace the history of the war to. June of the current year.
Hereafter, the Publishers give notice, the Diary of Events of each volume will be published in the last monthly part of the volume, together with the Index, etc. We have repeatedly called attention to the importance of this unprecedented work, and would again urge all who desire a trustworthy history of the present revolution to subscribe: to the Record, in preference to any other publication of the kind whatever. G. P. Putnam, Publisher, 441 Broadway;
HARPER'S MONTHLY for June, contains the Indian Massacres and War of 1862; The Quicksilver Mines of New Almaden, California; Rosemary; Osgood's Predicament; Insects injurious to the Vine; Katy Keith; Romola, by the author of”Adam Bede;”the Small House at Allington; The Players and the Puritans; Two Weeks at Port Royal; Missing; One of Many; The Spirit Photograph; Monthly Record, Literary Notices, Editor's Easy Chair and Drawer, &c., &c. [For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington St.]
NEW.MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, have just issued:-
Memory. Song. Poetry by Desmond Ryan; music by A..
Reichardt.
Domino Gallop, for the Piano,: by. C.Coote, Jr.
Light Heart Mazurka, for the Piano, by E. T. Baldwin.
I Think of Home. Ballad, written and composed by T. H. Hinton.
Consolation. 'Elegy in Memoriam of M. F. R. Composed by H. Daum.
The Young Volunteer's Good Bye. Words by J,. H. Elliot. Music by Mary W. Brown.

JENKINS'S VEST-POCKET LEXICON. An English Dictionary of all, except Familiar Words; including the principal Scientific and Technical Terms, and Foreign Moneys, Weights, and Measures. Omitting what everybody knows, and containing what everybody wants to know, and cannot readily find. By JABEZ JENKINS, Philadelphia: J. P. Lippincott & Co.
It is enough to say that this tiny volume fully keeps the promises of its title, to induce its purchase by all who wish to be well-informed.
NEW MAP OF CHARLESTON HARBOR. Showing the scene of the great naval contest between the ironclad monitors and the rebel batteries; also, the lines of fire, forts, obstructions, inlets, principal plantations, etc. Price 10 cents. G. W. Tomlinson, Publisher, 221 Washington street, Boston.
FORESHADOWINGS.
As I was standing on the Common on the great day, last week, looking at the even line and soldierly aspect of the 54th Regiment, a ragged little boy of perhaps a dozen years who stood just before me said to his comrade-”Would you mind having a command over them fellers? I wouldn't!"
The persuasion that had wrought itself out so clearly in the mind of this youth seems to have been attained by many older persons about the same time; for next morning the State House was besieged by a crowd of persons!, military and other, applying to the Governor for commissions in the 55th, now in process of formation at Readville.
It was a very plain case. If the 54th could receive, not only that distinguished consideration which Gov. Andrew dispenses to all the soldier-sons of Massachusetts, but the smiles and applauses of Beacon Street ladies, the cheers of the multitude who witnessed their review on the Common, and the approving shouts ol of the solid men of State Street, as the Regiment marched towards the wharf, their band playing the John Brown song-then, surely, it must be safe and prudent (speaking after the manner of men) to accept commissions in the 55th, and to accept them at once, before more people should make the same discovery.
Since a good many made the same discovery at the same moment, the result was that the Governor had his choice from a large number of applicants. And I think the friends of the 55th Regiment may feel assured that, in making the selection, an eye will be had to the moral as well as the military qualifications of the candidates. In the case of colored soldiers, not only just beginning military life, but destined to encounter more than the ordinary trials and perils of war, it is specially needful that their officers, high and low, should add to their official qualifications the power and the disposition to inspire friendship and confidence in the men under their charge. Every new recruit, in every army, probably finds himself more limited and hampered than he had foreseen, by the rules of military service. There must be many galling restrictions about it for any person who values individual freedom. It is due to our colored friends, who now come forward to take their share in the defence of their country, that their minds should be relieved, as far as may be, from all apprehension that the strict ness of military rule is aggravated by an unfriendly disposition toward their race, and a participation in the prejudice that has heretofore prevailed regarding them. And we have a right to presume that the Governor and the Colonel will be mindful of these considerations in their appointments.-C. K. W.

LETTER FROM PORT ROYAL
ST. HELENA ISLAND, Port Royal, S. C., May 11,1863. 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON-When I wrote you, not long since, a new effort at drafting colored men had just commenced. It was not probably intended by the commanding General to make the process so summary as it would be likely to be made in the North, where people have been educated to know more or less of the nature of the great struggle in which we are engaged; but due allowance was reasonably made for the lack of intelligence necessary to enable the negro to see the best reasons why he should take up arms in the cause of the Union.
By the efforts of the government agents and private, owners of plantations, as ordered by General Hunter, a few volunteered quite heartily, and some on the principle of Hobson's choice; but most had to be compelled through fear to enter the regiment now forming. This circumstance can be accounted for easily enough for reasons which will readily occur to you. It is, however, a fact to be dealt with, and will soon be made to pass away as the new men already enlisted have opportunities to visit the friends they leave behind on the plantations. The white officers are very considerate in. this matter, and allow them short furloughs. Ideas and impressions spread rapidly among the people here; and when the colored soldiers return-, after having received a few weeks' training, with a new infusion of spirit and. sentiment, and with dress, look and bearing so much more manly than formerly, , it has the effect to stimulate and encourage the more timid and delinquent ones to go and do likewise.
At first, some- military coercion for the latter class was applied, and perhaps not always judiciously; and for several weeks they eluded the vigilance of the detachments of soldiers sent for them, by fleeing to the woods. But this fear is 'fast wearing away; a sense of duty is taking its place; and now, every day, .men may be seen wending their way to the surgeon's office for examination, determined to abide the-consequences. A little more patience, forbearance and sympathy on the part of those in authority will yet have its good effects, and then there will be no lack of patriotic colored men to fill the ranks of the contemplated army in this department or any other. The work is going bravely on, and, to a practical man, it looks mighty strange to hear a stray soldier, so recently an abject slave, from the gallant Higginson's
<c05>
regiment, narrate his adventures among live, and, more; especially, among dead rebels.'-"A sadden turning of the tables, and dreadful poor natural, me-thinks, to make slaves of, when the”Union as it was”comes! Don't you think so? 
But this special work in .the civilizing process operates charmingly, and it will not belong before even your 'Copperheads, how so virulent, will have their sluggish intellect invigorated by facts and principles which even they will not have the temerity to gain-say. ("And the serpent was lifted op in the wilderness.") It will soon be apparent that Northern specialists, whose brains were never vitalized by the life-blood which wells up from the human heart, are not Competent in their narrow wisdom to instruct the rest of mankind as to what the negro can or cannot do, if he gets a chance Scripture, history, observation or even experience, they have no power to wield in the face of such facts as come within the notice of all sensible men here and there, wherever an effort is making to come directly at, arid to elevate, this abused African.
But what, in future, as they become further initiated into camp life, will be likely to be their mental and moral state, is a serious question for them, for us, and for our country. Shall the religious element, so strong in this race, be suffered to pale in the monotonous and demoralizing atmosphere of the camp? or shall its development be made to lift them above this fate? are questions which, it is to be hoped, will be kept steadily in view by those who have this business in hand. How important that all white officers should be made of the right stuff! Ever; man of them should be whole-hearted, and confirmed in his anti-slavery; and all others should be rejected, no matter what their capacity in other respects.
As the best teachers are those who love their pupils, so should we look not alone for military capacity of the highest order, but it should blend with the manly character and standing of the”bravest and tenders.”Thank God, in this department, at least, we have a power on the throne which we may safely trust to put the right men in the right place. The Negro is plastic, imitative, and easily molded. In his educators, both in civil and military affairs, will mostly lie the responsibility of his destiny. Passing events will ere long claim their niche, both in the history of the country and of civilization.
Let the friends of the oppressed, now that the wedge is entering, insist upon it that the African in his degradation, as tee as a people have cruelly made him, shall have a fair field here and now. Then, may the question of his capacity, as a race or an individual, be settled by his- own deeds. Pro-slaveryism has chopped its pointless logic over this matter long enough, it is time that the reign of reason' and common sense should begin.- Degrade men below the level of the brute, and then blame them because they are not godlike! Clip the eagle's wing, and then look to see him soar among the mountain summits I Chain a giant to a rock, and then make him walk erect! 
God bless you and your good work!
F. J.W.

DEPARTURE OF FIFTY-FOURTH REGIMENT OF MASSACHUSETTS VOLUNTEERS.
The 54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, composed of colored men of this and other Northern States, took its departure for the field of active service to-day. This is the pioneer colored regiment raised in the Northern States.
The regiment is armed with Enfield rifles, and is in all respects equipped and clothed in the same manner as the white regiments. Like the white soldiers, they have received the advance pay and bounty of the government, and the bounty of the State, and the families of those residing in this Commonwealth are entitled to State aid. In all respects except that they have only white officers, the men of this regiment are placed on an equality with those of any other new regiment in the service. Their future position depends upon themselves.
There is among them a pride in their organization; they are strong, active men, having confidence in themselves and their officers, and there is no doubt, no fear, on the, part of their friends, that they wilt disgrace the cause for which they fight.
 The regiment broke camp at an early, hour in the morning, and took the cars for Boston. The train bearing is them reached the; depot, in this' city, soon after nine; o'clock. At first it-had been arranged to have the regiment march direct to the wharf, to embark, but so great was the desire to see' them, not only of the people of Boston, but of all the neighboring, towns, that it was decided, to afford the opportunity. 
 Arrangements were accordingly made for a review on the Common, by Governor Andrew. One; hundred. policemen were detailed to clear the .streets on the route, and keep the lines at the parade ground on the Common, and this service they performed in a satisfactory manner, under the direction of Col. Kurtz.
At the depot a large crowd was collected, and the regiment was received with hearty cheers, and other demonstrations of welcome. The regiment was accompanied by Gilmore's band.
A line was formed, and the command at once took up the inarch through the following streets:-Pleasant, Boylston, Essex, Chauncy, Summer, High, Federal, Franklin, Washington, School, Tremont, Pemberton Square, Somerset and Beacon streets, to the State House. All along the route the sidewalks were crowded, and the windows and balconies were thronged. Men cheered and women waved their handkerchiefs, many of them more enthusiastically than ever they had done before. There was nowhere along the line a word of disapproval-not a sneer was heard, nor an unkind word expressed; In several places flags were thrown out by the occupants of stores and dwellings. In Essex street, a lady presented Col. Shaw with a handsome boquet.
The regiment halted in front of the State House a few minutes. At a little after ten o'clock the regiment marched down the street, escorting Governor Andrew, who was accompanied by most of the members of his staff.
They entered the Common at the Charles Street gate. Every place overlooking the parade ground had long been thronged with people, and hundreds who had, and thousands who had not tickets, were passed inside the lines.
At eleven o'clock the regiment again took its place in line, and was reviewed by Gov. Andrew. The men then passed in review by companies before him. They marched in good time, and wheeled with a readiness which showed that they had a clear idea of what was required, and only needed a little more practice to equal the best regiments that have left the State.
At a quarter before 12 o'clock the regiment left the Common by the West street gate, and marched down Tremont, Court, State, and Commercial streets, to Battery Wharf. As on the route to the Common, so were these streets thronged with approving multitudes who cheered as they”went marching on."
The regiment marched down State street at a quarter past 12 o'clock to the tune of”John Brown,”and was vociferously cheered by the vast crowds that covered the sidewalks and filled the windows. Nowhere was the reception of the regiment more hearty.
On reaching the wharf at a quarter before one, everything had been placed on board through the efforts of Capt, McKim, the guns were placed in boxes, the horses put aboard, and the men began to embark. At 4 o'clock the vessel steamed down the harbor, bound for Port Royal, S. C.
Several gentlemen were on the wharf distributing tracts and other reading matter among the troops, and Mr. Frederick Douglass; passed round among the different companies, bidding the soldiers farewell, and giving them words of encouragement 
The Regiment is accompanied by a colored band, but they did hot perform, being still under practice.
The complete roster of the regiment is as follows:
Colonel-Robert G. Shaw.
Lieut-Colonel-Norwood P. Hallowell.
Major-Edward N, Hallowell.
Surgeon-Lincoln R. Stone. Assistant Surgeon-C. B. Brigham.
Captains-Alfred S. Hartwell, David A. Partridge, Samuel Willard, John W. M. Appleton, Watson W. Bridge, George Pope, William H. Simpkins, Cabot J. Russell, Edward L. Jones, and Louis F. Emilo.
1st Lieutenants-John Ritchie, Garth W. James, Wm. H. Hemans, Orin E. Smith, Erik Wulff, Walter H. Wild, Francis L, Higginson, James M. Walton, James M. Grace, R. K. L. Jewett.
2d Lieutenants-Thomas L. Appleton, Benjamin F. Dexter, J. Albert Pratt, Charles F. Smith, Henry W. Littlefield, William Nutt, David Reid, Charles E. Tucker, and Wm. Howard.-Traveller of Friday.
NEW YORK, MAY 26. A letter from aboard the flagship Hartford says, Gen. Banks has organized two regiments of native Louisianians. The Hartford sen him seven men, who had been hiding in the swamps six months.
Five hundred colored men in the District of Co lumbia have enrolled their names for the regimen now forming there.
<c06>
"NOSES"-THEIR SIGNIFICANCE-Illustrated with engravings of Roman, Grecian, Indian, Negro, Celestial, Aqueline, Turn-up, and Pug Noses, with the Character revealed by each. EYES-blue, black, or gray. LIPS-thin and pale, or full and red, prim or pouting, scolding or loving. MOUTH-large or small. HAIR-light or dark, coarse or fine, straight or curly. CHERKE-thin or plymp, pale or colored. TEETH-Regular or irregular. EARS-large or small. NECK-long or short. SKIN-rough or smooth. All to be amply illustrated with engravings. The walk, talk, laugh and voice, all indicate character. We may know an honest face from a dishonest one, and we will show how. Besides the above, we have to treat on ETHNOLOGY, or the Natural History of Man; of PHYSIOLOGY, and the Laws of Life sad Health; of PHYSIOGNOMY, or Signs of Character, and how to read them; of PHRENOLOGY, the Philosophy of Mind; and of PSYCHOLOGY, the Science of the Soul. MAN, with reference to all his relations of life, social, intellectual, and spiritual, and what each can do best, will be elucidated in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. New volume commences July 1st. A handsome quarto monthly, at only $1 50 a year. Sample numbers, 15 cents. Please address FOWLER AND WELLS, 308 Broadway, New Fork.
AGENTS WANTED in every county m the Free States for the sale of Wendell Phillips's Speeches and Lectures. Large commissions Allowed. The book wilt be issued June 15, Price $2. Sent by mail on receipt of retail price. Address JAMES REDPATH, 221 Washington St., Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, 31. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
ANDREW T. TOSS, of Manchester, N. H., will hold meetings in behalf of Freedom, and the Restoration of the Union on a secure and certain basis, as follows:-
Hyannis, Mass., Sunday, June 14; and in that vicinity
during the week following.
Harwich, Sunday, June 21.
Brewster, Thursday,”25.
East Dennis, Friday,”26.
Dennis, Sunday,”28.
E. H. HEY WOOD will speak in Hopedale, Sunday, June 7, at 1 o'clock, P. M.
WM. WELLS BROWN is on a visit to the State of Maine, and will deliver his lecture on”The War and the Black Man,”at Portland, Bath, Bangor, and a few other places.
MARRIED-In East Lexington, May 24, by the Rev. Samuel J. May, (at the celebration of the Golden Wad-ling of the bride's parents,) Mr. LUCIUS H. PEASLEE, of Boston, and Miss LOUISE M. WELLINGTON, of E. L.

EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET
(SECOND FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission. Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
Bonds and Stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividends, Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, County and Township Bonds negotiated. 
Quartermaster's Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated.
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Broker's Board, Ii can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully. E. M. DAVIS,
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST.,
Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863-6m
5-20'S The principal on these Bonds can be claimed April 30th, 1882, but is payable at the option of the Government any time after April 30th, 1867. They draw interest in Gold, semiannually, at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum, payable May 1st and October 1st of each year, at the Mint in Philadelphia. The principal is also payable in Gold. They c in now, and until July 1st, be bad for legal tender notes at par, thus, making Green-backs draw interest in gold, and securing the principal in gold also. Interest begins the day the money is paid. The Bonds can be had”Registered,”or with”Coupons.”The first are drawn to the order of the buyer. The interest can only be collected by the person whose name is in the bond, or by attorney. For safety, the name and residence are registered in Washington and at the Mint. There is a power of”transfer”on the back of each bond, to enable the original buyer to convey it. The”Registered,”for permanent investments, are preferred. The”Coupon”Bonds are drawn to bearer, and have attached to each of them a small”Coupon'' or cluck upon the Treasury of the United States, payable to bearer for each amount of interest due from the day of issue up to the 1st of November, 1881. The last payment of interest, May-1st, 1882, is paid with the principal when the bond is surrendered. By an act of Congress, they are not taxable, and no tax can be collected from the holder of them except under the law creating an income tax. Any person owning $10,000 or under will not bar a any tax to pay on the principal or interest, provided the- parties have no other income. 
I am authorized, and shall be glad to supply these Bonds at par to the purchaser, until July 1st, 1863, my commission coming from another source.
Look carefully over your”Green-backs.'' Parties sometime pass at par those that are equal to gold. They can easily be distinguished from the others, as they have I printed on the face”Payable on Demand.'' They were issued before the general suspension of specie payments, and as Government takes them for duties on foreign imports, they will bring as much as gold in the market. There are several millions still unredeemed They cannot b reissued.
My business is exclusively on Commission. All orders entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faith fully. Any inquiries answered.
E. M. DAVIS,
EXCHANGE BROKER,
M22 tJ1 No. 33 South Third St., Philadelphia,
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
May,29. 6m
S. M. PETTENGILL & CO.,
ADVERTISING AGENTS.
37 PARK ROW, NEW YORK.
IN PREPARATION.
SPEECHES AND LECTURES
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS
THIS work is already in the hands of the winters, and will be issued shortly. It will begotten up in the BEST STYLE of American workmanship-from the Cambridge University press; printed on fine tinted paper; bound in rich maroon vellum; and illustrated with a striking likeness of Mr. Phillips on steel, by H. W. Smith. It will be in crown octavo, of at least 500 pages. Price $2. Sent by mail prepaid, to any part of the United States, for the retail price. Agents wanted in every State. Terms liberal. Address for Circular,
JAMES REDPATH, PUBLISHER. may1-4t 
221 Washington Street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
A REMARKABLE HISTORICAL POEM.
An antiquarian friend has put into our hands a pamphlet, entitled “A Valedictory Discourse, delivered before the Cincinnati of Connecticut, in Hartford, July 4th, 1804, at the Dissolution of the Society. By D. Humphrey's, late Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, at the Court of Madrid. Published at the request of the Society. Boston: Printed by Gilbert & Dean, No. 78, State Street: 1804." The author was born in Connecticut in 1753, and received his education at Yale College. Soon after the revolutionary war, he entered the army, and was successively an Aid to Parsons, Putnam, Greene and Washington. In 1784, he was appointed Secretary of Legation to Paris, and was subsequently Ambassador to the Court of Madrid. While in the military service, he published a poem addressed to the American armies, and after the war another on the Happiness and Glory of America. In 1789 he published a life of General Putnam, and while in Europe a number of miscellaneous poems. He died in 1818. This “Valedictory Discourse" is remarkable for its lofty patriotism, warm spirit of humanity, and deep abhorrence of slavery. It contains the following original lines:
Heard ye a voice within instinctive urge
To check the progress of unpitying War,
Wrench from the grasp of Tyranny his scourge,
And crush Ambition in his crimson car?
That voice we heard, when Britain's long-fam'd host
Our yeomen, new to arms, in battle smote;
In love of country every passion lost,
Our ravish'd souls to liberty devote. 
If we to Heaven our unavailing vows 
For Poland rais'd-besought Heaven's righteous Lord
To read the wreath from Austria's, Prussia's brows,
And break of baneful leagues the threefold cord;
With horror mark'd the Empress of the North,
Her wheels yet reeking o'er the mooned<illegible> host,
Rouse the dull Russ, and call the Cossac forth
From darksome dens of everlasting frost:
If we on changeful Gaul not coldly gaz'd.
But lov'd the fair reforms by patriots plann'd,
Till, fir’d by crimes, our indignation blaz’d,
That democrats enrag'd should rule the land:
If to Columbia's sons a tear I ow'd,
Her captive seamen chain'd at Algiers long;
If for their wrongs my eyes, a fountain, flow'd,
And thunder'd from my tongue the wrathful song:
Of every class, ye proud oppressors! hear!
Monarchs and demagogues who realms enslave,
Or ye who purchase bondmen, <illegible> far and near,
I hate your conduct, and your anger brave
And chief, ye despots! to the strain attend!
Shall coward millions to your will succumb?
At your capricious nod whole nations bend,
Or for resistance find a sudden tomb?
To Heav'n be praise!—that Gothic spell is o'er,
When, lull'd by witcheries, Europe slept supine,
And only dream'd of superstitious lore,
Prescriptive pow'r, and regal rights divine.
Strange seems to beings, groping dim in dust,
That He, whose light and dark enchantment broke,
At times (his ways inscrutable as just)
Still suffers man to smart beneath a yoke.
Ah! why will HE, blest Arbiter on high,
His bow with thunder charg'd, and bickering fire,
Not bare his arm to bid his terrors fly,
And earth's fierce troublers at his frown expire!
Though conscience oft, their raging pride to tame,
Shall make them curse their triumphs earn'd by guilt,
Compell'd to hate their very idol, fame,
And drink, inebriate, of the blood they spilt:
A retribution, in unjoyous climes,
Remains to make the moral scheme complete:
Be joyful, Earth! unburden'd of their crimes;
And, Hell! rise grim, their coming shades to greet!
And less shall plagues pursue those planter-lords,
Who, for proud wealth in slaves, their lot applaud;
Yet boast of liberty with guileful words,
And preach, “All men were equals made by God"?
Are ye the lords who treat your slaves as brutes?
Heav'ns! how your deeds and doctrines disagree!
Speak not of freedom!-for your lip pollutes
Your holy oath, that “man by birth is free."
Blush not these men, to government elect,
Thy cause, Equality! who quaintly plead-
And talk of Declarations that protect
Man's natural rights—nor name that hateful deed
Themselves have done, to bold their blacks enthrall'd,
To dole no daily food§ save stinted corn-
With whips to drive them, faint, with fetters gall'd
To tasks unending, and of hope forlorn?
Say, then, perfidious!-say, are ye alone-
Exclusive patriots!—Freedom's only friends?
Your eye-balls cased in scales, your hearts in stone,
On you the frenzying curse of Heav'n descends.
Ruin's forerunner! every art ye use
To cheat the crowd with Liberty's sweet name;
With hypocritic cant promote your views,
Increase your slaves, and glory in your shame.
Was it for this, incomparably bold,
Led by your godlike chief, through climates far,
We braved the summer's heat, the winter's cold,
Breasting the dreadful enginery of war?
Through eight long years, in many a gory field,
High in the van, the starry flag unfurled,
Till peace (with heroes' blood the treaty seal'd)
Confirm'd man's equal rights in this new world!
What! while we bear the clank of slavery's chains,
Mix'd with discordant sounds of patriot zeal;
While love of freedom throbs through veteran veins,
For Afric's sons shall we no pity feel?
How long is vain shall Afric's race be mourn'd?
In hopeless bondage, unredeem'd, how long?
No hand to help-with cries for justice spurn'd-
Cringe at the cutting of the penal thong?
Ye planters! bashaws! cast one kind regard
On blacks from Guinea brought for barter'd gold;
Or, blind to interest as of feeling hard, 
Can ye with cruel scorn their woes behold?
Will no good angel on the Lybian shore,
Dash the curst vessel destin'd to our climes;
Ere yet augmented slaves, with flames and gore
Retort their wrongs, and measure crimes for crimes? 
Behold!-oh, horror!-HATTI'S bloody strand!
Mark! how the lesson erst by white men given,
Not vainly taught by barb'rous sable band
To claim the birth-right held alone from Heav'n!
Dark rose the negroes-'twas the dread resolve,
That right to rescue, or with it expire;
Bade the strong bolts that bound their flesh dissolve,
Like flaxen cords before devouring fire.
Once white men triumphed-black men now are free;
While fearful noises fluctuate on the wind,
Late victors fly for safety to the sea,
And not a haughty master lags behind.
Thou blot on nature, Slavery! disappear!
Yet, monster! yet, a moment, from thy mouth
Shall gall and venom tinge the verdant year,
And blast the glories of the boasted South.
Then, bright through bursting clouds, th' aurora trace!
Though long the night, and murky lower'd the sky,
Lift up your heads! ye much-enduring race!
Lift up your heads! for your redemption's nigh!
The coalition of Russia, Austria and Prussia, for the partition of Poland.
Few readers will have occasion to be infromed, that the banners of the Ottoman troops have crescent moons for their armorial emblems.
This refers to the repeal of the law, in South Carolina, which prohibited the importation of slaves. Since which, thousands have been introduced into that State from Africa.
One <illegible> of Indian corn, in the grain, is the only food allowed to each slave for seven days, on many plantations.
There are individuals in the United States who hold more of their fellow-beings in slavery, than either of the Barbary Powers.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE THREE LESSONS.
He stood in the dawn of that morning, in the dawn of the strifes to be, in the dawn of his immortality- panic and rout and flight behind him; the defences of the foe beneath his feet; an admiring, awe-struck enemy before his face. He stood there, firm, calm, invincible; the impersonation of liberty and valor-the master of the moment-the type of leadership. The last flash of that sword in the new-born sun-was a prophet-promise of victory; the last call of that inspired voice was a summons to victory; the shafts of evil paused, reverently, ere they sped to their aim-he fell among his foes, his fall a victory. He led-but there were none to follow, and the day was lost. Rightly is the spot named BETHEL, for there he saw the vision and heard the promise. A nation shall awaken, yet, from its sleep, to say, “Surely, the Lord was in this place, and I knew it not." The rejected stone which has served but as the pillow of conscience and understanding through more than a generation, shall be raised by those who have slumbered, an anointed pillar of deathless memories-the very corner-stone of the new Christian State. And there shall be engraved the name of the first leader-THEODORE WINTHROP-the type of leadership. Do I forget Alexandria and the gallant Ellsworth? O, no! He dared for the banner-and he won it-and its hues are henceforth fadeless as his immortality. Winthrop led for freedom-and there were none to follow-and so that day was lost. Lost? It was one of the lessons in the education of a people. Another, and its converse, that summer furnishes. Those three days of July! A brave mob-parched with thirst, fainting with hunger, rushing ardently on through uncertainties to uncertainties-why? Better not to know the nature of the ground, the forces and defences of the enemy, than derive the important information from negroes! Ah, when the statistics of this terrible struggle shall be collected and arranged by an impartial, discriminating hand, how much of the disaster resulting from mistakes-how many deaths from overtasking and exposure in unwholesome regions-how large a proportion of wasted opportunity and resource, will find their origin in hate, jealousy, contempt, of the negro! A brave mob dashing fearlessly forward; impulsively enacting deeds of unprecedented valor; then, right in the face of achievement, caracoling at a word, a breath, like an untamed, unreined steed-wheeling, rushing breathlessly back behind its fastnesses; defeated, disappointed, demoralized, disgraced, before a heart-sick nation and a sneering world-why? There were no leaders! A rank and file to follow gloriously, but none to lead. The second lesson. Ay, call the spot Manassas- Manasseh-for here, even here, by reason of this very lesson, the slave sold into bondage by his brethren shall sooner “forget all his toils," and all the persecutions of his “father's house." Again-
Beneath the stars and sun of October see the young heroes of the East follow their brilliant, heroic leader of the far Northwest through the wave, up the steep, to certain destruction; the sublime law of obedience the power that impels. Why this reckless extinction of lustrous life from the counsels of the nation? brave, beautiful, buoyant life from camp and field? precious, O, how precious life from homes and hearts? Here was a leader worthy of the cause; here were followers worthy of the leader-whence this fearful, apparently futile, sacrifice? Torpor in the brain or treason in the heart of him who planned! Three such lessons in four months! Do they not cover the causes of all our failures thus far? Want of policy, want of leaders, treason and incapacity in council and command. These needed lessons are not in vain. That sacred blood is not wasted, mourning relatives-friends’reft of friends so dear! This contest has been two-fold in its character; ignorance and prejudice first to be overcome, then open treason and rebellion. The latter must last until the former has an end. The sacrifice that ensures the destruction of the first is a certain stroke of doom to the last. That sacred blood was not wasted.
Gallantly, enthusiastically, Edgar Horton cheered on his band in their slow passage of the river, in their difficult and dangerous ascent up the bluff. “Forward! for the flag and for freedom!" And they dashed into the thickest of the fight; into the very centre of the unequal contest. That daring presence, with the flaming sword and flashing eye and clarion voice, uttering such a battle-cry, was not unmarked of the foe. Many a bullet was aimed at the brilliant, ubiquitous mark, but missed its aim. Three times he rallied his thinned ranks and hurled destruction against ten times his number; surrounded-it was but for a moment-“For the flag and for freedom!" and the encircling many gave way before the indomitable few. But it could not last. Outnumbered a dozen to one, he would die, but he would not yield. One idea, one image, possessed and inspired him-as he fell, with his unflinching front to the foe, he breathed the treasured words-"Clara-Freedom!"
Over the precipice, down the rough descent, into the pitiless river, they were hurled-those betrayed, butchered young braves of Massachusetts. Covered with wounds and glory; driven back by overwhelming numbers, hut not defeated; the day lost, bat the cause rebaptised into intenser life-in the words of the gifted eulogist of their leader-"Such a death, sudden, but not unprepared for, is the crown of the patriot soldier's life."
The contest at Ball's Bluff shot a thrill through Massachusetts that no other event of the struggle, thus far, had done. War was no longer a remote, vague chaos of events for flitting telegrams and contradictory newspaper rumors: it was a personal experience-an invader of home-circles and hearts. The nation mourned its wise, heroic counsellor-its brilliant Senator-soldier. New England mourned the fairest blossoms of its hope; households mourned the so-wanton extinction of their brightest lights; hearts mourned in sick, faint throbbings, that seemed like their own last pulsations. Crowds interrogated, eagerly, the bulletin-boards, and each other's faces; breakfast cooled untasted, dinner was removed untouched, while the columns of the daily news were devoured voraciously, and with a desperate clinging to hope in the midst of despair. Many a flushed cheek paled over the column of casualties; many a swimming eye was dried, again and again, that the name which had floated in the dimness, uncertainly, might be steadied into assurance for weal or for woe.
“O, mother! Henrietta! Edgar!"-the paper dropped from Emma's hand, and she fell back lifeless on the sofa where she had been sitting.
One deep, quivering sigh from Effie, while, pale as marble, and her hand pressed tightly on her heart, she silently left the table at which she had been reading to her aunts, crept feebly to her own room, and buried face, thought, anguish, in her pillow.
"My friend! my friend! so young, so noble, so brave, so beautiful! It is ever so! O, Slavery! Must, then, our choicest gems be molten for thy fiery draught?” And Adela paced her luxurious chamber in that far Canadian retreat, as many a time she had paced the low-roofed apartment of her cottage-refuge. Profound sorrow, burning indignation, were the tribute paid to that sacred memory. Then she resumed-"But thy doom is sealed, dread scourge of a land I love so well! Thy days are counted and determined. Outraged, avenging justice is on thy track. Yet, O, that he could have returned with the trophies of his valor! That he could have remained to bear, in the great coming jubilee day of freedom, the triumphant banners of his renown!"
"I cannot think of him as dead"-she wrote to 
Hugh Berkeley, when the first violence of her emotions had subsided-"so full of heroic life, so omnipotent as he seemed in youth and courage, it is not pos-
<c03>
sible that even the iron heel of slavery could crush it out. I know what you will say, dearest friend-I feel, even now, the force of that sentiment-he has but entered on a higher range of duties in the cause with which his whole being was identified. Not death, not departure, even, but promotion. I believe it, fully, in his case as in that of his brilliant leader; but our weak, cowardly hearts claim that they should stay with us, and help us here. We are like children who fret and wail at being left for a season, although our protectors have but ascended the stairs on some mission for our best and most needed good. I think of his bereaved mother and sisters-I think of Effie who loved him so deeply, and all the human in my heart bleeds with bitter pain. How know I when the shaft may be aimed at me, thus? True, your position is not so exposed as his was, but the merciless foe is everywhere, and seems, instinctively, to single the champions of freedom. I do not ask you to shun danger, but I pray God, fervently, every hour, to shield you in the midst of it." Again she says-
"This life of idleness seems criminal, on my part, 
at this time. Could I but be with you, sharing danger and toil; ministering to the suffering; sustaining the fainting; encouraging the desponding! I wait but your summons to be at your side." Again-
"I cannot rely on newspaper accounts; your letters, alone, give me satisfactory information. I fear you must encroach on needed rest to furnish them so generously. Do not do this, I pray you-yet how could I spare a line?" 
"What you say of the probabilities with regard to Harry and Huldah, seems wholly reasonable. Heaven send that their way may lead, somewhere, toward you! O, that the opportunity might be given my brave brother to avenge my preserver's death! I would walk hence, to the place of their encampment, or the field of their fighting, to see him at the head of a regiment of armed slaves. It must come to this- it will come to this, dearest friend, I am assured. The gaping wounds of these precious Northern youth are the open prison-doors of fettered Northern mind. These rivers of priceless blood must cleanse error and prejudice forever away."                
"Your vivid picture of that beautiful valley of the Shenandoah, so changed by the desolations of war, made me sad, but not so sad as the thought of the desolated homes and hearts in that other beautiful valley of the Connecticut."
The last extract we shall make from these letters was to this effect: “Can I not be useful, near you, as a teacher among the ‘Contrabands'? promise to be no hindrance-and feel, so strongly, the power and the need to help.”
"Sad news this morning, very sad, Squire. Mrs. Horton is, I am told, quite inconsolable," said the Counsellor, with whom Edgar had begun his professional studies, addressing the Justice of the Peace, whom he met near his office. “Have you seen her, Squire Smalley?” (The Counsellor was the only man who substituted the secular for the ecclesiastical title in this connection.)
"No, sir; it would be a delicate matter to call on her-I shall leave it for Deacon Sleeper. I'm sorry for Mrs. Horton and her eldest daughter; they are very sensible people; it will be hard for the widow-he was her son, whatever his faults. No loss to the community, though; and it has served him right. If there must be fighting, these Abolitionists that began it ought to do it; and if there must be killing, they are the ones to go. I shall think this war a blessing, instead of the curse it is, if it thins off the Abolitionists."
My readers are, by this time, sufficiently acquainted with the Deacon's peculiar style to realize how this was jerked, in angry fragments, from his wiry body.
“Pardon me, Squire-setting aside Horton's peculiar opinions, I think he was a fine young man; a very talented, promising young man.” 
"For one, I can't set aside his opinions, sir, when I see what they have brought the country to."
Well, now, Squire Smalley, I am beginning to look at this slavery question a little different from what I did, and I think you will, by and by. I don't go all lengths with the Abolitionists; but, frankly, they have been nearer right than we supposed, I think."
"Right, sir? I, for one, can't see what right a few brainless men and crazy women have to stir a whole country up to civil war. I don't wonder at the South being exasperated; I wonder they bore it so long-I couldn't. Who wouldn't rather have no government at all than an Abolition government? The next thing we know, these free, Northern States will be overrun with black slaves from the South, set free by this un principled Abolition Administration. What do the ignorant, stupid creatures know about liberty, or what can they do with liberty? Besides, we've got as many people at the North, now, as we can take care of, and more too. What will you yourself say, sir, when these fellows come and push aside your own children?" (Poor man! He didn't see, as many another has not-as many a neighborhood, association, district has not-the gross absurdity of his positions; first, the entire incapacity of the negro; next, the probability of his pushing the white man from place and power! He went on; eyes darting little fiery gleams; movements as on former occasions; and, as they talked, they reached the office and entered it.)”Why, sir, it was only the other day a, man told me, in sober earnest,-a man that, before this, I gave credit to for common sense,-that he thought the negroes ought to be armed! Armed, sir! Put side by side with our white soldiers!"
“ It certainly would save many valuable Northern 
lives if this could be done, Squire Smalley. I think
they ought to be employed by the government to work in the trenches, and made, at least, to garrison forts. So much my common sense tells me, although I by no means endorse all the Abolitionists urge."

“Well, sir, of the two evils, I had rather my son should be shot dead than stand in the ranks with the(another undeaconly word,) niggers. Slaves they were born, slaves they should remain, if I could have my say-under their rightful owners. I should 
be willing my flesh and blood should fight for that, but 
not to help the Abolitionists. Thank God, there are 
none that belong to me in the service, yet!"
The only remaining student in the office had been, for several minutes, in a state of great excitement. Unable longer to control himself, he turned to the Counsellor, “In my opinion, sir, that man's language is treason, and he is a subject for arrest.'' Squire Smalley, or, as we know him best, Deacon Smalley, gave an alarmed, irresolute glance at the speaker, fidgeted with his hat an instant, while his sallow cheek turned greenish white, then sneaked from the office. He had but spoken the sentiments, in his mixed, sententious way, of how-many in our midst?
Severely wounded, to all appearances dead, young Horton was borne from the place of slaughter by two of his command, at the imminent peril of their own lives. Closely pursued by the infuriated enemy, they dashed down the steep, bearing the lifeless form that had led them so heroically up. They reached the river-a small boat, the only one in view, seemed providentially to have drifted to their aid from higher up. Into it they stepped eagerly with their sacred burden; it was instantly filled with the flying Federals. They pushed hurriedly out into the stream. But the surface of that evermore historic, hallowed river was covered with struggling, sinking forms, escaped from that terrible contest on land, to do desperate, and, in many instances, fatal battle with the waves. Despairing hands seized the boat as it neared them-death-grasps, with unconscious instinct of self-preservation; their tenacious hold dragged it down; it capsized-and scathless, wounded and lifeless were precipitated into the water. But, even there, the two soldiers forgot not their holy undertaking. With a mighty power, their slender forms breasted the current, and bore on their beloved commander. Human muscle and will have their limit, however.”It is in vain, George," gasped one, “let us save ourselves to avenge his death."                    
But that precious body was not thus to be entombed. At the moment the hands of the soldiers relaxed their hold, another was extended, sinewy, scarred and branded, but potent to save.
<c04>
"Follow in my wake-hold by me, if necessary," said a kindly, encouraging voice to the exhausted soldiers. As if it were the pastime of a leisure hour, the bondman, for such his saving hand showed him to be, shot through the water to the opposite bank-deposited his burden in the care of a young female who had been anxiously watching his approach-hastened to assist the two soldiers who were feebly nearing land-then betook himself again, with a wise and kind assiduity, to the side of the wounded young officer. Bullets had entered the fleshy but not vital parts of the body; life was not extinct, although it must soon have been from loss of blood, but for this timely and judicious care.
As Edgar Horton opened his eyes, which had closed on that bloody battle-height, they fell on a face that startled and bewildered him like a half returning memory. When his failing sense reeled, in what he thought the death-hour, the last distinct thought and image were freedom and Clara; he returns to life to see slavery engraved on the hand that bathes his brow, and to see the lineaments of Clara, in less lovely but still striking similitude, bent anxiously on him from a little distance; while their coarser and rougher resemblance looks out from the face that, in restoring assiduities, almost touches his. He knows not yet what he shall know-how her debt of gratitude has been paid-that his life has been preserved by Harry Herman! That his couch of weakness and pain shall be tended gently, sweetly, untiringly, by the youthful nurse of that improvised hospital-Huldah Herman!
MORAL FORCES. No.1. 

PHILADELPHIA,4th mo.27th, 1863.WM. LLOYD GARRISON:

ESTEEMED AND REVERED FRIEND-A voice from Maine startles me. Seward Mitchell, our earnest and respected friend, admits in your Liberator of the 13th ult. a change has come over his mind on the subject of non-resistance.
We may not wholly differ in some positions, but I feel that he has lost sight of the pure principle of the necessity of a Christ-like non-resistance, both for the perfection of each individual soul, and the attainment of the highest prosperity and morality of the whole human family.
He refers to my letters of about two years ago, to which he so promptly and feelingly responded; and his change now, when we are in the midst of this fearful struggle, admonishes me that perhaps others may have lost faith. I have not, but am the more strengthened and encouraged.
The first question a writer should ask himself, before putting pen to paper, is-“What good will be accomplished? Am I influenced in recommending a moral policy, and improving the condition of my fellow-men, or is my purpose merely one of head, and not of heart?" Every word spoken or written for war is calculated to weaken man's highest spiritual impressions and aspirations, and justify practices brutal and wicked, unchrist-like, and wholly unchristian. The war doctrine needs no champions. It sadly is in the ascendant throughout the world; and I have a tear of pity and of love for that friend of true peace principles who gives way to the immense pressure of the present, with all its engrossing facts and hopeful anticipations.
I should have remained quietly awaiting the verdict of history for the truth of my deeply rooted sentiments, had not our friend thus seemingly fallen from his noble position. True, I am met frequently with the remark-“How about non-resistance now?" There can be but one answer. I never felt more deeply convinced of its power and necessity. Some one says-"I ignore the power of God's momentum, or the instrumentalities through which he works on the earth." Far from it! I recognize his laws omnipotent, his plans mysterious, and his purposes perfect; while the instrumentalities through which he works I regard as adapted to his ends; and while he gives a free agency to man, he institutes certain natural laws that are understood only by close examination, study and revelation. We find, if we disobey the laws of health, we suffer sickness. If we inflict a wound upon the body, we suffer pain. So it is if we neglect the laws of morality, we become liable to retributive justice. Thus the wickedness of our nation culminates in war. Its cause, then, is the wickedness 
of man; and being wicked in its inception, it cannot become virtuous, except by ignoring the basis. And those who struggle for the right, through these same wicked means, accept that which is wrong, and therefore cannot consecrate any righteous cause. The remedy is to be found in adopting a Christ-like spirit of non-resistance; such, indeed, as repudiates all merely brutal and carnal opposition, all maledictions upon adversaries, and accepts and adopts the openhanded and open-hearted resistance of moral forces. A firm reliance upon the unconquerable force of virtue, uniting with a Christian submission kind acts and sympathy, determined protest, earnest appeal, constant petition and hopeful martyrdom, and in the end adopting the sweet spirit of “Father, forgive them, they know not what they do."
If we wish to accomplish miracles, let such be the watch-word of our race. It may be called impracticable, or even ridiculous, but let us try it.
You, friend Garrison, have secured the gratitude of mankind by adopting this principle. Friends revere, and enemies admire you for it. It means no weak or sickly inactivity, no unconcerned or cowardly interest, no conceited or uncharitable bearing in the great issues of the present, or the history of the world. No! it inspires to the greatest activity of intellect and affection. The work becomes immense, anxious, unremitted, and courageous; at once the height of patriotism and humanity. Let it then be tested! Let 
a people espouse it! Let each one of us add our neighbor; he his, and so on; and, once established upon the basis of non-resistance, all would be well.
I have never met any one, however combative in his feelings, but he acknowledged that non-resistance was right, and war wrong; but he would declare, at the same time, the former seemed to be impossible, and the latter unavoidable. If non-resistance be right, and war wholly wrong, why not adopt the one, and reject the other? And the only course to secure that end is for each one to hold firmly to his convictions. We must begin sometime; and now, when the occasion arises, and the trial is before us,-severe as the trial is, and deep as our sympathies are with the cause of our government,-we must not forget there is a higher tribunal and a more exalted excellence; and where we are permitted to comprehend it, let us not disregard the revelation, nor even for a moment descend to a lower plane. But, filled with a conscious gushing of fraternal love, let us seek to elevate others to the same sphere of moral greatness and supreme happiness. This is a virtue of our being, a grandeur of our creation, uncontracted by geographical lines, and untrammelled by any fortuitous circumstances of birth or adoption; but, literally and liberally, the hole soul of mankind, wishing well to the entire world, and seeking to elevate every condition of the human family.
True, it may contravene the plighted faith, the national vow, to observe constitutions, and decisions, and laws, however they may militate against freedom, right, justice, and Christian duty. It may upset the grave deceit that “consistency," as the world goes, “is a jewel;" for how often it proves but dross! It holds men to old rigid usages, that may be, and often are, illiberal and unjust; and if a step is taken to improve or advance, it is called inconsistent. So with Constitutions. When a move is made for the right, some who oppose declare it unconstitutional. Congress declared that the Territories should be free; that slavery should be abolished in the District of Columbia; that the ministers from Hayti and Liberia should be recognized; that the slave trade should be abolished; the President issues a Proclamation, glorious in its conception, and hopeful in its execution, that slavery may be forever abolished in our land; and thousands declare all this unconstitutional. It is

<c05>
thus that consistency and constitutions may become millstones upon the neck of human progress.
I mean nothing disrespectful or unpatriotic, but everything pure, Steadfast, and citizen-like. It may partake of a cosmopolitan character; but are we intended, as God's children, to confine and cramp our respect and our allegiance merely to State and to laws, because they are our own, however they may oppress humanity, and fall short of what a careful and conscientious inquiry teaches us is right?-right to ourselves in our highest moral development-right to our fellow-men of every color, sect and condition-right to our country, which we crave to perpetuate in prosperity and morality-and right to our impartial Father in return for his immense blessings of life, light, bounty and beauty. The purest type of human nature, the real manhood, assimilating as near as possible to the God-hood, is over and above the plane of mere conventional consistency and unjust constitutional obligations; and while it accepts the good of such, as ladder-rounds for its upward step, because of the sincere spirit in which it is offered, it must reject all complicity with, or endorsement of the arm of war.
Our friend Mitchell seems to look the facts of the present fairly in the face. I am disposed to do the same; and while I appeal earnestly and sincerely for that policy which refuses to take up carnal weapons under any circumstances whatever, I am the farthest from reflecting upon our government, or upon any loyal man who feels it to be right to take up the sword in the present cause, with the high blessings that they anticipate must result in doing so; for, under the war power, they feel they could do nothing else. I admit there is much to gratify me in the enthusiasm of my fellow-men, and much that is hopeful in the signs of the times. But I do feel a deep sorrow that it is through the war power, and a keen regret that my countrymen have not been awakened to see the wickedness of it, and the potency of non-resistance as a Christian principle; and I have an ardent desire and determination to stand for it in all emergencies and vicissitudes, and uphold it as the greatest need of a great people and model government.
Feeling thus charitable and thus convinced, and understanding so clearly the temperament of our people and the monstrous sin that rested upon this country-that of slavery; for, in proclaiming the liberty and equality of the whole human family, and yet enslaving a portion the very day we so declared, and have been doing so ever since, we uttered a gross falsehood, and have been living false to our professions, we deserve the fearful retribution that war brings upon us. In this spirit, if it be possible, let us not be too unreasonable or uncharitable to those who have received and deserved the name of rebels. This blight of slavery, and this long-fostered falsehood, can scarcely be fully estimated in its deluding and demoralizing effects. Among its saddest has been its blighting influence upon those born and bred among it. As we find those reared in the midst of disease become diseased, so with those in the midst of slavery, they become deranged with its maddening influence.
Our countrymen, seeing and knowing all this, have sought to abolish it; and, now, let us trace the real significance of pure moral forces. They may cause war, and, under all the circumstances surrounding our country, we may admit that war was absolutely unavoidable. The great moral force of Anti-Slavery, wielded by the strong arm of argument, reason and martyrdom, worked upon our people, and caused the revolution. Yes, here is the potency, the supremacy of the moral forces over the immoral forces. Petition, argument, appeal, prayer, and unremitted effort of tongue, pen and example, may cause some great outbreak or revolution that eventuates in war. With that, the non-resistant has nothing to do. He works for the principle; and when the struggle culminates in war, because men do not control their passions, he does not seize the sword, and thus descend from his higher position, but he faithfully argues and appeals for the right, and the moral status of society. Thus may it be with my friend Seward Mitchell! Admitting he is right in some of his positions, it does not follow that he or any non-resistant should descend to the level of fighting men.
You, friend Garrison, for a score and a half of years, have been resisting slavery, and contending for the rights of man, by all the moral forces of your nature, upon the sublime principle of non-resistance; and most of the Abolitionists have done the same, and it has been one of the principal causes for its triumphs at this hour. Had you and your followers gone to war with carnal weapons, the divine cause of Anti-Slavery would not be where it is to-day. And if the result of this war shall be the overthrow of slavery, it will be the victory of a thirty years' war of constant tuition, earnest appeal, unremitted example, frequent sacrifice, and noble martyrdom of the Anti-Slavery people. And so long as they stand firmly by their grand moral principles, and will abjure the use of every element that is immoral, they will receive and deserve success. They can afford to let the lesson work. Without them, war could never abolish slavery-with them, war can never do it, if they do not, in the majesty of their God-like sentiments and their very soul aspirations, cling to their original and ever-animating principles of love, justice and humanity.
Be true to ourselves and the convictions of our own souls, and we shall make our cause sacred, and insure success. Less suffering will result from the non-resistant than from the war policy; and even if blood should flow from this combined appeal for truth, justice and right, may it not consecrate the cause by its being innocent blood? Surely, those who lay such stress upon the blood of Christ, because of its innocence and purity, ought to be willing for the same sad offering now.
If we speak with the tongue of peace, let it be with no pretended, partisan, deceitful plea for morality, like that we meet in some political circles, using the sublime virtue for the basest purposes. Let it be no made-up conscientiousness, merely for the occasion, having unjust compromises, unholy alliances, and unhappy reconstructions in view; but upon the basis of the fullest recognition and confidence of the principles of the “meek and lowly Jesus."

If we speak with the tongue of war, as our government now seems goaded on to do, let it be no <illegible>-half drive, half-coax; with a sword in one hand, and a Bible in the other; with damage to the enemy as a pretence, and their preservation as a reality; with confiscation of property in word, and restoration of the most valuable property in fact; a call for volunteers at one time, and yet their rejection, if deepened in color, at another; with an acceptance in some sections of colored men as soldiers, and yet their rejection in all places as officers, however eminent and well-qualified they may be. All this constitutes a hesitation and an error which must be disastrous, and prolong the struggle.
For one, count me ever your humble and hopeful friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.

SHAMEFUL, CRUELPIES OF THE SLAVE CODE.-A disgraceful business has been carried on at St. Louis, for several weeks past, in the guise and under the cover of the old slave code laws of Missouri, enacted in the dark ages, and which the Legislature ought to have repealed long since. A well known dealer in ebony goods has been buying up claims to runaway negroes, held by notorious rebels, in cases where the whereabouts of the negro had been discovered. Whether in the country or city, the negroes have been forcibly taken and placed in the country jail or calaboose as runaways, the master paying their board, as required by law, at the rate of 331/2 cents per day. When fifteen or twenty are thus collected at the calaboose at St. Louis, they are released by order of the master, and secretly carried at midnight across the river to the Ohio and Mississippi Railway depot. Here they are guarded by hirelings of their kidnappers until morning, and then taken by railway to Evansville, Ind., thence to Henderson, Ky., or to New Albany and Louisville. The Copperheads of Southern Illinois and Indiana are not to be feared in a case of abduction of this character. The guilty parties are liable to be hauled up for breaking the safe-guards given to negroes by the Provost Marshal.-<illegible>.N. Y. Tribune.

<c06>
THE GAME OF CHESS.

“Peace or War between England and America lies very much with the Press of the two countries” So writes a distinguished American now in London. The fact is not new, but it never was so true as now. 
Everybody knows the Print of the Young Man playing Chess with the Devil. “The Game of Life.” The young man going into the snare the evil one has laid, is about to make the false move intended for him. His Guardian Angel despairs, while Satan smiles to the roots of his hair. Such is the game we are engaged in, and the Father of Evil has too great a stake in the result to leave any chance for us, if, at the critical point, we allow our passion to master our reason.
The great move on the board now is to get us into a war with England, and thereby ensure the separation of the South, the dismemberment of this country, the permanent establishment of a Slave Empire, a Slave Aristocracy on this continent; fast leagued with the aristocracy of the old world, for one object, at least, to put a safe <illegible> on the future greatness of the United States. Perhaps His Majesty counts too fast if he relies on all these results, but how, foolish it would be, in a moment of irritation, to make just the move he is waiting for! It is certain that ourdifficulties would be enormously increased, and success indefinitely postponed, and perhaps fatally circumscribed.
There is a powerful party in England whose whole mind is turned to find an occasion which shall enlist sympathies of the Nation in a war against the United States. This they know can only be effected by some false move on our part. Hence the eagerness with which every weapon is sought and forged that can sting us into some act of sought and forged that can sting us into some act of impatience or retaliation. Hence the transcendant ingenuity of the sarcasms of the Times. Hence the cry of mad dog raised upon every pretence. We have shown that we understand that game, but the great weapon to be employed for this purpose, the dangerous weapon in such skilful hands, is the privateer question. As to the destruction of our ships, the rebels know that helps them little; but it is the most famous recipe in the world to sting us into measures that would render a war with Great Britain inevitable. So they ply it with might and main. Had we yielded to the pressure to issue letters of marque, what rejoicings it would have created at Richmond! They would have counted the months till war should be declared. It is their only hope. Let them play this last card in vain, destroy this hope then, and we may securely count the months it will cost to put down the rebellion. Let us not play into the hands of these clever jockies. Let us always are ourselves,”What do the rebels want us to do?” and do the opposite. Had we followed this rule since the war began, where would the rebellion have been to-day?
The elever and unprincipled portion of the upper classes in England, who are thus playing into the hands of the rebels, are not the nation. They are the Toombses, the Jeff Davises, the Slidells of England,-more polished, but the same at heart. Their object is the same in England as that of these clever gentlemen at the South: viz., to precipitate the nation into a war on a popular cry, which shall be a war against all democratic institutions throughout the world, and especially in England; a great reactionary war to keep the power in the hands of the ruling classes. They know that a war brought on in cold blood would react on its authors; but that a war which they could make popular by any indiscretion of ours would make enemies of our friends in England; for such, at heart, are the great middle and lower classes, and many of all classes. It is in our power to keep them our friends, and woe to England if she makes war upon us against the conscience of the the English people and the public opinion of the world! “The Proclamation saved to us the people of England, and will save us from a war.” Did the Rebel leaders rejoice over the Proclamation? Did their friends in England <illegible> at it? That is the true test of our wisdom and success.
A NEGRO MASS MEETING.

A Lake Providence correspondent of the New York Evening Post gives an account of a mass meeting of about a thousand negroes at that place. About five hundred of them were able-bodied men, and the rest women and children, all of whom assembled from the plantations in the vicinity at short notice. The meeting was opened with prayer by an aged and venerable negro, and the most devout attention was paid by the blacks. The account proceeds:-
“The negroes were then addressed by Col. Klinch, who told them that the policy of the Government was to clothe, feed, arm and organize into regiments all the men capable of bearing arms, while, under the protection of these regiments and with their assistance, the women and children were to remain on and cultivate the plantations for their own subsistence-the product of their own labor to be their own property.
After telling them of all the advantages they would secure by becoming soldiers, and also of all the risks they would run, and the dangers that would be peculiar to them because they were negroes, he said: ‘Now, after explaining these things to you, I want to know how many of you are willing to become faithful, obedient soldiers? How many of you are willing to fight, and, if necessary, to die fighting for the flag, for the Government, and for your freedom? Those of you who are willing to do this hold up your hands! In an instant nearly five hundred hands were lifted in the air. When the women were called upon to express in the same manner their readiness to go on the plantations as they should be directed, and work for their own subsistence, their show of uplifted hands was as unanimous as that of the men.
I think that no one who witnessed the conduct of the negroes to-day could say that they do not understand their position; that they are intoxicated with any visionary, insane ideas of freedom and a life of ease; nor could any one doubt that the greatest desire of their lives is to be free.”
Regular College for Young Women.

Chartered by the State of Pennyslvania, with full University powers, including authority to grant Diplomas and confer Degrees.
J. Warrenne Sunderland, A.M., LL.D., President.
The college is LIBERAL in its character, and conducted upon principles in harmony with the spirit of this practical and progressive age.
The daughters of New England, who thirst for higher mental development, and a more liberal and through education, <lligible> are attainable at most of our “Fashionable Female Seminaries,” are invited to avail themselves of the advantages of the
PENN FEMALE COLLEGE,

at FREELAND, Montgomery Co., Pa., near Philadelphia,
The Institution is amply provided with able Teachers, and all needful facilities for imparting a thorough and complete education in all the useful and ornamental branches of jearning. The location is easy of access, healthy, and delightful. The expenses are very moderate.
Send for a circular, containing full particulars. Address as above. April10-2m
IMPROVEMENT IN 

Champooing and Hair Dyeing,

“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”

MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER

WOULDW inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to

No.31 WINTER STREET.

Where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoes with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
NO. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.

ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,

NO.6, TREMONT STREET,.. BOSTON.








                              


 
