THE LIBERATOR
— IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING. 
-AT THE -
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agennt.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the <illegible> of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
<c01>
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 8. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1581

SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF HON. LINUS B. COMINS, 
Of Mass., in the U. S. House of Representatives,ON THE ADMISSION OF ORRGON INTO THE UNION.
When, yesterday, the debate commenced on the admission of Oregon, it was not my intention to participate in it. And, now, if the House will give me its attention, I will not occupy more than fifteen minutes of its time.
At the opening of the Thirty-fourth Congress, three embryo States were about to emerge from their provincial condition, and become members of the Confederacy of the United States. At that time there was scarcely a man in the section of the country which I, in part, have the honor to represent, who was not ready and eager to bid welcome to Minnesota, Kansas and Oregon.
Minnesota has been admitted. The history of Kansas is familiar to the world. The repeal of the Missouri compromise comprises its first chapter. A compromise which was never approved by northern men; those who voted for its passage, from the Free States, voted for it to die. It was acquiesced in to prevent discord, and as a promotive of union and harmony. Under the plausible pretence of popular sovereignty, it was repealed to gratify the personal and political ambition of men. Sir, parodoxical as it may seem, the same fatality which attended those who voted for its passage, will be traced in the future history of those who labored for its repeal.
However this may be, the storm in Kansas has passed away; and those who have been beaten, as well as those who have triumphed, can enjoy the serenity of the sky. The Republican triumph in that territory comes to us as the voice of that civil revolution which contains a germ from which is to spring a life, and a light, for the future guidance of our country’s destiny. Freedom in Kansas has triumphed. The time and manner of her admission into the Union is with herself. We now come to Oregon. 
Oregon is comparatively an old Territory. She is, to some extent, I believe to a very great extent, settled by New England people. Massachusetts men and Massachusetts women were amoug its earliest settlers. The blood of those whose memory is dear to me flowed in the veins of those who first broke its soil and planted its fields. Her fortunes have been watched with the greatest solicitude by our people. In prosperity and in adversity, she has been the object of our regard and watchful care. She has struggled onward and onward, in moderate but substantial prosperity. She is now at the door of the Union. Shall we close it upon her? Not by my vote. Shall we repel her? Shall we cast her off? shall we bid her welcome? Sir, my mind is made up; with all my heart. I bid her come in. There are provisions in her constitution which, were I to vote upon them, could never receive my sanction. But I do not regard myself as responsible, in the vote which I give for her admission, for each and every item in her constitution. I vote for her admission upon general principles. Her constitution is republican in form; and slavery is excluded from her territory forever.
Sir, I regret with sadness the people of Oregon have deemed it expedient to adopt the article they have, relative to free negroes; but I must regard it as but temporary and inoperative. Candor, however, compels me to say, that it is but in accordance with the spirit which prevails throughout the West towards free blacks; and is significant that the free, as well as the bonded negro, is to be the cause of much future agitation. In Massachusetts, thank God, all men are regarded equal, and entitled to equal rights. I find no State west of New York ready to grant full rights and privileges of citizenship to free blacks; therefore, it would be inconsistent to reject Oregon for this clause in her constitution.
I am also entirely opposed to that provision in her constitution relative to alien suffrage, and will never sanction, by my vote, the principle involved in it; but this is a matter which, under the present Constitution and laws of the country, is entirely with the people of the States. I have made my record on these questions on the journals of this House, and shall do it again, whenever the question shall arise.
Mr. Speaker, Oregon must, at no remote day, be admitted as a State. I am in favor of her admission to-day. If admitted now, she comes under the bright sunshine of peace. No internal feuds reign there. The canvas for her constitutional convention was conducted as quietly and peacefully as the ordinary elections in the States. In view of the scenes which have transpired in other Territories, and which have been so often and so graphically portrayed by members of this House, and by none with more eloquence and power than by the honorable gentleman from Pennsylvania [Mr. Grow]; I say, in view of these things, and with the blood of our brothers yet moist, shed in territorial strifes and contentions, who upon this floor is willing to take the responsibility of a postponement of this question? If we delay her admission, no man can <illegible> what intervening circumstances may occur to embarrass and embitter future proceedings. Others may take this responsibility; I will not.
Now as to her population. I will not undertake to say how large her population is; two years ago, the gentleman from Pennsylvania stated it to be ninety thousand. He gave me yesterday, as his authority, the honorable Delegate from Oregon. The honorable Delegate from Oregon has assured us, upon this floor, to-day, that her population is ninety to one hundred thousand, and he is my authority. If he was good authority two years ago, he is good authority now. I am not aware of anything in his career, during the past two years, to impeach his integrity.
A few words as to enabling acts and the English restriction. I am indifferent as to enabling acts, and think them altogether unnecessary. I regard the English restriction, so called, of no consequence; I shall most cheerfully vote for its repeal. It has served a good purpose; it has served to cast odium upon its authors, and help on the cause of freedom everywhere.
In my judgment, you may adopt as many resolutions as you will, as the basis upon which new States shall hereafter be admitted into the Union, and each new State will be admitted independent of such resolution. The Thirty-fifth Congress may be of the opinion that ninety-three thousand four hundred and twenty in habitants shall be the basis as to population; and the Thirty-sixth Congress will repeal or disregard it. I do not say this is right; but it is in the nature of things, and in accordance with the history of the country.
The Constitution of the United States avoided specifying the mode by which new States may be admitted into the Union; leaving the form and manner altogether to the discretion of Congress. As it was the wisdom of the framers of the Constitution to leave this matter to Congress, it seems to me presumption for one Congress to lay down a basis upon which a succeeding Congress shall act. As I am ready to admit Kansas with a free and republican constitution, such as her people desire, and may adopt, so am I now ready to vote for the admission of Oregon.
<c02>
THE ADMISSION OF OREGON.
Speech of Hon. Henry L. Dawes, of Mass.,
IN THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Friday, Feb.11.
Mr. Dawes. I have been unable to coincide with the views of my colleague, [Mr. Comins,] who has just taken his seat, and I am compelled to vote against the admission of Oregon under the constitution which she brings here in her application, and I desire briefly to assign a few reasons for that vote. The question of the admission of a new State into our Confederacy, is addressed to the largest discretion of Congress. The Constitution does not command us to admit new States. It simply authorizes the exercise of that power, and leaves to each legislator the largest exercise of his discretion, unburdened by a single obligation, and untrammeled save by a single limitation. There may be, and doubtless often are, considerations which go to modify, and to some extent control that discretion. A large and increasing population, stable and permanent in its character, may have induced an invitation in advance, in the form of an enabling act. Civil commotion may have so disturbed the order of things in a Territory, or the territorial government may have so failed to discharge its proper functions, or to render itself acceptable to the people, that one may feel constrained, other things being consistent, to cast a vote for the admission of a Territory as a State. But in the case of Oregon, I know of no such consideration.
So far as the amount of population is concerned, and so far as we have any official information, there are, in my opinion, very few more than fifty or sixty thousand inhabitants in that Territory. I would as soon vote for her admission into this Union, with sixty thousand, as with any other number, if the circumstances which surround her territorial existence and position are such as to justify it. I make no objection here, that she does not come under the enabling act. Other things being equal, I would just as soon vote for her admission here without, as with an enabling act, if she came here with a constitution acceptable to her people, and republican in principle. No civil commotion exists in all her borders; she is at peace, she is slowly and gradually increasing in population, and coming forth by degrees from the chrysalis of an infant Territory, and clothing herself with the maturity of a State.
I feel, under the circumstances, perfectly free to examine her application, and to weigh not only all the arguments in favor of her admission, but all objections which lie against it. My objections to voting for her admission lie in her constitution itself. I cannot agree with my colleague, [Mr. Comins,] that her constitution is Republican in form. I understand that phraseology to mean something more than mere form. I understand it to be my duty to look into that constitution, and see whether it is Republican in principle. One portion of that constitution, most objectionable in my mind, I send to the Clerk’s desk, that they may be read together. They have often been alluded to in this debate, but not too often; for more than one reading is necessary in order to learn the full scope and meaning of those several propositions. 
The Clerk read as follows: 
‘And every white male of foreign birth, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who shall have resided in the United States one year, and shall have resided in this State during the six months immediately preceding such election, and shall have declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States one year preceding such election, conformably to the laws of the United States on the subject of naturalization, shall be entitled to vote at all elections authorized by law.’
‘No free negro or mulatto, not residing in this State at the time of the adoption of the constitution, shall ever come, reside, or be within this State, or hold any real estate, or make any contract, or maintain any suit therein; and the Legislative Assembly shall provide by penal laws for the removal, by public officers, of all such free negroes and mulattoes, and for their effectual exclusion from the State, and for the punishment of persons who shall bring them into the State, or employ or harbor them therein.’
‘No Chinaman not a resident of this State at the time of the adoption of this Constitution, shall ever hold any real estate or mining claim, or work any mining claim therein.’
‘The Legislative Assembly shall provide by law, in the most effective manner, for carrying out the above provisions.’
‘No negro, Chinaman, or mulatto, shall have the right of suffrage.’
‘And the Legislative Assembly shall have power to restrain and regulate the immigration to this State of persons not qualified to become citizens of the United States.’
Mr. Dawes. I am not to be driven from the position of opposition to this constitution, because of the charge made against this side of the House-of opposition to the admission of a free State, for the reason that it is Democratic in its political character. The participation I had last session in bringing Minnesota upon this floor, has given evidence that I will admit a free State, whatever may be the political character of that State. I refer to the record of the Thirty-Fourth Congress, where I find that my colleague [Mr. Comins,] voted against the enabling act for the admission of a free State into the Union, because of some, to him, valid objections to that act. In the vote on the enabling act for the admission of Minnesota, I find my colleague’s name recorded against it; and now, strengthened by his example, I make bold, here, to raise my voice in opposition to the admission of Oregon, for reasons found in her constitution. Sir, the first of the articles read at the Clerk’s desk, I do not propose, in the limited time I have, to dwell much upon. It is an objection, in my mind, to the admission of Oregon, and a departure from the true meaning of the constitution, which, in my judgment, was never intended to permit any but citizens to exercise the elective franchise. The second is, in my opinion, as plainly and as palpably a violation of the Constitution of the United States, as any provision capable of being drafted by man. I hold myself responsible upon this floor, if, by my vote, I breathe the breath of life into that constitution, just as much as if it were embodied in a bill before Congress, and by my vote that was made a law. Without the vote of a majority upon this floor, that constitution falls stillborn; by the vote of a majority, it becomes the organic law of the Territory of Oregon. I am not able, whatever may be the abilities of others upon this floor, to divest myself of the responsibility of voting for that which, in my conscience, I believe to be unconstitutional. That provision of the constitution which excludes free people of color from the Territory, is, in my opinion, as I have said, clearly unconstitutional.
‘No free negro or mulatto not residing in this State at the time of the adoption of this constitution, shall ever come, reside, or be within this State, or hold any real estate, or make any contract, or maintain any suit therein.’
Sir, that cannot be republican in this Confederacy of States, which cannot be adopted and carried out in practice under the Constitution of all the States. One State of this Union cannot arrogate to itself prerogatives, the exercise of which cannot be assumed by all the States of this Union. If the State of
<c03>
Oregon has the right to drive from its borders all free people of color, every other State has the same right, and we might as well here enact a law to drive every one of them into the broad ocean, as to authorize by our vote here the State of Oregon to drive them from the Territory. It is unconstitutional under that provision of the Constitution of the United States, which guarantees to citizens of each States all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States; and in maintenance of that doctrine, I need not go further than the Dred Scott decision. That decision, which struck more fatal blows at the rights of men, than ever before, in the history of the government, fell upon innocent and unoffending heads, is not broad enough to take this clause of the Oregon constitution out of conflict with that of the United States. Here is the doctrine laid down by Chief Justice Taney, in the opinion of the Court, when he defines what that clause in the Constitution of the United States guaranties to the citizen of one State when he goes into another:
‘But so far as mere rights of person are concerned, the provision in question is confined to citizens of a State who are temporarily in another State, without taking up their residence there. It gives them no political rights in the State, as to voting, or holding office, or in any other respect. For a citizen of one State has no right to participate in the government of another. But, if he rank as a citizen in the State to which he belongs., within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, then, whenever he goes into another State, the Constitution clothes him, as to the rights of person, with all the privileges and immunities which belong to citizens of the State. And if persons of the African race are citizens of a State, and of the United States, they would be entitled to all of those privileges and immunities in every State, and the State could not restrict them; for they would hold these privileges and immunities under the paramount authority of the Federal Government, and its courts would be bound to maintain and enforce them, the constitution and laws of the State to the contrary, notwithstanding. And if the States could limit or restrict them, or place the party in an inferior grade, this clause of the Constitution would be unmeaning, and could have no operation; and would give no rights to the citizen when in another State. He would have none but what the State itself chose to allow him. This is evidently not the construction or meaning of the clause in question. It guaranties rights to the citizen, and the State cannot withhold them.’
Now, I think no man will for a moment contend that if the classes of persons described in this section of the Oregon constitution shall be included in this idea of a citizen, then, according to the constitution, as expounded in the Dred Scott decision itself, this provision which attempts, not only to drive them from its border, but to prevent their holding property, making contracts, suing in the courts, or even eating the bread of life within her borders, does violate that provision of the constitution to which I have referred. This same opinion defines who are citizens of the United States; and to whom these rights are guarantied. I ask the House to listen to that definition, and then I will show the House that that definition applies to a large class of my own constituents, and the constituents of my colleague, [Mr. Comins] who has just taken his seat, and who represents a commercial city in which, because of their employment as seamen, more than in any other sections of our State, do they come in conflict with this provision. Chief Justice Taney says:
‘It is true, every person, and every class and description of persons, who were at the time of the adoption of the Constitution recognized as citizens in the several States, became also citizens of this new political body; but none other; it was formed by them, and for them and their posterity, but for none else. And the personal rights and privileges guarantied to citizens of this new sovereignty, were intended to embrace those only who were then members of the several State communities or who should afterwards by birthright or otherwise become members, according to the provisions of the Constitution, and the principles on which it was founded. It was the Union of those who were at that time members of the distinct and separate political communities into one political family whose power, for certain specified purposes, was to extend over the whole territory of the United States. And it gave to each citizen rights and privileges outside of his State which he did not before possess, and placed him in every other State upon a perfect equality with its own citizens as to rights of person and rights of property; it made him a citizen of the United States.’
Now, sir, in respect to my own State. In 1780, she adopted her present constitution; before which the shackles fell from the limbs of every slave within her borders, and he stood forth clothed with all the privileges, rights and immunities of a citizen. The constitution of Massachusetts, in the rights, privileges and immunities of a citizen, is no more a respecter of persons than is the God her people worship. From 1780 until 1789, when the Constitution of the United States was adopted, every colored man who lived in that community was just as much a citizen as every white man. And the Chief Justice, in this opinion, says that he and his posterity are to-day citizens of the United States, and have all the rights and privileges and immunities in the State of Oregon, that every citizen of that State has. I cannot understand, sir, how a member from my own State, in the honest discharge of his duty, as honest a discharge of it as my own, can come to the conclusion that it his duty, by his vote, to breathe the breath of life into a provision of a constitution that would disfranchise a large portion of the people of Massachusetts. I desire to call up, in the recollection of my colleague, the efforts Massachusetts has made heretofore, to test the rights of her citizens to the privileges and immunities of citizenship in other States. I desire to have it remembered-I do not intend ever to forget it that Massachusetts has utterly failed to have the question tried in the highest tribunal of the country, to know whether or not there is any force and effect in this provision of the Constitution as expounded, even in this latter day, by the Supreme Court of the United States. I for one, do not intend to forget the indignities heaped upon her, in her struggle to secure to her citizens their rights under this clause. I will never vote to incorporate into the organic law, a provision under which the constitutional rights of citizens of my own State have been trampled in the dust, and her own State sovereignty defied and insulted. Sir, I desire to call attention to the phraseology of this provision; for there seems to be a studied malignity in this phraseology, that I cannot well comprehend in the constitution of a State.
‘No free negro or mulatto, not resident in this State at the time of the adoption of this Constitution, shall ever come, reside, or be within the State.’
They could not condescend to say voluntarily.’ A citizen of my State may be drifted by stress of weather into their harbors; a whaler, with a citizen of my State, included in this provision, may be brought in there; and the humble sailor having no command of the ship, no responsibility, and no control, may be taken in there against his will; and yet this Constitution imposes a duty upon the Legislature to provide penalties to be visited upon his head. Without being aware of it, he may come within the limits of that State, and incur the penalty. And, furthermore, he who shall ‘employ’ or ‘harbor’ such person, comes under the same visitation-
<c04>
They have not inserted ‘knowingly’ It may be done ignorantly and innocently, and yet come within the letter of this provision.
And, sir, I do not know by what test a man may tell one of those from another class of colored persons which this provision of the constitution permits to remain there. The constitution has made no provision that they shall wear frontlets upon their brow; but whosoever, knowingly or not, innocently or designedly, whether in obedience to the Divine injunction, to feed the hungry, and clothe the naked, or with a design to violate the law; all alike are denounced as transgressors of the law, and each one and all come within this provision of the constitution. 
Again, take the provision in reference to the Chinamen. While that provision permits one class of Chinamen to reside within that State, with all the personal rights and privileges of citizens, it disables, while it permits them to reside there, another class of Chinamen; and thus that State, which pretends to come here upon the cardinal principle of equality, builds up two classes of foreign men in that community; one with personal rights and privileges as citizens, and another disabled, with no rights to hold real estate, or to exercise any of the great immunities of citizens; one class of Chinamen, mere serfs, and the other clothed with all personal rights. Now, there is a provision in our treaty with China, providing that the United States and China shall be hereforever at peace with each other, and with all the citizens thereof, ‘without exception to person or places;’ and I would like to ask, gentlemen, how that provision comports with the provision of the constitution to which I have referred? I would like to know if there were such a provision existing between us and Great Britain, and we should make an invidious distinction between different classes of her subjects, disabling upon the same soil some of them, and granting to others the personal rights of the citizen, whether we should not be called to account for it? It is an infraction of treaty stipulations, which are the supreme law of. the land. 
But I desire to say, sir, before I take leave of that provision which denies to a certain class of colored persons, the right to bring suits in the court of Oregon, that it exceeds in cruelty and inhumanity any provision touching the same subject in any slave code in the United States, so far as I know. There is not a slave in a slave State who has not, under her laws, a right to maintain a suit in her courts. I believe such an inhuman provision could not stand an hour, sir, in your own State of South Carolina. Let any. man bring a colored person into Oregon, and claim him as a slave: if this constitution is sanctiened by our votes, and made the organic law of Oregon, there is no way given among men by which he could invoke her courts to give him his freedom. It is reserved for this so-called free State to invent a method more subtile and effectual for maintaining slavery in her own borders, than was ever devised south of Mason and Dixon’s line. Thus it is that the most efficient instrumentalities for carrying out the great work of the slave propaganda are furnished by the North, and in the name of freedom. This is the false and hollow-hearted pretence that Oregon is a free State.
There is one other provision of this constitution which I have not alluded to, although I have already quoted it. It is as follows:
‘And the Legislative Assembly shall have power to restrain and regulate the immigration to this State of persons not qualified to become citizens of the United States.’
Under this provision, the African Slave Trade can be reopened. That is now prevented only by a law of Congress. We enact this provision by our votes in its favor, and it grants full authority to bring blacks from Africa, and to prescribe the terms and provisions upon which it may be done. I know of no way that any African, so brought, could, by the aid of the courts of Oregon, relieve himself from bondage. And. if we give this authority, no penalty can be visited upon the heads of those who participate in the traffic between Oregon and Africa.
This, sir, is not only not a Republican Constitution, but it is not a free Constitution. It is a departure from all our ideas of a Republican Constitution. It makes odious distinctions among classes of men; among individuals of the same class. It ruthlessly tramples the rights of the citizen in the dust. It arrogates to itself prerogatives that cannot be exercised in common by all the States. It trenches on the guaranties of the Constitution of the United States. Sworn to support that Constitution, I can not sanction this. I cannot be driven from my opposition, because there are other provisions of this Constitution which incline some in calling it a free State; or, because, if I remand it back to a Territorial government, under the Dred Scott decision, slavery exists there. I demand something more than a free State in name. I want the reality. If slavery exists in Oregon, while a Territory, it is because the people want it; and if they want it, they will make it a slave State, in name us well as in fact, within a twelve-month, if admitted
These are some of the reasons why I cannot vote for this. I speak for no individual here but myself, and for no constituency but my own. I think I know their sentiments; and should I vote for this bill, I should expect to be burned in effigy at every cross-road in my district. I do not intend to disappoint, in this respect, the just expectation of those who sent me here.
[Here the hammer fell.]

SPEECH OF HON. ELI THAYER,
IN REPLY TO MR. DAWES.
My colleague who has just addressed the House is unable to see how an honest Representative of the State of Massachusetts can vote for the admission of Oregon. I will gratify the curiosity of my colleague, if he will listen to my argument, and the reasons which I shall give in defence of my position. And, sir, I thank this is a strange necessity that compels the Northern Representatives upon this floor to give the reasons for their votes for the admission of another free State into this Confederacy. Sir, I shall vote for the admission of the State of Oregon without hesitation, without reluctance, and without reserve. So far as my vote and my voice can go, I would extend to her such a welcome as becomes her history, as becomes her promise for the future, and such as becomes our own high renown for justice and magnanimity-a welcome not based on contemptible political calculation, or still more contemptible partisan expediency; but such a welcome, as sympathy and friendship and patriotism should extend to another new State; such, sir, as becomes the birthday of a nation. This people comes before us in accordance with the forms of law, and upon the invitation of this House; and it is too late to apply a party test upon this question. On the 19th of May last, a vote was taken in the Senate upon the admission of Oregon, and ten Republican Senators voted for her, admission, while six Republican Senators only voted against her admission; and, sir, I have not heard of any attempt on the part of the six Senators who voted for the rejection of Oregon to read out of the Republican party the ten Senators who voted for her admission; and if
<c05>
that attempt is now to be made <illegible>will whether it is in the power of a minority of the people to read a majority out of the party.
But, sir, who are these people of Oregon who come here now, asking admission? They are the pilgtims of the Pacific coast. If they are fanatics upon some subjects, we can refer to the pilgrims of the Atlantic coast, who also were fanatics upon some subjects. But, sir, if the pilgrims of the Atlantic coast finally became examples to the world in all that exalts our race, may we not hope that the pilgrims of the Pacific coast may yet become worthy of our esteem? Nearly one quarter of a century ago, in my boyhood, I studied the adventures of those men who founded upon the western shore of the American continent what are now the cities of Oregon and Astoria. These men, who were then in the vigor of their lives, are now old men-grey-haired and trembling with age. Their work of life is nearly completed; and this day they are sitting by their hearthstones, waiting to know what is to be the result of our deliberations; waiting to know whether the proud consummation to which they have aspired for the last twenty years is now reached; and whether Oregon, which, in toil and trial, in defiance of danger and of death, and with persistence and endurance such as belong only to our race, they have brought to her present proud and prosperous condition, is now to be placed upon an equality with the original States of this Confederacy.
These are the men who have carried our institutions to the remotest boundaries of our Republic. These are the veterans of the arts of peace. American valor with conquering arms has carried our flag by Monterey and Chepultepec, until it was planted upon the halls of the Montezumas. But far beyond those halls have these heroes borne the victorious arts of peace. In the Territory of Oregon, they have established our free institutions. There, sir, strong and deep, they have laid the foundations of a free State, and they have come here, like the wise men of the East, not asking gifts, but bringing gifts; in that respect, unlike our military men who expect and receive honors and rewards for their services. What do they bring? Why, sir, the trophies of their own labor, the evidences of their own worth. They present before us the cities and towns which they have founded. They present schools, churches, and workshops. They bring all, all the products of their labor, and place them upon the altar of the Union, a pledge for the common welfare and the common defence. And what are we doing here? Why, sir, quibbling about things which are comparatively unessential, and which pertain exclusively to the people of Oregon, and not to us or our duties here; quibbling about points which, if New York or Massachusetts were in the place of Oregon, would secure some votes on this side against their admission. Massachusetts, you know, sir, I never defend anywhere, even Massachusetts does not allow the negro to be enrolled in the militia of the State. These, then, are the men who come here; and what if they have some ideas and sentiments with which we do not agree? Is that a reason why we should excommunicate them, that we should have nothing hereafter to do with them?
W hat law of reformation is this? It is the pharisaical law of repulsion, distance and distrust. It is not the Christian law of contact, confidence and association. The pharisees denounced the founder of Christianity as’ the friend of publicans and sinners.'’ That class would repel all who would not agree with them to the fullest extent. Shall we pursue a similar course in relation to the people of Oregon? Is it wise to do so? Is it expedient to reject her application on such grounds?
What objections do Republicans present to this application? They say that there is not sufficient population, and they claim that it is their mission to see that the Democratic party shall recover its consistency. At whose expense? At the expense of the consistency of the Republican party. I submit that it is better for the Republican party to preserve for itself the consistency which it possesses, rather than attempt to recover for the Democratic party the consistency which they have lost. 
Then, sir, in relation to this qualification of population, what is the position of the Republican party, and what has it been? This party, by its Representatives, voted for the admission of Kansas under the Topeka constitution, with less than one half of the present population of Oregon. The Republican party in the House, without one exception, so far as I know, voted for the enabling act inviting Oregon to come here, with a constitution, and be admitted as a State. I have no disposition, and there is no need, to inquire here what is the population of Oregon; for, as a Republican, I am pledged to no rule on this subject. I opposed, as did my colleague, and my friends on this side of the House, the restriction which was put upon the Territory of Kansas. We protested against it then, and protest against it now. We have no sympathy whatever with that restriction, and are ready, at any time, to give an honest vote for its repeal. 
Another objection is urged against the clause in the constitution of Oregon, which excludes negroes and mulattoes from that Territory; and, in addition, provides that they shall not bring any suit therein. It is said this is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. What if it is? I have not sworn that the people of Oregon shall obey the Constitution of the United States. I do not admit that this is in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. I do not now discuss that point. But even if it were, I have sworn myself to support the Constitution of the United States, and not that anybody else shall do so?
But, sir, this provision is no more hostile to the United States Constitution than are the laws of Indiana and Illinois which exclude free negroes and mulattoes from their boundaries. Certainly not. It is no more to exclude the suit of the man, than to exclude the man himself. Is the negro less than his suit? I contend that he is greater than his suit. The greater contains the less, and the statutes of Illinois and Indiana are as unconstitutional as is the provision of the Oregon constitution. But it does seem, at the first view, that it was a wanton and unprovoked outrage upon the rights of these men who are excluded from that State. I think there is a real apology for the action of the States of Illinois and Indiana. They are in close proximity to the institution of slavery. They are under the shadow of the dying tree of slavery, and its decaying limbs are constantly threatening to fall upon their heads; and I cannot censure them for taking such means as they see fit to protect themselves from such imminent peril. I am not disposed to call into question the right or constitutionality of their action.
Is there no apology, then, for the people of Oregon? Have they committed a wanton and unprovoked outrage upon the rights of negroes and mulattoes, in excluding them from that Territory? I say that there is an apology, and that it consists in this: they believed that they were obliged to choose between a free State constitution with this provision, and a slave State constitution without it. There were three parties in the Territory at the time this constitution was made and adopted. There was the free State party, which was composed of free State Democrats and Republicans. There was the
<c06>
pro-slavery party, in favor of a slave State. There was, between these two, a very considerable party, supposed to hold the balance of power, and that party I may characterize as the anti-negro party. They said that they would sooner vote for a slave State than for a free State with a constitution admitting free negroes and mulattoes. They preferred to have slaves in Oregon rather than free negroes; and it was for the purpose of securing their vote for a free State that the Republicans and free State Democrats inserted and advocated this provision. The leading Republicans of that Territory advocated the adoption of the constitution containing this provision. Mr. Logan, who received every Republican vote for United States Senator, advocated, on the stump, the adoption of the constitution with this clause.
What was the vote? Why, sir, this clause of the constitution had a majority of seven thousand five hundred and fifty-nine votes; while the constitution itself had a majority of only four thousand votes. The Democratic majority in the territory, as shown in the election of a Representative to this House, was only one thousand six hundred and thirteen votes. Then it is proved by the official record that the Republican party combined with the Free State Democratic party to sanction and ratify this provision of the constitution which is here called in question. There is also abundant evidence, outside of the record, to satisfy any one that such is the fact. This, then, is the apology for the action of the people of Oregon on this question. What Republican, or what ‘friend’ of free States, is justified, under these circumstances, in voting to exclude the people of Oregon from this Confederacy on account of this provision, which is only an expedient, and not a thing for practical use? It is very easy, at this distance, to censure the people of Oregon, and to pronounce judgment against them; but such judgment may be neither wise nor just.
'Then at the balance let’s be mute,
We never can adjust it; 
What’s done we partly may compute, 
But know not what’s resisted.’
But, sir, there is another objection urged from certain quarters, with great pertinacity. I mean the objection to the suffrage of aliens. The constitution of Oregon, in respect to alien suffrage, is certainly more stringent than the law of some of the States of the Union, and less stringent than that of others. It is the same as the Territorial law has been during the last ten years. It requires a residence of twelve months in the United States, and of six months in Oregon. It requires that the sworn declaration of an intention to become a citizen, of the United States shall have been on file at least one year. What was the inducement for that encouragement of aliens? The wages of labor are now, and have been, in Oregon, double what they are on the Atlantic coast; and I ask, would it be expedient or wise for Oregon to drive away from her borders the emigration from Europe, on which she has to rely for developing the resources of the country? Certainly not. Such a policy would have been disastrous in the extreme to the young State. It was wise and prudent, therefore, for Oregon to invite and encourage that immigration which she so much needs to develop her great resources, and to secure for her the products of her natural wealth.
These, sir, are among the plausible and ostensible objections that have been urged on this side of the House against the admission of Oregon. There is yet another argument: that Kansas has been excluded from the Union by the action of the Democratic party; and that, therefore. Republicans ought to exclude Oregon. The argument amounts to this: that we should abuse Oregon because the Democratic party have abused Kansas. Now I, for one, am quite content that the record of the Republicans, in respect to Kansas, should be better than the record of the Democratic party. I am quite content that the record of the Democratic party, in respect to Kansas, should be just what it is; and I do not think it is possible very much to improve the Republican record, or to impair the Democratic record. Are we to sacrifice our own political principles and advantages for the sake of compelling the Democratic party to a consistency of action? Are we bound, as a party, to sacrifice our own consistency in doing so? Certainly not. I think the Republican party has another, and, to my mind, a less difficult mission to perform; and that is, to preserve its own consistency.
These are some of the palpable objections that have been urged on this floor. I come now to some for which I thank the gentleman from Indiana, (Mr. Hughes.) He has presented to the House some secret objections which the Republicans are said to have to the admission of Oregon. The first is, that the Republicans are opposed to the admission of Oregon because it is a Democratic State. Now, sir, does not the gentleman from Indiana understand that the Republican party is not so devoid of sagacity as to fail to see that to reject a young State for the reason that it is Democratic, would make it Democratic forever? Does the gentleman from Indiana find anything in the history of the Republican party which justifies such conviction of its stupidity as would lead him to say that the Republican party, as a party, is opposed to the admission of a free State, because her people had chosen such politics as seemed to them best? Does he not see that sagacious Republicans, finding that the Republican party in Oregon is now in a minority of only a few hundred votes, understand that if Oregon be admitted by their action, and were thus set free from the influence of executive patronage, she would very soon become a Republican State?
But further than that: the gentleman brings up another secret reason why the Republicans would oppose the admission of Oregon. That secret reason is-that in case of the failure of the people to elect a President, and in case of that election coming to this House, there will be a vote from Oregon against the Republican candidate, which may procure his defeat. Now, does not the gentleman from Indiana understand that any such position of the Republican party would secure its defeat?-that if it were stupid enough to take a position against the admission of free States, because their constitutions were not universally approved, it would require more than the vote of one State, either in Congress or out of Congress, to help or harm the prospects of the party? I thank the gentleman from Indiana for the secret reasons which he has given, and which I have thus far been enabled to prove too absurd and impolitic to influence the action of the Republican party.
There are certain principles, which, in my opinion, should govern the House on a question of the admission of a State. First, the Constitution must be Republican in form. Second, there must be sufficient population; what number may be sufficient, must be left to the discretion of Congress. Third, the proposed admission must be shown to be for the benefit of the contracting parties; to be best for the State applying, to be best for the Confederacy. Let us look at these principles, and see how they should affect the vote on the admission of Oregon. First, then, is the Constitution presented by Oregon Republican in form?

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The united Stated Constitution in ‘a Covenant with death and an agreement with hall.’
The free States are the <illegible> and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the <illegible> and constables of the institution...There is <illegible>for communities, when, under a generous <illegible> they <illegible> the cause of the <illegible> in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are <illegible> On this subject, OUR FATHERS INFRAMING THN CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THNRIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.”-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I will here send to the Clerkï¿½s desk a quotation from an authority which is justly and generally respected by Republicans-an extract from a speech of Senator Seward, made in the Senate of the United States last May, upon this very question.
The Clerk read, as follows:
I think there is nobody who doubts that the people of Oregon are to-day ready, desirous, willing to come in. They have made a constitution which is acceptable to themselves, and a constitution which, however it may be criticised here, after all complies substantially with every requirement which the Congress of the United States, or any considerable portion of either House of Congress, has ever insisted on in regard to any State.
It seems to me, therefore, to be trifling with the State of Oregon, trifling with the people of that community, and to be unnecessary, and calculated to produce an unfavorable impression on the public mind, in regard to the consistency of the policy which we pursue in admitting States into the Union, to delay or deny this application. For one, sir, I think that the sooner a territory emerges from its provincial condition, the better; the sooner the people are left to manage their own affairs, and are admitted to participation in the responsibilities of the government, the stronger and more vigorous the State which those people form will be. I trust, therefore, that the question will be taken, and that the State may be admitted without further delay'.
Mr. Thayer-So much, then, in relation to the first principle which should govern our section in the admission of States. And what, sir, concerning the other? How will it affect this present confederacy of States to admit the Territory of Oregon? Why, gentlemen talk here as if we were discussing the question of admitting some new and unheard of race of monsters and cannibals into the Union. Sir, is not this injustice to the people of Oregon? Will they contaminate this confederacy? Just as much as their mountain streams will contaminate the Pacific Ocean. I tell you, they may be inferior to us in education, in refinement, and in etiquette; they may not appear as well in the drawing-room, as some of our Eastern exquisites: but in the sturdy virtues of honesty, of fidelity, of industry, and of endurance, they are above the average of the people of this confederacy. I regret that the gentleman from Maine, the other day, deemed it expedient to call the pioneers of our national progress, ï¿½interlopers, runaways, and outlaws.ï¿½ I affirm, concerning American citizens in any Territory of the United States, and in any new State of this confederacy, that they are above the average of the population of the old States in all that makes up manly and virtuous character. They have my sympathy; and never will I oppress them by my vote or my voice.
If, then, there is a great gain to the Confederacy, is it not also better for the people of Oregon themselves that she should be admitted into the Union? Is it better that they should remain under the tuition of this Federal Government-a non-resident Government-or that they should govern themselves? Why, sir, to contend against the advantages of self-government would seem to me unsuited to this place, and not to comport well with the history of this Republic; for the origin of this nation was a protest against a non-resident government, and our history should be. For one, sir, I have no faith in that kind of government being exercised over Anglo-Saxons anywhere, and least of all I have faith in that kind of government being exercised by Republics anywhere; and, therefore, to relieve a portion of our people from what I consider a curse- the curse of a non-resident domination-I will cheerfully vote for the admission of Oregon. Sir, this non-resident control is a relic as it was an invention of ancient tyranny. It has come down from the history of the old Romans, who had pro-consuls in Judea, in Spain, in Gaul, in Germany, and in Britain; and England has copied their example, and sent governors and governor-generals to India, and to this continent also. But we protested successfully against that kind of government by the war of the Revolution; and I look forward to the time when every portion of our national domain shall be free from it; when we shall have no provincial dependencies whatever; when we shall have nothing but a comï¿½bination of equal and sovereign republics. Then, sir, we may bring the duties of this government to a position where they will be, as was well said last session by the gentleman from Alabama, Mr. Curry, ï¿½few and simple,ï¿½ as they should be.
It is in accordance with this view that I shall oppose anything that leads to complications-that shall multiply or extend our provincial dependencies.
But, Mr. Chairman, I do not wish to review the action of the minority of the Committee on Territories in relation to this question. They have reported the bill of the majority, with an additional provision repealing the clause of the English bill restricting the right of Kansas to come into the Union with a less population than ninety-three thousand. Now, sir, I had supposed that the gentlemen of the minority of the committee would have voted for the bill which they have reported, but speeches have been made by two of the gentlemen who signed that report, in which they went off on an altogether different line of reasoning. They have talked about the unconstitutionally of the constitution of Oregon, and about its invasions of human rights, without confining themselves at all to the argument of their minority report. And now I wish to know for what consideration the signers of that report are willing to ignore all these revered human rights, invaded and ruined by the constitution of Oregon? I have their reply in this report. On one condition they are willing to sanction all these outrages, and that condition is, that a certain act concerning Kansas shall be repealed. If the report is in good faith, there can be no other conclusion.
[Here the hammer fell.]
We stated, last week, that the vote upon the admission of Oregon as a State into the Union, stood in the U. S. House of Representatives (the bill having previously passed the Senate) as follows:-Ayes 114 -Lecompton Democrats 92; Anti-Lecompton ditto, 7; Republicans, 15-including Messrs. Thayer and Comins, of Massachusetts. Nays 103-Republicans, 73; Southern Democrats 18: Southern Americans, 10; Anti-Lecompton Democrats, 2. In the evening, a concourse of citizens, with the Marine Band, seranaded President Buchanan, Vice President Breckinridge. General Lane, Senator Green, Speaker Orr, and Messrs. Comins and Thayer, all of whom made congratulatory speeches.
Hon. Eli Thayer was visited by the procession next after the President. He has rooms at the west end of Pennsylvania Avenue, and after the salutatory music and vociferous calls, he made his appearance at a window. When the cheering had subsided, he said:-'Friends and Fellow Citizens: I know not with what words to express to you my gratitude for the honor of this call, for you have taken me wholly by surprise. I am told that this is a demonstration in honor of the grand event of this day-the birth of a new and sovereign State. The humble vote which I have had the pleasure to give, contributing to this result, has been given in accordance with my convictions of duty, without hope of approbation, without fear of condemnation! I have merely followed the lead of my principles, and adhering to them as I have done, and as I intend to do, I stand ready to take their legitimate consequences as they come-whether they be tokens of favor or of disfavor. (Cheers.) With you I rejoice to welcome to this confederacy the heroic men who, more than twenty years ago, in the dim and distant solitudes away beyond the Rocky Mountains-
Where rolled the Oregon, and heard no sound
But its own dashings,ï¿½
founded our own institutions, and established the arts and occupations of peace. With my whole heart do I welcome to our embrace these pioneers of our own national progress, not as aliens or strangers, but as friends and brothers, ï¿½bone of our bone and flesh of our flesh.ï¿½ (Cheers.) Another pledge have we now of the permanency of this Union, for having firmly bound to the Republic our remotest possessions, we have hemmed in and firmly secured all intermediate parts of our national domain. But, gentlemen, I have no great respect for assurances of the permanency of this Union. The Union is and will be! (Prolonged cheers.) It is not a thing to be advocated and argued for; it is a thing fixed, <illegible> and determined. Far transcending in importance the temporary convenience of one State or of all the States, it is a trust which we hold, not for our posterity only, but for the world! That trust we are bound to deliver unimpaired to succeeding generations, and we will so deliver it. (Cheers.) Again thanking you for this honor, with the best wishes for yourselves, for Oregon, and the Republic, I bid you good night.ï¿½
The people of Massachusetts will settle scores with Messrs Thayer and Comins hereafter.
<c02>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FEBRUARY 25, 1859.
On Thursday forenoon, last week, the hall of the House of Representatives was crowded with a highly intelligent audience, gathered to hear the able and eloquent pleas (which we give in full) of T. W. HIGGINSON and WENDELL PHILLIPS, before the Committee on Federal Relations, in behalf of the army of petitioners for the passage of a law, abolishing slave-hunting in Massachusetts. A powerful impression was made upon all present. The people are ready!
TO THE READERS OF THE LIBERATOR IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Have you signed your names to the Petition to our State Legislature, for a law to prevent the capture and return of Fugitive Slaves? Have you solicited the names of all your neighbors, and sent them up to Albany? If you have not done so already, I pray you lose no time, but copy the Petition,-which is now in the hands of a Select Committee, who will, this week, report a Personal Liberty Bill, virtually like that of Vermont,-and go about the work in earnest. Plead with every man and woman to give to the petition their names and their influence, as you would do were the outraged fleeing fugitive one of your own household.
Especially do I appeal to WOMEN to circulate the petition, remembering that one-half the slave victims are women,-helpless, defenceless creatures, with no law, no public sentiment to shield them from the sensual Legrees who hunt them.
Mothers, I appeal to you to devote the present hour, day and week to this work; nerve yourselves up to go from house to house, from office to office, and roll up long lists of signatures. Do as you would do were it your own loved daughters-whom you would rescue from the auction-block. And daughters, join in the work, as if it were your precious mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, you would save from the terrible sundering of every bond of affection. How can women remain quietly in their pleasant homes, or carelessly go about doing their accustomed visiting, while this momentous question is pending in our State Legislature? What if you should meet the chilling, hardhearted look of contempt? What if you should be told that you had better go home, and mind your own family? The consciousness that you are but doing the simplest act of kindness to your ï¿½neighbor,ï¿½-the knowledge that you are but doing as you would have others do for you, were you the sufferer,-the approval of your own best nature, the good angels and God,-will cause all opposition and hatred of the slave to fall powerless before you.
If you are disheartened, and feel that the cause of freedom is retrograding, then the more pressing is my appeal to you, to take the petition in hand, and go forth among the people. The many hearty ï¿½God speedsï¿½ you will receive in your work of justice,-the many cheerful recognitions of the slave's right to full freedom, on our own soil at least,-will bring hope to your soul, that shall bless you, and help you to trust in the sure triumph of the right. If you profess to love freedom for the slave, make it manifest now, by your actions. Send up to Albany, without delay, your own and as many more signatures as you can obtain, and thus contribute your mite toward influencing our Legislature to enact a law of freedom to every human being, so soon as he shall step upon our soil. Petitions thus poured in from every part of the State cannot but make our law-makers feel that THE PEOPLE demand that New York shall be free in fact, as in name.
Members who are friends of freedom express no doubts but the bill will pass the House, and the hope is strong for the Senate. But send in the petitions! There is no place too remote, no number too small. Direct to the Chairman of the Committee, Hon. SHOTWELL POWELL, Albany, N. Y.
Copies of Petition may be had by addressing Lydia Mott, Albany, N. Y. Remember to enclose stamps to pre-pay postage on the petition.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY.
Albany, Feb. 22, 1859.

THE STATUE OF WEBSTER.
MR. EDITOR-I sincerely hope that the Legislature will not authorize the placing of this Statue on the State-house grounds, Gov. Banks to the contrary, notwithstanding. This is an honor he does not deserve from Massachusetts, either from his public or his private character during the last years of his life. An honor of this kind ought to be paid only to one who has maintained an unsullied character in both respects. Are the Legislature, I would ask, ready to confer such an honor upon the maker of the 7th of March speech, and the supporter of the infamous fugitive law, in which he totally misrepresented the sentiments and feelings of Massachusetts, and, as I believe, his own honest convictions? Are such men as John Hancock and Samuel Adams, revolutionary patriots, and John Quincy Adams, a man always true to freedom, and all highly deserving this distinction, to be neglected, and a man in favor of carrying out that provision of the National Constitution relating to fugitive slaves, ï¿½in the fulness of the spirit and the exactness of the letter,ï¿½ to receive this high mark of respect from those who detest this sentiment, and the feelings that prompted it? I trust not. Such a man is not a model statesman, philanthropist, or Christian, to be held up for the imitation of posterity in the old Bay State, but only for the committee of one hundred, and their sympathisers, to gaze at and admire. Let them have the exclusive benefit of his company. Let them, if they choose, worship Baal; we will worship only the Lord God. ï¿½JUSTITIA FIAT.ï¿½

A HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
We learn, with great pleasure, that Dr. MARIE ZAKRZEWSKA, of New York, has been invited by the Trustees of our ï¿½Female Medical Collegeï¿½ to undertake the management of a Hospital for women and children, in connection with the College, at which the students may have the benefit of the practical study of disease.
The importance of such an institution, as a branch of the College is the more apparent when we remember that female students in medicine are shut out, by a false public sentiment, from all other Hospitals in our city; and that they, equally with the other sex, need these facilities. And surely nothing could be more fitting than that the suffering should have the care of those of their own sex, well qualified for the duty by sympathy of nature, and by thorough education.
The rare abilities of Dr. Marie Zakrzewska for such a work have been put beyond doubt, by the entire success of a similar experiment in New York-the management of which has been as creditable to her financial as to her medical skill, and to her high womanly nature and gifts.
She will address the public on the ï¿½Medical Education of Woman,ï¿½ &c., at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on Saturday next, at 4 o'clock, P. M., and we hope that no one interested in this good cause, and especially in the present important undertaking, will fail to be present. Admission free.

FUGITIVE SLAVES.
The Vigilance Committee of Boston would inform the friends of Fugitive Slaves, that they have been, and probably will continue to be, constantly in want of places, where each fugitives can obtain employment. Any one in want, or who can employ such help, is earnestly requested to apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston, stating what employment they can give.
<c03>
The Duty of Massachusetts.
SPEECH OF REV. THOMAS W. HIGGINSON,
REPORT THE COMMITTIES ON FEDERAL RELATIONS,
In support of the Petition asking for a law to prevent the Recapture of Fugitive Slaves,
IN THE HALL OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
February 17, 1859.
Phonographically reported for the Liberator, by YERRINTON.
MR CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:
I appear before you in behalf of the petitioners, not as an organized body, for they are not such. The favor which we ask of the Legislature is not to confer a benefit upon any organization, or any one class of men; it is to benefit the world by an act of justice; it is to benefit the citizens of the Commonwealth by making their freedom more secure; it is to benefit us, who signed the petition, only by the assertion of rights and the guaranty of safeguards which we need in common with all. I do not appear before you, gentlemen, even by the desire of any organized body of men. I stand only as one of the fifteen thousand who have signed that petition; I stand only as one of the hundreds who have signed it in my own city of Worcester. I myself desired to come; a few of my friends and neighbors desired that some one should come to represent their petition and speak for them; to say for them, as they have said over their own signatures, that they, in their individual capacity, desire the enactment of such a law as the petition describes. I do not say this, sir, from any fear that the Committee will be led astray from its purpose by any vague intimations which have been, or may be made, in regard to this petition as the result of organized action. We have heard rumors that such intimations have been used in advance, in this hall, in reference to this petition. Sir, we cannot believe it. We pass it by. It must have been a mistake of the reporters. For, gentlemen, men hold nothing more base than to reject a request to do something which is right, because you happen to dislike him who brings the request; and it is impossible for us to believe that any member of the Legislature can have tried to anticipate the judgment of his fellows by criticising the character, or impeaching the motives of these petitioners. It is, therefore, simply as a matter of personal suggestion to you, simply to urge you to consider that request for yourself, if I say, that I represent the citizens of Worcester in this matter; that the petition which they have sent in is a volunteer thing, circulated by no paid agent, but passed round from hand to hand, informally, and without systematic action among themselves; that it represents the Christianity of the community from which it came, and is entitled to deference so far as any petition is entitled to deference; that. it speaks for itself, and for Worcester, in the names it bears upon its face. It is headed by the name of JOHN MILTON EARLE,ï¿½a name honored in Worcester, and honored here; a name which never headed a petition for an unworthy object, and rarely an unsuccessful petition; a name which is identified, in this hall, with much of its most honorable debate, and its most beneficent legislation; a name which claims, and always will claim, the respect of any Massachusetts Legislature; and it is followed by the names, taken almost at random, of many other men who have contributed to make Worcester what it is, by their energy, their ability, and their character. The names of our mechanics, our merchants, our teachers, our lawyers, our judges, our public officers,-men who have held and now hold stations of importance before the country,-and the names of others who, I suppose, will be very ready to occupy the same stations, whenever an enthusiastic community demands it. In short, the petition for which I speak represents Worcester. If that petition is entitled to no respect, if those names, so far as they go, have no influence, Worcester has no influence; and all the experience which we have had of the working of slavery, and the need of new protection for freedom, all the political instruction that we in Worcester have received, by the constant stream of political knowledge poured through our City Hall in your annual Conventions, year after year, have been of no use to us
And in speaking for Worcester, I can speak for Worcester county-for those towns around us, full of mechanical industry, full of intelligence, full of thought,-those towns in which the predominant political sentiment of this State has always had its strongest hold-those towns through which this petition has been carried, and so easily, that young men have told me that nine out of ten of the farmers and mechanics whom they asked have signed it, and that the only reason why these fifteen thousand are not a hundred thousand is simply for want of longer time, more systematic effort, more organized action. I speak, then, not for any organization, but for the people-the people of Worcester, and, so far as I dare, for the public sentiment of the State. 
Mr. Chairman, we ask of you, as you know by the language of the petition, greater safeguards to freedom. The form in which these safeguards shall be put is of little moment. Other States, having the same subject under consideration, have adopted different forms of action. The legislation proposed, and almost carried in New York, you are acquainted with;-that magnificent resolution proposed by the Speaker of the New York House of Representatives, and almost carried-ï¿½Resolved, that this State will not allow slavery within her borders, in any form, under any pretence, for any time, however short.ï¿½ You are acquainted, gentlemen, with that magnificent statement of the duties of a free State, in the age we live in; and you are acquainted, too, perhaps, with the more recent action of the Stale of Vermont, adopted last October,-not yet printed in its official form, because the official form of the laws of Vermont does not appear until spring,-but of which I have a correct copy here, and I will read two or three sections:-
Sec. 1. No person within this State shall be considered as property, or subject, as such, to sale, purchase or delivery; nor shall any person, within the limits of this State, at any time, be deprived of liberty or property without due process of law.
Sect. 5. Neither descent near or remote from an African, whether such African is or may have been a slave or not, nor color of skin or complexion, shall disqualify any person from being, or prevent any person from becoming, a citizen of this State, nor deprive such person of the rights and privileges thereof.
Sect. 6. Every person who may have been held as a slave, who shall come, or be brought, or be in this State, with or without the consent of his or her master or mistress, or who shall come, or be brought, or be, involuntarily or in any way in this State, shall be free.
The act concludes with this statement-'This act shall take effect from its passage;' and is followed by the words, 'Approved, Nov. 25, 1858.' So that a statute such as we ask you to enact is now in force in one of the States in this Union. And if you seek to know more specifically what the petitioners ask for than is written in the petition, I refer you to the resolution proposed by the Speaker of the New York House of Representatives, and to the law already passed, approved, and gone into operation, in the State of Vermont. 
Now, gentlemen, we know very well that it is not the appropriate position for Massachusetts to occupy, to follow in any legislation that favors freedom. This great State, ï¿½the leader in American civilization,ï¿½ as the cold political economist, Carey, long since called her, this State ought not to follow, ought never to have followed, but always, as she has most usually, to lead in enactments for freedom. But if there be another State in the Union which Massachusetts need not blush to follow, that State is Vermont. Vermont-foremost in our earlier revolution; among the foremost, prominent in a degree only surpassed by Massachusetts, in this later one; Vermont-which, side by side with Massachusetts, seventeen years ago, issued the first protest against slavery in the District of Columbia, against the inter-State slave trade against any construction of the Constitution in favor.
<c04>
of slavery; Vermont-that, two years afterwards, side by side with Massachusetts, passed the first law forbidding the use of her jails and her constables for the capture and safe-keeping of fugitive slaves; Vermont-which, in the Kansas struggle, was the first State-and, because of the close of the immediate demand, the only State-to offer State aid to the sufferers in Kansas; Vermont-which has never new been be hind Massachusetts, and has sometimes even been before her; Vermont and Massachusetts should act together now. Next to the honor of being the first State to inaugurate true freedom, stands the honor of following Vermont, if, indeed, we have lost the proud opportunity of leading her And in thus following, with so clear and simple an object before us,ï¿½,-an object which does not ask, as I some petitions which come before you, the aid of the State, rightly or wrongly, for private enterprise,ï¿½,- which does not ask, as some petitioners ask, rightly or wrongly, for great pecuniary appropriations, or the creation of new classes of salaried officers,ï¿½but which P only asks for a statute to aid   freedom,ï¿½nothing more is needed,ï¿½nothing more should, at least, be needed,-than that we should show that this law for -which we ask, in whatever form your wisdom may sec fit at last to record it, would be, first, constitutional, and second, needful. If it is needful, is the most essential point for the Legislature to consider; if it be constitutional, is a question only less important. We should not ask, we should not dare to ask,ï¿½I could not consistently ask,ï¿½a committee of the Legislature who have pledged themselves to support the Constitution, to take any action inconsistent with the Constitution, as they understand it. How they understand it is for their own consciences conscience? to determine. How it should be understood is a question for the Courts ultimately to decide. This House only anticipates, and guards against, so far as it may, the possibility of the adverse action of the Courts; but in times of great public need, where there are doubtful constructions, varying opinions, clashing interests, it may be the duty of the House to take the responsibility of laying down great principles,ï¿½taking advantage of any doubt that exists, or any loop-hole, or any hope, or any chance that exists in their own minds, recording the great principle, securing the right upon their statute-books, and then leaving it to the Courts, if it must be ultimately set aside as unconstitutional,ï¿½which, believe me, this law never will be by our own Courts,ï¿½to take the painful responsibility of doing it themselves. 
We ask, therefore, that you should, at least, weigh well the obstacles, the difficulties, the doubts of constitutional interpretation. Do not, upon any uncertainty, upon anything not absolutely established, resist for a moment the cry of the people demanding additional safeguards to freedom. The very constitutional provision which might seem to some to be most transcended by the form of this petition-what is it? It is a provision which many of the wisest jurists and the most accomplished historians have declared to contain nothing irreconcileable with the freedom we ask for. If we may trust our most learned historian, Hildreth,ï¿½if we may trust the man to whom our Legislature confided the duty of codifying the laws of the State, Horace Mann,ï¿½if we may trust their testimony as historians, their interpretation as lawyers, there is nothing in the Constitution that can for a moment be thought to conflict with a statute of absolute freedom. We ask, if the rule of interpretation for any legal instrument is not, not what its projectors intend-ed to put into it, but what they actually succeeded in getting in? If it be true, as Hildreth says, that the word ï¿½personsï¿½' persons' cannot, by any possibility, be held to refer to fugitive slaves; if it be true, as Horace Mann said, I am told, that the meaning of the legal word ï¿½ 'due,ï¿½' as it occurs in the Constitution, was as accurately ascertained as that of any other legal expression, and by no possibility could ï¿½' service or laborï¿½ be ï¿½dueï¿½ where there is no contract, and therefore that that simple word ï¿½dueï¿½ afforded a loop-hole large' enough to run every train of the underground rail-road that ever went to Canada through it,ï¿½if these things be so, then the duty of this Committee, of this Legislature, is clear. There can be no question of the right of establishing freedom, if there is no constitutional obstacle in the way. Alas, that I should even have to say ï¿½ifï¿½!
But, setting aside the correctness of this interpretation,ï¿½and I shall not undertake to enter into an argument which abler intellects than mine will doubtless bring before you,ï¿½the mere fact that there is a doubt upon the subject is, as I maintain, a sufficient ground for action upon your part. I know of but one rule, practically, in the interpretation of the Constitution, or anything else, and that is, wherever there is a loop hole left for liberty, to cramcram' liberty into it, and let the courts set it aside if they will. But, be that as it may, call the bargain which has been thought to prescribe the rendition of fugitive slaves a valid bargain., if you will-place it at its worstï¿½it is, by the admission of all, something so terrible to all our nobler nature, something so agonizing in its fulfilment to the freemen of Massachusetts, that we are called upon, when construing its application, to construe it as that famous bargain was construed in which Shylock was plaintiff, and Portia was attorney for the defendant, and William Shakespeare was reporter for the Court; and if there be a pound of flesh, or an ounce of blood, anywhere, if there be the drachm of a scruple, or the scruple itself, to haggle on, it is our duty as men, it is a noble claim upon our intellect, to take advantage of that infinitessimal scruple where freedom is to be served; and the loftiest intellect, the profoundest moral sense, in such a cause as that, may narrow itself down to a chink as small as that which held Ariel in the cloven pine, if by so doing it can, as the end of its efforts, save one freeman in Massachusetts, or turn into a freeman one slave. And if it be that there is not even this obstacle to contend with, that there is no such severe ordeal of intellect to be gone through; if it be true that the Republicans, as I find nine out of ten admit, when I talk with them, in their secret souls do not believe in the pro-slavery construction of the Constitution, and never will endorse it, then why are we asking too much if we hold them, in their public acts, to the same position?ï¿½if, as they justify themselves for acting under a provision of the Constitution so stringent, by that more liberal interpretation they place upon it, we call upon them to justify that position to the world, as Vermont has justified it, by placing on the record an interpretation which will be such a blessing to humanity! 
Mr. Chairman, you know that these same criticisms about a conflict with the Constitution,ï¿½and I dwell upon this subject, not because I do not, like some of those who will follow, take myself a position antagonistic to the Constitution, and deny the possibility of a humane interpretation of its clauses, but because I sympathize with your desire to vindicate for the Constitution all the liberty that is to be found in it; and if it be that there is a possibility to be true to the Constitution, and free here in Massachusetts at the same time, I, like you, desire to take that position,ï¿½I say, gentlemen, you know that these same criticisms were brought to bear against the Personal Liberty Bill, which stands unchanged and unchangeable, so far as it goes, upon our statute-book. The same obstacle of unconstitutionally unconstitutionality made some over-cautious men refuse to act under it; but, sir, we have one man in Worcester, and I am proud to be his townsman, who, when he was invited by the Governor of the State to take the position of permanent counsel for fugitive slaves, under that Personal Liberty Bill, answered the objection of unconstitutionality in one wordï¿½ If it is not constitutional, it ought to be,ï¿½' said Henry Chapin, of Worcester; and no act of his honorable life has so endeared him to the hearts of his fellow-citizens as that 
We ask you to pass that statute on the ground that, by the interpretation of many of the wisest jurists, it is unquestionably constitutional; on the ground.
<c05>
further, that if there be a doubt upon the subject, that doubt is to go in favor of liberty; and we urge it. finally, on the ground that, if it to is not constitutional., it ought to be. It to is placing upon our statute-book a necessary safeguard to freedom, to put this law there; and.; alas for those who strive to stand for anything, even for the Constitution, if they satisfy the freemen, of Massachusetts that to be constitutional is to be false to freedom at last!
Gentlemen, calling upon you to vindicate the Constitution under which you claim to act, I feel, nevertheless, that all we can say upon that subject it is trivial, secondary, in comparison with the more important function which it to is for us who appear before you to discharge, namely, to show you the needfulness of the law we ask. There to is an impressionï¿½and it to is this impression alone, as I believe, among the people of the State at large, which makes any doubt or question concerning a law like this,ï¿½there to is an impression that the statute to is not needed; that the time for such statutes to is passed; that there to is legislation enough; that liberty to is secure; that there are to be no more fugitive slave cases, and we may rest in peace. Gentlemen, there are facts in regard to this subject upon which we, the petitioners, are better enabled., by our circumstances, to testify as experts, than the majority of you are likely to be. We have seen these fugitive slave cases that have occurred from the inside, and we bare have also the more important unwritten history of the fugitive slave cases which have been prevented. You know the agitation, the almost civil war, brought upon us by the few such instances that have occurred; but, as Robert Burns said upon a different subjectï¿½
'What's done, we partly can compute,
But know not whatï¿½s resisted.ï¿½
The world, supposing fugitive-slave cases to be provided for by some higher power, above all the lower powers of slave plantations,ï¿½the world, which apparently supposes that fugitive-slave cases are occurrences deliberately planned and concerted by Southern legislatures months before hand, and so the time chosen at last,ï¿½little knows the truth that lies behind it. Fugitive-slave cases! Gentlemen, a fortnight before the Burns case, one of the wisest, sagest and most observant of men, the editor of the Daily Advertiser, is reputed to have given it as his fixed conviction, that such a thing as a fugitive-slave case would never again happen in this Commonwealth. A fortnight later, Anthony Burns was arrested!    We sleep over a volcano, gentlemen. There is no deliberate touching of the cords, there to is no elaborate bringing together of the wires of the electric machine previous to the explosion,ï¿½the explosion is always near at hand. Given a single instance of the many instances that have happened since the last fugitive-slave case, in which, by the aid of friendly hands, the slave has been carried off in safety to Canada, just before the claimant seized him,ï¿½given, I say, a single one of these cases, and the Abolitionists a little too late,ï¿½the slaveholders first, and the Abolitionists afterwards,ï¿½and you have your fugitive-slave case once more; you have the city in arms, the court, house in chains, and the whole State pressing down to Boston to see what is going on. You have danger in the midst of you all the while, because a fugitive-slave case to is a thing that may happen any day. Let me tell you, gentlemen, there to is not a day in 'the year when there are not fugitive-slaves in Boston, liable to be arrested; there is scarcely a week, certainly not a month in the year, when there are not agents in Boston seeking to find a man or woman claimed as a fugitive-slave, and could they find somebody, the right one or the wrong one, and arrest him, we should have all the horrors of a fugitive-slave case again upon us. This is not a matter which depends upon the United States Courts, it is not a matter that can be so easily settled in the District Attorneyï¿½s office. A claimant may be, for aught we know, in Boston, to-day, in search of a fugitive-slave. That claimant to-day, nay, at this moment, may have his grasp upon a man, and the next moment the hurried news may reach us that the crisis has come which we ask you to provide for and avert, and that a fugitive-slave case to is once more upon us. Fugitive slaves, or men in danger of being claimed as such, are all around us. They are pressing upon us. These Abolitionists, whom some gentlemen think such firebrands, they are safety-valves; it to is they who have prevented the recurrence of such instances by sliding off these perilous colored men, who are threatening the peace of the community, before the danger comes. The Abolitionists are a safety-valve,ï¿½too much of one, some of us think; and the time is coming when this perpetual transmission of fugitives beyond our borders on the track of the underground-railroad will itself become distasteful to the people of Massachusetts.
Fugitive-slave cases have passed, you say; but fugitive slaves have not passed; they stop more and more; every year in Boston, in New Bedford, in Worcester, there are more men, women and children who hold the peace of the community in their hands ; because, let their claimant follow them, and seize them, and it is too late to legislate, too late to pass this beneficent statute, too late to protect the peace of the community ; the danger is upon us then, and you have the Burns 'riot, and the worse riot, under the form of a military escort, transacted again in your midst. The laws we have had have been no security, the Personal Liberty Bill may- prove no security. When the temptation is strong, the interest at stake overwhelming, nothing can be absolute security, except a law such as we ask, that shall contain a clear and positive rejection of every possibility of slavery in Massachusetts. Such a law sets these cases at rest forever, and they cannot happen again.
Fugitive-slave cases, gentlemen! There is at this moment in this city, or has been within three months, a woman and her child, white as any man or woman within this hall, and yet claimed as slaves. The daughter of her first ownerï¿½her mother so light as to pass for a white womanï¿½she herself the mistress of her second owner, whose child her child is,ï¿½that woman, yet a girl, not twenty years yean -old, was sold, by that owner, and the father of that child, into slavery, to a man whom she knew to be a profligate debauchee. All her womanï¿½s feelings thus outragedï¿½for she had loved the man who was the father of her child-she resolved on instant flight. White herself, she found no difficulty in disguising herself as a mourning widow, and making her escape in the cars. She was very disconsolate, gentlemen, quite inconsolable, and kept her veil down all the time. However, she had no trouble on her journey, except from the sympathy of some old ladies, who were extremely anxious to know of what disease her poor, dear husband died, and the attentions of one very enthusiastic Irish gentleman, who offered her his hand and heart before she got to New York. She was escorted to Worcester by a gentleman of standing and influence, and eminent conservatism, whom I found, when I entered the cars to seek her, paying her the most courteous attentions. He had been feeding her pretty little girl with lozenges all the way, and never dreamed that the mother and child were passengers on the underground railroad. She passed for a white woman in Worcester, and would anywhere. Yet that woman is a slave, that child to is a slave. I know her whole history, 'for I have explored it to the utmost. The master of that woman, and the father of that child, whom he sold, has said, that if she is to be found, dead or alive, if he has to follow her to hell,ï¿½and when he said ï¿½hell,ï¿½' I suppose he meant the United States Court, (laughter and applause,-he will have her. He has pledged himself to that, and, for aught you know, he may be in Boston to-day, and she the may have no security on earth unless you give her the protection of the law that petition asks for.<illegible> But, sir, such, to is the simple beauty, such the impressive presence, such the quiet intelligence of that woman, that if she could stand before you to-day, and tell her wrongs, as I hoarsely tell them for her. She would
<c06>
be as safe with a thousand kidnappers around her,ï¿½as safe, gentlemen, in your presence, as your own baby in its cradle; she would be safer in this legislature than the poor thing ever was in her motherï¿½s arms; she would be safe here, though an army of ten thousand slaveholders blockaded these walls, walk and a Mexican-war General headed every division <illegible>of the army. (Laughter and applause.)
Now, gentlemen, all we ask of you is, (for my moments are almost past,) what you would do in your private capacity for such a woman, do in your public. What you would do as men, do as legislators. Charles, Sumner said, and the nation trembled with enthusiasm as he said it,ï¿½'I was a man before I was a Commissioner! Show the world that you can be men <illegible> legislators at the same time. We do not ask you to commit treason; we ask you to save the fanatics from the temptation to commit it. We do not ask you to be shed blood; we ask you to save others from the necessity of shedding it. We do not ask you to aid us in any treasonable enterprises; we only ask of you, that if we are fanatics, as is said, if we are agitators, as is said, you will take the wind all out of our sails that you will silence us forever, so far as Massachusetts is <illegible>concerned; and that this soil, which holds the graves of some of our fathers, back to the seventh generation, may be to us petitioners, less sacred for their graves, than for the freedom which it gives to every child born, and every fugitive taking refuge, within its consecrated borders! (Loud applause.)

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
Mr. CHAIRMAN-Allow me to read the petition for which we appear:
'To the Honorable Senate and House of Representation of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts:
The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to enact that no person, who has been held as a slave, shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he ï¿½owes service or laborï¿½ to such claimant, by the laws of one of the slave States of this Union.ï¿½
That petition, Mr. Chairman, lies before you, it is said, with some fifteen thousand signatures. Some of these petitions you will find endorsed by this gentlemen who head and send them to you, with a statement to this effect: ï¿½ 'I could have got almost ever, y or every legal voter in the town, if I had had the time or the leisure to have circulated this petition more widely'; and., in a few of the towns, we are assured that every legal voter, or three-quarters, or two-thirds, of them, have signed this petition.
I understand, from the remarks of Mr. Higginson, that some that some objection has been made to what is called organized effort in this made to what is matter. I am not aware of any organization, but if there were, I should not be ashamed of it. Why have not the minority a right to organize as well as the majority? I know no reason return why you, sitting in this hall, wielding the character and resources of the State, representing, as you say, a majority, with that statute-book for your expression, have a right to organization, to presses, to funds, to a system, and that we, a minority, endeavoring to create a public opinion that shall change that statute-book, have not a right to use the same means.
I do not shrink from any charge of organization. When our forefathers began to resist the British government, they organized committees, clubs, governments, institutions of all kinds. I have never heard it charged as a fault upon the Whigs of 1775, that that they did not fight single-handed; that they organized; that they had committees!; that they corresponded; that they issued circulars. We take now, reverently, from the trembling hand of History, the very circular which Sam Adams sent out from Boston, to array the public sentiment of the Colony in favor of independence, and worship it. Who shall <illegible> say, to-day, that men, also seeking to marshall the State in. behalf of liberty, have no right to circulars, to organization, to a system? I scout the ideas. Who is the mocking wrangler that denies our right to organize, to pay agents, .and send them out into every town and school district in the commonwealth? If we can do better than the majority, we have 1 right to do it. It is no objection to any movement that it is systematic and organized; if it be so, it is all ail the better.
As to the doubt whether that petition represents the public sentiment of the State, you know, gentlemen, as well as I do, that it does represent it, You know as well as I do-and you do not need our evidence to assure you of the fact-that you cannot find<illegible> one respectable man in a hundred who is ready to look his fellow-citizens in the face, and declare, ï¿½I mean to help the slave-hunter in catching his slave.ï¿½ Let some trading office-seeker or shameless hound say so, and the universal shrinking and loathing of<illegible> the community show in what an infinite minority he be stands. You know that when, bolstered by office, tempted by salary, or bribed by ambition, here and there one man can be found ready to say, 'I should like to see a slave-hunt, and join in it; the Fugitive Slave Bill ought to be executedï¿½ï¿½executed '-you know well that, bred in Massachusetts, and vaunting himself as loudly as he may, not one in ten can stand fire, but when you bring him face to face with a fugitive slave, he shrinks from his own principles.
Now, all we ask, substantially. In, in this petition, is this-that you shall organize the public sentiment of Massachusetts into a statute. There will be, in this Senate and House, not one-tenth part ready to hold up their hands and say,ï¿½ 'We ourselves are free to<illegible> execute the Fugitive Slave Bill.ï¿½ 'I do not believe that one-tenth part of your joint bodies will be found ready to do it. Then why should you, as a Legislature, hesitate to say, ï¿½That which each one of us shrinks from doing, shall not be doneï¿½?: Ought not the law to represent public opinion? We have, some of us, an awful idea of law., as if it were some granite pillar, around which the floating particles of human life aggregate themselves as iron filings, round the magnet; we imagine that it is an oak, rooted; that we are all mere incidents that no one can touch it; that we are all mere incidents of it; whereas law is at as fluid as anything else. As Emerson says, Law is a mere memorandum, stating. starting that yesterday a certain body of men thought so; and, in effect, the voice of that statute-book simply is, ï¿½it, 'Living men! what do yon you think of me to-day; Your fathers thought thus yesterday; what do you think to-day? ï¿½We ask you to answer that question, The people of this Commonwealth are disgusted wills, disgusted with, conscientiously opposed to, and hate, the hunting of the fugitive on our soil; and we ask you to put on the statute-book that which every man says by his own  hearth-stone, and  would be ashamed to deny.
We come to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Mr. Higginson alluded to the request we make today, as running singularly parallel to the long line of her history. Are you aware that this State, which you represent, was the first sovereign State, so far as I know, either is in Europe or Americas, that abolished negro slavery, and that when she did it, she abolished it immediately and unconditionally?  In 1777, the people of Vermont met in an informal convention, not recognized as a government, and adopted a constitution that abolished slavery. They were not recognized as a body politic until 1791. But in 1780,ï¿½the first date, so far as I know, in all history, where a distinct political sovereignty acted sovereignty acted upon the question,ï¿½Massachusetts, by the first line of her constitution, placed there by Judge Lowell, for that purpose, distinctly, immediately, and unconditionally abolished slavery; and I have a manuscript report of a case by Chief Justice Cushing., acted upon immediately subsequent, in which he quotes these words as immediately abolishing slavery within the State., I am aware, of course, of the gradual extinction of white villenaige by various forms of State action. ,And I remember the ground taken even on Negro slavery by the Courts, first of France, and then of England., But Massachusetts, I believe, was the first recognized sovereignty to abolish negro slavery by solemn act. It
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
is therefore with good reason that we now ask you, a Massachusetts Legislature, to occupy that same <illegible> to-day. I think we have a right to claim it of such a government. 
Why do we ask it, gentlemen? We ask it for this reason, that within the last few years, we have sent nearly four hundred fugitives from Massachusetts. We did not dare to advise them to stay. We could not take it upon our consciences to ask them to under go the risk of remaining under your laws. Whatever we might have done individually, we could not ask another man to risk his liberty. Within a few years, nearly four hundred, probably many more unknown to us, have quitted this Commonwealth. Now, who are these fugitives? They are men and women, who have shown a better title to liberty than we have, for we were only born free; they were born as free; essentially though under slave laws, and, taking life and danger in their right hands, have vindicated their title to freedom by enduring perils that make the blood curdle even to hear. Brave men and tender women, feeing the breath of hounds upon their naked limbs, bearing musket shot in their still bleeding flesh, risking death by angry floods, on frozen rivers, by starvation in boxes, on railroad cars, deep in the hold of heavy laden ships—mothers bringing the little child’s body who has sunk to death in their arms-daughters frying from a fate worse than death,-these showing forth a manhood which only the highest hours, of history can equal,—at last set foot upon the soil of this Commonwealth. Is there any nobler exile that the state can welcome? Is it not enough to shame a Massachusetts man, that such men and women, the noblest blood of the earth, are not safe under her laws? Can a man be blamed for wishing that the statute-book should welcome and protect them, instead of obliging them to avoid the Commonwealth? In 1641, our fathers, just landed, proclaimed that Massachusetts had open arms for all exiles, all fugitives from tyranny and oppression; ‘to such,’ says Bancroft, ‘she offered a free welcome and aid at the public cost. The nation, by a special statute, made the fugitive and the persecuted the guests of the Commonwealth.’
That, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, is the civilization which you represent. It is in the spirit of that statute, it is following the great constitutional movement of 1780, that we ask your action on that petition to-day. We want you to go further than Vermont does-we want you specifically to enact, that any person seized, or in custody in this Commonwealth, by virtue of any process under the so-called Fugitive Slave Act, shall be liberated by habeas corpus, issuing from the Supreme Bench of this Commonwealth. We ask you, in distinct words, to set at nought the unconstitutional enactment of the United States; and I will proceed, as briefly as possible, to tell you on what ground we place our request.
My colleague [Mr. Higginson] has asked the question, whether this is a constitutional request. He meant constitutional in view of the United States Constitution. In the first place, gentlemen, I shall step behind the United States Constitution. I remember that you.—Massachusetts,—were a sovereignty before the United States existed. Massachusetts is not to me, whatever it may be to you, a mere bob to the kite of the Constitution of 1787. Massachusetts is no private corporation, under the great National organization. I claim more of you than that. You were a government in 1630; of that living thread I take hold. God planted you a civil society. Our fathers came here to set up a government. They did so; and you exist as its representatives. We do not address you,—the Legislature of Massachusetts,—as a subordinate Committee of the United States Government. We address you as the civil society of Massachusetts, planted by the children of the Mayflower and the Arabella, and existing here to-day a civil government. As such, as a civil government, we remind you of your obligation before God, to ‘execute justice between man and man.’ No matter that one man calls another man his property, and, pointing to a parchment, claims your aid in holding him as a brute; we remind you of your own words, ‘all men are born free,’ and that the sovereignty which claims submission, owes protection. You tell us in reply to that claim, ‘We have fettered our broad sovereignty by agreeing to the Constitution of the United States.’ We deny your right. You tell us, ‘The unlimited sovereignty of the Old Colony, bound to execute justice between man and man, we have put away by the so-called slave clause.’ We deny your capacity to do it. We assert that you sit here as the legislators of a sovereign State. If anybody, either by you or before you, has agreed to limit that sovereignty by an unholy compact, it is not binding, and you have no right to regard it. Civil government, it is stated in the preamble of our Constitution, is ‘a voluntary association, a social compact.’ So it is; but compacts, when they become civil governments, have a peculiar character.
This girdle of earth which you call Massachusetts can have but one such corporation in it. There may be a thousand banks in Massachusetts; there may be a hundred temperance societies; there may be any number of manufacturing corporations; they may make their own by-laws, and establish their own fundamental principles; but civil government is necessarily exclusive there can be but one within a certain space of land. From that flows this principle—every man on that soil has a certain right and claim in regard to that civil society. God has placed him there, or he has exercised his free will in coming there, as he had a right to do. We have no right, because we were born on the soil of Massachusetts, to shut any man out of it. Who gave us any such right?
If, then, civil government be a corporation necessarily exclusive, a certain tampering with the interests. and rights of every man residing on this soil, then follows the fundamental principle of jurists, that these corporations are bound by the laws of God, which they have no right to violate; for God has given certain inalienable rights to each individual of the mass, and no vote of the majority can take those rights away. They cannot say to a man, as a mere civil corporation may, a bank for instance, ‘If your moral sense does not approve of this provision of our charter, you need not come under it; we, whose moral sense says ‘Aye’ to it, will come under it; you are not obliged to.’ The majority of Massachusetts are not competent to say to one single man on the soil of the State, ‘We have violated your inalienable and natural rights, and meant to; if you do not like it, go!’ There is a law above this, which says, ‘All your provisions in this kind of corporation must be within the girdle of right!’ I know no authority but Thomas Paine-except the present Democratic party-that has denied it. In 1791, Thomas Paine published his ‘Rights of Man,’ in which he lays it down as a fundamental proposition, that what a whole nation chooses to do, it has a right to do. All other jurists have always laid down the principle that a nation has no right to do, however large the majority, that which is unjust.
Now, from that principle, I am going to deduce this: A negro stands in this Commonwealth; he has come here, and chooses to reside here. We have no right to say he shall not. God have him the right to live and move, and choose his residence, wherever he pleases. This government assumes the great prerog-
If any STRANGERS or people of other nations, professing the true Christian religion, shall FLY to us from the TYRANNY or OPPRESSION of their persecutors, or from famine, wars, or the like necessary and compulsory cause, they shall be entertained and succoured amongst us according to that power and prudence God shall give us.
Every person within this jurisdiction, whether inhabitant or ST RANGER, shall ENJOY THE SAME LAW AND JUSTICE, that is general for this jurisdiction, which are we constitute and execute ONE TOWARDS ANOTHER, in all cases proper to our cognizance, WITHOUT PARTIALITY or delay.-Mass. Statutes, 1641.
<c02>
ative, and with it the great responsibility, of civil society, which says to him: ‘Give up your right to self-defence. You shall not fall back upon your natural right as a human being; we have instituted courts; we have ordained laws; we have set up institutions; we call upon you to surrender your extreme rights as an individual, and allow yourselves to be protected according to our institutions.’ They have a right to say that; that is what civil society, as an ordinance of God. has a right to claim; but the correlative duty remains. When you have claimed your right to say that, the burden rests upon you efficiently to protect that man, whose hands you tie, whose moral and natural rights, as an individual, you fetter. This is the responsibility which civil society assumes by virtue of its constitution and nature. It undertakes to protect each individual to the utmost, and to do him justice, no matter how small the right which is violated-no matter how great the peril which protecting him incurs.
The logic is inevitable; the link is iron. No man can vindicate that statute-book on any other principle of morals. I put it fearlessly to any man who sits in this House, under free institutions, whether I claim any more than the nature of the contract justifies. You say to the fugitive slave temporarily within this Commonwealth, ‘Put down that pistol! Chain those arms to your side! We do not permit violence in our streets. If a man hinders you, there is the Court; if a man assails you, there are the police; if you have need of protection, refer to us.’ He says to you, ‘I claim as a man, pursued by an armed enemy, and myself forgotten by the law, to set at nought your civil society.’ You say, ‘We will hang you if you do.’ I grant the right to hang flows from the doctrine that vests civil society with its sovereignty; but it follows from this, that the power which claims to hang is bound to protect. The man whose hands you tie should be covered with the <illegible> of the Commonwealth, and you are bound to see that he suffers no injustice from any other man, within or without your jurisdiction, so far as you have the physical force to prevent it. This noble right and function Geneva asserted and exercised; receiving the hunted reformers within her walls, and for centuries, with only a hand’s breadth of territory, protected them from the rage of three kingdoms. Massachusetts, in her feeblest hour, protected the judges of Charles the 1st from the fury of his sons.
If you say to me, in reply, ‘Our fathers swore, in 1787, that when we had tied that man hand and foot, we would surrender him,’ I say, there issues from the throne of Infinite Truth the veto which says to you, legislators, to civil society, ‘If you exist, execute justice between man and man.’ (Applause.) I appeal to you, therefore, as the civil society which our fathers planted, which has never yet ceased to exist, which the labors and trials of half a dozen generations perfected in this Commonwealth; I claim of you, as legislators, by virtue of that civilization, that you set your foot upon the unholy compact which is not binding upon the conscience, and cannot rightfully fetter the action of any thing that undertakes to exist as a sovereign State under God’s government.
I will not insist upon that point any further, for I suppose I have made it as evident as is necessary to this Committee. It disposes at once of all constitutional objections. Whatever you may tell me of your sovereignty, I criticise it in that guise. You cannot get away from your responsibility. Massachusetts existed; she was set up; she is in full being; she undertakes, as a sovereign State, to retain so much of that sovereignty as binds the citizen and every inhabitant of her soil to submission; and therefore there rests upon her the burden of that principle, that she is bound to protect the citizen. It does not lay in any one of your mouths-you who undertake to execute the high functions of a sovereign State, to write laws on that statute-book, to erect your State Prison and your gallows,-it does not lie in any of your mouths to say, ‘We have fettered our hands by a compact.’ You have no right to do it; it is not, binding upon you to-day. The gallows which you erect to-day, if you obey the Fugitive Slave Act tomorrow, is murder; the guilt of blood is upon your individual consciences, for God’s law does not recognize that as a State which abjures its high functions, and pleads its own base contracts and gainful treaties, as reason for not ‘ executing justice between man and; man.’ Logically stated, our claim is this:
Any organization which undertakes to levy compulsory taxes, to define and punish crimes, to forbid or limit the natural right of self-defence, and to take life, is a Government in the strictest and fullest sense-and may justly be held to all the responsibility that attaches to sovereignty under God’s law. 
No Government has a right to violate the laws of justice or of God.
Every innocent individual who will obey all just and necessary laws may choose his place of residence.
No Government can rightfully drive such a one from its territory, or refuse to exert its whole power to protect him from injustice and oppression.
No body of men have any such exclusive title to a specific territory as authorizes them to drive from it others willing to live in peace under just laws. No plea of danger to their interests gives them a right to drive the hunted fugitive from their borders. The smallest and weakest States have nobly met this obligation in most trying times.
The fugitive slave is such an individual-and our State cannot rightfully plead any compact or agreement to surrender him, or allow him to be seized; since she has herself, by solemn act, recognized the eternal truth that ‘all men are born free’-showing that she sees the truth, and is therefore bound to obey it. 
If any such parchment contract exists, it is void for immorality, and from incapacity of the contracting parties to make such a compact.
But to come down lower. I leave that question, and ask, suppose you are under the United States Constitution, is the Statute we ask for constitutional under the Constitution of 1787? Well, gentlemen, I am perfectly ready to allow that there have been extreme theories of constitutional law, which make this claim of the petitioners unconstitutional. I am perfectly willing to allow-and I never wish the committee for a moment to forget it that Mr. Webster, in the great debate with Hayne, claimed a stereotyped fixedness for constitutional law which shuts out the possibility of the action we ask. No doubt of it, gentlemen. But theory is one thing; practice is another. Let me read you an extract from a speech which that same Mr. Webster made in 1851, (at Capon Springs.) After he had stated, in a previous part of the speech, as strongly as possible, his views in regard to this very question of the obligation of the North, under the Constitution, to return fugitive slaves, and you may therefore suppose him to have had that point specially in his mind, what does he say?
‘To preserve that Union, we must observe, in good faith, the Constitution and all its parts. If that Constitution be not observed and its provisions set aside, the whole of it ceases to be binding. It would be absurd to suppose that either the North or the South has the power or the right to violate any part of that Constitution, and then claim from the other observance of its provisions. If the South were to violate any part of the Constitution, would the North be any longer bound by it? and if the North were deliberately to violate any part of it, would the South be bound any longer to observe its obligation? Ho absurd it would be to suppose, when different parties enter into a compact for certain purposes, that either can disregard any one provision, and expect the other to observe it!’
This, gentlemen, is the practical application of the doctrine of constitutional obligation, by the jurist himself. He lays down the principle, that we are to obey the Constitution at any rate; he says that the slave clause is in the Constitution, and therefore the North is bound to obey it. Then, he asks he is talking of the obligation of the South to obey the Constitution, if the North has violated it allowing the North has violated the Constitution, is the South
<c03>
bound to keep it? Not a bit of it! If two parties make a compact, and one breaks it, the other is not bound by it. That is the practical doctrine of Daniel Webster.
I had once the honor of a conversation with John Quincy Adams on this very subject. I asked him if he ever intended to assist in sending back a fugitive. ‘No,’ was the reply. ‘How,’ I inquired,’ do you reconcile that with your oath to support the Constitution of the United States?’ ‘O, the South has violated the Constitution.’ Whenever there comes an actual conflict of opinion, the stringent theory of obedience cracks, and these statesmen acknowledge the common law principle, resting on a higher and broader basis, that the violation of a contract by one of the parties absolves the other, to a great extent, if not entirely.
So Mr. Adams, in 1819, when Missouri was about to be admitted, (as reported in his life, by Hon. Josiah Quincy,) declared that Congress, by their sanction of the Missouri Constitution, by admitting that State into the Union without excepting against that article which disfranchised a portion of the citizens of Massachusetts, had violated the Constitution of the United States. ‘Therefore, until that portion of the citizens of Massachusetts whose rights were violated by the article in the Missouri Compromise should be redintegrated in the full enjoyment and possession of those rights, no clause or article of the Constitution of the United States should, within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, be so understood as to authorize any person whatsoever to claim the property or possession of a human being as a slave; and he would prohibit BY LAW the delivery of any fugitive upon the claim of his master.’
That was the opinion of Mr. Adams in 1819; and throughout the whole argument, (which I will place in the hands of the Committee,) Mr. Adams claimed that the Missouri Compromise was a violation of a fundamental provision of the Constitution on the part of the South, and by that violation, Massachusetts and the North stood absolved from all obligation to any clause of the Constitution which they choose to repudiate. You will see, gentlemen, that we are sailing under very good captainship-John Quincy Adams for captain, and Daniel Webster for mate. If you do not like our constitutional law, try the edge of your critical sword upon them, and not upon us.
‘If I were a member of the Legislature of one of these States,’ said Mr. Adams,—(why, gentlemen, we stand here, as the Spiritualists would say, the mediums of John Quincy Adams)—’I would move for a declaratory act, that so long as the article in the Constitution of Missouri, depriving the colored citizens of the State (say) of Massachusetts of their rights as citizens of the United States within the State of Missouri, should subsist, so long the white citizens of Missouri should be held as aliens within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and not entitled to claim or enjoy, within the same, any right or privilege of a citizen of the United States.’
Thus, gentlemen, we put ourselves upon this ground. If the constitutional clause is binding, in your view, then, according to very excellent constitutional authority, the unlimited violation of the Constitution of the United States, on the part of the Southern States, frees you from any moral obligation to the observance of that clause. You will not contend, in 1859, that Mr. Webster in 1851, or Mr. Adams in 1819, had stronger instances to cite of the violation of the Constitution than we have to-day. I have only to recall to jour minds Texas, Missouri, and the Fugitive Slave Bill itself, and the agents of this Commonwealth kicked out of South Carolina, and the door barred by a statute making it a penal offence, punishable in the State Prison, for Massachusetts to send a citizen to that State to bring a cave before the Supreme Court for the defence of one of her own colored seamen,—I have only to point you to these repeated acts of aggression, to bring the case we are considering entirely within the rule laid down by Adams and Webster. I might cite also the language of Joshua R. Giddings, in a letter to his constituents, covering the same legal issue, but it is not necessary.
But I go further than this. I claim of you, if you please, this statute, even if it be outside of the Constitution; and I claim it in this wise: Bancroft says in his volume, ‘American law is no result of individual wisdom; it is the growth of necessity,—the growth of the hour.’ The majority make the law for today; our written constitution is, as it were, an elastic mass-we stretch it to suit our purposes. Throughout the line of American history, that is law which the people acquiesce in. You know that when our charter, the original of which rests in your Secretary’s’ room below, was brought over from England to this country, the lawyers of Great Britain said it was a fraud; that the corporation of Massachusetts Bay could exist only in London; that it was not a legal transfer. Gov. Winthrop let the lawyers say so; he and his associates brought the charter here, and established Massachusetts, and the acquiescence of the Stuarts and the people made it law.
If you open the Federalist, (No. 40,) you will see that Madison confesses that the Convention of 1787 had not strictly a rightful authority to frame a Constitution. North Carolina and Rhode Island, while they remained outside the new constitution, complained of this high-handed violation of the articles of Confederation, by the votes of nine States only, when it was expressly stipulated that the Confederation should be ‘perpetual,’ and not altered unless with the consent ‘of the Legislature of every State.’ Still, Madison claims that the Convention was justified in making a new constitution when sent only to amend an old one, and in setting aside the ‘perpetual’ confederacy by the vote of nine States, if such a course was ‘calculated to accomplish the views and happiness of the people of America.’ After a while, Rhode Island and North Carolina submitted, the people of the thirteen States acquiesced. That Constitution which you eulogize and baptize almost into a sacred emblem, was a bastard in 1787. It had no right to be, according to the confession of the men who made it. Its only claim to be a legal instrument is the acquiescence of the people.
So, also, when Louisiana was purchased, in 1801, Jefferson said it was plainly unconstitutional, and that the people ought to be asked to make it legal by the addition of a new clause to the Constitution. His friends said, ‘Let us risk it; the people will acquiesce, and that will make it law.’ The people have acquiesced. Florida and Texas have followed Louisiana, and Mexico and Cuba, and the rest of the continent will follow in time.
I claim, therefore, this as the well-recognized principle of the nation’s existence, that any act which the organized authority sanctions, and the people acquiesce in, is the law of the land. The whole of our law grows out of that principle. You cannot vindicate, on sacred charter principles, one single act in the normal history of the States; there is not a constitutional act that is clean. We claim that principle in our behalf to-day. We want the State of Massachusetts to risk this statute, even if it is outside of the Constitution. We ask her to say to the Union, ‘You have been enacting laws for sixty years; we are going to try our hand at it. Massachusetts is good at patents; we do not intend other States shall have a monopoly in this.’ By what right do the Republicans of the Senate sit side by side with the Senators of Texas to-day,—every one of them pledged to the principle that Texas has no right in this Union, that it was an illegal act that brought her in, and one-half of them pledged to this day to the doctrine that we have no right to acquire territory? By the right and in virtue of the principle, that public acquiescence makes its law.
Now, we claim that principle of you, to-day. Shall it be everlastingly said that ‘Despotism does great things illegally, and Liberty does nothing according to law’? Let us, for once, vindicate the right of Liberty,
<c04>
in this free scramble for power, to get her share. We ask you, if it be unconstitutional, to say to the people of the Commonwealth: ‘That is JUSTICE; that is what the heart of the Commonwealth demands; we will enact it, and see whether the people of Massachusetts will say ‘Amen!” If they do, it is the law of the State; and then we shall not have to say, with our faces veiled in shame, to the proud specimen of manhood, the William Tell or Wallace of a grander struggle than the Swiss or Scotch hero ever knew, when he touches the pavement of Boston, ‘There is no protection for you in Massachusetts.’ If you will give us that law, we can put these representatives of the noblest heroism and the sublimest courage the world has ever seen,—the apostles and saints of this modern Liberty Crusade,—in this State House or in old State street, and say to them: ‘ Flash back your name on these telegraphic wires, which a son of Massachusetts invented, to your master at the South, tell him you have chosen to reside in Boston, and bid him welcome to the news.’ (Loud applause.) And the invention of law which makes it possible for him to proclaim this, will outshine the invention of the telegraph which girdles the globe. (Renewed applause.) 
But the answer will be, ‘The Supreme Court will set aside the law.’ I do not know that. You passed a liquor bill some years ago; the Supreme Court set it aside. The Legislature, by one giant stride, enacted a ten fold stronger law, and the Supreme Court did not set it aside-they leapt ahead of it. That decision does not come from the law books; it does not come from between calf-skin: it comes from the public opinion of the Commonwealth, which has set the vance of that legal spire in the right direction, since your first attempt at legislation. (Applause.)  I trust I have a due respect for the Supreme Bench of Massachusetts, and for those who hold places upon it; but they are men; they are not stereotyped cast-iron machines, speaking by steam. They are warm flesh, living blood, and there must circulate through their veins the life and vitality of the Commonwealth. Enact that bill, and if it is set aside, enact it again; and if it is again set aside, enact it a third time, and be certain that when the statute floats forth from the arches of the Capitol, if the people do not make it effectual through the Supreme Court, they will make it effectual over that Court; for the humanity of the people will be represented by the institutions of Massachusetts, in some form or other. (Applause.)
Then, again, gentlemen, I have another point to present, and it is this: After all, is there any such slave clause as that we are talking about? I am sometimes reminded of that story in old times, of the first light-house that was built at Alexandria—a marble column, flashing its light, five hundred feet high, on the blue sky of the Mediterranean. Ptolemy, who filled the throne of Egypt, bade the architect, Sostratus, write on the frieze—’Ptolemy, to the gods, saviors of seamen.’ And Sostratus chisseled, apparently, the name of the reigning king. But after a while, the crumbling plaster and frail lime dropped out, and beneath, in the eternal marble, the centuries saw carved, ‘Sostratus, son of Deiphanes, to the gods, saviors of seamen.’ So with that Constitution. Our fathers tried to plaster it over, so some men say, with slavery,—with equivocal phrases, with immoral compacts, with compromises that no man dared utter, but each man hid in his heart; and the claim of some jurists, to-day, is, that the crumbling plaster has dropped out, the ‘ untempered mortar ’is gone, and there flashes forth from the eternal purpose of the Constitution the fiat—’Thou shall not return unto his master the servant that has escaped from his master unto thee!’ (Loud and prolonged applause.)
Let us hope, in God’s name, that it is so, Mr. Chairman; and if it be so,—and I am told a large proportion of those who occupy these seats believe it is,—enact your legal theories into statutes. If you come here believing, as we are told you do, that there is no slavery in the United States Constitution, then I tell you that the law we ask, instead of being unconstitutional, is the surest and best constitutional law in the world, and it is your duty to enact it, since wicked men are perverting your noble Constitution to cover such awful iniquities. There are men who sit in these seats, anti-slavery men, who, when we fanatics ask them, ‘How can you bow beneath that oath to the Constitution?’ reply, ‘It is high as heaven; it is broad as the pillers of the universe. There is no slavery there. ”We cannot find it.’ Very well; then vote for this law!
If there is an abolitionist in your Legislature who says, ‘ I hate slavery; I will never help execute the Fugitive Slave Act; I would cut off my right hand before I would do it; but I have bound myself by an oath not to pass such a law in this Legislature,—I ask, ‘ By what right do you sit here? Anti-slavery man, lover of liberty, by what right do you bind yourself by an oath not to execute your high functions in behalf of justice? By what right do you assume power which you allow forbids you to do what you acknowledge to be just, and obliges you to aid in doing what you confess is infamously base? Put your hat on your head, and go out of that door! You cannot vindicate that oath as a moral, Christian, anti-slavery man. You have no right to assume a power, and oust others from it, which you cannot use for the protection of the fugitive.’ These are the two horns of the dilemma. Those of you, legislators, who say, ‘We can come here, because we do not find slavery in the Constitution,’ vote for that law! If there is no slavery in the Constitution, the Fugitive Slave Bill is a monster even worse than on the other supposition. If there is no fugitive slave clause, then the Sims case and the Anthony Burns case were the most monstrous enormities ever perpetrated in the city of Boston, worse than if we suppose there is such a clause. Go as far as Franklin advised in the first petition to Congress on this subject, ‘Go to the extreme verge of your constitutional power to put down this system.’ If you have got the power, execute it. If you turn round and say, ‘I have not got the power,’ then I ask you how, as a man, a Christian, an anti-slavery person, can you vindicate your right to sit here in the Legislature, when you have bound yourself not to legislate justly, but both passively and actively aid in wrong-doing?
These, gentlemen, are the grounds upon which I claim this law. I claim it, first, (without regard to the Constitution of the United States,) of the sovereignty of Massachusetts, existing, under God, as a civil society, and bound to protect its citizens, whom it restrains into obedience. Then, in the second place, I claim it upon the universally recognized principle of constitutional law, as laid down by Adams and Webster, that the repeated violations of the Constitution by the South make it, in fact, nonexistent. In November, 1845, in answer to a letter soliciting his opinion on the constitutionality of a law of Congress, retroceding Alexandria to Virginia, Mr. Adams replied: ‘I have no hesitation to say, I hold that act unconstitutional and void. How the Supreme Court of the United States would consider it, I cannot undertake to judge, nor how they would carry it into execution, should they determine the act unconstitutional. The Constitution of the United States, ”Stat magni nominis umbra”’(is the shadow of a great name.)
Mr. Giddings, speaking later, says:
‘Without further remarks, I repeat that Ohio is now a party to no subsisting Union; to our people, therefore, belongs the prerogative of dictating the future policy of the State. They may, if they choose, demand of our Legislature the passage of a law, enabling them to express their views in regard to the propriety of entering into a Union with Texas; or, as we are now dissolved from all connection with the slave States, we may remain free from all further alliance with them. We may form a Union with such of the other free States as shall prefer a union with freemen, and discard all further political association with the institution of slavery.’
This is the extreme practical doctrine derived from a violation of the Constitution on the part of the
<c05>
South. You know it is the Southern doctrine. The Southern States, with Calhoun in the van, claim it as the basis of their doctrine of constitutional law, that a violation of the Constitution, on the part of any party under it, absolves the rest. I can claim, therefore, that they, at least, have no right and are not competent to object to any legislation on the part of Massachusetts which does not regard the Constitution of 1787.
Submit this project of a law, if you please, to the people. If you do not wish to enact the law distinctly yourselves, enact it conditionally; put it to the people of Massachusetts, and say, if you please, that unless it secure a two-thirds vote, it shall not become a statute. You know that the people of the Commonwealth will rush to the ballot-box, nine out often, if you will give them the chance, to place that act upon the statute-book of the State. (Applause.)
Then, again, we ask you to make your law more decisive, even, than that of Vermont; to specify the danger, and instruct the Supreme bench to issue its habeas corpus, and arrest any process under the so called Fugitive Slave Act. ”We ask you to do it now. In Albany to-day, gentlemen, the petitioners who sent that very petition to the Empire State, offered to send before them two eminent lawyers of New York to do what I am doing here; but the Committee said  to them, ‘We ask no appearance; we are ready to report the bill.’ (Applause.) They asked for no argument; that statute of Vermont, made perhaps more stringent, this New York Committee is ready to report.
Now, gentlemen, we ask you to let Massachusetts take her proper place in the van of this movement; and if I may allude to the political constitution of the Legislature, I claim it of you, as sitting here under the profession and avowal, that you do not believe there is any fugitive slave clause in the Constitution. Mr. Sumner, from his high place in the Senate, has again and again avowed his belief that there is no legal claim for any fugitive slave within any of the free States; and he has again and again avowed his purpose to defend that principle, if health returns to him, upon the floor of the Senate. If there be no such clause, then we claim of those who think so the enactment of the law we ask; and if any of you cannot so use your power, we ask of you that you should step out of that door, and let those who feel that such a use is free to them take your places.
I do not know, gentlemen, that I have anything further to say that is essential on this topic. I will place what seems to be a certified copy of the law of Vermont, and these extracts from Mr. Webster and Mr. Adams, which I have quoted, before the Committee.
It is no answer to my request to say, that you will grant a jury trial, that you will hedge the citizen with such safeguards that none but a real fugitive can ever be delivered up. That is not the Massachusetts we want, and not the Massachusetts we have a right to claim. If the South has violated the Constitution repeatedly, palpably, avowedly, defiantly, atrociously, for her own purposes,-to get power in the government, to perpetuate her system, to control the nation,-we claim of you that you should exercise the privilege which that violation has given you. We claim of you that you should give us a Massachusetts worthy of its ancient name. Give us a State that is not disgraced by the trial, in the nineteenth century, in the midst of so-called Christian churches, of the issue, ‘Is this man a chattel?’ We will not rest until it is decided as the law of the Commonwealth, that a human being, immortal, created by the hand of God, shall not be put upon trial in the Commonwealth, and required to prove that he is not property. It shall not be competent for the courts of the Commonwealth to insult the civilization of the nineteenth century by asking that question, or making it the subject of evidence and proof. Give us a law tantamount to this: the moment a man sets his foot in Massachusetts, he is free against the world! (Loud applause.)
Can the image of God be owned and sold? What a question for a Christian republic to try! Decree that no Court sitting in Massachusetts shall ever entertain the question whether a human being can be property. He is a man, therefore he is free. Provide not only that no Court which you set up shall entertain that question, but that no Court sitting on your soil shall insult Heaven by trying such an issue. What your own Judges may not do, shall not by any man be done within your limits. We read, gentlemen, of days when to say, ‘I am a Roman citizen,’ opened prison doors and disarmed lawless power.
Earn for our Commonwealth a nobler fame. Let history tell that on our soil to say, ‘I am a man,’ unlocked every chain and shrivelled unholy parchments to ashes, while over the emancipated head flashed the mailed arm of the Commonwealth with its protecting legend, ‘SUB LIBERTATE QUIENTEM’

NOTICE.
The subscriber proposes a Meeting and Levee, on Monday evening, March 7th, at Upper and Lower Chapman Halls, in commemoration of the Leadership and Martyrdom of CRISPUS ATTUCKS, the Colored American, in Boston, March 5th, 1770, the day which History has selected as the dawn of the American Revolution.
The exercises will consist in part of speeches from a galaxy of distinguished friends of freedom, with appropriate music, vocal and instrumental.
Tickets to the whole, 75 cents each. Particulars hereafter. WILLIAM C. NELL.
Boston, Feb. 24, 1859.
AN ACCOMPLISHED COLORED PIANIST. A numerous company of ladies and gentlemen, a goodly representation of the best musical culture of our city, were recently present at a matinee given in Mr. T. Gilbert’s Piano-Forte Rooms, by Senor Louis de Casseres, a pianist, of Spanish-African blood, a native of Jamaica, and a refined, intelligent and cultivated gentleman. ‘He brings testimonials,’ says the Daily Advertiser, ‘from the best circles in London and Paris, where he spent some time; and for some years he has resided in Halifax, bearing the title of pianist to His Excellency the Governor of Nova Scotia. He evinced on this occasion great facility of execution in the modern piano-forte music, and played especially a transcription from ‘ I Puritani,’ by Prudent, with much taste and finish; also a ‘ Dream,’ and some variations upon Scotch airs of his own, which showed more than the average cleverness in that sort of work. His readings of Beethoven and Mendelssohn were less satisfactory, but showed earnest study and some mastery of classical as well as modern music. Altogether the occasion was a very pleasant one, and Senor Casseres won the sympathies and the respect of his audience. Mr. C. R. Adams added much by his beautiful singing of ‘Adelaide,’ and of Balfe’s ‘Maud’ song.’
Mr. Casseres intends giving a Concert in Boston, in the course of a few days, with, the assistance of distinguished musicians. Give him a full house and a generous welcome: he deserves it. Due notice will be given in the daily papers.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH’s SPEECH, at the late Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, is now published in a neat pamphlet form, for circulation. It is most admirably adapted to help forward the good work, which is sufficiently described in its title,—’No SLAVE-HUNTING IN THE OLD BAY STATE.’ Let the edition be immediately bought, and put into circulation. It is for sale at the following low prices:—By the hundred, $3.00; dozen, 50 cts.; single, 5 cents.
Our friends in Montague, Greenfield, Deerfield, Northampton, Florence, Cummington, &c., will be glad to hear that E. H. HAYWOODD intends spending the first two weeks in March in those places, taking them in the above-named order.
<c06>
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS
Collections for Tract Fund, by Carolina F. Putnam.
Lunenburg-Mrs. Abercrombie 50c, Mrs. Stone 25c, Rev. Mr. Mandell $1, Des. Harrington $1.
Athol-Mrs. M. H. Baker 50c, Mrs. Stevens 50c, Mrs. Hapgood 25c. Rev. Mr. Norton 50c, Mrs. Oliver 6c, a Friend 3c, Mrs. Humphrey 13c, Mrs. E. Ellis $1, Mrs. Stratton 10c, Mrs. Dunn 5c, Mrs. Blake 15c, E. S. Walker 10c, W. H. Foster 25c, Mrs. Laban Morse 25, Mr. Boutell 20c, Mrs. E. J. Mars 50c, Mrs.
C. B. Morse 25c.
Montague-Mr. Clary 10c, Miss Clapp 50c, Miss Stratton 25c, Mrs. Hall 7c, Mrs. and Miss Payne 30c, Miss Field 15c, Mrs. Russell 25c, W. Keyes 50c, Mrs. Lovejoy 16c, Mrs. Delano 25c, Mrs. Holton 25c, Dea. Marsh 50c, Mrs. Clapp 10c, Mrs. Chandler 12c, Mrs. Nettleton 10c, Miss Cook, 25c, Miss Maxwell 10c, Mrs. Brewer 10c, Mrs. Root 25c, Mrs. Jos. Clapp 50c, Rev. Mr. Emerson 50c, Mrs. John S. Ward $1.50, Mrs. Hartwell 20c, M. H. Clapp $1, Miss J. Payne 25c, Mrs. Abbott 25c, Mrs. Payne 10c, Mr. Morgan 25c. Mrs. Benjamin 25c.
Greenfield-Mrs. Brainard 50c, Miss Leavitt $1, Mrs. Washburn 35c, Mrs. Alvord 25c, Mrs. Chenerey $1, Mrs. Aiken 50c.
Northampton-Mr. Felton 35c, Miss Shepard 25c, Mrs. Thayer 50c, Mrs. J. Clark 50c, C. Clark $1.
Grantville-A. Friend $1.
Hopkinton-Mrs. John Phipps 22c, Mrs. B. S. Briggs 50c, Mrs. Adams 50c, Mrs. Dennis 15c, J. F. Newton 50c, Geo. Hagar 25c, C. McFarland $1, S. D. Maybry $1, H. J. Sawyer 50c. P. McPartland 20c, Mrs. Adams 50c, Mrs. M. S. Bowker $1, Mrs. L. Fisk 25c, Mrs. Maybry 20c, Milton Claflin $1, Mrs. Fitch 25c, Mr. Adams 25c, Miss C. Littlefield 25c, Jas. Fraser 25c, Mr. Forest 25c, Mr. Pillion 25c, Mr. Cragan 25c, Mr. Kennedy 25c, Mr. Cummiskry 25c, J. Thompson 50c, D. Macklin 25c, T. Powers 25c, T. Cillinan 25c, Miss C. Dillee 25c, M. Monoghan 25c.
West Cambridge-Mrs. J. Russell 33c, Mrs. Jas. Russell 25c, Mrs. Robbins $1, Mrs. D. Locke 50c, Mrs. Freeman $1, Mrs. Joshua Dodge $1, Mrs. Jas. Schouler $1, Mrs. M. L. Russell 50c, Mrs. Farmer 25c, Mrs. S. Russell 35c, Mrs. Woodbridge 50c, Mrs. A. W. Dodge $1, Mrs. W. H. Locke 25c, Mrs. Poland 50c, Mrs. Jos. Burrage 50c, Mrs. Adams $1.
Reading-Mrs. Bancroft 10c, Friend 10c, Mrs. Temple’25c, Mrs. Buckstone 25c, Mrs. Damon 20c, Mrs. Barrows, 30c, Mrs. H. L. Pitman <ILLEGIBLE>c, Mrs. Milo Parker 25c, Mrs. Foster 31c.
Waltham—Rev. Mr. Bickford $1, Mrs. O. Baker 25c, Mrs. Fitzgerald 8C
Collections by Charles L. Remond.
In Nashua, N. H $10 00
“Montserat,” 2.35
Balance of collections at Essex Co. 
Society Meeting, 3. 91
Pledge to the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
William I. Bowditch, Brookline, $100.
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer. 
Boston, Feb. 23, 1859.
WORCESTER NORTH.—A quarterly meeting of the Worcester County North Division Anti-Slavery Society will be held at CLINTON, on Saturday evening and Sunday, February 26 and 27, commencing at 7 o’clock, p. m. of Saturday, at CLINTON HALL, and continuing on Sunday, day and evening.
PARKER PILLSBURY and E.H. HEYWOOD, on behalf of the American Anti-Slavery Society, I will be present. All persons are invited to attend, and it is hoped that the members of the Society in the neighboring towns will be present.
JOEL SMITH, President.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at 
South , Royalston, Saturday evening, February 19. 
Athol, Sunday: evening, February 20.
Ashburnham, Monday evening, February 21.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture on Sunday, Feb. 27, forenoon and afternoon, in Pembroke, and, in the evening, in Hanover.
ROCKPORT—An Anti-Slavery meeting will be held in Rockport, on Sunday,. March 6th, day and evening. Wm. LLOYED GARRISON and PARKER PILLSBURY, on account of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will be present.
CHARLES SPEAR will speak in the Universalist Church in Stoughton, next Sunday afternoon. Subject: The Parlor and the Dungeon.
DIED—In Concord, Feb. 4th, JOHN THOREAU, Esq., aged 71 years.
Mr. Thoreau has, for many years, been known among us as a man of great integrity of character. He was called, by all who knew him, emphatically, an honest man. So quiet and unpretending was he, that few but those most intimately acquainted with him knew of those deep fountains of humanity which were constantly welling up in his soul. It was this which made him an Abolitionist. His heart was touched for the mighty wrongs of the slave, and his soul deeply interested for his redemption. For years he absented himself from the Church, on account of its wicked complicity with slavery. Though oftentimes voting with the Republican party, yet with his whole soul he honored those men, who, for so long a time, have, with clean hands and sturdy uprightness, carried the ark of the covenant through the tangle-weeds, the briars and thorns which grow so abundantly in the great wilderness of Church and State. His friends will not soon forget his pleasant smile, his cordial grasp of the hand, and the hearty hospitality with which he greeted the lovers of humanity. If, in the language of Furness, ‘ he who but touches the item of the garment of Anti-Slavery has found salvation.’ then has he gone to join the glorious throng of those who have, from age to age, made the redemption of man the great object for which they lived, and for which so many have offered up their lives, and he will forever find his own redemption and joy in the redemption of all who are, and shall be, in all coming time, waiting to be redeemed from the power of ignorance and sin. For the Lord ‘knoweth the days of the upright, and their inheritance shall be forever.’-[Com.

Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Croup, Whooping Cough, Diseases of the Throat and Lungs, and Pulmonary Affections;
Of the severest type, are quickly cured by that long-tried and faithful remedy,
DR. WISTAR’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY.
Says a well-known Editor ’This is truly a balsam and a blessing to invalids. It contains the pure balsamic principle of Wild Cherry, the balsamic properties of tar and of pine. Its ingredients, which, are mingled after the true principle of chemistry, are all balsamic, and therefore it safe and sure in effect. Coughs, Colds, Consumption, and Bronchial troubles disappear under its balsamic influence as though charmed away. Probably no medicine has ever attained so extended a sale, or accomplished so much good, as this renowned Balsam,’
CASSVILLE, (Ga.) Feb. 26, 1858. 
MESSRS. SETH FOWLE & Co., Boston, Mass.:
GENTLEMAN-At the request of your Travelling Agent, I give you a statement of my experience in the use of Dr. Wister’s Balsam of Wild Cherry. I have been using it for two years in my family, for Colds and Coughs, and have found it the most efficacious remedy that I have ever tried. For Colds and Coughs in children, I know it to be an excellent medicine.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN H. R1CE. 
The genuine article always has written the signature of ‘I. BUTTS ’ on the wrapper, and is for sale by all respectable Druggists everywhere.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Feb. 25-4tia

NOW READY
The Life of
JOHN H. W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE
OF THE
WASHINGTONIAN TEMPERANCE REFORMATION.
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful and indefatigable laborer in behalf of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
Fifty Thousand should be sold in six months.
It makes a handsome 12mo. Volume of 420 pages, with several wood-cuts, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MASSACHUSETTS TO VIRGINIA.
[Written on reading an account of the proceedings of the citisens of Norfolk, (Virginia,) in reference to GEORGE LATIMER, the alleged fugitive slave.] 

BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
The blast of Freedom’s Northern hills, upon its Southern way,
Bears greeting to Virginia, from Massachusetts Bay:
No word of haughty challenging, nor battle-bugle’s peal, 
Nor steady tread of marching files, nor clang of horsemen’s steel.
No trains of deep-mouthed cannon along our highways go—
Around our silent arsenals untrodden lies the snow; 
And to the land-breeze of our ports, upon their errands far, 
A thousand sails of Commerce swell, but none are spread for War.
We hear thy threats, Virginia! thy stormy words and high
Swell harshly on the Southern winds which melt along our sky; 
Yet, not one brown, hard hand foregoes its honest labor here; 
No hewer of our mountain oaks suspends his axe in fear.
Wild are the wares which lash the reefs along St. George’s bank, 
Cold on the shore of Labrador the fog lies white and dank; 
Through storm, and wave, and blinding mist, stout are the hearts which man 
The fishing-smacks of Marblehead, the sea-boats of Cape Ann.
The cold North light and wintry sun glare on their icy forms, 
Bent grimly o’er their straining lines, or wrestling with the storms; 
Free as the winds they drive before, rough as the waves they roam, 
They laugh to scorn the slaver’s threat against their rocky home.
What means the Old Dominion? Hath she forgot the day
When ro’er her conquered valleys swept the Briton’s steel array?
How side by side, with sons of hers, the Massachusetts Men
Encountered Tarleton's charge of fire, and stout Corn-wallis, then 
Forgets she how the Bay State, in answer to the call Of her old House of Burgesses, spoke out from Fan-euil Hall?
When, echoing back her Henry's cry, came pulsing on each breath 
Of Northern winds, the thrilling sounds of ’LIBERTY OR DEATH!’
What asks the Old Dominion? If now her sons have proved 
False to their fathers’ memory, false to the faith they loved, 
If she can scoff at Freedom, and its Great Charter spurn, 
Must we of Massachusetts from Truth and Duty turn? 
We hunt your bondmen, flying from Slavery’s hateful hell—
Our voices, at your bidding, take up your blood hounds’ yell—
We gather, at your summons, above our fathers’ graves,.
From Freedom’s holy altar-horns to tear your wretched slaves!
Thank God! not yet so vilely can Massachusetts bow,
The spirit of her early time is with her even now;

Dream not because her pilgrim blood moves slow, and calm, and cool,.
She thus can stoop her chainless neck, her sisters’ slave and tool!
All that a sister State should do, all that a free State; may,
Heart, hand and purse we proffer, as in our early day;
But that one dark, loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone,
And reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown!
Hold, while ye may, your struggling slaves, and burden God’s free air 
With woman’s shriek beneath the lash, and man hood’s wild despair;
Cling closer to the cleaving curse’ that writes upon your plains 
The blasting of Almighty wrath against a land of chains.
Still shame your gallant ancestry, the cavaliers of old,
By watching round the shambles where human flesh is sold—
Gloat o’er the new-born child, and count his market value, when 
The maddened mother’s cry of woe shall pierce the slaver’s den!
Lower than plummet soundeth, sink the Virgianian name;
Plant, if ye will, your fathers’ graves with rankest weeds of shame;
Be, if ye will, the scandal of God’s fair universe—
We wash our hands, forever, of your sin, and shame, and curse.,
A voice from lips whereon the coal from Freedom’s shrine hath been, 
Thrilled, as but yesterday, the voice of Berkshire’s mountain men;
The echoes of that solemn voice are sadly lingering still 
In all our sunny valleys, on every wind-swept hill.
And when the prowling man-thief came hunting for his prey
Beneath the very shadow of Bunker’s shaft of grey, How, through the free lips of the son, the father’s warning spoke! 
How, from its bonds of trade and. sect, the Pilgrim city brake!
A hundred thousand right arms were lifted up on high, 
A hundred thousand voices sent back their loud reply;—
Through the thronged towns of Essex the startling summons rang, 
And up from bench and loom and wheel her young mechanics sprang. 
The voice of free, broad Middlesex—of thousands as of one—
The shaft of Bunker calling to that of Lexington—
From Norfolk’s ancient villages—from Plymouth’s rocky bound 
To where Nantucket feels the arms of ocean close her round—
From rich and rural Worcester, where through the calm repose 
Of cultured vales and fringing woods the gentle Nashua flows, 
To where Wachusett's wintry blasts the mountain larches stir, 
Swelled up to heaven the thrilling cry of God save Latimer!’
And sandy Barnstable rose up, wet with the salt sea.	spray—
And Bristol sent her answering shout down Narragansett Bay!
<c02>
Along the broad Connecticut old Hampden felt the thrill, 
And the cheer of Hampshire’s woodmen swept down from Holyoke hill.
The voice of Massachusetts! Of- her free sons and daughters!—
Deep calling unto deep aloud-—the sound of many waters!
Against the burden of that voice what tyrant power shall stand?
No fetters in the Bay State! No slave upon her land!
Look to it well, “Virginians! In calmness we have borne, 
In answer to our faith and trust, your insult and your, scorn;
You’ve spurned our kindest counsels-—you’ve hunted for our lives-—
And shaken round our hearths and homes your man acles and gyves! 
We wage no war—we lift no arm—we fling no torch within
The fire-damps of the quaking mine beneath your soil of sin;
We leave ye with your bondmen—to wrestle while ye can,
With the strong upward tendencies and God-like soul of man!
But for us and for our children, the vow which we have given
For Freedom and Humanity is registered in heaven;
No slave-hunt in our borders-—no pirate on our it strand! 
No fetters in the Bay State-—no slave upon our land! 

The Liberator.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY. 
MR. GARRISON:
At the late Convention of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, several speakers indulged in severe criticisms upon the position and character of the above-named organization. That portion of the press representing it seems to have taken but little notice of the charges preferred, choosing rather to evade them by giving unfair and burlesque reports of | the speeches, and, in fact, of the entire proceedings. We presume, therefore, that the Republican press have no defense to urge. We do not presume to improve upon the eloquent and forcible remarks that were made at the Convention, with reference to the party in question, but would simply give them our unqualified endorsement.
Respecting the position which the Republicans assume with reference to the Constitution, (so far as it relates to slavery,) we are inclined to the opinion that it is grossly inconsistent. In the first place, they tell us that there is no clause in that instrument which can be construed into a guarantee for the protection of slavery in any pertion of the Union. But when asked why their action is not directed to the abolition of slavery in the States, the answer is, that they have no desire to interfere with the constitutional rights of any State—admitting thereby that slaves are held by virtue and under the sanction of that lauded guaranty of human rights! With what propriety can Republican orators (and those who endorse their utterances) regard the Fugitive Slave Bill as unconstitutional? If the organic law contains provisions by which men are allowed to hold men as property, it is logical to conclude that provision is made for the recovery of said property; and all resistance to the acts of Congress which have reference to the perpetuity of slavery is inconsistent with the interpretation of the Constitution by the Republican party of the country. Perhaps some of its philosophers can reconcile these antagonistic views, which stamp the party with insincerity, if not with flagrant dishonesty. What shall be said of men who avow! their hatred of slavery, and yet deliberately swear to support a Constitution stained with the blood of four millions of their fellow-men? Can we trust the cause of emancipation in the hands of men whose only aim is to secure political notoriety? We think not. They may claim to be the friends of the slave, and, further- more, that their party is doing a great anti-slavery | work, but the true friends of freedom will never admit the justice of the claim. When the leaders of the Republican party are ready and willing to apologize for having uttered remarks on the floor of the | Senate which seemed to place them in the category with abolitionists, it is time to criticise and to censure; and we honor the men who fearlessly and faith fully denounce such enemies to the cause of Abolitionism.
But, a word with regard to the ostensible objects of the Republican party, viz., the non-extension of slavery. Here, again, we are unable to discern the reasonableness of assuming a position of hostility to the advance of the slave system, and the increase of slave territory; for if the Constitution, as before intimated, protects the slaveholder in sixteen States of the Union in robbing men, women and children of their God-given rights, why interfere with slavery in the Territories? And why object to the doctrine recently advanced, that the Constitution carries slavery, wherever the stars and stripes of the republic wave? We can very well imagine how the Democratic party can avow their love for slavery, and do all in their power to extend it, and yet maintain their consistency. Their rule of political action is prescribed by the gods of despotism, and from it they dare not swerve. It will not be improper, in this connection, to observe the antagonism existing between the Republican and Democratic parties. In what does it consist? In our opinion, the political warfare now being carried on is based on no high and ennobling: principle, but is rather the result of political ambition, which leads to exhibitions of partisan rivalry. It becomes the true and unfaltering friends of the oppressed and down-trodden to be active in protesting against all political knavery, and every thing that retards the cause of Abolitionism. There is cause for encouragement. Let the noble men who wage war with despotism be sustained. It is not the work of a day to create a public sentiment which will trample upon the enemies of the Anti-Slavery cause. Let our motto still continue to be, ’No Union with Slave-holders or their supporters I' I’ Let us wash our hands in innocency from the blood of millions of our fellow being; and may we not with joy anticipate the good time coming,’ when the fetters of the bondman shall be stricken off, and the death-knell of the demon Slavery be sounded?
Boston, Feb. 6. FIDELITER. 

LECTURES BY HENRY C. WRIGHT.
WESTERLY, (R. I.) Feb. 14, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
Agreeably to the appointment in the Liberator, H., C. Wright, the bold and fearless advocate of Humanity, lectured in this village on the 8th, 9th and 10th of this month. His audiences were respectable in numbers and character, and his lectures, though each was about two hours long, were listened to with undivided attention, and apparently with profound interest. His discourse, so replete with great truths, appealing to the heart and understanding, could not but warm the sympathy and arouse the manhood of all who heard him. 
The subject of his first lecture was American Slavery-that monstrous crime;, that gigantic disgrace to our country. He did not stop to prove that it was wrong to transform human beings into merchandise and property. Human slavery was a foul and awful system of wrong, which neither man nor God could make-right, and. all who give it support, politically or religiously, directly or indirectly, are practical sustainers of all the robberies, pollutions and murders, all the black and damming crimes which 
<c03>
are necessary to its existence. He alluded to the different political parties of this country, to the American religion, church organizations and priests, and spoke of their criminal position with regard to the ’sum of all villanies,’ American slavery. He told the audience what was being done in Massachusetts by the friends of freedom; that there they were circulating a petition, asking for a legislative enactment which should prohibit asking-hunting and slave-catching on that soil. He called on his hearers, in the name of humanity, to use their influence for the enactment of a law in Rhode Island which should secure the personal liberty of every fugitive from bondage seeking refuge in her borders, and do all with in their power for the freedom of the crushed and bleeding slave. His lecture produced a deep impression on the audience.
The second lecture was on the ante-natal history of man, and its bearing on his post-natal character and destiny. He said that mere external influences had been tried, for centuries, to bring man from that state consequent on the transgression of fixed laws, and they had been found inadequate for the permanent and extensive improvement of mankind, because the fact had been overlooked that parents are responsible for the existence, organization and constitutional tendencies of their offspring, and no attention had been given to man’s education and history, previous to birth, or in the ante-natal state,—that brief but important period, when good or evil tendencies, both of body and soul, are organized, as fixed facts of life, in the embryo man or woman. He said it was now time that we went to the root of the evil, and consulted and obeyed the laws of life and health. We must look to generation, rathar than regeneration, for the salvation of the human family. The reproductive element was the only means, not only for the perpetuation, but elevation and perfection of our race. While marriages were contracted from passion or interest, without regard to the organization, health and happiness of the offspring, the consequences must be the continued propagation of bad or defective organizations, and unhealthy constitutions, and the world continue to be flooded with vice and crime. The first step was to impress the public mind with the truth that man’s character and destiny, to a great, a very great extent, depend upon his organization and development be fore birth; and that the organic structure and constitutional tendencies are mightily affected by the physical, intellectual, spiritual and moral condition of the parents, and especially of the mother during gestation; so that men and women, being enlightened and convinced on this point, may act upon it, and exercise more care and discretion in the selection of partners in the marriage state, and that unions may be formed under the guidance of reason and love, and rational and conscientious fore -thought be shown in giving existence to children. His lecture on this subject was exceedingly instructive and interesting, and was delivered in language and manner which could not shock or offend the most fastidious ear.
In his third lecture, he gave us his views on the occupation or employment of the human spirit after it leaves the body. After physical dissolution, we should still be interested in those things which en grossed our attention and interest in the mundane sphere. He believed with the Orthodox, that he  should not go to their golden, heaven, and again, that he would descend to their hell—that is, it he saw any of his fellow-beings there. After death, he should still work for the amelioration of his race, by endeavoring to banish war, slavery, intemperance, and all the crimes, vices and evils which afflict humanity. He had labored for thirty years on earth, and he had no thought of stopping after he left this sphere. He intended to work, work, work, through the countless ages of eternity.
His lectures will long be remembered by those who heard him. We would gladly have retained him longer, and had several more lectures, but previous engagements would not permit him to remain. He intends to come here again ere long, however. 
It is, perhaps, worthy of notice, that one Baptist clergyman came eight miles on purpose to hear the lectures, and remained here until they were over. Another clergyman of the Seventh-day Baptist denomination came some five or six miles. Of the six clergymen in this village, not one, I think, attended either lecture. I suppose they regard H. C. Wright as an’ infidel' Thank Heaven for such’ infidels' When the bigoted and interested priests of this country, who dare not raise their voice against American slavery, shall have passed into oblivion, the name of Henry C. Wright will gem the brightest page of history.
Yours, truly, FRANKLIN.

LETTER FROM GILES B. STEBBINS. 
ANN ARBOR, (Mich.) Feb. 5th, 1859. 
W. L. G ARRISON:
MY FRIEND,—I have just been reading some copies of the Liberator, and feel like writing a word to keep the chain bright between us.
For some weeks I have been out of sight of your journal, among people who, although inspired by generous and humane sentiments, are not conversant with 'the Garrisonian' who edits the journal above named.
The Monday after Christmas, I left A. J. Davis and wife at Terre Haute, Ind..—a beautiful city of ten thousand people on the Wabash-—bound to St. Louis, and came east to spend a month in 'hoosierdom.'
It is twenty years since I have been in Indiana, except in the northern borders, and a great change for the better, in morals, intelligence, and progressive thought has taken place. I visited several country towns, and had usually good audiences, sometimes large, and found in smaller villages, too, some excellent people. They yet need to pass out from the pork and tobacco dispensation, and to gain in taste and personal neatness.
I was in Indianapolis just before the women, presented their petition for equal rights to the Legislature; and, at the close of the Sunday meetings, it was arranged to have a lecture in College Hall the next night, on ‘Woman's Rights.' ’ About a hundred came; highly intelligent people, with a good proportion of appreciative women.
I have since seen one of the women active in presenting the petitions, and learn that the members of both Houses, and a large audience, listened with tolerable, at times with interested attention, for an hour or more, to the addresses of Mrs. Agnes Cook, Mrs. Dr. Thomas and Mrs. Birdsall, (all of Richmond.) There was an evident intent to treat the whole matter as a capital joke, and yet be gallantly polite to the ladies.
The fact that it was a matter of deeper import and graver moment was made apparent to a part of those present, and I think the women feel that this first effort may be well followed by others which will help awaken attention, and create that public opinion of which legislators stand in such wholesome fear.
At Richmond, I saw the great Orthodox Quaker meeting-house, a plain brick building, large enough to hold over five thousand people. Twice that number gather at the Yearly Meeting, the largest in the world, it is said. I saw several persons who were present when, in 1836, on the public street, Henry Clay arrogantly told the Quaker Mendenhall,’ Go home, and mind your business! My slaves are fat and sleek.' His bluff treatment of a highly esteemed and able man, simply for the respectful presenting of a petition, and the fact that no chance for reply was given Mr. Mendenhall, lost the Kentuckian many friends, and many votes too. Indeed, it is thought, by some good judges, lost him the Presidential chair.
At Greensboro’, a village settled by North Carolina Quakers,. I stopped at the house of <illegible>,a patriarch in Reform; an orthodox friend, then an Anti-Slavery friend when the Society divided in that
<c04>
issue; then graduated out of all <illegible> to a broader .humanity. Always seeking to be true in his own convictions; ready to make wealth and reputation second to manhood; honorable and liberal; now, in his old age, serene and simple, yet wise and brave. He is a Spiritualist, and, in the light of his new views, seeks to be a wiser reformer; gentle, yet firm, uncompromising, yet charitable, plain and searching, yet kind.
I saw in his sitting-room some twelve pencil sketch portraits of his departed kindred, drawn by George E. Walcutt, of Columbus, Ohio, whom he had never seen, and who had no knowledge of the persons beyond name, age, and time of death. Drawn, too, in some ten minutes each with the artist blindfolded. They are admirably done, and so lifelike as to be recognized by those who knew the persons when on earth. To me they are most beautiful and convincing proofs of spirit presence and guiding influence.
I was in Cincinnati last Saturday and Sunday. Saturday night, almost one thousand persons were present at the ’Paine Celebration,’ and the whole passed off in such way that the daily papers were respectful in their mention of it.
Your old friend, Orson S. Murray, gave a characteristic address; and William Denton, a young Englishman, now lecturing on Geology, spoke most forcibly and eloquently. His commendation of Thomas Paine, as the impartial friend of freedom, without regard to nation or race, was applauded. Verily, justice is dawning!
I had the privilege, on Sunday, of speaking to good audiences in National Hall, under the auspices of the Spiritualists.
I was not able to see Mr. Conway, but hear good report of his manly independence. 
At the close of the evening meeting, a lady told me A. B. Alcott was holding conversations in the lecture room of Mr. Conway’s church. I could not stop, but passed on to Dayton-a beautiful city—and thence here for a stop of some weeks.
I am at the home of Richard Glazier—one of your firm friends, because he deems you the friend of humanity. So you see on what tenure you can hold his friendship. 
With my best wishes,
Yours, G. B. STEBBINS.

[From the Atlantic Monthly.]
OUGHT WOMEN TO LEARN THE ALPHABET? NO. 3.
BY THOMAS W. HIGGINSON. 
Thus far, our whole course of argument has been defensive and explanatory. We have shown that woman’s inferiority in special achievements, so far as it exists, is a fact of small importance, because it is merely a corollary from her historic position of degradation. She has not excelled, because she has had no fair chance to excel. Man, placing his foot upon her shoulder, has taunted her with not rising. But the ulterior question remains behind,—How came she into this attitude, originally? Explain the explanation, the logician fairly demands. Granted that woman is weak because she has been systematically degraded: but why was she degraded? This is a far deeper question,—one to be met only by a profounder philosophy and a positive solution. We are coming on ground almost wholly untrod, and must do the best we can.
We venture to assert, then, that woman’s social inferiority, in the past, has been, to a great extent, a legitimate thing. To all appearance, history would have been impossible without it, just as it would have been impossible without an epoch of war and slavery. It is simply a matter of social progress, a part of the succession of civilizations. The past has been, and inevitably, a period of ignorance, of engrossing physical necessities, and of brute force,—not of freedom, of philanthropy, and of culture . During that lower epoch, woman was necessarily an inferior,—degraded by abject labor, even in time of peace,—degraded uniformly by war, chivalry to the contrary notwithstanding. Behind all the courtesies of Amadis and the Cid lay the stern fact,—woman a child or a boy. The flattering troubadours chanted her into a poet’s paradise; but, alas! that kingdom of heaven suffered violence, and the violent took it by force. The truth simply was, that her time had not come. Physical strength must rule for a time, and she was the weaker. She was very properly refused a feudal grant, because, say ’Les Coustumes de Normandie,’ she is not trained to war or policy: C’ est I’ homme ki se bast et in conseille. Other authorities put it still more plainly: ’A woman cannot serve the emperor or feudal lord in war, on account of the decorum of her sex; nor assist him with advice, because of her limited intellect; nor keep his counsel, owing to the infirmity of her disposition. All which was, no doubt, in the majority of cases, true, and the degradation of woman was simply a part of a system which has indeed had its day, but has bequeathed its associations.
From this reign of force, woman never freed herself by force. She could not fight, or would not. Bohemian annals, indeed, record the legend of a literal war between the sexes, in which the swomen’s army was led by Libussa and Wlasla, and which finally ended with the capture, by the army of men, of Castle Dziewin, Maiden’s Tower, whose ruins are still visible near Prague. The armor of Libussa is still shown at Vienna, and the guide calls attention to the peaked toes of steel, with which, he avers, the tender Princess was wont to pierce the hearts of her opponents, while careering through the battle. And there are abundant instances in which women have fought side by side with men, and on equal terms. The ancient British women mingled in the wars of their husbands, and their princesses were trained to the use of arms in the Maiden’s Castle at Edinburgh and in the Isle of Skye. The Moorish wives and maidens fought in defence of their European peninsula; and the Portuguese women fought, on the same soil, against the armies of Philip II. The king of Siam has at present a body-guard of four hundred women; they are armed with lance and rifle, are admirably disciplined, and their commander (appointed after saving the king’s life at a tiger-hunt) ranks as one of the royal family, and has ten elephants at her service. When the all-conquering Dahomian army marched upon Abbeokuta, in 1851, they numbered ten thousand men and six thousand women; the women were, as usual, placed foremost in the assault, as being most reliable; and of the eighteen hundred bodies left dead before the walls, the vast majority were of women. The Hospital of the Invalides, in Paris, has sheltered, for half a century, a fine specimen of a female soldier, ’Lieutenant Madame Bulan,' now eighty-three years old, decorated by Napoleon’s own hand with the cross of the Legion of Honor, and credited on the hospital books with 'seven years’ service-seven campaigns,-three wounds,-several times distinguished, especially in Corsica, in defending a fort against the English.’ But these cases, though interesting to the historian, are still exceptional, and the instinctive repugnance they inspire is condemnatory, not of women, but of war.
The reason, then, for the long subjection of woman has been simply that humanity was passing through its first epoch, and her full career was to be reserved for the second. As the different races of man have appeared successively upon the stage of history, so there has been an order of succession of the sexes. Woman’s appointed era, like that of the Scandinavian tribes, was delayed, but not omitted. It is not merely true that the empire of the past has belonged to man, but that it has properly belonged to him; for it was an empire of the muscles, enlisting at best but the lower powers of the understanding. There can be no question that the present epoch is initiating an empire of the higher reason, of arts, affections, aspirations; and for that epoch the genius of woman has been reserved. The spirit of the age has always kept pace with the facts, and outstripped the statutes. Till the fulness of time came, woman was necessarily kept a slave to the spinning-wheel and the needle: now higher work is ready, peace has brought invention to her aid, and the mechanical means for her emancipation are ready also. No use in releasing her, till man, with his strong arm, had worked out his preliminary share in civilization. ’Earth waits for her queen’ was a favorite motto of Margaret Fuller; but it would be more correct to say that the queen has waited for her earth, till it could be smoothed and prepared for her occupancy. Now Cinderella may begin to think of putting on her royal robes.
Everybody sees that the times are altering the whole material position of woman; but most persons do not appear to see the inevitable social and moral changes which are also involved. As has been already said, the woman of ancient history was a slave to physical necessities, both in war and
<c05>
peace. In war she could do too little, in peace she did too much, under the material compulsions which controlled the world. How could the Jews, for instance, elevate woman? They could not spare her from the wool and the flax the candle that goeth not out by night., In Rome, when the bride first stepped across threshold, they did not ask her, Do you know the alphabet? they asked simply, Can you spin? There was no higher epitaph than Queen Amalasontha's,-Domum servavit, lanam fecit. In Boeotia, brides were conducted home in vehicles whose wheels were burned at the door, in token that they were never to leave the house again. Pythagoras instituted at Crotona an annual festival for the distaff; Confucius, in China, did the same for the spindle; and these celebrated not the freedom, but the serfdom of woman. 
And even into modern days this same tyrannical necessity has lingered. ’Go spin, you jades! go spin!' ’ was the only answer vouchsafed by the Earl of Pembroke to the twice-banished nuns of .Wilton. And even now, travellers agree that throughout civilized Europe, with the partial exception of England and France, the profound absorption of the mass of women in household labors renders their general elevation impossible. But with us Americans, and in this age, when all these vast labors are being more and more transferred to arms of brass and iron,-when Rochester grinds the flour, and Lowell weaves the cloth, and the fire on the hearth has gone into black retirement and mourning-when the wiser a virgin is, the less she has to do with oil in her lamp,-when the needle has made its last dying speech and confession in the’ Song of the Shirt,’ and the sewing-machine has changed those doleful marches to delightful measures,-how is it possible for the blindest to help seeing that a new era it begun, and that the time has come for woman to learn the alphabet?
Nobody asks for any abolition of domestic labor for women, any more than of outdoor labor for men. Of course, most women will still continue to be mainly occupied with the indoor care of their families, and most men with their external support. All that is desirable for either sex is such an economy of labor, in this respect, as shall leave some spare time, to be appropriated in other directions. The argument against each new emancipation of woman is precisely that always made against the liberation of serfs and the enfranchisement of plebeians,-that the new position will take them from their legitimate business. ’How can he [or she] get wisdom that hold-eth the plough, [or the broom,]- whose talk is of bullocks [or of babies]?' Yet the American farmer has already emancipated himself from these fancied incompatibilities, and so will the farmer’s wife. In a nation where there is no leisure-class and no peasantry, this whole theory of exclusion is an absurdity. We all have a little leisure, and we must all make the most of it. If we will confine large interests and duties to those who have nothing else to do, we must go back to monarchy at once; if other wise, then the alphabet, and its consequences, most it be open to woman as to man. Jean Paul says nobly, in his ’Levana,’ that. ’before and after being’ a mother, a woman is a human being, and neither maternal nor conjugal relation can supersede the human responsibility, but must become its means and instrument.' ’ And it is good to read the manly speech on this subject, of John Quincy Adams, quoted at length by his recent venerable biographer -in which, after fully defending the political petitions of the women of Plymouth, he declares that ’the correct principle is, that women are not only justified, but exhibit the most exalted virtue, when they do depart from the domestic circle, and enter on the concerns of their country, of humanity, and of their God.’
There are duties devolving on every human being -duties not small or few, but vast and varied,-which spring from home and private life, and all their sweet relations. The support or care of the humblest household is a function worthy of men, women, and angels, so far as it goes. From these duties none must shrink, neither man nor woman; the loftiest genius cannot ignore them; the sublimest charity must begin with them. They are their own exceeding great reward, their self-sacrifice is infinite joy, and the selfishness which discards them receives in return loneliness and a desolate old age. Yet these, though the most tender and intin at portion of human life, do not form its whole. It is given to noble souls to crave other interests a’ so, added spheres, not necessarily alien from these -larger knowledge, larger action also, -duties, responsibilities, anxieties, dangers, all the aliment that history has given to its heroes. Not home less, but humanity more. When the high-born English lady in the Crimean hospital, ordered to a post of almost certain death, only raised her hands to heaven, and said. ’Thank God!’ she did not renounce her true position as woman, she claimed it. When the queen of James I. of Scotland, already immortalized by him in stately verse, won a higher immortality by welcoming to her fair bosom the daggers aimed at his,-when the Countess of Buchan hung confined in her iron cage, outside Berwick Castle, in penalty for crowning Robert the Bruce,—when .the stainless soul of Joan of Are met God, like Moses, in a burning flame,-these things were as they should be. Man must not monopolize these privileges of peril, birthright of great souls. Serenades and compliments must not replace the nobler hospitality which shares with woman the opportunity of martyrdom. Great administrative duties also, cares of state, for which one should be born gray-headed, how nobly do these sit upon a female Brow! Each year adds to the storied renown of Elizabeth of England, greatest sovereign of the greatest of historic nations. Christina of Sweden, alone among the crowned heads of Europe, (so says Voltaire,) sustained the dignity of the throne against Richelieu and Mazarin. And they most assuredly did not sacrifice their woman hood hi the process; for her Britannic Majesty’s wardrobe included four thousand gowns,-and Mile. de Montpensier declares, that, when Christina had put on a wig of the latest fashion,’ she really looked extremely pretty.' 1 Should this evidence of feminine attributes appear to some sterner intellects frivolous and insufficient, it is, nevertheless, adapted to the level of the style of argument it answers. 
Les races se feminisent, said Buffon,- ‘The world is growing more feminine.’ It is a compliment, whether the naturalist intended it or not. Time has brought peace: peace, invention; and the poorest woman of to-day is born to an inheritance such as her ancestors never dreamed of. Previous attempts to confer on women social and political equality,-as when Leopold, Grand Duke of Tuscany, made them magistrates, or when the Hungarian revolutionists made them voters, or when our own New Jersey tried the same experiment, in a guarded fashion, in early times, and then revoked the privilege, because (as in the ancient fable) the women voted the wrong way,,—things were premature, and valuable only as concessions to a supposed principle. But in view of the rapid changes now going on, be is a rash man who asserts the ’Woman Question’ to be anything but a mere question of time. The fulcrum has been already given, in the alphabet, and we must simply watch and see whether the earth does not move.
In this present treatment of the subject, we have been more anxious to assert broad principles than to work them out into the details of their application. We only point out the plain fact: woman must be either a subject or an equal; there is no other permanent ground. Every concession to a supposed principle only involves the necessity of the next con cession for which that principle calls. Once- yield the alphabet, and we abandon the whole long theory of subjection and coverture; the past is set aside, and we have nothing but abstractions to fall back upon. Reasoning abstractly, it must be admitted that the argument has been, thus far, entirely on the women’s side, inasmuch as no man has yet seriously tried to meet them with argument. It is an alarming feature of this discussion, that it has re versed, very generally, the traditional positions of the sexes: the women have had all the logic;: and the most intelligent men, when they have attempted the other side, have limited themselves to satire and gossip. What rational woman, we ask, can be convinced by the nonsense which is talked in ordinary society around her,—as, that it is right to admit girls to common schools, and equally right to exclude them from colleges,-that it is proper for a woman to sing in public, but indelicate for her to speak in public,-that a post-office box is an unexceptionable place to drop a bit of paper into, but a ballot-box terribly dangerous? No cause in the world can keep above water, sustained by such contradictions as these, too feeble and alight to be dignified by the name of fallacies. Some persons profess to think it impossible to reason with a woman, and they certainly show no disposition to try the experiment.
But we must remember that all our American institutions are based on consistency, or on nothing; all claim to be founded on the principles of natural right, and when they quit those, they are lost. In
<c06>
all European monarchies, it is the theory, that the mass of the people are children, to be governed, not mature beings, to govern, themselves. This is clearly stated, and consistently applied. In the free states of this Union, we have formally abandoned this theory far one half of the human race, while for the other half it still flourishes in full force. The moment the claims of woman are broached, the democrat becomes a monarchist. What Americans commonly criticize in English statesmen, namely, that they habitually evade all arguments based on natural right, and defend every legal wrong on the ground that it works well in practice, is the precise characteristic of our habitual view of woman. The Perplexity must be resolved somehow. We seldom meet a legislator who pretends to deny that strict adherence to our own principles would place both sexes in precisely equal positions before law and constitution, as well as in school and society. But each has his special quibble to apply, showing that in this case we must abandon all the general maxima to which we have pledged ourselves, and hold only by precedent. Nay, he construes even precedent with the most ingenious rigor; since the exclusion of women from all direct contact with affairs can be made far more perfect in a republic than is possible in a monarchy, where even sex is merged in rank, and the female patrician may have far more power than the male plebeian. But, as matters now stand among us, there is no aristocracy but of sex; all men are born patrician, all women are legally plebian; all men are equal in having political power., and all women in having none. This is a paradox so evident, and such anomaly in human progress, that it cannot last forever, without new discoveries in logic, or else a deliberate return to M.Marechal's theory concerning the alphabet. 
Meanwhile, as the newspapers say, we anxiously await further developments., According to present appearances, the final adjustment lies mainly in the hands of women themselves. Men can hardly be expected to concede either rights or privileges more rapidly than they are claimed, or to be truer to women than women are to each other. True, the worst effect of a condition of inferiority is the weakness it leaves behind it; even when we say,’ Hands of' the’ sufferer does not rise. In such a case, there is but one counsel worth giving. More depends on determination than even on ability. Will, not talent, governs the world. From what pathway of eminence were women more traditionally excluded than from the art of sculpture, in spite of Non me Praxiteles fecit, sed Anna Domer?—yet Harriet Hosmer, in eight years, has trod its full ascent. Who believed that a poetess could ever be more than an Annot Lyle of the harp, to soothe with sweet melodies the leisure of her lord, until in Elizabeth Barrett’s hands the thing became a trumpet.? Where are gone the sneers with which army surgeons and parliamentary orators opposed Mr. Sidney Herbert's first proposition to send Florence Nightingale to the Crimea? In how many towns has the current of popular prejudice against female orators been reversed by one winning speech from Lucy Stone! Where no logic can prevail, success silences., First give woman, if you dare, the alphabet, then summon her to her career; and though men, ignorant and prejudiced, may oppose its beginnings, there is no danger but they will at last fling around her conquering footsteps more lavish praises than ever greeted the opera’s idol-move perfumed flowers than even wooed, with intoxicating fragrance, the fairest butterfly of the ball-room. 

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:—
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS,ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES,BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX. DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea-son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy. spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse cut the Vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and slug-gish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul and your feelings win tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue at Sarsaparilla, or any thing else. 
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which <illegible> the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO. 
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $, per Bottle, Six Bottles for 35.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rhevin, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER’S and take no others. The Sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it., All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & Co.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J.N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every
here 6m May?
