<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT
 TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecunairy concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: — WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.

WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country I the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.

VOL.  XXXIV. NO. 30
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 22, 1864.
WHOLE NO.1746.

REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
VERMONT DEMOCRACY.
The Vermont Democratic State Convention called to nominate candidates for State officers and two presidential electors at large, met at Montpelier on the 12th inst.
By the terms of the call, the present National Administration is charged with plunging the country into civil war; changing a free government of States into a corrupt central despotism; bringing national bankruptcy—&c., &c.
Col. Dickey of Bradford moved the appointment of a County Committee to report nominations for Governor,  Lieut. Governor, Treasurer, and Two Electors at large.
Mr. Plympton proposed that the nomination for Governor be made by acclamation, and named as their standard-bearer the nominee for the two years past. Hon. Timothy P. Redfield of Montpelier.
Mr. Smith seconded the nomination, and the motion prevailed unanimously.
Mr. Redfield was thereupon loudly called for, and coming upon the platform was greeted with hearty applause. He spoke to the convention about thirty minutes. He was very gloomy, and proceeded to draw a vivid comparison between the conditions of the country four years ago, when our commerce had but one rival in the known world, when the people were inspired with memories of the past and hope of the future, and the scenes of to-day, when our commerce rots at the wharf when the patriotic people of the country are sprinkling the land with the blood of a million of their very best young men, and when war is waged with no reasonable hope of an end.
It is well, he said, to cast about to see what evil spirit hath crept into our affairs to bring such disaster and ruin so suddenly upon us. Four years ago, he said, in answering the question, for the first time in the history of the country, was organized a party at Chicago, the limits of whose operations were other than limits of the Constitution. The heart of the leaders of that party was hostile to the spirit of the Union. We were told by them that other good was to be sought—mere questions of morals rather than the perpetuation of the Union of these States, which was a secondary affair. The Democracy have the record that their sentiments were sound and true. Their warnings had been verified. They had no occasion for repentance. No—they have the satisfaction that thus far they have been in the right. The responsibility of the rebellion, he charged, rests upon the skirts of the Republican party. The South had, been kicked and denied their rights under the Constitution. President Lincoln stands before the country a rebel for having denied the Constitution. Sworn to support it, he publicly professes his power to set aside such portions of it as he may deem right. 
Alluding to the suspension of the right of habeas corpus, he said it had been almost without a parallel in the world for two hundred years. Faction had torn the Republic asunder until she stands ignominious and powerless before the world. At the close of Mr. Redfield's speech the Chair announced as the committee on resolutions Hiram Atkins, H. B. Smith, Geo. Washburn of Springfield, Geo. W. Aiken of Troy, and Col. Bishop of Richmond. 
The report of the Committee on Resolutions embraced a series of nine, of which the following are "specimen bricks” :— 
Resolved, That while we maintain that the Federal government has lawful jurisdiction by virtue of the Constitution, and that it is its bounden duty to maintain its supremacy and execute all laws of Congress constitutionally enacted, and overcome all impediments or resistance to the just exercise of such jurisdiction by all necessary military force, yet we protest against the usurpation and lawless despotism for vindictive party ends of this administration, for it subverts the Constitution and renders hopeless the restoration of the union. It has denied to Sovereign States all constitutional rights, and thereby absolved them from the duty of allegiance. It has trampled down the organic law of a nation, that it may install a military despotism upon the ruins of Constitutional liberty. It has waged a bloody war for the avowed purpose of extirpating eight millions of people from the home of their ancestors and blotting from the American constellalion one half of the States of the Union. It has sought to arouse and enlist the most wicked and malignant passions, reckless of all ends if it but subvert the existing Government and immolate American citizens. It has struck down the freedom of speech and of press. It has stripped from the American citizen his panoply and consigned him to the Bastile without process without charge and without the opportunity of trial. It has by military violence, suspended the ballot and dictated elections at the point of the bayonet. It has annulled every constitutional guaranty for the protection of the citizen. and subjected him to the impossible tyranny of military violence., 
 The resolutions were passed without a dissenting voice—several members taking occasion to express their individual approbation of the boldness of the committee is being so outspoken.
 At this point. Hon. Amasa J. Parker of Albany, N.Y., was introduced, and spoke for about an hour. The hall was well filled, and he was frequently applanded. 
 The first half of his speech was devoted to an investigation of the cost of the war and the extent of the national resources. Taking the present debt of the country at four thousand millions, he expressed a doubt if it could be paid. Apportioning it among the sates according to population, Vermont would have sixty-three millions of it to pay. Supposing we stop the war now, and attempt to pay the interest only, the proportion for Vermont would be sixty-eight hundred thousand yearly, and yet these are those, he said, who insist that it is a time of great prosperity. He believed that had the war been prosecuted simply to enforce the Constitution and the laws it would have been ended long ago, and magnified the reverses at Fort Pillow, Red river and elsewhere. Grant, he said, was not so near Richmond today as Gen. McClellan was at one time. Aside from this great draft of men and means, we at the north had been subjected to great wrong by <illegible> on the most frivolous pretences. This we must denounce everywhere. He cited individual cases of arbitrary arrest, and said that nothing but political hatred had originated them. Alluding to the issue between the government and the New York authorities, he said that the former had very discretely backed down. He rejoiced that the Cleveland convention had denounced these things, and said that the body of men would march side by side with the democrats through this campaign. There is no hope but in a change of Administration. He was for any man who could supplant Mr. Lincoln, and to accomplish this he relied upon the virtue of the people. With a change of Administration and a repeal of the illegal proclamations and declarations of amnesty the southern States would come back. 

<c02>
SELECTIONS.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN IN EUROPE
What a ruggedly honest and sternly uncompromising soul is that which animates, directs and governs the President of the great American Republic! How tenderly solicitous and sensitively careful it is, too, that, in all its agonizings and contendings in favor of freedom on the one hand, and against slavery on the other, it should nothing extenuate or set down aught in malice to injure a holy cause The path of President Lincoln, politically, has been—and we say it with a firm conviction of its truth, deny it whoso lists—a straight and a clear one to a righteous goal. Thick clouds and darkness were around him when he was called to power; the storm of civil rebellion was raging with intense fury; the vessel of State was in the hands of treacherous friends and open and avowed foes; breakers innumerable were ahead, threatening the direst danger, and leaving on many minds the impression that the destruction of the noble ship would soon become overwhelming and complete. In the midst of the commotion, and with full consciousness of the risks and difficulties of his position, he took the helm, subordinated mutinous crews to his command, lighted the vessel of much of the dead weights or slave burdens that were pressing her under water, led her gallantly through creeks and over bars of Southern stratagem and crime which would have appalled the bravest soul, and now has her, if still shorn of much of her rigging, still in danger of more or less injury by rebels at home and enemies abroad, in safe anchorage; a something which the friends of constitutional freedom can admire, and in honor of which the opponents of a God-and-man defying system of slavery can thank propitious Heaven, and clap their hands. The way in which President Lincoln has slowly, though surely, carried out his Emancipation policy does him infinite credit; all the more so that a pro-slavery press, here and elsewhere, who have about as much anxiety as to the removal of slavery abroad as they have as to the removal of another system of slavery at home, have done their utmost to misrepresent, villify and abuse him. He has held on the even tenor of his way, proclaiming freedom immediate and complete wherever the Constitution enabled him to exercise the power, and urging and sanctioning conditional arrangements wherever the same Constitution would not suffer him authoritatively to interfere; and now he has come out with another declaration, if possible more emphatic than anything previously issued, and certainly not less creditable to his far-seeing head than it is worthy of his big and trusty heart. The letter of the President appears in another column. It had its origin in peculiar circumstances. Gov. Bramlette had contemplated organized resistance to the enlistment of colored troops in Kentucky. He had gone to Washington, as he says himself, “to, obtain relief to the citizens of Kentucky against the; unauthorized and offensive interference of officers, soldiers, and recruiting brokers with the slaves in! Kentucky, and to have the enlistment and draft of slaves confined within the purview of the Act of Congress for enrollment and draft,”& c. He had returned, delighted with the result of his interview subjects that formed the objects of his mission: and he was able to announce, as “a source of gratification, that the President and Secretary of War manifested the most cordial readiness to bestow upon the people of Kentucky “every favor which, under the existing law, could reasonably be demanded,” and that they “expressed the most earnest sympathy for them, and a desire to avert, as far as may be the recurrence of those calamities to which, as a Border State, they have been subjected.” The deputation were delighted. The President, however, as they were retiring, “remarked that he was apprehensive; that Kentuckians felt unkind towards him, in consequence of not properly understanding the difficulties by which he was surrounded in his efforts to put down this rebellion, and that he would explain to the gentlemen some of those difficulties if they felt inclined to hear him.” The explanations were given; the President was requested to draw them up in writing; and the result is, the noble and ingenuous document now before our readers—a document, let us remark in passing, which has had the effect of securing the President the heartiest and most energetic support of all sections and classes of Kentuckians; and this is saying not a little, when the tenacity of this Border State to the old and immoral system of slavery is understood and known. Well, what does the President say? Why, in his very opening sentence he declares emphatically, “I am naturally Anti-Slavery. If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong. I cannot remember when I did not so think and feel.” These are the sentiments of a President whom certain British journalists, in their mad indifference to truth and justice, have misrepresented and belied on this whole subject of slavery; who have represented every act of emancipation as wrung out of him by military necessity; forgetting or disregarding the fact that, by his oath of office, whatever his own personal sentiments and feelings, be could not take a single step in a loyal State without the consent of that State first obtained, or in a disloyal one till public opinion was ripe enough to justify him in striking a blow. His own remarks on this subject are remarkably clear and explicit. He was bound by his oath to the best of his ability to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States,” and that oath, in its true spirit, he has respected, using every means necessary to preserve the Government—"the nation of which the Constitution is the organic law.” He declares, however, that he would, have considered himself false to his oath if, to save slavery and the constitutional guarantees of slavery, he had permitted “the wreck of Government, country, and Constitution altogether,” which would have been the result had the slaveholders been suffered to take and keep their own way. He goes on to inform us that, before touching slavery, he waited till the necessity grew imperative and unavoidable; that when that necessity arose, he did not hesitate to take advantage of it; and that the result of “more than, a year of trial now shows no loss by it, anyhow or anywhere; on the contrary, it shows a gain of quite 130,000 soldiers, seamen, and laborers.'' Brave Lincoln! No argument like this—the argument of facts hard, stubborn, gratifying, humanizing, soul-elevating facts—130,000 colored men set free, and at work, in the cause of freedom; not to speak of the hundreds of thousands of others who bless the day the Union flag floated over the fields wet with their sweat and blood, and the Union soldiers cleared the plantations, (Gen. Lee's among the rest,) on which they lived as beasts of burden, to be bought, sold and used as avarice prompted or caprice required Who will say that the President, looking as he must, with intense satisfaction on the first fruits of his Emancipation policy, is not entitled to exclaim:
 "Let any Union man who complains of the measure test himself by writing down, in one line, that he is in favor of subduing the rebellion by force of arms;

<c03>
and in the next, that he is in favor of taking these hundred and thirty thousand men from the Union side, and placing them where they would be but for the measure he condemns. If he cannot face his cause so Stated, it is only because he cannot face the truth.”
 There is no resisting this. It is an appeal which commends itself to universal intelligence and universal common sense. Then, how impressive the closing sentences!— 
"In telling this tale, I attempt no compliment to my own sagacity. I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me. Now, at the end of three years' struggle, the nation's condition is not what either party or any man devised or expected. God alone can claim it. Whither it is tending seems plain. If God now wills the removal of a great wrong, and wills also that we of the North, as well as you of the. South, shall pay fairly for our complicity in that wrong, impartial history will find therein new cause to attest and revere the justice and, goodness of God.”
We have faith in the Statesman, in the head of a nation, who thus candidly, honorably and piously acknowledges that the work done is more than he devised or was foreseen; that he has been controlled by events, these events coming out at times and ways not in his own hands or in his own power; that whatever of good has been elicited from the fiery struggle, “God alone can claim it;” and that whatever of evil has been or may still be associated with the eradication of a great wrong, that evil is due to the greater or lesser complicity of both parties in the crime. This is plain, honest, straightforward speaking—speaking worthy the ruler of a great people, and worthy of the high and holy enterprise on which that ruler is bound. Whatever the immediate result of the military struggle, however varied the successes or defeats of the contending armies, one thing to our mind is clear—a Government bent with its whole soul upon abolishing a foul and inhuman system of slavery will never, in the providence of God, be forced to succumb to, if it do not gloriously triumph over, another Government whose sole and only claim to recognition is, that it would bind more firmly the fetters of the slaved, and extend more rapidly the empire of rapine and fraud.—Edinburgh Mercury. 

LETTER FROM HON. SCHUYLER COLFAX. 
The following letter was sent by the Hon. Schuyler Colfax to the Congressional Convention of the IXth District of Indiana, held at Valparaiso on the 30th ult., which nominated Mr. Colfax for reelection by acclamation. 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
WASHINGTON, June 25, 1864. 
MY DEAR SIR: — The prolongation of the session till next, week prevents my attending the Congressional Convention at Valparaiso on the 30th, and mingling there with such true-hearted patriots as I know will be found assembled. My sphere of duty is here till Congress adjourns; and never having been absent from it a single day, it would not be right to leave it now for my own personal gratification. 
 Appealed to last February by the unanimous resolution of the delegates for the IXth District at the State Convention, to accept a re-nomination, my name is before your Convention; for cheerfully as I would have retired to make place for some other candidate, it seemed that, while our brave defenders in the field were standing at their posts so fearlessly, no one in civil life could rightfully desert his, if his constituents commanded otherwise. But it must be promptly withdrawn, if even in the opinion of a minority of the counties it would be wiser and stronger to present some new candidate. If the voice of the Convention, however, is clearly and unmistakably in favor of my re-nomination, and by such a decided preponderance as to leave no doubt as to the wishes of the. people, I shall accept its action, with an honorable pride at this renewed evidence of their continued confidence. 
 But, regarding a division of the Union forces at the ballot-box as akin in its results to a division or weakening of our forces at the front, I should feel guilty of a crime if the presentation of my name threatened the harmony or impaired the strength of the loyal cause I have striven here so faithfully to serve. I speak thus generally, because at this distance it is impossible to foreknow what will be the prevailing opinion when the delegates from the Lake to the Wabash shall commingle. Nor can I, of course, predict all the details of the platform. But I frankness compels me to tell you my views on the great questions of the day, unreservedly, in advance. 
 I justify the Administration in its denial to suspected traitors and their abettors of the writ of habeas corpus; for, as I read the Constitution, this was; the express intent of its framers, when, in time of insurrection, the public safety requires it. 
 I justify it, also, in what is denounced by its enemies as “arbitrary arrests "; and only regret that any thus arrested, against whom there seemed reasonable suspicion, like Marshal Kane and others, were discharged without trial. 
 I justify a Butler in daring to hang a traitor in New Orleans, and a Burnside in arresting an influential politician for publicly denying and spitting on a military order, deemed essential for the nation's cause. 
 I heartily approve the President's Emancipation Proclamation, and his solemn declaration that no slave of any State, whether on the border or farther South, who fights for his country, shall ever wear the chains of bondage. 
 I am for the most vigorous exertions to reinforce, our armies by the largest possible addition of colored troops; and only regret that the persistent opposition to them by the enemies of the Administration, their Congressmen and their presses, has retarded their organization; when, had they unitedly aided in the work and encouraged it, we might have had, ere now, 400,000 of such soldiers, instead of 100,000, and avoided all impending drafts. 
 I endorse most heartily the policy of confiscating the property of rebels voluntarily in arms against their country; and who, guiltier than the parricide, seek to involve country and citizen alike in a common destruction. 
 I am for striking at slavery, the cause of all our woes, and the progenitor of this gigantic rebellion, with every power under our control—the War Power of the army, the Naval Power of the navy, and the Proclamation Power of the President; and for its final and irrevocable extirpation from the land, by an amendment to the Constitution, which shall make that instrument, as well as the Republic itself, forever free; and thus, also, obey the Divine injunction, “to break every yoke and let the oppressed go free.”.
 I am against treason, whether it rears its hideous form in front of our patriotic and gallant armies, or under the roof of our capital; in the streets of New York, or within the borders of Indiana; and I am against any severance of the Union by the sword of rebellion, by a disgraceful compromise, or by a base surrender of the sacred cause in which so many martyrs for the right have so sadly and yet so bravely I fallen. 

<c04>
And, to sum up, I am for Abraham Lincoln—the pilot who shrank not in the darkest hour—and for Andrew Johnson—”faithful among the faithless found "—for the highest offices in the nation's gift, of which they are each so worthy.
Very truly yours, SCHUYLER COLFAX.
MARK L. MCCLELLAND, Valparaiso, Ind.

PRES. LINCOLN ADMINISTRATION. 
Extract from the valuable “History of the Administration of President Lincoln, including his Speeches, Letters, Addresses, Proclamations and Messages. By Henry J. Raymond.”
It formed no part of the object of this work to deal in eulogy or in criticism to President Lincoln and his administration. Its purpose will have been attained if it places his acts arid words in such a form that those who read them may judge for themselves of the merits and defects of the policy he has pursued. It has been his destiny to guide the nation through the stormiest period of its existence. No one, of his predecessors, not even Washington, encountered difficulties of equal magnitude, or was called to perform duties of equal responsibility. He was elected by a minority of the popular vote, and his election was regarded by a majority of the people as the immediate occasion, if not the cause, of civil war; yet upon him devolved the necessity of carrying on that war, and of combining and wielding the energies of the nation for its successful prosecution. The task, under all the circumstances of the case, was one of the most gigantic that ever fell to the lot of the head of any nation. 
From the outset, Mr. Lincoln's reliance was upon the spirit and patriotism of the people. He had no overweening estimate of his own sagacity; he was quite sensible of his lack of that practical knowledge of men and affairs which experience of both alone can give; but he had faith in the devotion of the people to the principles of Republican government, in their attachment to the Constitution and the Union, and in that intuitive sagacity of a great community which always transcends the most cunning devices of individual men, and, in a great and perilous crisis, more resembles inspiration than the mere deductions of the human intellect. At the very outset of his administration, President Lincoln cast himself without reserve and without fear upon this reliance. It has ever been urged against him as a reproach that he has not assumed to lead and control public sentiment, but has been content to be the exponent and the executor of its will. Possibly an opposite course might have succeeded, but possibly, also, it might have ended in disastrous and fatal failure. One thing is certain; the policy which he did pursue has not failed. The rebellion his not succeeded; the authority of the Government has not been overthrown; no new government, resting on slavery as it’s corner-stone, has yet been established upon this continent, nor has any foreign nation been provoked or permitted to throw its sword into the scale against us. A different policy might have done better, but it might also have done worse. A wise and intelligent people will hesitate long before they condemn an administration which has done well, on the mere hypothesis that another might have done, better. 
In one respect President Lincoln has achieved a wonderful success. He. has maintained, through the terrible trials of his administration, a reputation, with the great body of the people, for unsullied integrity, of purpose and of conduct, which even Washington did not surpass, and which no President since Washington has equalled. He has had command of an army greater than that of any living monarch; he has wielded authority less restricted than that conferred by any other constitutional government; he has disbursed sums of money equal to the exchequer of any nation in the world; yet no man, of any party, believes him in any instance to have aimed at his own aggrandizement, to have been actuated by personal ambition, or to have consulted any other interest than the welfare of his country, and the perpetuity of its Republican form of government. This of itself is a success which may well challenge universal admiration, for it is one which is the indispensable condition of all other forms of success. No man whose public integrity was open to suspicion, no matter what might have been his abilities or his experience, could possibly have retained enough of public confidence to carry the country through such a contest as that in which we are now involved. No President suspected of seeking his own aggrandizement at the expense of his country's liberties could ever have received such enormous grants of power as were essential to the. successful prosecution of this war. They were lavishly and eagerly conferred upon Mr. Lincoln, because it was known and felt everywhere that he would not abuse them. Faction has had in him no mark for its assaults. The weapons of party spirit have recoiled harmlessly from the shield of his unspotted character. 
It was this unanimous confidence in the disinterested purity of his character, and in the perfect integrity of his public purposes, far more than any commanding intellectual ability, that enabled Washington to hold the faith and confidence of the American people steadfast for seven years, while they waged the unequal war required to achieve their independence. And it certainly is something more than a casual coincidence that this same element, as rare in experience as it is transcendent in importance, should have characterized the President upon whom devolves the duty of carrying the country through this second and for more important and sanguinary struggle. 
No one can read Mr. Lincoln's State papers without perceiving in them a most remarkable faculty of "putting things “ so as to command the attention and assent of the common people. His style of thought as well as of expression is thoroughly in harmony with their habitual modes of thinking and of speaking. His intellect is keen, emphatically logical in its action, and capable of the closest and most subtle analysis; and be uses language for the sole purpose of stating, in the clearest and simplest possible form, the precise idea he wishes to convey. He has no pride of intellect—not the slightest desire for display—no thought or purpose but that of making everybody understand precisely what be believes and means to utter. And while this sacrifices the graces of style, it gains immeasurably in practical force and effect, It gives to his public papers a weight and influence with the mass of the people, which no public man of this country has ever before attained And this is heightened by the atmosphere of honor which seems to pervade his mind, and which is just as natural to it, and as attractive and softening a portion of it, as the smoky hues of Indian summer are of the charming season to which they belong. His nature is eminently genial, and he seems to be incapable of cherishing an envenomed resentment. And although he is easily touched by whatever is painful, the elasticity of his temper and his ready sense of the humorous break the force of anxieties and responsibilities under which a man of harder though perhaps a higher nature would sink and fail.

<c05>
One of the most perplexing questions with which Mr. Lincoln has had to deal in carrying on the war has been that of slavery. There are two classes of persons who cannot, even now, see that there was anything perplexing; about it, or that he ought to have had a moment's hesitation how to treat it. One is made up of those who regard the law of slavery as paramount to the Constitution, and the rights of slavery as the most sacred of all the rights which are guaranteed by that instrument; the other, of those who regard the abolition of slavery as the one thing to be secured, whatever else may be lost. The former denounce Mr. Lincoln for having interfered with slavery in any way, for any purpose, or at any time; the latter denounce him, with equal bitterness, for not having swept it out of existence the moment Fort Sumter was attacked. In this matter, as in all others, Mr. Lincoln has acted upon a fixed principle of his own, which be has applied to the practical conduct of affairs just as fast as the necessities of the case required and, as the public sentiment would sustain him in doing. His policy has been from the outset a tentative one—as, indeed, all policies of government to be successful must always be. On the outbreak of the rebellion, the first endeavor of the rebels was to secure the active cooperation of all the slaveholding States. Mr. Lincoln's first action, therefore, was to withhold as many of these States from joining the rebel Confederacy as possible. Every one can see now that this policy, denounced at the time by his more zealous anti-slavery supporters as temporizing and inadequate, prevented Kentucky, Teunessee, Maryland, Missouri, and part of Virginia, from throwing their weight into the rebel scale; and although it is very easy and very common to undervalue services to a cause after its triumph seems secure, there are few who will not concede that if these States had been driven or permitted to drift into the rebel Confederacy, a successful termination of the war would have been much farther off than it seems at present. Mr. Lincoln did everything in his power, consistent with fidelity to the Constitution, to retain the Border Slave States within the Union; and the degree of success which attended his efforts is the best proof of their substantial wisdom. 
His treatment of the slavery question has been marked by the same experimental policy. The various letters by which from time to time be has explained the principles on which he was acting, in any particular emergency, show very clearly that he has been far more anxious to take action which should be sanctioned and sustained by the country, and thus be permanently valuable, than to put forth any theory of his own, or carry into effect the dogmas and opinions of any party.
BURIED ALIVE.
A STORY OF FORT PILLOW.
My name is Daniel Taylor, and my skin is dark, as my mother's was before me. I have heard that my father had a white face, but I think his heart and life were blacker than my mother's skin. I was born a slave, and remained a slave until last April, when I found deliverance and shelter under the flag that my master was fighting to dishonor. 
I shall never forget the day when freedom came to me. I was working in the fields down in Alabama; my heart was full of bitterness and unutterable longings. I had dreamed two long years of escape from my bondage; the thought clung tome through the nights, and filled all the days with a wearied sort of nervous expectation. But my dreams had proved nothing more than dreams; the opportunity I yearned for did not come. But that day, working in the fields, suddenly along the dusty road there, flashed a long column of loyal cavalry, the old flag flying at its head. How many hearts leaped at the sight! How, like a revelation, came the thought: “This, Daniel Taylor, is your opportunity! “ Need I tell you how I acted upon that thought; bow, in one second of time, I leaped out of slavery into freedom, and from a slave became a man? Well, joining the flashing column, I rode with them for days, coming at last into Baton Rouge, and thence, having joined a regiment of my own people, came to Memphis. But there are not four hundred of us to-day, for three hundred and odd were murdered in cold blood only a week ago by Forrest's rough raiders. 
It was a day of horrors—that 12th of March. There were seven hundred of us in all in the fort— three hundred whites of the Thirteenth Tennessee Cavalry, and four hundred blacks, as I have said, all under command of brave Major Booth. The fort consisted simply of earth-works, on which we had mounted halt” a dozen guns. We knew that Forrest had pillaged the country all about us, and imagined that perhaps he would pay us a visit; but the thought did not alarm us, though we knew, those of us who were black, that we had little to expect at the hands of the rebels. At last, about sunrise on the morning of the 12th, Forrest, with some 6000 men, appeared, and at once commenced an attack. We met the assault bravely, and for two hours the fight went on briskly. Then a flag of truce came in from Forrest, asking an unconditional surrender, but Major Bradford—Major Booth having been wounded—declined to surrender unless the enemy would treat those of us who were black as prisoners of war, which, of course, they refused to do, and the fight went on. 
The enemy, in the next few hours, made several desperate charges, but were each time repulsed. At last, about four o'clock, they sent in another flag. We ceased firing out of respect to the flag; but Forrest's men bad no such notions of honor and good faith. The moment we stopped firing, they swarmed all about the fort, and while the flag was yet withdrawing, made a desperate charge on all sides. Up to that time, only about thirty of our men had been hurt. But in this charge the enemy got within the earthworks, and forthwith there ensued a scene which no pen can describe. Seeing that all was useless, most of us threw down our arms, expecting and many begging for quarter. But it was in vain. Murder was in every rebel heart; flamed in every rebel eye. Indiscriminate massacre followed instantly upon our surrender. Some of us, seeking shelter, ran to the river, and tried to conceal ourselves among the boshes, but for the most part in vain. The savages, par-suing, shot down the fugitives in their tracks. There was Manuel Nichols, as brave a soldier as ever carried a musket. He had been a free negro in Michigan, but volunteered a year ago to fight for the Union. He, with others, had sought shelter under the bank of the river, but a cold-blooded monster found him, and patting a pistol close to his head, fired, failing however to kill the brave fellow. He was then hacked on the arm, and only a day after died, delirious, in the hospital. Then there was Robert Hall, another colored soldier, who was lying sick in the hospital when the massacre commenced. The devils gashed his hand horribly with their sabres, and cat off part of his right hand, which be bad lifted in a mute appeal for merer. Then there was Harrison, of the Thirteenth Tennessee, who was shot
<c06>
four times after surrender. Before I was shot, running along the river bank, I counted fifty dead Union soldiers lying in their blood. One bad crawled into a hollow log, and was killed in it; another bad got ever the bank into the river, and on the board that ran out out into the water. He laid on it on his face, with his feet in the water, and when I saw him was already stark and stiff. Several had tried to hide in crevices made by the falling bank, and could not be seen without difficulty, but they were singled out and killed. One negro corporal, Jacob Wilson, who was down on the river bank, seeing that no quarter was shown, stepped into the water so that he lay partly under it. A rebel coming along asked him what was the matter: he said be was badly wounded, and the rebel, after taking from his pocket-book all the money he had, left him. It happened to be near a flat-boat tied to the bank. When all was quiet, Wilson crawled into it, and got three more wounded comrades also into it, and cut loose. The boat floated out into the channel, and was found ashore some miles below. There were, alas! few such fortunate escapes. 
I was shot near the river just about dark. Running for my life, a burly rebel struck me with his carbine, putting out one eye, and then shot me in two places. I thought he would certainly leave me with that, but I was mistaken- With half a dozen others, I was at once picked up and carried to a ditch, into which we were tossed like so many brutes, white and black together. Then they covered us with loose dirt, and left us to die. Oh, how dark and desolate it was! Under me were several dead, and right across my breast lay a white soldier, still alive! How he clutched and strained! How, hurt and weak as I was, with only one hand free, I struggled for air and life, feeling my strength waning every moment! It was a strange thing to lie there buried, and yet be able to think and pray. Maybe, friend, you have known what agony was, but you never had such pains of soul as I had down there in that living grave. I thought I could feel the worms gnawing at my flesh; I am sure I had a taste of what death is, with the added pain of knowing that I was not dead, and jet unable to live in that dark, dismal tomb. So I clutched and strained and struggled on, digging upwards as I could with one puny hand. At last—on joy! — a faint streak of light looked in; my hand bad carved an avenue to the world of life! But would I dare to lilt my bead? Might not some rebel, standing or, strike me down again on the moment? But I could not die there in that grave; I must escape. Slowly, painfully, I rolled the burden from my breast—he was dead by that time—and then carefully crept out from that living death. It was dark, and no one was near. A moment I stood up on my feet; then— 
The next thing I remember I was in the hospital where I am now. They had found me just where I fell, and brought me to a place of safety, where, alter a while, consciousness returned. I have been here a week now, and I think I shall get well 
I lie in the cot where poor Robert Hall lay, when he was butchered by the rebels. They showed me, yesterday, a letter he bad written the day before the massacre to his wife. He had learned to read and write at Memphis, after his enlistment; and used to send a message to his wife and children, who still remained there every week or so. This was his letter, which a surgeon had helped him put together:
"DEAR MAMMY "—it ran—”I am very sick here in the hospital, but am better than I was, and hope to get well soon. They have been very kind to me; and I find it sweet to suffer for the dear flag that gives me shelter. You most not worry on my account. Tell Katy she must not forget to say her prayers, and to study her lessons carefully now while she has an opportunity. And, mammy, take good care of the baby; I dreamed of her last night, and I think how sad it would be to die, and never see her little face again. But then Chaplain says it will all be right in heaven, and he knows better than we do And, mammy, don't forget we are now free; teach both the darlings to be worthy of their estate.
"This was poor Hall's letter—it had not been sent, had we have no heart to send it now. He will never see the baby's face here, but then God may let him see it up yonder! I hope to recover, and get away from here very soon. I want to be in my place again; for 1 have something to avenge now, and I cannot bear to wait. Poor Hall's blood is crying to me from the ground; and I want to be able, sometime, to say to Manuel Nichols's wife, up there in Michigan, that Mi fall has had a compensation. And may God speed the day when this whole slaveholders' rebellion—what remains of it—shall be “Buried Alive! 

REPEAL OF LAWS RECOGNIZING SLAVERY.
From the National Intelligencer, July 8.
While the bill making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government for the year ending the 30th of June, 1865, was under consideration in the Senate, Mr. Senator Sumner moved certain amendments to which we referred at the time, in our brief summary of Congressional proceedings, but which, for their interest and importance, are worthy of a more particular designation. 
On the 14th ult., while the bill was under discussion in the Senate, at in the Committee of the Whole, Mr. Sumner submitted the following amendment to come in as a new section:—”
And be it further emacted, That sections eight and nine of the act entitled ' An act to prohibit the importation of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States from and after the 1st day of January, in the year of our Lord 1808,' which said sections undertake to regulate the coastwise slave trade, are hereby repealed.
"The amendment was opposed by Mr. Sherman, (who had the civil appropriation bill in charge,) on the ground of its alleged irrelevancy. To this effect he said:— 
“I would not oppose the amendment of the Senator from Massachusetts on an ordinary bill. I have read the two sections referred to in this amendment, and I feel disposed to repeal them; but I ask the Senate if it is proper to encumber this bill with a matter that is in no way connected with the appropriations in the bill, which is in no way connected with any item contained in the bill, which has no pertinence to any existing appropriation—a matter simply of commercial regulation, regulating the coastwise slave-trade? “
Some dissent to the terms of Mr. Sumner's amendment was expressed by Mr. Johnson, of Maryland, on other grounds, when Mr. Hendricks, of Indiana, spoke as follows:—
“I am surprised that any Senator should oppose the proposition of the Senator from Massachusetts, for we all know that eventually it will be adopted. The objection as to its maternity or proper connection with this measure is but an objection of time. No gentle own can question that the Senator from Massacheusetts will eventually carry his proposition. Why, air, about two weeks ago this body, after full discussion, deliberately voted that the Constitution imposed a duty

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."

"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municpal instutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that States of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exits have the exclusive management of the subjects, not the only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and muncipal instutions swept by the board, and MARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory,"—J.Q. ADAMS.
 118
THE LIBERATOR.
JULY 22.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
upon Congress and the President of the United States; the present incumbent of the Presidential chair in his; inaugural address said that that rested as an oath upon the conscience of every Senator to see that there was an efficient and adequate law for the return of fugitive slaves and yet under some process, not the force of argument, but through some influence that the uninitiated cannot understand, after the Senate had rejected the proposition in its original form, it was carried through yesterday by a large vote. Why then contest the matter longer? Let the Senator bring his propositions. The Senator from Ohio (Mr. Sherman) made, an effort so stay the progress at one point upon the Constitution, and did for a while save the act of 1793, and the signature of George Washington; but the Senator from Ohio finally failed yesterday, and it all went by the board. He may for this hour and in this debate, upon a technical point, prevent the adoption of the measure of the Senator from Massachusetts upon this bill, but that it will come in this body, I have no doubt. It may as well come now as at any time"
 On the following day, the 26tb of June, the bill still being under discussion in the Committee of the Whole, a vote was had on Mr. Sumner's amendment, and it was rejected by the following vote. (The amendment, we should add, had in the meantime been perfected by its author so as to provide not only for the repeal of the sections designated in the act regulating the coastwise slave trade, but to prohibit that trade forever):— 
YEAS—Messrs. Conness, Grimes, Harlan, Howard, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Merrill, Pomeroy, Ramsay, Sprague, Sumner, Wade, and Wilson—13.
NAYS-Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Clark, Collamer, Cowan, Davis, Harris, Hendricks, Hicks, Howe, Johnson, McDougall, Nesmith, Powell, Richardson, Riddle, Saulsbury, Sherman, Trumbull, and VanWinkle—20.
ABSENT—Messrs Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Dixon, Doolittle, Fessenden, Foot, Foster. Hale. Harding Henderson, Lane of Indiana, Ten Eyck, Wilkinson, Willey, and Wright—16. 
So the amendment was rejected in Committee of the Whole. But, nothing baffled by such a result, Mr. Sumner again offered' the same amendment on the same day when the bill was before the Senate pending its final passage. On renewing the proposition be said:— 
"I have but one observation to make. It seems to me this Congress will do wrong to itself, wrong to the country, wrong to history, wrong to our national cause if it separates without cleaning the statute-book of every support of slavery. Now, this is the last support that there is in the statute-book, and I entreat the Senate to remove it."
The question being taken by yeas and nays, resulted at follows:— 
YEAS—Messrs Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Conness, Dixon, Doolittle, Fessenden, Foot. Harlan. Harris, Howard, Howe, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Morrill, Pomeroy, Sprague, Sumner, Ten Eyck, Wade, Wilkinson, and Wilson—23. 
NAYS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Clark, Hendricks, Hicks, Johnson, Lane of Indiana, Nesmith, Powell, Richardson, Saulsbury, Sherman, Trumbull, Van Winkle, and Willey—14.
ABSENT—Messrs. Collamer, Cowan, Davis, Foster, Grimes, Hale, Harding, Henderson, McDougall, Ramsay, Riddle, and Wright—12.
So the amendment was agreed to, and remained in the bill as finally passed by both Houses of Congress, and approved by the President.
It will be seen that Mr. Sumner, at this point of the discussion, referred to this regulation of the coastwise slave trade as "the last support of slavery" on the statute-book of the nation. He used this language because on the same day, in an earlier stage of the discussion, he had procured the adoption of an amendment providing that in the courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion of any witness on account of color. 
The third section of the civil appropriation bill appropriated $100,000 in order to aid the administration of justice, especially in order to bring to conviction persons engaged in counterfeiting Treasury notes, bonds, or other securities of the United States, as well as the coin of the United States. In order to accomplish that result, something more than an appropriation of money was deemed by Mr. Sumner to be needed, to wit, an amendment of the law of evidence. Accordingly be offered the following amendment by way of proviso to the third section:
"Provided, That in the courts of the United States there snail be no exclusion of any witness on account of color." 
On motion of Mr. Buckalew, of Pennsylvania, the amendment was amended so as to provide that there should be in the same courts no exclusion of any witness "in civil actions, because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried." And the question being taken on the amendment as thus amended, it was decided in the affirmative by the following vote:—
YEAS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Collamer, Conness, Foot, Foster, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, Howard, Howe, Lane of Kansas, Morgan. Morrill, Pomeroy. Sprague, Sumner, Wade, Wilkinson, and Wilson—22. 
NAYS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Harris, Hendricks, Hicks, Johnson, Nesmith, Powell, Richardson, Saulsbury, Sherman, Trumbull, Van Winkle, and Willey—16. 
ABSENT—Messrs. Dixon, Doolittle, Fessenden, Harding, Henderson, Lane of Indiana, McDougall, Ramsey, Riddell, Ten Eyck, and Wright—11.
So the amendment was agreed to in Committee of the Whole, and when it came up for final action by the Senate, was re-affirmed as follows:—
YEAS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Conness, Dixon, Doolittle, Fessenden, Foot, Foster, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, Harris, Howard, Howe, Lane of Indiana, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Morrill. Pomeroy, Ramsey, Sherman, Sprague, Sumner, Ten Eyck, Wade, Wilkinson, and Wilson—29.
NAYS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Hendricks, Hicks, Nesmith, Powell, Saulsbury, Trumbull, Van Winkle, and Willey—10.
ABSENT—Messrs. Collamer, Cowan, Davis, Harding, Henderson, Johnson, McDougall, Richardson, Riddle, and Wright—10.
This provision is, therefore, now the law of the land. 
The success of Mr. Senator Sumner in procuring on a previous day of the session just closed, against all opposition and dilatory motions, the passage of "An act to repeal the Fugitive Shave Act of 1850, and all acts and parts of acts for the rendition of fugitive slaves," was a still higher tribute to his acknowledged leadership in the body of which he is a member. When this measure was first introduced by him in the Senate, it was, after much discussion, passed in a shape which still retained the provisions of the law of 1793 under this bead, as approved by President Washington. Many Republican Senators expressly stated in open Senate that, under a sense of what was due to the oath they had taken to support the Constitution of the United States, they could not vote to repeal all acts for the rendition of fugitive slaves. This view was elaborately urged and eloquently enforced by Mr. Senator Foster, of Connecticut, in a speech which we have printed at length. And this view prevailed in the Senate on the 19th of April last, when Mr. Sherman, of Ohio, offered the following amendment to the bill as originally introduced by Mr. Sumner, to repeal all acts for the reclamation of fugitive slaves:—
"Except the act approved February 2, 1793, entitled 'An act respecting fugitives from justice and persons escaping from the service of their masters.”
The question on the amendment being taken by yeas and nays, resulted as follows:—
YEAS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Collamer, Cowan, Davis, Dixon, Doolittle, Foster, Harris, Henderson, Hendricks, Howe, Johnson, Lane of Indiana, McDougall, Nesmith, Powell, Riddle, Saulsbury, Sherman, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Van Winkle, and Willey—24. 
NAYS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Clark, Conness, Fessenden, Grimes, Hale, Howard, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Morrill, Pomeroy, Ramsey, Sprague, Sumner, Wilkinson, and Wilson—17.
So the amendment was agreed to.
Some weeks later, the House of Representatives passed a bill for the repeal of all these statutes in the same terms as that originally introduced by Mr. Sumner in the Senate, and this bill having been sent to the Utter body was on the 21st ult. called up for consideration by Mr. Sumner. 
Mr. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, moved to postpone it for the purpose by taking up the bill providing for a repeal of the commutation clause in the enrolment act. Thereupon Mr. Sumner spoke as follows:
"The speech of the Senator belongs to the class of what may be called dilatory motions, or a speech to sustain a dilatory motion. He announces to us that there is to be an opposition to this bill, and mentions several Senators who menace speeches. If those speeches are to cone, I say let as hear them and be done with them, because that bill from the House must be passed by Congress during this session. The Senator wishes to have it postponed; he wishes to set aside what the House has done; and he thinks that

<C02>
those who press the bill which now has the sanction of the House want practical sense. Sir, permit me to say to that Senator it is himself who wants practical sense. He fails to see the requirements of his country at this hour; he fails to see what is due to the civilization of the age; and in that respect he shows a want of practical sense in the highest degree. I do not wish to say anything personal to that Senator, but when he makes the suggestion that any one on this floor wants practical sense, I throw it back upon him; especially when he stands up here to arrest a bill, that has already passed the House of Representatives to sweep from the statute-book of the land a system of legislation which at this moment is an infamy. If there is anything which now brings upon our cause in foreign lands discredit, and makes it a burden to our friends, it is this very act which at this moment receives indirectly the support of the Senator from Wiscousin; and yet be rises here to taunt us or the want of practical sense. Sir, when he seeks to uphold even indirectly this act, he wants practical patriotism as well at practical sense."
On the 23d of June, Mr. Sumner succeeded in bringing the Senate to a vote on the bill. Immediately previous to the final vote, Mr. Johnson, of Maryland, moved to exempt from the scope of the bill the act of 1793, thus calling on the Senate to adhere to the stand it had solemnly taken on the 19th of April. But his amendment to this effect was now rejected by the following vote:—
YEAS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Harris, Hicks, Johnson, Lane of Indiana, McDougall, Powell, Richardson, Riddle, Saulsbury, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Van Winkle, and Willey—17.
NAYS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Conness, Dixon, Fessenden, Foot, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, Howard, Howe, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Morrill, Pomeroy, Ramsey, Sprague, Sumner, Wade, and Wilson—22. 
ABSENT—Messrs. Collamer, Doolittle, Foster, Harding, Henderson, Hendricks, Nesmith, Sherman, Wilkinson, and Wright—10.
The difference of this result, as compared with that reached on the same proposition on the 19th of April, arose from the fact that among those who at the former date had voted to retain the Fugitive Slave Law of 1793, Messrs. Dixon and Howe changed their votes, while Messrs. Collamer, Doolittle, Foster, Hendricks, Henderson, Nesmith, and Sherman were absent, or did not vote on the latter occasion. 
The question then being taken on the final passage of the bill, it was decided in the affirmative by the following vote:
YEAS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Conness, Dixon, Fessenden, Foot, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, Harris, Hicks, Howard, Howe, Lane of Indiana, Lane of Kansas, Morgan, Morrill, Pomeroy, Ramsay, Sprague, Sumner, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Wade, and Wilson—27. 
NATS—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Johnson, McDougall, Powell, Richardson, Riddle, Saulsbury, Van Winkle, and Willey—12. 
ABSENT—Messrs. Collamer, Doolittle, Foster, Harding, Hendricks, Nesmith, Sherman, Wilkinson, and Wright—10.
So the bill was passed as it came from the House of Representatives, and in the same terms as Mr. Sumner had conceived his original bill on the subject. We have referred to these acts of legislation and to the leading part which Senator Sumner had in their enactment, because their passage serves to mark a new epoch in our parliamentary history. It is no reflection on the talents or influence of any other member of the Senate to say that these measures could not have been passed under the direction of any Senator less tenacious in his convictions of public duty, or less capable of enforcing them by argument, than the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. His political friends in many instances would have willingly evaded or postponed them, but we see in what he was able to accomplish in the face of this obvious reluctance, only a new illustration of the supremacy fairly achieved by those who wish strongly where they wish at all. Mr. Sumner is an earnest anti-slavery man, and if there were those among his political friends who at first sought, for one reason or another, to escape, some of the conclusions to which he challenged their adhesion, he finally succeeded in vindicating for his measures either the active support or passive acquiescence of the recalcitrants in his party, with the single exception, we believe, of Mr. Cowan, of Pennsylvania.

THE LIBERATOR
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 22, 1864. 
LETTER TO PROFESSOR NEWMAN. No. II.
DEAR SIR:—Not to make my letter to you, in the Liberator of last week, too long for convenient perusal, it was somewhat abruptly closed. I desire to look fairly in the face the grievances you specify; though having demonstrated that the most cheering and important anti-slavery measures,—virtually including the total abolition of slavery, and absolutely relieving the government of its old complicity with that foul system of wrong,—have been instituted by President Lincoln and his administration in the prosecution of the war, any minor grievances might be left unnoticed as not affecting the general question at issue.
"The greater includes the less." The abolition of slavery is first in order, and of paramount importance, before we begin to determine, the exact political status of those set free. The elective franchise is a conventional, not a natural right; yet, the more it is enjoyed in any community, as a general statement, the better for public safety and administrative justice. It is the boast of England, that no slave can touch her soil without sundering his fetters; yet suffrage is far from being universal among you, for thousands of your laboring poor are deprived of its possession. Nevertheless, you are none the less proud to declare that
"Slaves cannot breathe in England; if their lungs 
Inhale our air, that moment they are free; 
They touch our country, and their shackles fall."
How is it, then, that—overlooking the great fact, that slavery has been abolished throughout Louisiana —you seek to cast odium upon President Lincoln for not giving the right to vote to the colored population of that State, in the reconstruction of its State government? By what political precedent or administrative policy, in any country, could he have been justified if he had attempted to do this? When was it ever known that liberation from bondage was accompanied by a recognition of political equality? Chattels personal may be instantly translated from the auction-block into freemen; but when were they ever taken at the same time to the ballot-box, and invested with all political rights and immunities? According to the laws of development and progress, it is not practicable. To denounce or complain of President Lincoln for not disregarding public sentiment, and not flying in the face of these laws, is hardly just. Besides, I doubt whether he has the constitutional right to decide this matter. Ever since this government was organized, the right of suffrage has been determined by each State in the Union for itself, so that there is no uniformity in regard to it. In some free States, colored citizens are allowed to vote; in others they are not. It is always a State, never a national matter. In honestly seeking to preserve the Union it is not for President Lincoln to seek, by a special edict applied to a particular State or locality, to do violence to a universal rule, accepted and acted upon from the beginning till now by the States in their individual sovereignty. Under the war power, he had the constitutional right to emancipate the slaves in every rebel State, and also to insist that, in any plan of reconstruction that might be agreed upon, slavery should be admitted to be dead, beyond power of resurrection. That being accomplished, I question whether he could safely or advantageously—to say the least—enforce a rule, ab initio, touching the ballot, which abolishes complexional distinctions; any more than he could safely or advantageously decree that all women (whose title is equally good) should enjoy the electoral right, and help form the State. Nor, if the freed blacks were admitted to the polls by Presidential fiat, do I see any permanent advantage likely to be secured by it; for, submitted to as a necessity at the outset, as soon as the State was organized and left to manage its own affairs, the white population, with

<C03>
their superior intelligence, wealth and power, would unquestionably alter the franchise in accordance with their prejudices, and exclude those thus summarily brought to the polls. Coercion would gain nothing, In other words,—as in your own country,—universal suffrage will be hard to win and to hold, without a general preparation of feeling and sentiment But it will come, both at the South and with you; yet only by a struggle on the part of the disfranchised, and a growing conviction of its justice, "in the good time coming." With the abolition of slavery in the South, prejudice or "colorphobia," the natural product of the system, will gradually disappear—as in the case of your West India colonies—and black men will win their way to wealth, distinction, eminence, and official station. I ask only a charitable judgment for President Lincoln respecting this matter, whether in Louisiana or any other State. 
Referring to the President, you say:—
"His Proclamation has done immense good; nor will I yield to you in extolling many of his acts. Yet if we had understood the quality of his logic, his exclusion of morality from Presidential duties, and his wonderful disowning of all duty towards colored men not prescribed in the codes of slaveholders, it would have been impossible to excite enthusiasm for him in an English audience.
Is there not some confusion of mind here? Is the Proclamation destitute of morality? Or do you find it "prescribed in the codes of slaveholders"? And so of the "many other acts" which you are disposed to extol. You do injustice to Mr. Lincoln, and subject him to an unfair impeachment. Be assured, he has tried, to the best of his judgment, faithfully to discharge his constitutional duties, as under solemn oath to God and the people. Granted that he has been sometimes lacking in energy of will, clearness of vision, and power of inspiration: who is complete in all things, and never found wanting? The main thing is, is he honestly and sincerely endeavoring to save the republic, according to the measure of his constitutional power; and has he not done a mighty work for liberty and humanity—unparalleled in any age or nation—since he became President? Because he is guided by what is prescribed in the Constitution, as he understands it, is he to be accused of confessed immorality on his part? Can he act otherwise without being guilty of perfidy? Is it creditable in England for a man to take office, and then do as he pleases, without regard to the conditions imposed upon him?
Again you say—"Mr. Lincoln puts a Southern construction upon the Constitution." Herein you are greatly mistaken, and do him fresh injustice—unintentionally, of course. The only construction Mr. Lincoln puts upon the Constitution is an American one—the same as was put upon it by Washington, Adams, and Jefferson, and the people have always sanctioned.
Again you err in saying— “In old days, the iniquity [slavery] was maintained in Tennessee by local wickedness only. Mr. Lincoln has insisted on upholding it there by Federal guilt." Now, the fact is, before the rebellion, the whole power of the country was constitutionally pledged to maintain slavery in Tennessee, and in every other slave State, if needed, as against a slave insurrection or an exodus of the oppressed. At the present time, in that State, it is a rope of sand, and has only a nominal existence. As elsewhere, its doom is sealed. Here and there, "Northern soldiers" may have been "the vile instruments of the slaveholder," but the cases have been few and far between, incidental and transient, arising more from personal prejudice against the blacks than from official command, and are not likely to be repeated.
Once more you say:—
"Until recently, I have looked on your war with serene satisfaction as a sublime sacrifice for a magnificent future, glorious to you, beneficent to our millions. I have indulged in glowing anticipations, in which I seemed to friends but a wild dreamer. Since I have learned that your President has sanctioned Gen. Banks's ordinances, I begin to fear that I have indeed been a dreamer, and that your enemies here are substantially correct."
Your charge is somewhat indefinite in regard to "General Banks's ordinances." One of them is the establishment of common schools—that system which has made New England so prosperous, intelligent and powerful—for the entire colored population under his rule. Surely, you do not mean to condemn that ordinance, or to impeach the President for its enforcement! Please put this great saving measure down to the credit both of Mr. Lincoln and Gen. Banks. It is a tall plume in their caps! Another ordinance is, the total abolition of slavery by Gen. Banks throughout his department, where it was expressly exempted by the President's Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863—thus making it complete throughout the State. Of course, this was done with the sanction of the President, and is an additional plume for himself and the President, of the tallest kind!
Finally, you say:—
"If it can be said, ‘Garrison does not reprove General Banks's measures,' it will be inferred that they do full justice to the colored race. A great responsibility now rests on you to use your power aright.”
Such noble measures as I have referred to deserve no reproof, but rather the warmest commendation. Any measure which is ill-judged and unjust,—such as the ordinance for the cultivation of the plantations,— I denounce and condemn. But, at the worst, it is only a temporary shift—for a single year, rapidly expiring —to adjust matters in the midst of a disorganized state of society, where the masters no longer have power to enforce their authority, and where the unemployed and uncoerced are liable to be a burden to the government, or to become vagabonds. It was made needlessly stringent, and is very objectionable in some of its features. It will, however, unquestionably end by its own limitation. Hereafter, its operations will be better known and understood. Gen. Banks has yet to be heard in vindication, or at least explanation of his course in this particular. His two other grand ordinances, already alluded to, will cover a multitude of blunders and mistakes.
As a proof that the colored population within the loyal portion of Louisiana under Gen. Banks's administration regard their altered condition as one calling for enthusiastic public demonstrations, I ask you to read—as I have with pleasure and wonder—the following extracts from a letter which I find in the Philadelphia Christian Recorder, (colored,) from JAMES F. JONES, Ward Master in Hospital of the 8th U. S. H. A., and dated "Camp Parapet, New Orleans, June 19, 1864”:—
"Wonderful indeed has been the mighty change in public opinion. Stranger still the change that the feelings and sentiments of the people of the South are daily undergoing in reference to slavery and the colored race. Strange and unlooked-for changes in this direction are daily taking place. Stranger, too, when clothed in the garb of justice and humanity to the colored man, the chief operators in which are Southern slaveholders, in an extreme Southern State. My astonishment is still increased when I behold a State Constitutional Convention, composed of slaveholders, sitting in the slaveholding city of New Orleans, adopting a clause to their Constitution which at once and forever abolishes slavery and involuntary servitude, except it be for crime, within the State of Louisiana—and that, too, without the great and selfish hobby of compensation to owners. This is a triumph indeed, and shows conclusively that Northern arms, under the guidance of the Almighty, have accomplished more than speeches of Northern men in Congress could accomplish. Not only this, but it proves further to me that the Lord has declared, for the last time, that the stain of human slavery must and shall be wiped out. He has made frequent calls to them through the pulpit, the press, and from the halls of Congress. All these they have allowed to pass unheeded, and now they must bow and submit to His holy will; and they themselves are the first instruments in his hands to do what they defied the nations of the earth to do, viz: abolish slavery, and declare the slave a man.
Saturday, the 11th, was a day long to be remembered by both white and colored people in the city of New Orleans. This day was set apart by our people, for the purpose of giving expression to their feelings and sentiments in reference to the passage of the Emancipation Act. To properly celebrate this great event was a matter of no little interest to them; and, fraught as it was with unknown effects upon the freed men, and placing upon them new and important re-

<C04>
sponsibilities and obligations, it became a matter of double interest to all concerned. Fortunately for themselves and their race, they acquitted themselves honorably. The day was such a one as is only to be seen and enjoyed in the "Sunny South" At an early hour, the people began to pour into the city from the country and surrounding villages. Men, women and children, young and old, those that had ever been free, and those that had just realized the pleasing sensation caused by the falling off of their chains, all were there- For the time being, the plantation, the farm, the workshops, hotels, and all places of labor and amusement, were deserted and forgotten. The people were out to celebrate what to them was a great epoch in the history of their race.
They came by hundreds and thousands; they came with bands playing and banners flying; they came vieing with each other as to who should appear best, and show the highest appreciation for the cause that brought them together. They came in their strength, and as they came their cry was,
"Slavery's Chain is Broken!"
At ten oclock, A. M., the procession was formed at the Second Baptist Church, which was the place of general rendezvous. From thence they passed through some of the principal. streets, to Congo Square, the place where the meeting was held.
I cannot be precise in giving your readers the names of the different societies, or their order in the procession. Suffice it to say that religious congregations, Sabbath and day schools, benevolent Societies, Temperance Societies, political and social Clubs, Mechanics' Associations, farmers, and last, though not least, laborers, all had a place in that mighty procession, which, as it passed along, headed by the Fourth Louisiana (colored) Cavalry, made even the good men that voted them free almost shudder when they beheld the power and numbers that by their individual and collective aid had been, as it were, brought to life.
The procession arriving at Congo Square, the different delegations were disposed according to programme. The exercises were opened with prayer by the Rev. Mr. Forrest, after which the Rev. Mr. Rodgers, D. D., orator of the day, delivered an address replete with historical facts, and plainly showing that the Almighty has called us as a people from under the hand of the hard taskmaster.
It was a masterly effort indeed, and bore on its face the fact that the colored man has a mind, and is capable of thinking and reasoning. The Doctor's address went very far towards convincing the slaveholders that, now that they had opened the door of education to the colored man, they must guard the path to intellectual improvement with a jealous eye, or else they will find a stern and powerful competitor in that same black man, in an intellectual point of view. 
The celebration was a complete success. It did honor to all engaged in its arrangement; and our Northern brethren have little to boast of when we contract behavior and general deportment.”
"My dear sir, I beg you to take a telescopic rather than a microscopic view of our affairs; and, instead of dwelling upon and magnifying to huge dimensions those incidental errors and outrages which are inevitable in the midst of such an awful civil war, and which are sure to be corrected, fix your gaze upon those sublime and glorious acts of President Lincoln's administration, whereby slavery has received its death-warrant, and the haughty Slave Power been laid low in the dust, and still feel justified in looking on this struggle "with serene satisfaction as a sublime sacrifice for a magnificent future."
Accepting your letter as a proof of your personal friendship, and as elicited by a very commendable zeal for the cause of justice and humanity, I remain,
Yours, with a heart full of thanksgiving and joy, and with high regards,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
Prof. FRANCIS W. NEWMAN.

"MINISTERS, AS A CLASS.”
"DEAR MR. GARRISON—Your correspondent, B. S., in the last Liberator, refers to the assertion, reported recently to have been made at a Unitarian gathering in Meadville, Pa., that " during the last thirty years, the ministers, as a class, foresaw the consequences of our dalliance with the great national sin, and with prophetic foresight announced the solemn doom which awaited this trampling down of the indestructible rights of man"—and asks, in astonishment, "What does Mr. Stebbins mean? "
If B. S. thinks this an unusual instance of hardihood in assertion, he cannot have been very familiar with the anniversary speeches of clergymen, especially within the last half-dozen years. Nothing is more common than for them to make claims as preposterous as this in behalf of their order. What they "mean" is to uphold the credit of that order. And they seem not in the least to hesitate about making false claims, when these will best serve their immediate purpose.
Perhaps, as is common enough with the Unitarian clergy, Mr. Stebbins was thinking of his own little sect when he made the declaration above quoted. Even in regard to them, however, it is utterly untrue. During the first half of "the last thirty years" thus boasted of, Follen, the two Mays and Pierpont had hardly a baker's dozen of clerical associates, in their denunciation of slavery. The first named of these noble men lost his position in Harvard University, the headquarters of Unitarianism, in consequence of his abolitionism; and when he died, the same fact sufficed to shut the doors of Dr. Channing's church against his funeral discourse. The successor of Dr. Channing—a man still highly esteemed as a worthy representative of the sect—made this open declaration: "The mission of Unitarianism to slavery is silence." And the majority of the sect have imitated him, from that time to the opening of the rebellion, in keeping silence respecting it
In regard to the denominations called Orthodox, forming an immense majority of all the Protestants in the country, the assertion above named is flagrantly false. They have been the efficient supporters of slavery, both ministers and people. Many of their clergy have been its open advocates, and most of them favored its continuance by steady opposition to the movement against it. Decided and active testimony of "ministers, as a class," against slavery (such as is fabled in the above extract,) would have destroyed that institution within five years, instead of allowing its increase through thirty.—c. K. W.
HARPER'S MAGAZINE, for July, has been received from A. Williams & Co.—Contents:—A Club-Man in Africa, with numerous illustrations; Theodosia Burr —portraits in 1796, 1797, and 1802; Missing; The Military Hospitals at Fortress Monroe, with illustrations; The Bend; The Sisters; The Shakspeare Tencentenary; The Unkind Word; Woman on the Farm; Denis Duval; On the Right Footing; Broken Images; Treatment of the apparently Drowned, with four illustrations; Our Mutual Friend; Prices and Investments; Monthly Record of Current Events; Literary Notices; Editor's Easy Chair; Editor's Drawer; Fashions for August.

SOLDIERS RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
FREEDMEN'S HOSPITAL.
WASHINGTON, D. C, July 14, 1864.
MR. EDITOR—I take great pleasure in announcing to the public, through your valuable periodical, the good work which is now going on in this city by the "Soldiers' Relief Association," their object being to promote aid and comfort to the sick and wounded colored soldiers.
I highly appreciate their work of benevolence, and hope that they may continue in that labor which has thus far given every satisfaction and promise of success. May others follow their noble example, "Go and do likewise" In behalf of the colored soldiers under my charge, I thank the officers and members of the Association for their kindness and attentive duties to the sick and wounded
Among the most active co-workers may be mentioned Mrs. Emily Williams and John A. Grimes, Esq. These have done nobly their duty, and they deserve the highest credit for their attention and their liberal donations to our wounded colored soldiers, who fought nobly and manfully in the cause of LIBERTY, JUSTICE and EQUALITY. May the day soon come when these truths shall be appreciated, and enjoyed by every colored man, woman and child, throughout the American Continent!
Respectfully,
WM. P POWELL, JR., M. D., U. S. A.
Member of the Royal College of Surgeons, London

<C05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. XII.
NEW YORK, July 14, 1864. 
To the Editor of The Liberator:
Amid the exciting rumors and general ignorance concerning the rebel invasion, I am easy in the faith that our Government is strong enough to defend its Capital. I leave, therefore, the marauding host to assist in the complete disruption of slavery in Maryland, and review, as is my wont, the civil events of the past fortnight.
Mr. Fessenden's succession to Mr. Chase has encountered an approval so universal that the change of Secretaries requires, perhaps, no comment, other than that we are in danger of forgetting how much we owe to the departing financier in our contentment with the new. It will be long, however, before green-backs (with or without his effigy) will cease to remind us that the cause of liberty and union owes its successful maintenance in an incalculable measure to he integrity, the sagacity and the skilful management of the Ohio statesman. The anti-slavery purpose which he carries out of the Cabinet is preserved in the fresh incumbent, but Mr. Chase's record in favor of the Gladstone "manhood suffrage" is much in advance of Mr. Fessenden's. Looking at aims—the extinction of slavery—the balance of the Administration remains the same; regarding means—the enfranchisement of the blacks—the scale of justice flies nearer the beam. 
As usual, much was accomplished by Congress at the close of its session. Most, if not all of those anti- slavery measures which I touched on in my last, were enacted, and received the sanction of the President, I was mistaken, however, in my remark that Congress could always obtain his autograph. Perhaps the most important bill of the entire session, (I mean the Winter Davis, or, quite as properly, the Wade reconstruction bill.) was left unsigned. But Mr. Lincoln, with that frankness of address to the people which has ever characterized him, to his infinite honor, exhibited in a proclamation his unwillingness to be suspected of having shirked the issue, and made known his reasons for withholding his assent to the plan proposed. These were simply two doubts—as to the propriety of imposing one method of reconstruction upon every State, especially since governments had been already erected in Arkansas and Louisiana on a different basis; and as to the "Constitutional competency of Congress to abolish slavery in States," though his hopes and expectations were of an amendment effecting universal emancipation. At the same time, he had no fault to find with the scheme itself, and would further it in any State which should adopt it. I am aware that this refusal will be charged among the shortcomings of the President by legislators and citizens numerous enough; and I so far agree with them as to think one plan of reconstruction better than many, just as I would not have it left to the States to determine what is (in its fundamentals) that Republican Form of Government which the nation is bound to guarantee to all its members. Nor can I discern why Congress may not abolish slavery in the disaffected States, either originally, under the war power which it possesses in common with the President, or by confirmation of his previous action, as in the present instance. Still, to state the case in all fairness for Mr. Lincoln, it ought to be observed, first, that his urgent expressions of a desire to have slavery everywhere abolished by an amendment of the Constitution are a proof of the sincerity of his scruples, which are to that extent to be respected; second, that the rejected bill enforced the odious and unjust discrimination of color among the voters qualified to assist in the regeneration of a State—disfranchising voluntary rebels-in arms, but, not less, voluntary black unionists-in arms; third, that Mr. Lincoln allows free choice to any State so inclined, to use the disenthralled element in its new edifice; and lastly, that there are good grounds for believing he would uphold this course wherever adopted. Be the President, however, justified as he may, the issue of the next election is not altered in the slightest; for then it will be asked not for whom do you vote, or are your sympathies extended, but for what? And according as you wish slavery to live or to perish everlastingly, you will deposit your ballot or offer a prayer for the defeat or the re-re-election of Abraham Lincoln—first of American Presidential candidates to take the field with Immediate, Universal Emancipation for his Hoc signo vinces!
I shall make no apology for embodying in this letter the following extract from the opinion of the Attorney General of Louisiana, concerning the legal status of the colored people of that State. After reciting, as the causes productive of the present condition of civil society, the President's Proclamation of Jan. 1, 1863, which exempted thirteen parishes; Gen. Banks's proclamation of Jan. 11,1864, "not disapproved, and perhaps suggested by the President," which removed the exemption; and the reorganization of the present State government on the old model, save the respects in which slavery entered it; Mr. Lynch concludes:
"I am therefore of opinion that all negroes and persons of color in the State of Louisiana are free de jure; that all negroes and colored persons in Louisiana, within the Federal lines, are free de jure et de facto. I think they have a legal right to testify as witnesses in courts of justice, for and against white persons, as well as each other; that they may sue and be sued in all cases; that they are entitled to trial by jury, to the writ of habeas corpus; in short, that they stand on the same footing before the law as white aliens residing in the country, except that they have not the right to become citizens of the United States under the Constitution as existing at present.
The officers of the Government may establish a system of police for their government and management, but cannot hold them as slaves or serfs after the aforesaid proclamations."
It may still be an open question how far this system of police is different from a servile regimen, but the free admission to the courts, on terms of equality, of an hitherto excluded class, is calculated to secure them in their legal rights, and in time to compass the removal of all iniquitous disabilities.
While Gov. Seymour is zealously endeavoring to embroil the State and National authorities, by his prosecution of Gen. Dix for an act whose responsibility belongs, like its praise, to the President; while Vice-President (in petto) John Cochrane is aiding the Copperhead official in his nefarious undertaking; while Mayor Gunther encourages by timid forebodings another insurrection in New York; and while but yesterday returned the anniversary of that reign of terror which will be remembered by this city as long as the month of July itself; it is still possible to announce the disappearance of the last vestige of caste in our street conveyances, and that this result was due, in a large degree, to the public indignation excited by the forcible expulsion of a colored soldier's widow from an Eighth Avenue car. I do not know that the snow-covered crater is not alive with hell fire at this very moment. I do not know, in other words, but that a second riot as formidable as the first is in contemplation and near its crisis. But suppressed it will be, as was the former, haply with less consideration for hangmen and incendiaries, and certainly with increased compassion for the victims of the lamp-post and the faggot. Let the guilty conspirators—good God, who shall estimate their guilt!—of a year ago consider the protection which a black corpse, strangled and charred, has obtained for the weakest of the hunted race in a twelvemonth. Let them see to what position in society they have elevated the negro whom they sought to debase. Then, with what encouragement they can derive, let them proceed again to their fiendish work. By no such pebble in its cog-wheels is the Divine mill hindered from its grist.
M. DU PAYS.

A MOST HONORABLE RECORD. We call the special attention of our readers to the cheering synopsis —given in another column from the National Intelligencer—of some of the anti-slavery measures proposed and accomplished at the late session of Congress, through the quenchless zeal, untiring perseverance, and masterly ability of the Hon. CHARLES SUMNER, to whom all thanks and honors! In support of these and kindred measures, Hon. HENRY WILSON has been equally true and faithful at all times.

<C06>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMSON, ESQ.
NORTHAMPTON, (Mass.,) July 16, 1864.
MY DEAR GARRIOSN-I had a very pleasant ride to Amherst, on the 13th. On the road, I was joined by our old friend, the Hon. AMASA WALKER, with whom I had some interesting conversation respecting events “a long time ago," when the abolitionists of Boston-“a select few”-used to take counsel together in the small Hall in Washington street, which was so roughly by the “gentlemanly mob,” A.D 1835.
I was delighted with the appearance of Amherst College, and the country around. At 3, P.M., I entered the village church to deliver an “Oration” before the "Social Union” of the College. I had a very fine audience. There were present, besides the students, a large number of the Alumni, many ministers, from a distance, the Faculty and a large concourse of visitors. The galleries were crowded with ladies; the day was brilliant; and the entire scene was imposing and inspiring. I spoke for an hour and three quarters, upon the guilt and danger of tolerating slavery under a democratic republican form of government, and was glad to find my radical sentiments warmly responded to. I took tea with the respected President, the Rev. Wm. A. Stearns, D.D., who afterwards showed me the various college buildings. I was glad to learn that, during the year, there had been an accession to the funds of the college of more than a hundred thousand dollars; of which $30,000 had been contributed by a son of Dr. Streams, (a merchant in Bombay,) towards the erection of a new college church.
After attending the college exercises, on the 14th, I came here, where I am most hospitably entertained by Mr. SETH HUNT, respecting whose anti-slavery zeal and fidelity I need say nothing to you. The scenery of the country around me, as also the names of the counties, towns and villages, are peculiarly English; and remind me strongly of home. Hampshire, Berkshire, Northampton, Southampton, Windsor, Richmond, Greenwich, Sheffield, Leeds, Hadley, Hadfield, Ware, &c., &c. Accompanied by my host, I yesterday paid a visit to the summit of Mount Holyoke, and from thence beheld the glorious Valley of the Connecticut, the surrounding hills, four States, and thirty-eight towns; with objects of individual interest innumerable. Everywhere, in the course of our subsequent drive, we saw rich meadows, waving crops, beautiful farm-houses, avenues of stately trees, and extensive fields of tobacco-an article which has recently been largely cultivated by the farmers in this district, and is said to pay them well.
Here, in Northampton, in the year 1654, was erected the first meeting-house for Christian worship in this western part of Massachusetts. It was a shed, made of "sawn timber," twenty-six feet long, and eighteen feet wide, and cost fourteen pounds sterling, which was paid in corn or work. There not beings time-piece in the settlement, the worshippers were called together by the ringing of a large and sonorous cow-bell. This "church-going bell" is said to have been recently in the possession of Rev. Rufus Pomeroy, of Otis.
MONDAY, 18th.,
On Saturday evening I addressed an interesting meeting, assembled in the Town Hall. The chair was taken by the Hon. Erastus Hopkins. I spoke for an hour and a half on the progress of the anti-slavery cause, and the signs of the times. The attention and apparent interest taken in the subject by the audience were most gratifying.
Yesterday, I delivered discourse in the spacious and beautiful hall at Florence, which owes its erection to the public spirit, the zeal in the cause of education, and the noble liberality of Mr. SAMUEL L HILL, whose guest I was on the occasion. The building was well filled. I was presented to the people by our honored and well beloved friend, CHARLES C BURLEIGH, and then selected for my text the words of the sons of Jacob, as they stood trembling in the presence of their brother, whom they had years before sold to the <illegible> for twenty pieces of silver:— "And they said one to another, We are verify guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.”
These words may sufficiently suggest to you the nature of my remarks. I said, at the commencement, that I was, from the passage I had chosen, about to lay before my hearers a few thoughts which had occurred to me, while meditating upon the terrible calamities which had overtaken the American nation; and while I had been endeavoring to trace those calamities to their source. That, to me, it had appeared plain, that the present sanguinary and devastating war, together with the hideous host of evils connecting with it might be clearly traced to the great wrong which, at the time the Union of these States was formed, was done to the injured, helpless and enslaved race then upon the soil.
I leave this afternoon for Middletown, Connecticut, where I have, to-morrow, to deliver the Address before the Phi Beta Kappa Association of the Wesleyan University. I shall probably return here, and spend a few more days in this interesting, picturesque and hospitable neighborhood. Would that you were with me, that we might together seek health, and enjoy the sweets of social intercourse amidst the attractive scenes of the far-famed valley of the Connecticut!
Ever yours, 
GEO. THOMPSON.
P. S. I send this from the Prophet’s chamber of our modest but truly excellent friend, Mr. SETH HUNT, to whom I owe more thanks than I can express for the kindness I have received while under his roof-a roof that has sheltered many an abolitionist missionary, during "the burdens and heat of the day,” when our doctrines were not, as now respectable and popular.

MR. THOMPSON IN AMHERST.
DEAR GARRISON-Our mutual friend GEORGE THOMPSON achieved another grand success in his address before the Literary Societies of Amherst College yesterday. The house was filled to its utmost capacity, and the platform was occupied with the Faculty and distinguished visitors from abroad. Mr. Thompson spoke two hours, and enchained the attention of his audience to the last. His theme was a grand one. the evils resulting from the compromises of the Constitution, and the necessity of basing the new Union upon the principles of absolute justice.
He spoke with his usual freedom and plainness, yet his remarks were received with great favor, and elicited frequent and hearty applause, even from the grave and reverend seignors. The discourse was not only eloquent but instructive, and full of historical allusions, and gave great satisfaction.
I have not heard our friend speak since the first of August, 1859, when he attended a meeting in London, at which Lord Brougham presided; and I was agreeably surprised to find that he spoke with more ease and vigor now than he did then.
In looking back upon Mr. Thompson’s course and history for the last twenty-nine years I have known him. I can truly say that I know of no other man who has achieved so great a triumph. He has conquered all his enemies; they are now his friends and yet he has not changed. They have come up to him, he has not gone down to them. I certainly rejoice in this, for a more effective and disinterested laborer in the great cause of humanity the present age, perhaps, has not produced.
I am, your friend and servant,
AMASA WALKER.
FIRST OF AUGUST. The commemoration of the anniversary of West India Emancipation by the Massachusetts A.S. Society, at Island Grove in Abington, will be omitted this season.

For testimonials to the bravery of the colored soldiers, see fourth page.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM REV. SELLA MARTIN. 
NEW YORK CITY, June 13, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—I see, by a letter in your last issue, that the Liberator loses at least one subscriber on account of its course in reference to the coming Presidential election. I trust that Mr. R. T. Buck does not represent any large number in the course which he has exercised his undoubted right in adopting, as a subscriber to your paper. But, after all, it surprises us a little that those who, in the darkest hour of Society's history, were willing to tolerate all differences of opinion that tended to the unity of anti-slavery purpose, should, upon the first promise of victory, become intolerant and withdraw their support. If toleration was good in battle, it ought to be in counsel. Besides, the Abolitionists have justly arraigned and condemned the office-holders of the nation for every wrong act: will they not now give proof of the sincerity of their past rebukes for praising them for the many good deeds done during the war? Or shall a just objection be urged against their conduct by allowing those but half converted to say: “If we do wrong, they damn the deed; if we do right, they damn us”?
I can understand how Professor Newman should, from the distance at which he is, mistake your purpose, and fail to understand your course. I shall, however, send him a letter in a few days, as he has honored me with his friendship, which I trust will explain some things that may have influence in modifying his views. Still better can I understand why the letter took the shape it did, if it be true that Mr. M. D. Conway lent Mr. Newman his counsel. Wounded pride at the Society's righteous repudiation of his conduct in reference to Mr. Mason, and a lamentable lack of sound political judgment, may have dictated towards Mr. Garrison what his seeming jealousy dictated towards a colored co-laborer—misrepresentation. I can also understand how Mr. Phillips, the brightest ornament and one of the ablest supporters of our cause—I can understand how he and all who follow him should see danger in your course, and safety in theirs. But I cannot understand how sincere, earnest men, who have worked together for years, cherishing among themselves every diversity of opinion, should now, of all other times, when they have almost got the lead of things, when their policy is becoming more and more that of the nation, endanger their general success by forsaking one another. If an Abolitionist takes a dangerous course, who is more likely a bound to see him through it, or help him out of it, should he fail, than a brother Abolitionist? I am for Mr. Lincoln against Copperheadism, as threatened in a coalition with Mr. Fremont; but I am not for Mr. Garrison against Mr. Phillips. As a negro, I am for the man whose party and policy have given us a free capital, a confiscation law, and a proclamation of freedom, as against the man who, with honest enough intentions, expects to drive out devils by Beelzebub. But as an Abolitionist, I am for all Abolitionists —for Philips's noble nature and stern moral integrity, and for Garrison with the same qualities, in conjunction with what I believe to be a better political judgment of things as they now stand.
With these feelings and convictions, I send you three dollars for the Liberator, at the same time cherishing the hope that this letter may not be needed, nor the money, to check the tendency of Mr. Buck’s example, or fill up the place of any lost subscriber.
I am, dear sir, yours, truly,
SELLA MARTIN.
REMARKS. We are gratified to receive this letter of Mr. Martin, and fully reciprocate its catholic spirit. As for the letter of Mr. Buck, to which allusion is made, its tone and temper were such that we deemed it wholly unworthy of comment. So of the following:
ROXBURY, (Mass.) July 17, 1864.
Editor of Liberator:
Twenty-eight years have I taken the Liberator, and have always loved it for its no compromise position towards Church and State; but now, “how has the fine gold become dim!” Abraham Lincoln, by his own acknowledgment, goes not of himself, but “drifts." So do dead fish upon the surface of the waters; and, of course, we may appropriately say of Lincoln, (speaking metaphorically,) as of one of the dead fishes, “By this time he stinketh.” The cogent arguments of C.C.Burleigh, Abby Kelley Foster, and others, upon the fact that Lincoln is unworthy the confidence of Abolitionists, have not been answered. The moral status of Abraham Lincoln, as President of the United States, is that of a Booby, blocking the wheels of the engine Good Intent! The Liberator has become and electioneering sheet for this moral Booby! It is better that a man vote a “scatteration" ticket all his life than to sacrifice one jot of moral principle. 
The enclosed pays what is due from me up to the present date for the Liberator, and I wish you to discontinue my Liberator. GEO. W. SIMONDS.

THE CLEVELAND CONVENTION.
ROCHESTER, (N.Y.) July 15, 1864.
W. L. GAREISON:
MY FRIEND—From the West I have watched, with to slight interest, what has been said by pioneer abolitionists in the East, on the Fremont movement.
It may be well, in return, to say a word touching the feeling in the West, whitherward “the star of empire holds its way." For few who have not seen that wide region fully appreciate the growth, not merely of its population, but of its mental and moral power.
Since the middle of April, I have traveled in Northern Indians and Michigan, and have met, or heard from, most of the old anti-slavery men. Before the Cleveland Convention, there were those who looked to it with strong hope, and to whom the name of Fremont was inspiration. They had faith that he would stand high and firm, lending himself to no unworthy scheme; and that the action of that Convention would be such as to brace up the atmosphere of the movement for Liberty and Union.
Since its doings have been made public, I have not us an abolitionist, or heard of one who is satisfied, or feels my wrest zea! to support the movement. 
When Vallandigham, on his return to Dayton, read his speech, carefully prepared to defend his miserable course, and wove into its very heart a sentence from Fremont’s letter of acceptance, the name of the Path-<illegible> lost its magic. To base uses indeed had his words come; and the sad feeling was, that they could be thus used with no wide pervasion from their intent.
The resolve of the Cleveland Convention for “equal rights for all men” is looked upon as vague, and of no meaning. That Convention has no moral power.
I have heard a few “copperheads" say they might vote for Fremont, but nobody else. The same was praise Wendell Phillips, and say, “he is coming to his senses."
The people will have but two parties. Lincoln is their candidate for the one—a “Peace Democrat” will probably be that of the other.
The Union men say, “The copperheads have made their issue for Slavery and Rebellion. We make was got Liberty and Union. We will abolish slavery, class Lincoln, put down rebellion, and then have real peace. Any man or party that tries to divide or divert us must go down. They can only help the enemy, and peril our country's freedom and peace.”
The resolve at Baltimore in favor of the abolition of slavery is hailed heartily. Nothing else would have satisfied the people.
The weak and miserable effort for a “Northwestern Confederacy" was always looked upon with contempt in that region, save by the dupes of the bad seen who started in the interest of rebellion; and now that Fremont's New Nation declares—“The new party espouses the grievances of the West against the East"—its words will be held in the West as “a top to Cerberus,” worthy only of contempt.
<c02>
Thus much of what I have heard, seen, and know. Let others make their reports, if they will. 
I have traveled in Michigan since last August, speaking in most of the large towns and cities, and in the country districts also, usually with good audiences. I have distributed freely thousands of documents, and taken the ground that slavery must die, and the Republic must base itself on Justice, as on the solid granite; and in all this have had ready aid and an earnest hearing.
Yours, truly, G. B. STEBBINS. 
DEVELOPMENT.
DORCHESTER, July 18,1864. 
The present struggle is a momentous one; and with the rebels, at least, it is a desperate one. Politically and locally, it is a revolt of the slaveholding oligarchy of the South, with those who follow in their wake, against the fundamental principles of our republican institutions,—the right of the majority to rule. In its elements, it a revolt of the infernal against the supernal; of the earthly, sensual, devilish, against the supremacy of the humane, spiritual, godlike tendencies in man; and, is, therefore, the part assigned to us, of the universal, immemorial conflict between the powers of light and of darkness, of truth and falsehood, of Christ and Belial, of good and evil, of heaven and hell. 
But, although the people, North and South, are exhibiting their peculiar characteristics in the strongest light,—and although, in general, those of the North occupy a higher plane, present a worthier type of civilization, and show a broader development and more generous culture,—they cannot arrogate to themselves all that is noble, magnanimous, and praiseworthy; nor justly ascribe to those of the South all that is wicked, base, and degrading in the land. The dominant classes in both sections, elated by prosperity and success, had become proud, supercilious and overbearing; and those of the South especially, accustomed to the exercise of tyranny, were not a little given to vainglorying and conceit.
Beset alike by ambition, avarice, love of pleasure and love of ease, their means of gratifying these cravings and propensities have been widely different. Thus, to evade the Heaven-imposed necessity of manual labor, the aristocracy of the South, without scruple, lay hold of the black man, and, under the pretext of prescriptive and divine right, 
"Bind him, and task him, and exact his sweat
With stripes, that Mercy with a bleeding heart
Weeps when she sees inflicted on a beast." 
From the first, their policy has been, not to disseminate but to withhold the light; to suppress mental development in the masses; and, monopolizing as far as possible the intelligence, they monopolized also, to a great extent, the soil and the sunshine, the rain and the dew; creating the greatest possible inequality of classes, and thus enabling themselves to exercise over their fellow-men unrighteous and almost unlimited control.
The people of the North, on the other hand, availing themselves of rightful dominion over the fish of the sea, the fowls of the air, and the beasts of the field, claimed for themselves the largest freedom—free speech, a free press, free suffrage; and having tasted the blessings of liberty and light, were anxious to extend and perpetuate them. 
To this end, they instituted churches, colleges and schools; established professorships, created libraries; providing at once for the intellectual and moral training of the whole people. Prizing knowledge at their noblest wealth and best protection,
"They bound themselves by statute to secure, 
For all the children whom their soil maintains, 
The rudiments of letters; so that none, 
However destitute, be left to droop 
By timely culture unsustained, or run 
Into a wild disorder; or be forced 
To drudge through weary life without the aid
Of intellectual implements and tools;
A savage horde among the civilized, 
A servile band among the lordly free." 
By the elevation of the masses, they hoped to secure the greatest possible equality; so that the children of the humblest citizen might, in the career of life, come into successful competition with those of the most favored; and with the ballot in their hands, with the will and power to provide for and protect their own interests and rights, they might laugh to scorn all pretensions to arbitrary sway; and, becoming themselves the sources of power and patronage, might compel political aspirants, asking favors at their hands, to go for measures which their constituents might approve, and bow submissive to their will.
By the liberal and abiding policy of developing the mind of the country, they stimulated the spirit of discovery, and opened in themselves the very sources of power. Familiar with some of the more obvious qualities of earth, air and water, they soon learned to control the once terrible, because hidden forces of nature,—electricity, magnetism, gravitation, heat,—and turned them to beneficial use. The farmer has recourse to his plow and his sower—hit reaper and mower and thresher—before he can even present his corn at the mill. The miller subjects his wheels to the gravitating power of water, or the expansive power of steam; and, between the upper and nether millstones, the corn is forthwith transformed into meal. The manufacturer, by the application of the same forces to the spinning jenny and the loom, with a motion that never tires, multiplies his fabrics, fills the: markets, and crowds his huge warehouses with cotton and woollen cloths. 
The intelligent merchant, who, with the stars and compass for his guides, “goes down to the sea in ships, and does business upon the great deep," availing himself of trade-winds and oceanic currents, uses their strength as if it were his own; and when clouds gather, the skies are darkened, the waves are lifted and the trumpets roar, he bring the irresistible steam engine to his aid; and, in spite of winds and waves rides out the storm and comes safely into port. With such gigantic forces at his command, he travels continents and oceans, and, by a generous commerce, effects an exchange of natural and industrial commodities between the remotest regions of the habitable globle.
The invention of the cotton-gin (a Yankee enterprise, of course,) enhanced the value of the cotton crop, increased the demand for, and gave impetus and direction to labor, and thus stimulated the breeding and importation of slaves. At the same time, it augmented the wealth, nourished the insolence, swelled the pride, and aggravated the cruelty of their oppressors; and thus hastened the necessity of our antislavery revolution. 
Thus, in every department of industry, the work is hastened and carried forward and perfected by the aid of labor saving or labor-doing machines. And to them, in a great measure, we owe the development c the physical resources of the country; its wealth and its strength. They are a sign and a means of civilization; have played, and are destined to play, an important part in the great providential movements of our times. And these are the products of mind. H. W. C. 
SOCIAL UNION. The fame of George Thompson, the English Abolitionist, attracted one of the best audiences of the week. He came with his old message to sympathize with us in every fibre of his heart. He spoke plainly and boldly of what concerns us as a nation. His object was to draw a lesson of warning for the American people from a consideration of past and present events. Our Constitution was a compromise with slavery. He rejoiced that this war would release the nation from this sin. He closed with an enumeration of the great progress made by the nation, in opinions and power, within four years. The oration was full of thought, though upon a hackneyed theme, and abounded in passages of unusual eloquent and beauty.—Amherst Express.
The Copperheads seem to neglect a great argument which might be used against Mr. Lincoln. It is from a recent speech of Hon. J. L. M. Curry, the Secession leader of Alabama. “Should Lincoln be re-elected," says Mr. Curry, “our fond hopes will be dashed to the ground” This is an argument the Copperheads neglect to use.
<c03>
TEMPERANCE. 
BRUNSWICK, (Me.,) July 15, 1864.
MR. EDITOR—The Liberator of July 1st contains an exceedingly spicy and well-written criticism upon the proceedings of the Convention of the Y. M. C. A., recently held in Boston. Respecting the justice of the strictures, and the spirit in which they seem to have been written, I say nothing. It is only in respect to that part of the article in which the subject of temperance is considered that I wish to be heard. I did hope to see something in reply from such friends of temperance as Gen. Neal Dow or C. A. Stackpole; but, as nothing does appear from either of them, nor any one else, and not wishing to labor under the self-conviction of remaining “at ease in” our temperance “Zion” when the voice of duty calls, I undertake to say a few words in defence (not of the Y. M. C. A., whom I leave to take care of themselves, but) of the principles which I recognize as underlying the temperance movement. 
The writer, who subscribes himself NATHAN, says, “A skepticism arises in the mind, whether it is not, after all, the now stale performance of the ass of total abstinence, braying about in the skin of the lion virtue of temperance”—“ and if the ingenuity of these young men can devise some method of bringing the ale of England and the wine of France—the cheap and wholesome beverages upon which those people thrive so well—within the range of everybody's purse, it will be a work of philanthropic economy worthy of Poor Richard." 
I shall spend no time in attempting to show how this might be done. The argument, by implication, it, that it not done, and that the Y. M. C. A. cannot do it; and as no claim it set up that the ale, porter, lager beer, &c, that we can get, possess the tame wholesome properties, I am not bound to admit that they do; and the question arises—Shall we indulge in the gross luxuries of ale, porter, and such wines as we do have, because we cannot get the “ale of England and the wine of France”? 
The distillation of ardent spirits is of comparatively recent date, while drunkenness is nearly coeval with the rainbow. As the first man that was born was a murderer, so the first man that became a husbandman and made wine became a drunkard; and, on one occasion, awaking from a drunken slumber—induced by wine as cheap and no doubt as wholesome as “the wine of France”—in the very spirit of unreasoning irritation —which the experience of all subsequent time has proved to be the result of that habit—he cursed the posterity of one of his sons, dooming them to be servants of servants to the posterity of his other sons; a liberty which, doubtless, they were not slow to avail themselves of upon to good authority. And the advocates of human bondage have quoted the authority and the example ever since, in justification of slavery with all its abominations. 
The authority, therefore, for slaveholding we find to result from the rage of a drunken man, who, like all drunken men in their anger, could not be satisfied with inflicting punishment upon the guilty, but must extend it to innocent persons. I affirm without hesitation, that it had been better for all concerned had he never tasted of the “cheap and wholesome beverage” made from the fruit of the vine, but had continued to wash down the pottage sodden from the flesh of “every moving thing" that lived in those days, with “condimental draughts of aqua pura from a primitive drinking horn” all the days of his life. 
No doubt NATHAN is one of the “lions” of temperance, and “knows just when he has had enough,” and when he “has had just enough,” and when he ought to leave off drinking these” cheap and wholesome beverages,” so as to be and remain within the charmed circle of temperance. Without irony or any figure of speech, I have known many such men in my day, to the most of whom might very properly be addressed the injunction—“Take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to I them that are weak”—"Wherefore if 'these cheap and wholesome beverages' make my brother to offend, I will” drink no English ale or French wine “while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend.” 
It was of wine at good at “the wine of France,” of which Solomon said—"Look not upon the wine,” &c., “for at the end it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder;” and against which the ancient denunciations of intemperance were chiefly hurled.
Solomon departed from the virtuous ways of his youth, being seduced by women, but in his old age he said, “All is vanity and vexation of spirit.” But Noah, after he was six hundred years old, having been most of that time a preacher of righteousness, and divinely directed in almost all things, even to the quality of his food, by one fatal practice became a drunkard, and in this drunkenness fastened the curse of slavery upon a large portion of hit race; after which nothing is said of his reformation or his virtues, although he lived some three hundred years or more afterward; a proof sufficient that the wine upon which he was drunken was quite as wholesome as the wine of France. No doubt Noah might have been a “lion” instead of a swine, and before he lost hit “sober thinking” have exercised “wit enough to leave off drinking”; but he didn't do it; and thousands of millions after him, who, without God's help, have thought they owned minds strong enough to be temperate without total abstinence, have failed as he did; at the same time expressing the deepest contempt for such as proved too weak to stand against the power of habit, and never believing themselves in danger until they had lost the power of self-control.
We can enjoy a “generous diet” and good health, without the self-indulgence, that “bringeth a snare;” and it is because there is a real self-denying principle in abstaining from these “cheap and wholesome beverages,” (and not the Reynard cry of “sour grapes,”), which constitutes the virtue of total abstinence.
NATHAN furthermore says—"Perhaps the domains - of Zion are co-extensive with the reputed authority of a Son of Temperance pledge, and cease at high-water mark," &c. It appears that indefiniteness is a strong hold and citadel of others, beside the Y. M. C. A.; but, without attempting to define the “domains” or limits of “Zion,” I must acknowledge my inability to understand where high-water mark is as indicating the extent of the “reputed authority of a Son of Temperance pledge.” Reputed! Reputed by whom? By what class of persons? By outsiders, scoffers, backsliders, and those who become weary in well-doing? As a Son of Temperance, I know of no reputed authority of the pledge, except what reason and conscience plainly teach —i.e. that the, pledge means just what the words clearly express, and is to be observed unconditionally, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or self-evasion of its express terms. D. S. GRANDIN.
P. S. Since writing the above, I have noticed in the Liberator of this day's date a short reply to NATHAN, from the pen of that always ready friend of truth and progress. D. S. WHITNEY, for which he has my thanks.
THE NEW INCOME TAX. The following is a copy of the joint resolution assessing a special tax on incomes:— 
Resolved, That in addition to an income duty already imposed by law, there shall be levied, assessed and collected, on the 1st day of October, 1864, a special income duty on the gains, profits or incomes, for the year ending the 31st of December next preceding the time herein named for levying, assessing and collecting said duty of all persons residing within the, United States, or of citizens of the United States residing abroad, at the rate of five per centum, on all sums exceeding $600, and the same shall be allowed, assessed, estimated and collected, except as to rate according to the provisions of the existing laws for the collection of income duty annually where not inapplicable hereto; and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to make such rules and regulations as to the time or mode or other matters, to enforce the collection of the special income herein; provided, that in estimating the annuals, gains, profits or income as aforesaid for the foregoing special duty, no deduction shall be made for dividends or interest received from any avocation, corporation or company, nor shall any deduction be made for any salaries or pay received. 
<c04>
DEATH OF WASHINGTON WILKS.
We have as a nation so few true, earnest, fearless friends in England, that the death of one of them at this juncture is doubly a matter of regret. Such a friend was WASHINGTON WILKS, who died at a public meeting at Freemason's Hall, London, on the 27th ultimo, while speaking before a large audience. The Boston Commercial says: 
“He was in the course of delivering a speech, in his ordinary forcible and eloquent manner, when suddenly a ghastly paleness overspread his countenance, and turning to a friend on the platform, he asked for a glass of water. The request was promptly complied with, and Mr. Wilks stretched out his hand to take the water; but the grasp of the Destroyer was upon him, and before he could touch the glass, he fell backwards, insensible, on the platform. Several medical gentlemen were promptly in attendance, and all that medical skill could devise, including the application of a powerful galvanic battery, was tried to restore animation, but in vain. Meanwhile the meeting had remained assembled in a state of anxious excitement, until after the lapse of some twenty minutes, it was announced that the powerful and popular orator was certainly dead. Then the meeting immediately broke up, each individual struck with consternation and sorrow at the unexpected and lamentable catastrophe."
Mr. Wilks was one of the editors of the London Morning Star, and wrote the able articles on American affairs which have so distinguished that paper as a true defender of the North and the cause of Liberty. As an author he is known by an admirable “History of the First Half of the Nineteenth Century,” He first became hoted as a writer for the Nonconformist.
The cause of his death was decided to be serious apoplexy, produced, it is supposed, by the excitement of speaking on a subject—Parliamentary Reform—in which he was peculiarly interested; and the verdict of the coroner's jury was “Death from the effects of congestion on the brain, caused by sudden excitement.” The deceased was thirty-eight years of age.

CALL FOR 500,000 MEN.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. 
A PROCLAMATION. 
Whereas, By an act approved July 4. 1864, it is Provided that the President of the United States may call for any number of men as volunteers, for the respective terms of one, two and three years for military service, and that in case the quota or any part thereof of any town, township, ward of a city, precinct or election district, or of a county not so subdivided, shall not be filled within fifty days after such call, the President shall immediately order a draft for one year, to fill such quota, or any part thereof which may be unfilled; and
Whereas, The new enrollment heretofore ordered is so far completed as that the aforementioned act may now be put in operation for recruiting and keeping up the strength of the armies in the field, for garrisons and such military operations as may be required for the purpose of suppressing the rebellion and restoring the authority of the United States in he insurgent States;
Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of he United States, do issue this my call for five hundred thousand volunteers for military service; provided nevertheless that all credits which may be established under section eight of aforesaid act, on account of persons who have entered the naval service, during the present rebellion, and by credits for men furnished to military service in excess of calls heretofore made for volunteers, will be accepted under the call for one, two or three years as they may elect, and will be entitled to the bounty provided by law for the period of service for which they enlist. And I hereby proclaim, order and direct that immediately after the lift of September, being fifty days from the date of this call, a draft for troops to serve for one year shall be held in every town, township, ward of a city, precinct, election district, or a county not so sub-divided, to fill the quota which shall be assigned to it under this call, or any part thereof which may be unfilled by volunteers on the said fifth day of September, 1864. 
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President:
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
Washington, July 18, 1864.

INCIDENTS OF THE REBEL RAID. 
We copy the following incidents of the rebel raid in Maryland:—
The chief occupation of Major Gilmore's gallant command, at and around Magnolia, was breaking open and rifling trunks, valises, carpet bags, boxes in care of Adams's Express, containing delicacies for sick and wounded soldiers in rebel prisons, burning private dwelling-houses and barns, and in the true Dick Turpin mode (but not with half the magnanimity of that highwayman) stealing money, watches, and even shirt and sleeve buttons from the defenceless victims. The capture of Gen. Franklin, through the agency of a rebel Baltimore female, gives no color of legitimacy to their proceedings. It was a mere accident. The transaction, that better illustrates the raid, was the capture of a poor sailor boy, discharged and on his way home, and the stealing from him of $800, and the robbing of an old man from Maine (returning from visiting his wounded and dying son) of every farthing he had after purchasing his homeward ticket, and of another poor man of $2 50, his all!
One report gravely says that Major Gilmore gallantly saved a car from the flames, and dispatched it to Havre de Grace with the ladies and children! He did nothing of the kind. An application was made to one of Gilmore's captains for such an act of kindness and humanity, and was refused on the plea, explicitly stated, ‘You'll tell on us!”
A party of female Baltimoreans deserve special mention. They were cordial rebel sympathizers. One of them, an elderly person, evidently belonging to good rebel society, took possession of the photograph and letters of the wife of a surgeon of the navy, and on his application to her for them, replies that he could only obtain them through the content of Major Gilmore. Another, a pert and pretentious Miss, calling herself and rejoicing in being called by the rebel officers Kate Lee, and asserted to be a relative of the traitor General of that name, not only fraternized in the most open and affectionate manner wit a rebel captain, (said to be a Baltimorean,) but lent herself in every possible way to give aid and comfort to the thieves. She pointed out officers' baggage to them, and with her own hands distributed boots and other articles from the trunks of the navy surgeon alluded to among her rebel friends. In fact, she spared no pains to proclaim, both in word and deed, her active and hearty sympathy with traitors and treason. Her shameless conduct attracted universal notice, am outside of her rebel associates, excited universal contempt. The indignant rebukes she received from loyal ladies of our captured party will be likely to remain in her memory quite as long as the endearments exchanged with her traitor friends. 

REVERSES AND SUCCESSES. 
Every check to the progress of the Federal armies should he received as incentive to further exertions. Slight and temporary reverses call for greater energy. This is the only wise and patriotic use of them. To allow them to turn off attention to the great march, on the whole onward and triumphant, is worse than folly; it is the weakest pusillanimity. Conceding that the war has largely exceeded in magnitude all anticipations, and that its duration has been unexpectedly protracted, let all the non-success of the national cause be counted up and put side by tide with its success and the latter preponderates immensely. It would be repeating a very old story to picture the condition of that cause in 1861, and to contrast it with the state of affairs in the field now. Nobody not willfully blink can fail to tee that, with all drawbacks, the gain has been wonderful. 
In the meantime, how has it fared with the rebellion? Where has that gained or regained an inch of territory for permanent holding? Where has that accomplished anything lasting by its invasions? Where is that to look for any augmentation of its resources and its armies? Where has that anything to boast o in the way of prosperity, within the limited region it now occupies? These are pertinent questions. Look at the Southern Confederacy. It is a failure so far as the attempt to set up an independent nation is concerned. It is now an unrecognized military despotism, engaged in a desperate defence of its very existence. It has no reserves of any kind to draw upon. It is pressed and crowded on all sides. If the pressing and crowding is kept steadily up, the point must be reached when the stupendous treason must be annihilated. Its fate is not in its own hands, but in the hands of the Federal power. Keep exerting that power, and the victory is certain. This is the truth to be borne in mind, believed in and acted upon. Incidental reverses are not pleasant; but they should not stagger loyal faith nor lessen loyal efforts in the least. Work not croaking, is what is demanded.—Boston Transcript.
David Paul Brown, the noted criminal lawyer of Philadelphia, has received the compliment of pair of silver pitchers. On one side of each was appropriately represented a slave kneeling, with hands clasped before hit breast, and face turned upward at in supplication, engraved, we understood, by the gifted J. Sartain. On the other side, done in admirable style, was the inscription: “Presented to David Paul Brown, Esq., by the disfranchised citizens of Philadelphia, in testimony of their appreciation of his moral courage and generous disinterestedness in advocating the rights of the oppressed without regard to complexion or condition."—Forney's-Press. 
<c05>
EXPEDITION TO JAMES ISLAND. 
On Saturday morning, July 2d, as a co-operative movement, Gen. Schimmelpfennig, commanding the district of Morris and Folly Islands, crossed over to James Island from Folly, with a part of his force, and drove in the rebel pickets, after a skirmish. The troops were then formed into column, and advanced toward an old battery, not until recently occupied, The 33d New York were placed in advance. When they arrived very near the fort, the rebels opened with two brass field pieces, with canister, creating considerable havoc, and causing some confusion. The Fifty-Fifth Massachusetts had been formed in line for the purpose of charging on the fort, and as soon as the fire had been drawn, they advanced at doable quick. theirs was a delicate duty to perform; for they had to charge through retreating white and black troops in the face of a murderous fire. But they never flinched. The rebel fire was quite high, and nearly all who were wounded were hit in the head. With a shout and the intrepidity of veterans, they rushed over the parapet, driving the rebel forces before them into the woods, and capturing the two guns. As this was the first time this regiment was ever under a hot fire, their conduct was especially praiseworthy. They have nobly sustained the reputation won for the Massachusetts colored troops by the Fifty-Fourth at Wagner and at Olustee.

CASUALTIES.
Killed—James Davis, Co. A, wounded in neck by canister; died from wounds; L. Peck, B, from wound head; W. H. Russell, C, from wound in head; Corp. H. T. Powell, C, from wound in head; Serg. W. Stidun, I, from wound in head; Wm. H. Johnson, Co., from wound in bead; B. Griffin, from musket wound in chest.
Wounded—Capt Frank Goodwin, Co. E, flesh wounds in both thighs by canister; Capt Jas. D. Hurber, Co. I, slight wound in right shoulder, now on duty 1st Sergt W. H. Evans, Co. A, flesh wound in right thigh by canister; Wm. H. Dallas, A, flesh wound in shoulder; Jacob Chisholm, B. right temple; I, Thompson, C, left arm and leg. died shortly after being carried to the rear; F. Herb, E. slightly in wrist; James Malone, E, in cheek; J. H. Peterson, F, flesh wound in thigh from canister; Peter Jones. F, contusion of leg and foot by fragment of shell; Jas. Murphy, G, flesh wound in left hip, canister; B. Boroughs, H, left arm, musket shot, arm amputated; M. Donnell, I, finger amputated; Chas. Crummer, I. flesh wound in back of neck; Serg A. Boon, K, knee joint shattered by canister, died after amputation; Corp. T. J. Brown, K, arm broken by ball, amputated and doing well; R. Chatman, K, flesh wound in leg from musket ball; L. Payne, K, slight contusion over right dye; S. January, K, contusion of left shoulder, now on duty; F. Rickman, K, left heel, severely. 
The following are those in the 54th Massachusetts. 
Private Cornelius Rick, Co. A, killed with a solid hot; private John Wall, D, died on picket post, from sunstroke; Sergt. John Palmer, slight gunshot wound in hand. 
There were also casualties in the 33d United States (colored troops) and the 103d N. Y., but I have not been able to obtain them as yet.
Gen. Schimmelpfennig held this position about a day, and then fell back about a mile and a half, with lit two captured guns, and entrenched. The reason f the falling back was that the position was an inconvenient one to bold, and was no more advantageous than the one now occupied. Gen. Schimmelpfennig has since been joined by Gen. Birney and his force. 
On Saturday night, the 127th New York, Col. Gurney, and 52d Pa. Col. H. M. Hoyt—all under command of Col. Gurney—were ordered to cross the water from Morris Island, and endeavor to surprise Fort Johnson. They went over in boats, but the tide was to favorable on arriving at the beach, and a portion f the boats got aground on a small bar. Col. Hoyt and Lt. Col. Cunningham, with a division of their regiment, succeeded in landing and surprised Buttery Simpkins, an outwork of Fort Johnson, but, by the accident, not being supported, it was useless to attempt Fort Johnson with its garrison of several hundred men. The whole party ashore was captured. It numbered 137 enlisted men and the following officers:—Col. H. M. Hoyt, Lieut. Col. Cunningham, Capt Treat R. Camp, First Lieuts, James G. Stevens, Silas A. Bunyan and Thomas E. Evans. 
At the time of the attack, none of the guns of Fort Johnson were aimed towards the beach, but they have since been moved to as to point in that direction. There is no doubt that the expedition would have been completely successful but for the unfortunate accident at landing. 
On Saturday, while the navy tug Iris was towing a pontoon boat filled with negroes, in Stono river, it was run under in turning suddenly, and twenty-one were drowned. The tidal current was very strong at the time, and the bodies were scattered. It was tome days before all of them were recovered and buried. The sight of the swollen corpses floating about was not very agreeable to those who inhabited the transports and gunboats on the river. 
A correspondent of the New York Herald, writing of the brilliant charge of the negro regiments on the fortifications at Petersburg, says:— 
“When the negroes found themselves in the works of the enemy, no words could paint their delight. Numbers of them kitted the gun they had captured with extravagant satisfaction, and a feverish anxiety was manifested to get ahead and charge some more of the rebel works. A number of the colored troops were wounded, and a few killed, in the first charge. A large crowd congregated, with looks of unutterable admiration, about Sergeant Richardson and Corporal Wobey, of the 22d United States colored regiment, who had carried the colors of the regiment, and been the first men in the works." 

WASHINGTON, June 27, 1864. 
Congress, for more than a month, has been working with great energy to close its business, so that an adjournment may be effected by the 4th of July. The Senate has sat day and night, with intermission for sleep and rest—beginning at twelve at noonday, and separating near the “noon of night,” as Dryden has it. Vast and complicated as the legislation of Congress is in time of peace, it is man incalculably increased in time of war. And the labors of a conscientious public man are proportionately heavy; especially if he is at the head of a leading committee. Men of this class are a most interesting study to me, and I often wonder if the people know how much they have to do. We are now so much absorbed in military movements, and so ready to abuse what are called the politicians, that we too rarely think of the perplexing and harassing responsibilities of those who occupy important civil positions. The President, with his always-beginning and never-ending duties and calls—to hear everybody, from the statesman to the private soldier; to sit in Cabinet council; to receive foreign ministers and delegations of every kind and degree; to visit hospitals and camps; to endure partisan appeals and adjust party quarrels; to entertain company; and, more than all, to read over heavy manuscripts, and to write multitudinous notes on every conceivable subject—this, indeed, is a life of thankless and incessant toil and agony. And what is true of him is true of nearly all his constitutional advisers. No repose and no relaxation for any one of them, supposing each to attend to his duties. Mr. Stanton is probably more absorbed in his work than any of his colleagues. He seems to have given up everything to his public obligations. You scarcely meet him in society. Eminently social by nature, he has apparently made up his mind to postpone all personal gratifications to the common cause. The War Department is a blaze of gaslight till far in the night; and his assistants are at his side early and late.—Corr. Phil. Press. 

THE LATE JOHN HOPPER. 
The death of Mr. John Hopper, announced this morning, will be heard with painful surprise and very heartfelt sorrow by a large number of persons. It seldom falls to the lot of a strictly private citizen to be so widely known, and wherever known, to excite such universal esteem and respect His genial manners, his unbounded humor, and hit generous nature, made him sought for as a companion whose mere presence was always refreshing; while his sterling integrity, his sound judgment, and his warm heart that never permitted him to turn away from those in need of aid or counsel, made his friendship valuable. Like his father, the late venerable Isaac T. Hopper, his delight was in doing good, and none but; those who were most intimate with him knew how wide his charity was, how ready he always was in self-sacrifice for the benefit of others, and how incalculable was the good he did, in the aid he extended to those who needed it, and, still more, in the ever-ready sympathy and countenance which he was always prompt to give to those who were in distress. He literally obeyed the Scriptural injunction, and did not let his left hand know what his right hand did; the poor and unfortunate never appealed to him in vain, and the poorer and the more unfortunate, the more certain were they of his help. Impulsive and enthusiastic in disposition, he was passionate in his admiration of noble lives and great principles; for mean, acts and unworthy lives he had no measure in his contempt He tried to make his own life accord with that standard—how well, his many friends can attest. 
Mr. Hopper was born in Philadelphia in 1815. As a lawyer, and as the agent of the New England Life Insurance Company, he has earned a high reputation for integrity and ability among the business and professional men of this city in twenty years' practice. He was taught, when a boy, by his father, to hate slavery, and was an efficient aid to the old philanthropist, in early life, in aiding fugitive slaves in many a romantic hair-breadth escape. And there are few private citizens among us who, in a quiet way, have done more to help his country in the last great struggle with that system which he abhorred with all the fervor of his ardent and enthusiastic nature.—New York Tribune of Wednesday. 
<c06>
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
COLLECTIONS BY ANDREW T. FOSS.
Hyannis, Mass., $10; Centreville, 1 60; cotuit
Port, 7 50; Harwich, 7 56; East Dennis, 5; 
North Dennis, 3, $34 66
By William Wells Brown.
Westerly, R.I., $6; Ashaway, do., 2 25; Quincy, 
Mass., 10; Concord, N. H., 10; Raynham, 
Mass., 2 77; Taunton, do., 1 42; Clinton, do.,
6 32, $38 76
PLACE WANTED.—A strong, healthy, colored young man, of about 23, —formerly a slave in Missouri,—lost a foot by freezing was taken in charge by one of our Army-Surgeons, kindly cared for, and sent to Boston, where he has now been residing in the Surgeon’s family ten months, rendering what domestic service he could,—is desirous of obtaining work in some place which will not require much walking; he would like to Learn a shoemaker’s trade, but is ready to engage in any occupation, suited to his condition, by which be may earn his living. He is represented as very intelligent, and recommended as entirely honest and reliable. Any person disposed to give employment to this young man is requested to apply as soon as possible to R.F. WALLCUT, at this office.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in East Princeton, Sunday, July 31st, at half-past 10, A.M., and 1, P. M. Subject—"War to restore the Union or abolish Slavery is a sin against God, disastrous to the country, and should immediately be abandoned.”
A.T FOSS will speak Sunday next, 24th inst., at Milford, N.H., on the Duties of the Hour.
Meetings at the usual hours.
CHANGE OF PLACE.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at the Baptist Church, Winecenett Village, Norton, on Sunday next, July 24, at 5 o'clock, P.M.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak at Neponset, Sunday, July 24, all day and evening.
DEPARTED —In Leominster, Mass., ELLEN FRANCES, only child of George G. and Mary Elizabeth Drake, of Annapolis, Md., aged 6 mos. and 14 days.
The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M.D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail—paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING,
15 Leight Street, New York.
July 15. 3m
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies, 
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS. 
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested.
July 8. 3m
MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135,$165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.

THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music. 
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musician’s who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Masson, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, & c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan or Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, & c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMILIN.
Feb. 26 6m
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. All interested in Phonographic, the best Shorthand, should send for No. 4 of the Phonographic Visitor, 7 cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. Dec. 1.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
Sr. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINS. Esq., Suffolk Bank, de.
FARWELL, FISLD & CO., Chicago, Illinois.
SREVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D.C. 
May 20. tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LIGHT H DARKNESS,
BY HORACE GREELEY.
I
O, God! our way through darkness, leads
But Thine is living light;
Teach us to feel that Day succeeds
To each slow-wearing Night;
Make us to know, though Pain and Woe
Beset our mortal lives,
That ill at last in death lies low,
And only good survives.

II.
Too long th' oppressor's iron heel
The saintly brow has pressed;
Too oft the tyrant's murd'rous steel
Has pierced the guiltless breast;
Yet in our souls the seed shall lie,
Till Thou shalt bid it thrive,
Of steadfast faith that Wrong shall die,
And only Right survive.

III
We walk in shadow; thickest wall
Do man from man divide;
Our brothers spurn our tendered calls,
Our holiest aims deride:
Yet though fell Craft, with fiendish thought,
Its subtle web contrives,
Still Falsehood's textures shrink to naught,
And only Truth survives.

IV.
Wrath clouds our sky; War lifts on high
His flag of crimson stain;
Each monstrous birth o'erspreads the earth
In Battle’s gory train;
Yet still we trust in god the Just,
Still keep our faith alive,
That, 'neath Thine eye all Hate shall die,
And only Love survive.
New York, May 1, 1864.
A WORD FOR THE DOWN-TRODDEN.
Whence comes that stifled groan so fall of anguish,
Breathed out upon the breath of morn so bright
That it might seem no heart should bleed or languish,
When the great Father gives such glorious light?
But mark that dusky form, emerging slowly
From yon half-opened door of cabin small!
Grief dims his eye; his mien it timid, lowly;
He lingers still, but must obey the call
Of him who drives afield his fellow-being
To toil, and sweat, and bleed beneath his hand;
Who, even now, his mute reluctance seeing,
Goads on his shrinking one to join the band.
Beside the weeping partner of his sorrow
All right he's brooded o'er their first-born son,
Whose quick, hot breath gave fears that, ere the morrow,
Death's cold embrace would clasp their only one.
He was a light, their wretched home illuming,
Save for the dread that some vile trader's hand
Should snatch him while in healthful childhood blooming,
And burst for aye the sweet paternal band.
More bitter far to see him rudely driven
In hopeless bondage, evermore to groan,
Than yield him now, while pure and fit for heaven,
To Him who lent, and only claims his own.
But must they go? His loving eye is pleading
For the soft tending of a parent's hand;
Ah, yes it is for this their hearts are bleeding.
As o'er his couch irresolute they stand.
To the great house the mother must be going,
All day to cater for her master's taste;
Caucasian blood through all her veins is flowing,
But to her servile task she now must haste.
Oh for one day of respite for that mother,
To watch her boy, and soothe his slightest moan!
That sacred trust is yielded to another,
Perchance from age and suffering callous grown.
But turn the picture. Mark! the scene grows brighter!
Through the unfoldings of the Father's will
Oppression yields; the tyrant's hold grows slighter; 
Years have sped by-the boy is living still.
God sent his healing angel softly flitting
To guard th' oppressed one in his lowly bed;
And fell disease his prostrate form was quitting,
While working on, they thought their darling dead.
And now, with growing strength, his hopes grow stronger
That the vile yoke his hapless parents wore
On Afric's injured sons shall rest no longer,
But Freedom's blessing spread from shore to shore.
And shall we check his rising aspiration?
Shall cruel prejudice crush out all hope,
And paralyze each aim at elevation? 
No! give each latent power its widest scope.
Let every helpful band be now extended
To aid the freedman on his upward way;
Ask not, his lineage or from whom descended-
Enough to know, he need our aid to-day.
Not food and raiment only must we end him,
The mortal part to comfort and sustain;
But aid for culture and improvement lend him,
And all that his humanity may claim.
Say, can we hope to enter through those portals
Where dwell the spirits of the good and true,
If now we slight or injure these immortals,
Because their covering bean a darker hue!
-Friend's Intelligencer.
THE COPPERHEAD.
BY JOHN HOLLAND 
There it a snake that haunts the grass,
Despised by all men, white and red,
Trod 'neath the hoofs of ox and ass-
The glistening, venomous copperhead.
Throughout three seasons of the year,
The rattlesnake himself hath fled;
But when the extra months appear,
His sutler is the copperhead-
The twisting, wriggling copperhead;
The glistening, venomous copperhead!
The man of sense can fix the tense
In which to kill the copperhead.
’Tis said that every creeping thing
Has got some useful task ahead;
But yet the bards have failed to sing
One virtue in the copperhead.
The ancient snake in Eden's bowers
From flowery paths our parents led;
Experience in this age of ours
Comes down upon the copperhead-
The slippery, slimy copperhead-
The hissing, spitting copperhead;
The sweat -of man through ages shed.
Cries, "Clubs upon the Copperhead!"
We love to scan the lordly beast
That's called the king by naturalists;
But yet, we shun the foul retreat
Where'er the slippery reptile twists.
The winnowing birds that haunt the grove
Make echo ring where'er we tread;
But, ah! they cease their songs of love,
Whene'er they spy the copperhead-
The wallowing, sponging copperhead;
The birds despise the copperhead;
From union bands it eats its bread,
And bites for thanks the copperhead.
But, glory be to Israel's God!
The Union bird its wings has spread,
Whose beak and claws shall rid the sod
Of every crawling copper head. 
Shall ne'er coil up fair freedom's bed;
The Union pole pokes every hole 
That can contain a copperhead.
Alas, alas, the copperhead!
The union stone has smashed its head!
Well staff its skin for men to grin
At what was once a copperhead!
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE SAME OLD SIXPENCE.
Seeing it reported in some newspaper that the General Association of Orthodox Congregational Ministers of Massachusetts, at its late annual meeting in Springfield, bad pasted a resolution in special commendation of the American Missionary Association, I thought it right to examine and report the extent, and .the reasons, of this unwonted commendation. The members of this General Association have always, collectively and individually, been active supporters of the (pro-slavery) American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, and hare always turned the cold shoulder to the (anti-slavery) American Missionary Association, as they have to the Church Anti-Slavery Society. But, in these days, a great change on the subject of slavery is pervading the whole community. Many have newly avowed their opposition to it, some from genuine conviction, and some from a politic habit of turning to the rising ton. Some tough old members of the party called Democratic, the very persons least likely to undergo such a change, like Gen. Butler and Rev. Dr. Breckinridge, have given proof of a real conversion on this subject. Are the Orthodox Congregational Ministers of Massachusetts also converted? Or are they, on the other hand, merely trying to keep up with the times, joining a popular movement which they cannot prevent? Evidence on this point is important, as revealing, to a certain extent, the character of these clerical leaders.
Examination showed the fact to be, in this case, just what a long and intimate acquaintance with the manners and customs of our clergy had led me to suppose. They had not recommended the American Missionary Association in preference to the American Board; apparently they had not been moved in the slightest degree to withdraw from the support of the latter body, either by its active alliance with slavery for forty-two years-or by its various acts of dishonest evasion and falsehood in reply to the remonstrances of a minority of its members against such alliance-or by its accompliceship after the fact in such monstrous guilt as the burning alive of one of its church-members by another, and the allowance of that act by the missionary pastor of both these persons as not inconsistent with continued membership and " good standing " in a church of the American Board-or, finally, by the public and spontaneous attestation of the Board that the slaveholding churches in which these things had been done with impunity were Christian churches. Nothing of the sort. The only recommendation given by the General Association to this American Missionary Association, (which has, from the beginning, been as faithful in its anti-slavery testimony and influence as in other portions of its Christian work,) was the suggestion that those in the community who wished missionary labor to be performed among the freedmen would do well to use the agency of this body. The changed condition of public opinion seems to be their reason for this first favorable mention of a body which they have hitherto quietly disregarded. So thoroughly has their idea of Christianity been corrupted by their life-long partnership with oppression, that the majority of them do not see or suspect the utter incompatibility of a pro-slavery career like that of their favorite institution, the American Board, or of their clerical associate, South-Side Adams, with the Christian character.-C. K. W. 

LETTER FROM NEWBERN.
NEWBERN, (N. C.) July 7, 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON-In the Liberator, we read communications from Norfolk, Port Royal and other Southern cities where Yankeedom sets up its institutions; and think perhaps observations made in this locality, even from a dull correspondent, may interest your readers.
Two years ago, slavery reigned supreme in this place. All these small, dilapidated buildings, scarcely relieved by one that can make the least pretension to elegance, with dingy negro quarters huddled irregularly in their rear, were occupied by slaveholders and their miserable victims. These chattels personal were not regarded as belonging to the human family; and iniquity, framed into law, made it a penal offence, punishable with death, to instruct them in the first rudiments of learning.
To witness the change which events of momentous import, crowding upon each other with a lock step, have wrought in this brief period of time, is highly interesting and impressive. The badge of slavery is superseded by the U. S. uniform, which challenges respect from the most inveterate opponent; and the reading-book and slate are the accompaniments of these former victims of ignorance wherever they go. They hunger for the "forbidden fruit" of knowledge with a zest of appetite which imparts marvellous power of acquisition.
Last Sunday, I attended religious services at a camp of colored soldiers situated on the suburbs of Newbern. The soldiers have been recruited under the supervision of Major T. C. Jameson, of the 5th Rhode Island Regiment. It was a delightfully pleasant afternoon, and the wives and daughters of the soldiers gaily and some of them very prettily dressed, had collected to attend services with them.
We had much cause to be pleased with the order and decorum which every where prevailed in this camp. We observed the neatness of the little wood-en buildings which, by order of Major Jameson, had been erected, to take the place of less commodious tents in which they had been encamped. We also visited other rough buildings in the vicinity of the camp, put up for the accommodation of soldiers who have families to care for.
It was pleasant to observe such exact military discipline as was apparent throughout the camp, tempered by the kindest regard for the comfort and well-being of the soldiers, whose intellectual and moral as well as physical condition were evidently made the subjects of Major Jameson's peculiar care.
In anticipation of organizing a large and better systematized school for the improvement of all the soldiers belonging to the camp, he has established schools in some of the tents, where many are slaking their thirst for knowledge.
Upon the soil of North Carolina, where freedom is an exotic and not an indigenous plant, it is encouraging to see these people, the offscouring of all things, so recently crushed beneath the heel of despotic power, standing erect, not only in the recognized regality of manhood, but in the noble and magnanimous position of defenders of the country which has crushed them between the upper and nether millstone of oppression.
No more soldier-like looking men could be seen than these colored recruits, as drawn up in a hollow square, their red uniform contrasting finely with their ebony complexions. They went through their accustomed military evolutions previous to the services, which were performed by a clergyman of their own color, assisted by other colored men. During upwards of an hour, they stood almost motionless, like machines.
“Down the long dusky line
Teeth gleam and eye-balls shine."
It was remarked by a looker-on, that few white soldiers would preserve such perfect order. They presented a fine appearance, and one which must disarm the most prejudiced beholder.
None can witness such a scene, and observe their soldier-like bearing, without being impressed with the conviction that this people will cut their path to freedom through the most stubborn obstacles that can beset it-though every step be drenched in rebel blood, in which they will write with the point of the bayonet, on the tablet of this nation, liberty for themselves and their posterity. A. G.
Miss Olympa Brown has been installed pastor of the Universalist church in Weymouth, in this State. The world moves.
<c03>
IS ALCOHOL FOOD?
Extract from Dr. Trail's new work, entitled "The True Temperance Platform"-opposed to the use of alcohol as a medicine:-
What are the scientific facts, with regard to this supremely ridiculous nonsense of the "alcoholic alimentary principle"? It will not bear the ordeal of a moment's scientific examination. When the data are analyzed, this notion will be found quite as absurd as its twin-postulate, that alcohol is a supporter of vitality. When Liebig announced to the world that alcohol is "respiratory food," and used in the system as a "beat-forming" material, he put the temperance reform back, at least a quarter of a century. But if this doctrine be true, I desire to abide by it, be the consequences what they may. I cannot, I will not, knowingly oppose any truth. I do not controvert science. I am not warring upon the intelligence of the age. I am only exposing error, refuting falsities, and opposing the absurd vagaries which have come down to us unchallenged and uninvestigated from the dark ages. I am not disputing facts, but explaining them. I am not denying correct principles, but controverting false assumptions, It is the business of the true physician to interpret the book of nature-to explain the laws of God as revealed in and through the vital organism. Nature's outspread volume is my only text-book of authority. Whatever it teaches, I do most implicitly believe. And if the professors of science mistake the teachings of this book-if they pervert or misapply the data of science-I have the right, and it is my duty to expose the error and disclose the truth if I can.
Alcohol is not food, in any sense whatever. In the light of true science, the assumption is a self-evident absurdity. What is food? The correct answer to this question settles this part of our controversy. Food is that which is convertible into the substance of an organized body. Food is whatever can be used in the formation of the bodily organs and tissues. Alcohol cannot be so used.

THE FALLACY OF LIEBIG EXPOSED.
How came the great Liebig to make this great blunder? Just as chemists, and physiologists, and physicians are continually making blunders. They take morbid appetites instead of the unperverted instincts as their rule of judgment. They take fickle and depraved human habits-as their criterion of truth, instead of the fixed and unalterable laws of nature. Their philosophy comes from the kitchen and the cook, more than it does from nature and the Author of nature.
Liebig noticed that there was extant an appetite for alcoholic drink, and that this propensity was indulged. Liebig seems never to have doubted the propriety of drinking liquor-or perhaps we should say, of eating it, as adults do not drink food. It seems never to have occurred to Liebig, that appetites may become morbid or perverted, and may crave things which are neither useful nor usable in any sense-tobacco for example. Liebig is a chemist; and as an analytical chemist is, perhaps, unsurpassed.

RELATIONS OF CHEMISTRY AND PHYSIOLOGY.
But chemical data can never explain physiological problems. These sciences are as different as life and death. As a chemist, Liebig sought to ascertain what use the living system makes of alcohol. He never conceived that it is not used at all,' and in the very nature of things cannot be. From the data, that there is, in many persons at least, a desire for alcohol, that alcohol has no elements capable of becoming proximate constituents of the tissues, and that the system experienced a sensation of warmth after taking it, Liebig had an easy jump to the conclusion, that alcohol is employed in the vital organism as a "heat-forming" material; and! thus was born the pseudo-scientific monstrosity of "calorifacient" diet. The same reasoning would make cayenne pepper "heat-forming" food; the same logic would make the bite of a serpent a "supporter of vitality," the sting of an adder “respiratory food," and the swallowing of a spider a "stomachic restorative."
Another simple fact settles the whole controversy. Alcohol passes through the system unchanged. Unless it is in some way altered, decomposed, diminished, changed or transposed, it can impart nothing. But an apple, a potato, a piece of bread or beef, when subjected to the digestive process, is formed into blood, bone, muscle, nerve, brain, etc. It is then used as force-material, and reduced to ashes; and the ashes-the debris of the disintegrated tissues-are expelled by the excretory organs in the form of sweat, bile, urine, feces and carbonic acid gas.
Alcohol is not digestible. It is taken into the system as alcohol; is carried through the system as alcohol; and it is expelled from the system as alcohol. If a potato, an apple, a piece of bread, or beef, was expelled from the system as potato, apple, bread, or beef, no one would think it acted or served the part of food. Why must learned men, who can reason rationally on all other subjects, talk nothing but absurdity and nonsense when alcohol is mentioned?
Is it not strange that physicians, who confess they cannot tell in what manner alcohol is used in the organic economy, still persist that it is used in some way? Is it not passing strange that medical men will confess that alcohol passes unchanged through the system, and yet insist that in some marvellous and incomprehensible manner it does something or imparts something?
The blunder, however, in relation to alcohol has been applied to other remedies, particularly the preparations of iron. Not understanding the rationale of the effects of alcohol, they have prescribed many other poisonous agents-most disastrously too-for their patients, on the hypothesis that they also impart some useful or necessary element or constituent to the organs or tissues. Iron is extensively employed as "blood-food," and as a tonic in cases of impoverished or deficient blood, impaired nutrition, debility, aenemia, cachexias, etc.; and most people seem to think it is perfectly harmless. The delusion is analogous to that concerning the medicinal effects of alcohol. Iron in all its forms and preparations occasions a feverish condition of the system, and an inflammatory state of the blood. It is an irritant, a stimulant, a blood-destroyer, a nerve-exhauster, a poison, as is alcohol.

DISTINCTION BETWEEN FOOD AND POISON.
The Law of Organic Life, which applies to the solution of the problems before us, is this: Whatever the living system cannot use, it must reject. And here is the distinction between foods and poisons, which, by the way, we do not find in medical books. Whatever the living system cannot appropriate as food, it must expel as effete matter, as foreign matter, or as poisonous matter.
And here is the doctrine of use and abuse in the vital domain, so much talked about and so little understood. Here is the rule by which we are to determine whether a given substance is useful or injurious. And by this rule we learn at once, that all use of alcohol, or of the preparations of iron, is abuse. An animal organism cannot digest, cannot assimilate, cannot use inorganic substances, to which category iron and alcohol belong.

ALCOHOL AS A CALORIFACIENT.
But does not alcohol in some way impart heat to the body? I answer, no. It imparts nothing. If it did, it would be changed, and would not pass out as alcohol. If it nourished the tissues, it would be decomposed, and pass off as excrement. If it imparted heat, it would be consumed, and pass off as smoke, vapor, or ashes. But if it simply passes unchanged, and does nothing, and imparts nothing, how can it "give tone," "restore strength," or "support vitality"? Nobody will pretend that strength or vitality exists in alcohol; and if it does not exist in it, how can it be obtained from it? “But alcohol occasions heat." So it does. So do arsenic, mercury, antimony, nitre, and all the most deadly agents of the materia drugica. But who suspects any poison that was ever swallowed, except alcohol, of being "heat-forming" food? Call them all, alcohol included, heat-occasioning poisons, and we can understand the language.
"Heat-forming" food! What is heat? It is not settled that heat is a substance to be imparted. It is not a substance to be created. It is not a thing to be formed. According to the best authorities, heat is motion. The sensation of heat is our recognition of the degree or intensity of the motions of the particles of matter. If a body imparts to us the sensation, or rather, if we recognize in a body the sensation of high temperature-if it be hot-it is because its molecular particles are in rapid motion-the consequence of some disturbing agent or influence. Alcohol occasions preternatural beat in the vital domain, only as a disturbing agent, and all beat thus produced is of the kind properly termed fever or inflammation.
<c04>
THE COLORED TROOPS.
PHILADELPHIA, July 11, 1864.
To the Editor of the Press: 
SIR: The following extracts from letters of officers of the colored troops before Petersburg give graphic accounts of the bravery of these troops in the late battles before that city:
HEADQUARTERS 22D U. S. COLORED TROOPS, IN THE FIELD, NEAR PETERSBURG, Va., June 27, '64.
The problem is solved. The negro is a man, a soldier, a hero. Knowing of your laudable interest in the colored troops, but particularly those raised under the immediate auspices of the Supervisory Committee, I have thought it proper that I should let you know how they acquitted themselves in the late actions in front of Petersburg, of which you have already received newspaper accounts. If you remember, in my conversations upon the character of these troops, I carefully avoided saying anything about their fighting qualities till I could have an opportunity of trying them. 
That opportunity came on the 15th. inst and since, and I am now prepared to say that I never, since the beginning of this war, saw troops fight better, more bravely, and with more determination and enthusiasm. Our division, commanded by General Hinks, took the advance on the morning of the 15th inst., arrived in front of the enemy's works about 9 o'clock, A. M., formed line, charged them, and took them most handsomely. Our regiment was the first in the enemy's works, having better ground to charge over than some others, and the only gun that was taken on this first line was taken by our men. The color-sergeant of our regiment planted his colors on the works of the enemy, a rod in advance of any officer or man in the regiment The effect of the colors being thus in advance of the line, so as to be seen by all, was truly inspiring to our men, and to a corresponding degree dispiriting to the enemy. We pushed on two and a half miles further, till we came in full view of the main defences of Petersburg. We formed line at about 2 o'clock P. M., reconnoitred and skirmished the whole afternoon, and we were constantly subject to the shells of the enemy's artillery. At sunset we charged these strong works, and carried them. Major Cook took one with the left wing of our regiment as skirmishers, by getting under the guns, and then preventing their gunners from using their pieces, while he gained the rear and redoubt, where there was no defence but the infantry, which, classically speaking, "skedaddled." We charged across what appeared to be an almost impassable ravine, with the right wing at the time subject to a hot fire of grape and cannister, until we got so far under the guns as to be sheltered, when the enemy took to their rifle-pits as infantry men. Our brave fellows went steadily through the swamp, and up the side of a hill, at an angle of almost fifty degrees, rendered nearly impassable by fallen timber. Here, again, our color-sergeant was conspicuous in keeping far ahead of the most advanced, hanging on to the side of the hill, till he would turn about and wave the stars and stripes at his advancing comrades; then steadily advancing again, under the fire of the enemy, till he could almost have reached their rifle-pits with his flagstaff. How he kept from being killed I do not know, unless it can be attributed to the fact that the party advancing up the side of the hill always has the advantage of those who hold the crest. It was in this way that we got such a decided advantage over the enemy at "South Mountain." We took in these two redoubts four more guns, making, in all, five for our regiment, two redoubt, and part of a rifle-pit as our day's work. The 5th, 6th, and 7th U. S. Colored Troops advanced against works more to the left The 4th U. S. Colored Troops took one more redoubt, and the enemy abandoned the other. In these two we got two more guns, which made, in all, seven. The 6th Regiment did not get up in time, unfortunately, to have much of the sport, as it had been previously formed in the second line. We left forty-three men wounded, and eleven killed in the ravine over which our men charged the last time. Our loss in the whole day's operations was one hundred and forty-three, including six officers, one of whom was killed. Sir, there is no underrating the good conduct of these fellows during these charges; with but a few exceptions, they all went in as old soldiers, but with more enthusiasm. I am delighted that our first action resulted in a decided victory.
The commendations we have received from the Army of the Potomac, including its general officers, are truly gratifying. Hancock's corps arrived just in time to relieve us (we being out of ammunition) before the rebels were reinforced and attempted to retake these strong works and commanding positions, without which they could not hold Petersburg one hour, if it were a part of Grant's plan to advance against it on the right here.
General Smith speaks in the highest terms of the day's work, as you have doubtless seen, and he assured me, in person, that our division should have the guns we took as trophies of honor. He is also making his word good in saying that he could hereafter trust colored troops in the most responsible positions. Colonel Ames, of the 6th U. S. C. T., and our regiment, have just been relieved in the front, where we served our tour of forty-eight hours in turn with the other troops of the corps. While out, we were subjected to some of the severest shelling I have ever seen, Malvern Hill not excepted. The enemy got twenty guns in position during the night, and opened on us yesterday morning at daylight. Our men stood it, behind their works of course, as well as any of the white troops. Our men, unfortunately, owing to the irregular feature of the ground, took no prisoners. Sir, we can bayonet the enemy to terms on this matter of treating colored soldiers as prisoners of war far sooner than the authorities at Washington can bring him to it by negotiation. This I am morally persuaded of. I know further that the enemy wont fight us if he can help it. I am sure that the same number of white troops could not have taken those works on the evening of the 15th; prisoners that we took told me so. I mean prisoners who came in after the abandonment of the fort, because they could not get away. They excuse themselves on the ground of pride; as one of them said to me, "D-d if men educated as we have been will fight with niggers, and your Government ought not to expect it." The real fact is, the rebels will not stand against our colored soldiers when there is any chance of their being taken prisoners, for they are conscious of what they justly deserve. Our men went into these works after they were taken yelling, "Fort Pillow!" The enemy well knows what this means, and I will venture the assertion that that piece of infernal brutality enforced by them there has cost the enemy already two men for every one they so inhumanly murdered.
[Extract from another Letter.]
As I am not writing a strictly formal letter, I shall take the liberty to express the satisfaction that we all feel that, at last, Congress has acknowledged the worth of our troops as soldiers, and are one step nearer owning their rights as men. Whether or not the action of June 15th had anything to do with the voice of the House in passing the "Equalizing Act," I cannot say. And as the ultimate end is now obtained, it perhaps matters but little. Still I could have wished that our lawgivers had meted out justice for Justice's sake, and not as a matter of policy and expediency. But that it is passed at all is a matter of wonder to some of us, and of congratulation to all. We feel that if our boys fought so well when laboring under a feeling of doubt, almost of despondency, as to the course Government would pursue with them, we would not fear for their valor when they are stimulated by a feeling of hope and public appreciation. You have doubtless read and heard much of their conduct during the engagement of June 15th; but, as a general thing, the newspapers give but a partial view. To appreciate fully what they did, one must remember that it was not a charge made suddenly on first finding the enemy, and while all was enthusiasm, but that for five long hours they were subjected to a heavy cannonade of shot and shell, all the time cautiously approaching -walking-creeping-crawling in the very dust, by regiment, by company, and almost man by man. Five hours were spent in crossing an open, almost level field a quarter of a mile in width. But under all this fire they remained perfectly bidable, and when the order to charge came, they were as ready to obey and as enthusiastic to rush on as any soldiers could be. 
[From Another Letter.]
The Johnnies are not as much afraid of us as they are of the Mokes, (i.e., colored troops.) When they charge, they will not take any prisoners if they can help it. Their cry is, "Remember Fort Pillow!" Sometimes, in their sentiment, they for-
<c05>
get what to say, and when they catch a man they say: " Remember what you done to us, way back, down dar!"
On the road, stop at a farm house, and ask the darks where the proprietor is, the answer returned is: "Marsa gwan to Petersburg, and so is all de rest ob de family."

HOW THE COLORED TROOPS FIGHT 
INCIDENTS OF THE ATTACK ON PETERSBURG.
The correspondent of the Tribune writes from the headquarters of General Butler, under date of June 16:-
"I find that in my account of the assault upon the rebel works in front of Petersburg, I hardly did the colored troops justice. As before stated, they held a position on the Jourden Point Road, and connected with Gen. Brooks's division on the right. In front of them were an earthwork and three redoubts. They were first directed to assault the earthwork. It is proper here to state that Gen. Smith, in common with many other good soldiers, while recognizing the propriety of using the negroes as soldiers for certain purposes, has at the same time entertained doubts as to their fighting qualities, and therefore wished to try them. It is, perhaps, needless to add that the quietly but firmly expressed confidence of their leader, General Hinks, in their ability to cope with white troops, had much to do with removing doubts which existed, and dispelling illusions existing only in imagination.
The accident to Gen. Hinks, alluded to in my last letter, deterred him from that active participation in the fight which he otherwise would have been sure to have taken. As it was, suffering from his old wounds, opened afresh by his fall, to which may be added fresh bruises and contusions, he still persisted in directing the movements of his division; and it is but stating the truth to say that the heroism thus displayed by their commander inspired the officers, and through them the privates, to deeds of valor. To return, the charge upon the advanced works was made in splendid style; and as the dusky warriors stood shouting upon the parapet, General Smith decided that ' they would do,' and sent word for them to storm the first redoubt. Steadily these troops moved on, led by officers whose unostentatious bravery is worthy of emulation. With a shout and rousing cheers, they dashed at the redoubt. Grape and canister were hurled at them by the infuriated rebels. They grinned and pushed on, and with a yell that told the Southern chivalry their doom, rolled irresistibly over and into the work. The guns were speedily turned upon those of our misguided brethren who forgot that discretion is the better part of valor."
Another redoubt was carried in the same gallant style, and the negroes have established a reputation that they will surely maintain. 
'Well,' said Gen. Butler's Chief of Staff to a tall sergeant, 'you had a pretty tough fight there on the left.' 'Yes, sir, and we lost a good many officers and men.' 'How many prisoners did you take, sergeant?' 'Not any alive, sir,' was the significant response. Gen. Smith says, 'They don't give my Provost Marshal the least trouble, and I don't believe they contribute toward filling up the hospitals with rebel wounded.'
I saw those troops as they advanced in line o. battle, and it was the general comment that there was less straggling than ever seen. In truth, there was none.
General Grant visited the front yesterday, and while there one of his aids, who wore no distinguishing mark of office, was arrested by one of the colored soldiers on guard. They would not believe his story, but took him to Gen. Grant to corroborate his assertion. 'Well, General, I have been arrested by this soldier, who won't believe my story.' The Commander-in-Chief identified and released his aid, telling the soldier he had done his duty. He then remarked to his aid, ‘Served you right, sir; I am glad of it, as it shows the negroes are vigilant. The next time you had better wear something to indicate your rank and profession, or else keep out of their way.' Let me add that Gen. Grant and staff have become quite enthusiastic over the performances of the colored division. Officers on Gen. Hancock's staff, as they rode by the redoubt, surrounded by a moat with water in it, over which these negroes charged, admitted that its capture was a most gallant affair. The negroes bear their wounds quite as pluckily as the white soldiers, as a visit to the hospital made apparent."

A SHOCKING PICTURE DRAWN FROM LIFE.
(Extract from a letter written by a soldier in the 140th Pennsylvania Volunteers.)
NEAR RICHMOND, VA., June 18, 1864.
When I last wrote you, I believe we were near Fredericksburg. Since then, the rebels have been "turned" out of position after position, and have been driven across every river from the Rapidan to the James. Grant's tactics are entirely strange to see. As a rebel prisoner expressed it, "he flanks us on the left, and fights us on the right." The entire practicability of the overland route to Richmond, which the McClellanites so vehemently denounced, has been fully demonstrated. These terrible fortifications-impregnable, they said-which covered every plain and lined every crest from Fredericks- burg to Richmond, have been successfully turned, and the "intersecting rivers" have been used to complete the process. And, instead of finding a hostile country, we found thousands of friends who had been long looking for us, and who rejoiced at our coming. The poor negroes! it would have done your heart good to see them at every plantation, with their bundles and children, waiting to join the train. The wagon trains alone picked up about three thousand of these freedmen-free now. God bless the President! I wish some of the pro-slavery people of the North would come out here, and see how this system of slavery has been carried on in this State, the stock-raising State of the Confederacy.
I remember about four miles north of the Pamunkey River we were met by a delegation of Uncle Toms, hardy black fellows, who wanted to emigrate to the Yankee land of promise. They said they represented 150 slaves, the property of Mr. Anderson Scott, who owned these cultivated fields for miles. They wanted to get their children carried in our transportation wagons to White House Landing, from which place they had been assured Uncle Sam would take them North. Our wagons being full, we could accommodate but few. However, anything was preferable to being a slave; so they determined to come along any way. About a mile further, we came to the mansion of this rich slave lord, Mr. Scott. A broad avenue, lined with wide-spreading magnolias in full bloom, led up to the house, which was the usual style of Southern plantation houses. On one side of his house, and in the rear, stood a very neat and tidy little slave but. Everything was neat and tidy about. The little yard neatly trimmed and swept, the door-step scrubbed to an astonishing degree of whiteness; every thing, in fact, denoting the careful and skilful housekeeper.
Around the door were three women and about half a dozen children, from the wee baby to the young girl of fifteen or sixteen. Two of the women were about a shade lighter than the quadroon, while all the children were white. The third woman was apparently pure white; her eyes were blue, her hair was brown and straight; her features were entirely American-nothing to denote a particle of negro blood. In her arms she had a beautiful little boy about four years old, with fair hair and blue eyes. This woman was crying bitterly when we rode up. Thinking that she was a member of the family, we tried to console her by assuring her that Yankees made war upon men, and not upon women. Can you imagine how shocked we were when we were told that this white woman and child were slaves, and that the degraded mother was weeping for shame at her degradation! Lieut. Wren, Quartermaster of the 61st New York, was so excited that he bolted into the house, and his sword rattled and his spurs jingled with his impetuosity, as he strode along the halls in search of the old scoundrel, Scott.
I asked one of the women why she did not bundle up and come along, now that she had a chance, with the rest. She said she had an idiotic son in the house, who was he could not go without him. asked this woman if she was the daughter of the owner of the plantation. She said she was! We went into the hut, and upon a clean bed there sat this poor idiot boy. white as I am, with brown hair. About this time Mr. Scott came in, the lord and owner of all these white people, whiter than himself! He is an old, shriveled up, baboon-faced, crooked-backed little specimen of Southern chivalry-aristocratic as a king, and "Virginian born, by Gawd." I asked the mother of this boy if Mr. Scott was his father. You should have seen her blush as I she answered "Yes." The incestuous old beast
<c06>
This idiot son-the child of his own daughter-father and grandfather to his own children!
Now send down your pro-slavery partisans and Copperheads of the North to look upon this. Talk to me of the divinity of slavery! The horrible barbarity and crimes of this "institution" can never be told in the North. They must be seen to be believed. Is it possible that any nation can live or stand that has for its corner-stone this crime? I go on with renewed and firmer faith, if possible, in the absolute justice of our cause. I consider this war a marvellous blessing. We are rooting out the dragon's teeth that we have sown, and in their stead drop the precious seed of freedom for all. I have an impression that amounts to a conviction, that this war will not terminate until slavery, the essence of crime and "the sum of all villanies." is destroyed completely and irretrievably. Heaven grant that so it may be. Do you know how these skin aristocrats rave over the new theory of miscegenation, or the mixture of the races? Here we have a practical illustration of their duplicity and inconsistency, in the very worst form of miscegenation-incestuous amalgamation.
All the rest of the old man's slaves (floating capital) passed by at this time with their traps and papooses, shouting, on the road to glory and to freedom, "Come along! come along! We're gwine to has white slaves, who, knowing their inability to go along without the boy, began to cry in the most distressing manner, and there in the midst of them stood this old scoundrel, the author of all this misery. I believe I would have been justified in breaking his neck.
We advised these poor people to stay, as they were perfectly safe, being inside our lines, and in case we tell back we would manage to take them with us; and in the meantime, if the old man ill-treated them, we would come back and chastise him. So we went away, and encamped that night on the banks of the sluggish and malarious Pamunkey. Let me say to you, with reverence, that this country would abolitionize the devil. We seem to have settled down to the regular operations of a siege. Everything is favorable to us. We believe Grant to be the greatest General of the age, and every soldier seems to be animated with the spirit of the Commanding General. Lee has been driven a distance of seventy miles, and is now emphatically in his "last ditch," within the sound of his own church bells.

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT
THE QUESTION OF RECONSTRUCTION-MR.LINCONS DECLARES HIS POLICY.
WASHINGTON, July 9.
Whereas, the late session of Congress passed a bill to guaranty to certain States, whose government have been usurped or overthrown, a republican form of government, a copy of which is hereunto annexed;
And whereas, the said bill was presented to the President of the United States for his approval in less than one hour before the sine die adjournment of said session, and was not signed by him;
And whereas, the said bill contains, among other things, a plan for restoring the States in rebellion to their proper practical relation in the Union, and which plan expressed the sense of Congress upon that subject, and which plan it is now thought fit to lay before the people for their consideration;
Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do proclaim, declare and make known, while I am, as I was in December last, when by proclamation I propounded a plan for restoration, unprepared, by a formal approval of this bill, to be inflexibly committed to any single plan of restoration; and while I am also unprepared to declare that the free State Constitutions and Governments already adopted and installed in Arkansas and Louisiana shall be set aside and held for nought, thereby repelling and discouraging the loyal citizens who have set up the same as to further effort, or to declare a constitutional competency in Congress to abolish slavery in the States, but am at the same time sincerely hoping and expecting that a constitutional amendment abolishing slavery throughout the nation may be adopted:
Nevertheless, I am fully satisfied with the system for restoration contained in the bill as one very proper plan for the loyal people of any State choosing to adopt it, and that I am, and at all times shall be prepared to give the executive aid and assistance to any such people as soon as the military resistance to the United States shall have been suppressed in such State, and the people thereof shall have satisfactorily returned to their obedience to the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in which case military governors will be appointed with directions to proceed according to the bill.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this 8th day of July, in the year of our Lord on thousand [L.S.] eight hundred and sixty-four, and of the independence of the United States the eighty ninth.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
By the President:
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

THE FOURTH OF JULY.
The great national festival of the United States will be celebrated this year with uncommon spirit. On the last anniversary, Grant occupied Vicksburg; this Fourth, crowning glory of all, he is to take Richmond. With the capture of Richmond the war is to end, the principal rebels be executed, the plantations and negroes of the South pass to Northern proprietor, its mighty States dwindle into subjugated territories, and the Republic move on with a momentum and majesty which will astonish and overawe the world. The America eagle, with one wing overshadowing the Atlantic and the other the Pacific, and with the Southern Confederacy struggling helplessly in his takes, will soar aloft, giving a scream that will scare the British Lion, out of his wits, and make the Gallic Cock "skedaddle" like a Shanghai. Oh, puissant and irresistible Ulysses! Oh, memorable and immortal of July 1864!
We consider it an unfortunate thing that the 4th of July does not occur in December. The thermometer ought to indicate the freezing point when a man reads the Declaration of Independence to a Northern audience at such a time as this. He must be a cool man naturally, and ought to have a refrigerator for <illegible>, who has the face to go through that document before a public assembly, from the clause which means that "all governments derive there just powers from the consent of the governed," down to the final article in the long list of royal outrages-"he has exceed domestic insurrection among us." down to the final which in the long list of royal outrages-"he has exceed domestic insurrection among us." There is not a wrong alleged nor a grievance enumerated in that instrument which Lincoln has not perpetrated and <illegible>. To denounce a defunct King of England <illegible> which an American President is eulogized for performing, is an enterprise which no ordinary <illegible> would undertake in this weather.
These are the circumstances which must add to the difficulty of such a performance. Such, for example as the fact that "the day they celebrate" downed from the sky of that Virginia which they are new seeking to rend and devour; that it was Richard Henry Lee, delegate from Virginia, who, by instructions from his constituents, rose in that <illegible>, and moved the resolution of Independence; that it was Thomas Jefferson, of Virginia, who <illegible> Declaration whose anniversary they celebrate that it was George Washington, of Virginia, whose <illegible> cheiftainship made that Declaration good. To aid new glories to the Fourth of July by crushing Virginia forever to the dust, is a conception which enter none but the brains of a "peculiar people"
Happily for us, they can enjoy that feast only it imagination. Their demi-god Ulysses has failed to furnish their populace the promised entertainment. The capture of Richmond on the Fourth of July has not come off according to the programme. Nevertheless, let the Northern patriots be content. If they have not taken the capital, they have burned the face houses, devastated the fields and plundered the <illegible> population of a State which gave them Aaron, whose lips pronounced the Declaration of their freedom, and the Moses whose valor led them through the desert.
The only doctrine of the whole Declaration which the North can consistently rejoice in is that which deserts the equality of man, and which is the <illegible> blunder in that great document.
That all men are created equal; that they are equal politically, morally or socially; that they are equal in any other than a religious sense, is too evident <illegible> in any other than a religious sense, is too evident <illegible>absurdity gravely to discuss. But this single <illegible> has swallowed up in the Northern mind all the <illegible> truths and principles of constitutional liberty. It is this, as applied specially to the ignorant and <illegible> Africans, which is the mainspring of the most was known in modern times. It is this <illegible> blinds the North to the supreme folly of celebrations their own freedom by endeavoring to enslave others of degrading themselves to the level of the blacks <illegible> endeavoring to produce by miscegenation that <illegible> which the God of Nature has forbidden, and <illegible> glorying in their shame-Richmond Dispatch, July, 2.
The letter written by Gen. Washington, <illegible> ply to the notification that the freedom of the city of New York had been granted him, lately sold at <illegible> for $2250.
