THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT,
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances arc to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of lie paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized 
to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND, JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World our Country are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. No. 38 BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1650.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A REVOLUTION THREATENED.
Tumors of a meditated Pro-Slavery Military usurpation have filled the air for some days past. Here are some significant extracts from a Washington letter in the New York Express:-
WASHINGTON, Sept, 8, 1862.
There is now within this city a party of men-enemies to their country, doing all they can to retard the progress of our armies through the difficulties which surround them. I allude to the vile fanatics, who have been ever since the close of the last session of Congress, wandering between here and their bonus importuning the President to death with their miserable theories of universal emancipation, and doing more, to destroy the. spirit of our armies than could a Rebel foe ten times their number. These Abolition fanatics are now more violent than ever; they regard this as the proper time to grind put of Mr. Lincoln a proclamation, the issue of which he had, heretofore, manfully resisted, proclaiming everywhere within our borders universal freedom. The President has actually been so worried lately by their ungenerous appeals and diabolical scheming, that he appears to have become twenty years older in less than a week. It is the same party who have been hunting McClellan with their dastardly howling since the moment they became aware of his sincerity to the Union and the Constitution.
Senator Wilson is here as blatant an Abolition hound upon the track of good men as ever. He is urging with might and main-and not alone in the work-that the President ignore the Constitution as he has done, trample under foot the sacred rights of humanity, and proclaim that to the world which, if consummated, will lead to the execution of such wrongs and outrage? as will not only gain for us the contempt of all European nations, but will spread corruption, murder, and villainy so wide that we should slink in the nostrils of the world.
Such men as Wilson, Chandler and Lovejoy should beware how they conduct themselves in these times. They dare not now stand in the streets and hotels of our city, and vent their curses upon our leader-the day for that is past; political demagoguism has achieved its all, and there is to be no more listening to the carping of such men. As for Senator Wilson, it does not become him to seek for braver commanders, and to meddle too much in the affairs of the nation. He had better leave that to braver men if they must be interfered with; but for a Massachusetts Colonel, who resigned after having paraded his regiment through Pennsylvania avenue, and having heard afar off dreadful notes of Ball's Bluff, this interference is really out of place. The thing, however, has come to this pass: the people want no more Abolition and fanatical intermeddling with the National affairs. Members of Congress should stay at home after Congress has adjourned, and not worry to death the Chief Magistrate of the nation with questions and uncalled for advice. The people are becoming convinced of these things, and they will demand it. Already can be heard the muttering, the disapproval of their traitorous designs upon the President, should he not accede to their demands; and of sure as the sun will rise to-morrow, there will be tenfold worse calamities than the present to relate, if Abolition malice and vile political scheming is allowed much longer to rear its head, while the national existence is threatened so sternly.

THE COURSE FOR McCLELLAN.
The political vultures still hover over Washington-Wilson, Fessenden and the rest are there, waiting for their opportunity to give McClellan a stab in the back, like stealthy Indians, and then raise their hideous war-whoop against him once more.
Under these, circumstances, what is the duty of General McClellan? His position is like that of Wellington in the Spanish peninsula, when he was interfered with by the British Cabinet; and it is a duty which he owes to the country, no less than to himself, to follow the example of that illustrious and patriotic general. When “the iron Duke “found that the administration were bent on his destruction, and the defeat of the army which he was leading he firmly took his stand, and insisted that the cabal should be broken up. His country was in danger, and he was in a position to dictate terms. His remonstrance had the desired effect: the meddling Cabinet was overthrown, and thenceforward victory crowned the British arms. Now this if the ground which McClellan ought to take, in reference to that portion of the administration at Washington which is responsible for the present condition of things.
He ought to insist upon the modification and reconstruction of the Cabinet, in order to have it purged of the radical taint which may again infuse its poison over the whole. Now is the time for him to prove himself not only a great general, but a statesman worthy of the occasion, and of the responsibility which he has assumed. The safety of the country is entrusted to him. He is bound to see that no insidious enemy lurks behind about his base of operations. His own security and the security of his army are involved, and the fate of the republic itself is at stake. He is master of the situation. He is the only man in whom the troops and the country have confidence as a general for the chief command of the army m the field. He has a right to demand indemnity for the past and security for the future, and he ought not to rest satisfied till he is assured by facts, not mere promises, that his plans shall not be interfered with hereafter. The game is now in his hands, and unless he plays his best trump, and disposes effectually of the radicals, as he has the power to do, they win soon dispose of him by striking him down in the very crisis of the campaign now opened in Maryland, on which hang the destinies of the American republic, and of millions of the human race yet unborn- New York Herald.

McCLELLAN.
The Abolition dervishes are sneering and growing and howling at McClellan, “He believes in earthworks, “the press says that, a year ago, called for the deposition of the President. “He has lost the confidence of the people, “And the set in general have some deprecatory word or some shallow sneer. What they really mean is an assault on the President! The Detroit Press thus sketches this tribe in the region of the bloody Abolitionist, Wade:- “The followers of our bloody Senator, of course, had long faces, and were profuse in the abuse which they heaped upon the President. They openly advised the impeachment not only of the president, but the Secretary of War, and Major-General Halleck, the Commander-in-Chief; but in the same proportion that the radicals were offended, the friends of the Constitution rejoiced.” And this journal thus talks about such rascality: “We care very little, “are its indignant words, “for these attacks upon General McClellan. At the proper
<c02>
time he will vindicate himself. He will not, because he is traduced, resign in the face of the enemy. He will not whine, nor complain at the orders of the Government. But we do care for the devilish spirit which prompts those attacks.”-Boston Post. 

DR. BROWNSON.
The rebellion of the South has given Dr. Brownson a wide opportunity for the display of his political wisdom. Archbishop Hughes and he have had one or two tilts on the emancipation of the negro, in which our learned friend got a terribly severe trimming. His philosophic wings have not been the same since. But the Abolitionists have done a good deal to furnish him with new feathers to cover up the old bleeding stumps; and, recently, at Washington, he showed the Abolitionists his gratitude, by giving them a. strong speech on the necessity of immediately emancipating the four millions of blacks of the South.
We had thought that the Doctor was a sound Constitutionalist. But, by the insane speech alluded to, he would tear the Constitution to flitters. He means emancipation for ever: but the Constitution says, “No attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attainted: “therefore, Doctor Brownson's emancipation is directly subversive of the Constitution. But the prudence of the thing is worse than the law of it. The emancipation of the slaves would render it utterly impossible to restore the Union; and what would these creatures do with themselves, if they were unfettered from their happy servility? Could the Government provide for them? It could not. How would the Abolitionists treat them? They have enough to do to find subsistence for themselves and their families, without assuming negro responsibilities. So that the Doctor is blindly illegal and blindly inhuman. He must be an odd philosopher who would destroy the Constitution to save it, and an insane humanitarian who would expose four millions of wretches to certain misery and desolation. Greeley and the other fanatics never went farther than this.
But the thing cannot be done. The war is not for emancipation, nor for the overthrow of the Constitution in any way. Extravagant egotistical philosophers will not live for ever; the democracy of the nation will; and while that lasts, the nation will be preserved. Ten years ago, Doctor Brownson had fair grounds for hoping that he would in time be ranked among the most eminent philosophers of the world: but he has lost his footing-those grounds have slipped away from him-as he has grown older he has grown weaker-his prospects of enduring fame have become certainties of wretched notoriety -the Bishops withdrew from him their signatures-and henceforward he must sink or swim with the dire pests of the Republic, the Abolitionists of the North. The foppery of the Stagyrite was forgotten in the greatness of his works; the errors of de Lamenais are out of sight in the superiority of some of his productions; but the Editor of Brownson's Review has nothing to overbalance the fanatic abolition demagogueism that now leads his faculties. His educated Protestants have neither the ability nor the gratitude to save him.-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
Why babble here and now about a policy? Why thus promote disunion at home? Why not stand simply for the Constitution? Down, patriot if you be, on the covert maligners of our Generals, of our army, of our President, of our Constitution and our Union, because they are against their infernal schemes; let every man's indignant voice be set against the Abolition herd who are preaching anti-lawism from the rostrum of enlistment meetings, or the pulpit, or the press. Its tendency is to divide the loyal North. Stand for the Constitution.
Patriot! Do you grow faint-hearted at the way the thing looks for our nationality? See President Lincoln's firm resolve to stand in and under the Constitution, and thus save the Union, as he slaps radicalism, and makes it smart and reel.-New York • Herald.
Now that the “First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers “-having received their red breeches from General Hunter-are disbanded, the niggers who composed the “nucleus “of Greeley and Hunter's army of “Americans of African descent, “have been put to work making rush baskets and cedar tubs, so that Uncle Sam now adds to his numerous other avocations that of basket and tub maker.
Greeley and the whole abolition tribe do not like this. Was there ever such cruelty heard of as to force a nigger to make tubs and baskets? It is awful-a pro-slavery device, a degradation of flesh and blood, a waste of General Hunter's red breeches. Poor Greeley! Poor Abolitionists, that they should live to see their sable darlings making tubs and baskets!-Detroit Free Press.
When Democrats are asked to abandon their party, let them reply that while that party controlled the Government, there was peace and plenty in the land. There was a market for everything at a good price, and labor had its reward. In an evil hour, the Democracy was defeated, and, alas, what has followed! Now we are in the midst of the most terrible civil war the world ever knew. Bloodshed is the order of the day. Carnage is all over the land. This is the result of a change from Democratic policy. Why then should Democrats abandon their party? Never! Let them stand by their party, and when we succeed to power again, we will right the misfortunes brought upon the land by Republican rule.-Evansville (Ind.) Gazette.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:
The following extract from the speech of the Rev. J. M. Manning, in the Tremont Temple, as remembered by one of the bearers, has considerable significance:-
“When the curtain rises in heaven to reveal the purest saints, we shall see John C. Fremont, General Hunter, Henry Ward Beecher, Wendell Phillips and Wm. Lloyd Garrison as the purest saints in heaven.”
There was a reflection caused by the above portion of the Rev. gentleman's speech, Mr. Editor, on one of the hearers, that may be well for Bro. Manning and his orthodox brethren to look to, or else give up some of their apparent opposition to Theo. Parker's faith, which Manning and his co-religionists have thundered against in by-gone times. The circumstances and reflection were these. The gentleman who gives the above extract attended the meeting with his wife, who is a member of an orthodox church in Boston; they both heard the speech, and after retiring from the Temple, and quietly walking towards their home, the wife asked her husband if some of those persons named by Mr. Manning were not followers of Theo. Parker? Yes, replied the husband. Then, said the lady, “I cannot see how Mr. Manning can expect to see them in heaven.”
Z.
<c03>
Selections.
LEADERS AS WELL AS A POLICY.
BY WENDELL PHILLIPS.
All agree that what we need is a wise and settled Policy, resting on a ripe Public Opinion. We may hope that despair of success, on its present plan, will incline the Government to another. In that case, we ought to understand ourselves in time.
Underrating our enemies, and using one hand instead of both, have been our errors hitherto. Let us run no risk of repeating either mistake. Radical men ask of the President an Emancipation Policy-a proclamation declaring all slaves free men. Of what use would such a proclamation be, if Halleck and McClellan in the field, and Blair and Seward in the Cabinet, are left to execute it? It would not be worth the paper it wasted. We have plenty of good laws now, but no one executes them-as Mr. Greeley has shown in his terrible letter to the President. The confiscation law, and all the action of Congress in that direction, are as yet nullities, because the President omits to put them in force.
In all Parliaments and Congresses, a measure proposed and adopted is left to be shaped by its friends. In all governments, a new policy to be tried is tried by its friends. This is the dictate of good sense, and the usage of all governments. When our Government accepted the plan of the Monitor, they employed Ericsson, its inventor, to build it. When the British people demanded the Reform Bill, the King called to office Lord Grey, the life-long champion of that change. If the President should proclaim Emancipation, and Halleck, McClellan and Buell smother, under pretence of executing, the measure, it will be a failure. Let us provide beforehand against such a danger. Let it be understood now, that our claim of the Government is, “Satisfy yourselves fully that you Conciliation Policy has failed, and then we demand a proclamation of Freedom-War on war principles “-to be conducted by such men as Sumner of Massachusetts, Stevens of Pennsylvania, and Wade of Ohio, and their friends in the Cabinet-and by Phelps, Hunter, Sigel, and Fremont in the field. The country has given Conservatism and Conciliation a year and a half of time, a thousand million of dollars, and two hundred thousand lives, to try their plans and do their best. Under a Cabinet and Generals of their own choice, their policy has been fully tried, and failed. We stand now about where we were when we started. But for
<illegible> hardly distinguish the Washington of September, 1862, from the Washington of September, 1861.
Our language now should be, “Gentlemen, your game is played out. Give us place. We have had sham fights and rose-water, imbeciles and traitors, till the land is satisfied. Now we will make war in earnest, with an idea in it, under statesmen and soldiers.”
The times are too serious to risk another mistake. Let thinking men solemnly impress it on the nation that, no matter how high in office, or how wide the rule reaches, no Emancipation policy is of any value, unless its earnest and downright friends are put at the head of affairs. Let us state now that whenever President Lincoln, according to his promise to Mr. Greeley, adopts a new method, dictated by necessity, we demand, according to good sense and all national usage, that he put into the Cabinet men who have advocated that policy since the beginning of the war, and give the control of the army to soldiers whose hearts are in that plan-soldiers like Sigel, who have never met a reverse; and like Fremont, who, thwarted at every point, and robbed of both men and supplies, can still boast that, thus far, he is the only General before whom Stonewall Jackson has retreated, though having two men to our one. This demand springs from no weak partiality for favorite men, but is an imperative necessity, a fair claim, a simple conformity with approved and judicious custom. Anything short of this is mocking the country with empty professions. Lacking this, we radicals have no confidence in any mere proclamations, but expect and prophesy their failure. In this doubt how to save the ship, we claim fair play and equal opportunities. Gentlemen conciliators and Quaker soldiers, you have fairly tried your plan. Our time is come; we claim the whole field, and the whole control of the reins.-New York Independent.
ANTI-ABOLITION RANT.
“Mr. Phillips declares that from 1843 to 1861 he was a disunionist, and sought to break this Union! So far, then, as regards that period, there can be no mistake. He was, to all intents and purposes, at that time, just as much a traitor at heart as Barnwell Rhett, This qualifying remark that he sought disunion by means which the Constitution itself warranted and protected, amounts to nothing. Rhett, in preaching' peaceable secession,' made the same claim, and with no greater absurdity.”-N. Y. World.
This is a fair specimen of the anti-abolition rant which a few papers are disseminating in their daily and weekly issues. More arrant nonsense could not be written. Barnwell Rhett is a traitor. Why? Because he took up arms against his country, or encouraged those who did. Wendell Phillips is also a traitor. Why? Did he do the same thing? Oh no, but he advocated disunion. Is it treason to advocate disunion? Certainly not, unless it be proposed to carry it out by force of arms. Any member of Congress might rise in his place, and propose to relinquish the State of Maine, or purchase Cuba, either of which would be a very foolish proposition, but who would think of branding the proposal as treason? It is only when it wants to make a case against an Abolitionist, that the World forgets the meaning of words. Mr. Phillips's profession that he would have dissolved the Union by constitutional means “amounts to nothing, “says the World. Proof, Barnwell Rhett advocated “peaceable secession. “The honest purpose, then, of Mr. Phillips is just as criminal as the hypocritical pretension of the rebel. The false excuse of the one is equally valid with the real excuse of the other. If the Southern secessionists had confined themselves to peaceful petitions to Congress in favor of separation, the World well knows that whatever else they might have been, they would not have been traitors. In asserting that “Wendell Phillips is just as much a traitor at heart as Barnwell Rhett, “the World is doing its best to obliterate all just distinctions between treason and loyalty, arid to bring us into a state of. absolute anarchy, for the attainment of partisan objects. The; infamous work that such sheets are accomplishing would array Northern society, party against party, in fiercer and more bloody than Robespierrean hate. There is too much reason to fear that there mischief-makers will succeed in their diabolical designs. The only hope is that the World and Herald and their abettors may find themselves in so helpless a minority as to be unable to accomplish that to which all their efforts so manifestly tend.-American Baptist.
<c04>
BOLD AND TIMELY.
The Hon. THADDEUS STEVENS, Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means in the present House, having been re-elected to said House in 1860 by the pretty decisive vote of 12,964 to 470 scattering, has just been unanimously nominated to the next House. On being notified of his nomination, he appeared and addressed the Convention as follows:-
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I have come for the purpose of addressing you, and accepting your nomination. It is always gratifying to a public man to be assured of the continued confidence of those whose servant he is, but especially so in times like these, when the wisest men differ on questions of policy. I had prepared to speak on those questions, and to criticize, not in a fulsome manner, but as I thought it deserved, the conduct of the war and the present policy of the Administration; but in the last hour I have hesitated whether to speak as I had intended-whether it were proper to criticize now, in this hour of deepest gloom, when we know not where our armies are, but know that they are nowhere successful. But, whether we advise the Government or find fault with it, we must all do everything to strengthen the hands of our nation. Let us not despair; life is not all sunshine-it has gloom with joy, adversity with prosperity-nor is the victory always to the just-human energy and earnestness will often wrest from fate what would seem to belong to justice alone. Possibly we have not yet suffered enough; but let no man falter in his loyalty to his Government, no matter how he may criticize its policy; for he who falters now is a traitor, not only to his country, but to humanity and to his God. I have not determined whether to speak as I had intended; perhaps when we know the result of these few days, I may meet you and speak to you. I have protested against the present policy, not only to the people, but to the face of the President and his Cabinet, and on the floor of Congress, as those know who have done me the honor to read my speeches; told them that they were exercising too much lenity at the request of border statesmen-not one of whom, in my judgment, has loyalty in his heart. I have accused the prime minister to his face for having gone back from the faith he taught us, and instead of arming every man, black or white, who would fight for this Union, withholding a well-meaning President from doing so until, as we advance into their country and our armies dwindle away from miasma and disease, they spring up behind us, and retake what we had gained. They still hold the Mississippi, and threaten us even on the banks of the Ohio all because the slave at home are giving them no trouble-because we are, at the point of the bayonet, keeping them loyal to their masters, instead of to the Union! I have told these things to the President and Cabinet, and they replied- “It may come to this.” “Come to this!” when 200,000 men have melted away, and $2,000,000,000 spent! “Come to this!” when another half million lives shall have been lost, and a billion of dollars more laid upon you in taxation. I cannot and will not stand this-and if you elect me, I shall vote that every man be armed, black and white, who can aid in crushing the rebellion; that every inch of rebel soil be taken and sold to pay the debt of this war. I will not go with the President in paying for all the slaves-I did not vote for his resolution-I will not vote to pay for any slave of a rebel! But I will uphold the Administration as far a possible-saying at the same time that it is all in vain, unless they change their policy. Would it not be better that 15,000 armed slaves should lie unburied around the battle-fields near Manassas, than that your friends and mine should thus be there? The rebels might have slain them; they would have saved us, and our own men would have gone forth fresh into action and to victory. Yet at this sympathizers with treason at the North cry- “Abolition! “Abolition-yes! abolish every thing on the face of the earth but this Union; free every slave-slay every traitor-burn every rebel mansion, if these things be necessary to preserve this temple of freedom to the world and to our posterity. Unless we do this, we cannot conquer them. I have spoken thus in Congress-and in the last week, after a few remarks of mine, the vote was 84 to 42-84 agreeing with me, where a year ago not fifty could have been found; and if I go back there again, if we have any one left to fight by that time, the whole nation will be with me! Either we must pursue that policy, or the war will be disgracefully abandoned at last, and our country divided-and he is a traitor who talks of separation on any terms! Again I thank you-I have said more than! intended when I began, less than I expected last night; but I have told you these things that, even if my principles be wrong, they shall never be hidden.

BEWARE OF SHAM LOYALISTS!
Wilkes's Spirit of the Times, whose editor is a stanch and well-known Democrat, publishes in last week's number the following stinging editorial remarks:-
 “The sickening disasters of the 'change of base,' and the dying wail of the thousands of our youth, abandoned by Caesar in the swamps which found a mournful echo in almost every family, sent these Pharisees confounded and cowering to their dens. But they reappeared again, and, at every step of Federal progress, have been ready to perplex the settlement. Even the last week beheld the disgraceful spectacle, in Philadelphia, of a public meeting, called to deprecate the subjugation of a set of wretches who are hanging loyal citizens for an expression of opinion, and projecting wholesale murder on the hollow pretence of retaliation.
“They who get up these meetings are the true allies of the insurgents. They have no words but those of tenderness for treason, and while they lavish slur and condemnation on the government, they sugar-coat their poison by specious devotion to the Constitution. These creatures, however, are not the true leaders of the Democratic party, and we indignantly deny that they represent any wholesome part of it. Most of them are the mere third and fourth rate curs of office, fellows who never inhaled an honest or unsordid breath, but who, with a mock pretence of principle, and sad shakings of the head assume to be jealous of every invasion of the laws. They are shocked, forsooth, at the suspension of the habeas corpus; they rave at the idea of the draft; they denounce every new measure of the government as a dangerous precedent; but they are never struck by the idea, that the war of the rebels is a dangerous precedent, or seem to comprehend that a man surprised by an assassin, had better thrust a knife into the vitals of the miscreant, than to desire him to loose his hold and go quietly to court.
“These sensitive patriots are very fond of directing attention to the Abolitionists. They would have us believe, perhaps, that it was the Abolitionists who passed the Lecompton Constitution; who basely betrayed the Democratic party by nominating Breckinridge; who made the South seceded when it had practical possession of the government; who seized the
<c05>
arsenals in the time of peace; stole the public treasury sure, fired upon Sumner, and sent forth red-handed pirates to; sink peaceful merchantmen beneath the waves! These lurid images might well inflame an honest patriotism? But what shall we say when we learn that such shuddering crimes are the guilt of the friends they patronize, instead of being the acts of those they would condemn? How shall we resent the base attempt to fix the howl of party upon a set of weak and un influential zealots, for the purpose of giving shelter and license to the unspeakably damned villains who have dragged their country from its poise of peace, and stabbed it to the heart?
“It is against the wicked and mischievous arts of such insidious knaves as these that we, as a Democrat, would warn the loyal, honest masses of our common party. It is from their smirking masks we would direct the public attention of our fellow Democrats, to the noble aspects of such leaders of the Democratic mind as Andrew Jackson, Thomas H. Benton, Stephen A. Douglas, David C. Broderick, Daniel E. Dickinson and John A. Dix; and to such steadfast, incorruptible and unflinching patriots as Archbishop Hughes, Michael Corcoran and George Francis Train. 'The Union must and shall be preserved,' said Jackson, and 'I would prosecute the war until the rebellion is utterly subdued,' said Douglas. The distinguished prelate who is the official head of the Catholic Church of the United States, has ranked loyalty among the obligations of religion, and called upon the whole North to take up arms. George Francis Train, with words of burning eloquence, bearded the insolence of England in its capital; while to Michael Corcoran-simple patriot, and natural gentleman! falls the full credit of having uttered the very bravest and best expression of the war.
“'Democrat as I am,' said this grand specimen of a frank and heroic people, 'Democrat as I am, I will grasp the hand of an Abolitionist, or a Know-Nothing, who will stand shoulder to shoulder with me in this war!'
“The sublime courage of these words, uttered in the face of settled prejudices of both church and party-prejudices that would have cowed half the politicians of the country-indicate a broad and lofty nature.”

CALL FOR GEN. FREMONT.
Amid the gloom that surrounds us, the ruffian hordes of the Slave Power hovering on the Potomac, driving all before them on the banks of the Ohio, threatening Baltimore, Washington, Harrisburg, <illegible> are thoroughly aroused to a sense of their <illegible> danger, it seems an unaccountable act of folly that such an officer as Major General Fremont should be driven from his position in the army, and forced to remain an idle spectator of the struggle! Under such circumstances, the National War Committee of this city have proposed the raising of 50,000 men each, for Generals Fremont and Mitchell, to aid in defending us from the foe. The proposal is no sooner made, than the pro-slavery organs open all their batteries. The Journal of Commerce calls it an irregular and ill-timed-proceeding, and says it will “do great harm, diverting the minds of ardent politicians of the Fremont school from enlisting in the government service, lead them to expect some irregular organization, and thus interfere with the progress of recruiting. “The Herald and Express are equally distressed at the idea that Gen. Fremont should have the command of fifty thousand men; the former threatens the Committee with the prospect of being sent to Fort Lafayette the on the ground that they are “interfering with enlistments. “It is high time we were done taking counsel of these traitors. It has long been our opinion that there is in the country but one man who has the patriotism, the ability and the public confidence necessary to carry the nation through this intensely critical period of its existence. 
What Garibaldi is doing for Italy, Fremont must do for America, or we have but little chance of surviving the present peril. To no other man can we confidently look for the Napoleonic vigor, power of combination, simplicity of purpose, and high moral courage that are so essential elements of successful command. We should prefer to have seen the question come up in a different shape. We should have preferred a direct appeal from the War Committee to the President, giving him distinctly to understand that the people are sick of the pro-slavery generals who have desolated our homes and accomplished nothing; that they are unwilling to have the experiment of the past year tried over again; and calling on him for the immediate restoration of Gen. Fremont to a position where his policy would control the ensuing campaign. Gen. Fremont would carry out the laws of Congress; Gen. Halleck will not; McClellan will not; Pope and McDowell will not. Those laws are in almost every particular identical with the plan of Gen. Fremont for the pacification of Missouri; What be proclaimed in August, 1861, Congress enacted in July, 1862. He is marked by nature as a leader; he is emphatically the people's leader. He may be crushed to-day as a martyr to his anti-slavery principles, but he will rise to-morrow, a victor over all the timid, trimming, time-serving politicians, whose jealousy of his popularity has deprived the nation of his services, and who are willing to see their country writhing in its death-agonies, rather than make war upon the institution which is the sole origin of our calamities.
If government has nothing for; Gen. Fremont to do in the army, by all means let him be the defender of our homes, with the fifty thousand men proposed by the War Committee. There would be no difficulty in enrolling any number of volunteers under his banner, without interfering in the slightest degree with the President's draft. We know not how soon New York as well as Baltimore and Philadelphia may be in peril. We could not depend on help from Washington in case of an emergency.
Read Gen. Fremont's speech at Boston, and then say whether it shall be left for the spades of slaves to throw up the bones of our dead on the battle-field of the South, while future generations of slaveholders triumph over their dishonored graves, and boast their victories over the Northern invader. This is the question between Gen. Fremont and the Conservatives. They would have our soldiers pour out their blood without any great and glorious object to die for; he would have them die, if such should be their lot, with the soul-animating assurance that their death forever consecrates the soil to Freedom, and that over their dust, so long as humanity survives, the tree of Liberty shall wave its broad, green branches in honor of their high and holy martyrdom. Give our soldiers such a prospect, fire them with, the spirit of such a leader, and we should have no more Bull Run retreats or Chickahominy disasters. -American Baptist.
The London Times and the Daily News both criticize President Lincoln's address to the negroes, relative to their expatriation to Central America, and his views are pronounced unpatriotic. They are equally absurd and preposterous.
<c06>
McCLELLAN AND THE ARMY.
We are telegraphed from the correspondence of the New York Herald, that McClellan was received with unbounded cheers and enthusiasm as he rode out to meet the Federal army which was advancing on Washington, and that officers and men were wild with delight, some of them actually shedding “tears of joy “at again beholding their “beloved chief “in command. We are inclined to think that, if any tears were seen to fall, they came from the eyes of some gallant brave, who had hoped to go through a speedy and decisive campaign, and were those of
mortification and chagrin that his hopes of an early return to his family were now dampened by the report that the “Young Napoleon “was to be the head of the army. Then we are told by a dispatch to the Times, that a Major General said that the soldiers demanded McClellan for a leader. We do not believe it; and if we did, it would make but little difference in the public estimate of the man. For we say distinctly that we, from this distance from the seat of war, are better able to take a general and comprehensive view of a military commander, and to judge of his caliber, than a private soldier in the ranks. For we are to judge of a general as we do of a civilian, by the criterion of success. If a man fails in business, he is not to be so implicitly trusted again; if he repeatedly fails, he will not be trusted at all. The successful men are the leaders, the world over. Judging by this test, it is so palpable that a fool may read the lesson, that McClellan has failed-ignobly, repeatedly, disastrously failed, as a leader of our armies. He was fooled at Manassas; he was fooled at Yorktown; he was foiled at Richmond. Thirteen months have amply sufficed to take the measure of the man; be has been weighed, and found wanting.
There are those who still say that he is the greatest general in the army, but where is their proof of it? What has he done? When he took command of the Army of the Potomac after the first Bull Run, one universal shout of approbation went up from all the loyal North; if he has proved himself a great general, why is it that three-fourths of the public have been forced to change that opinion, and now consider him incompetent? The partisans of McClellan may rail as much as they please against “newspaper generals “and “stay at home generals, “but the popular verdict is the true one in nine cases out of ten, and the press but represents the public sentiment.
We hope, therefore, that McClellan is not placed once more in supreme command of the armies in Virginia.-Cleveland Leader.

PRO-SLAVERY GENERALS.
It sometimes seems as if our Government ransacked the whole country up and down to hunt up pro-slavery Generals to lead our armies, and to combat treason. Such men as Hunter, Phelps, Lane and Fremont are snubbed, though men of energy and business, merely on account of anti-slavery views. While McClellan, who has used up the finest and most complete army the world has ever seen, is retained in command. And now, Gen. Halleck, famous for having permitted the evacuation of Corinth and his order No. 3, prohibiting slaves from entering his lines, is placed in chief command of the army. Gen. McDowell, whose laziness is said to have contributed to the loss of Bull Run, and Sturgis, who failed to relieve Mulligan, are placed in important positions. And the last account is that Gen. Cadwallader, notorious as a pro-slavery Breckinridge Democrat, is likely to supersede Gen. Butler at New Orleans. What a glorious General he will make to enforce the confiscation act in Louisiana!
But if the people are ready for emancipation, the Government cannot long hold back. We think they have seen enough of “strategy,” “anacondas,” &c., and would really like to see something solid thrown at the rebellion. We might as well come to the point now, as to see another magnificent army wasting before the rebel camp, and then be obliged as a final resort to free and arm the slaves. It is useless to assert that such a course would not weaken the rebellion, for the recent order issued by the rebels, threatening to shoot every slave attempting to escape, reveals the “sore spot, “and points to the plan, which if adopted by us will speedily cause the down-fall of treason, and the corresponding restoration of our glorious Union. But while the Government hesitates to proclaim universal emancipation, giving us a great moral vantage ground, and placing us right before the world, the rebel emissaries in Europe are making new offers for recognition, and intend at last to offer freedom to their slaves in the hope of enlisting European support. And the late letter of the President states, that if he thought freeing all the slaves would restore the Union, he would do it, thus acknowledging his perfect right to do so. If we have a right to do it, will we suffer such a glorious consummation to be long deferred? Our national life is endangered, and what will a man not give for his life? Let us be brave, and do our duty, and all will be well. If we mean to crush out the rebellion, we must have no boys' play about it.-Ogdensburg True Advance.

A SORIPTURAL LESSON,
“Deal gently, for my sake, with the young man, earn with Absalom.”
So said the king David, in time of a most terrific rebellion, that threatened the overthrow of Israel-the best government in the world. If the kingdom fell, the “young man Absalom “was to be secure. So says President Lincoln, virtually. 
More than a year and a half has this war been permitted to rage against the government; and the stupendous government force for putting down the rebellion, at the expense of millions of treasure per day, and the waste of hundreds of thousands of lives; and yet the standing, inviolable order is, “Deal tenderly with young man Absalom. “Fremont struck a blow at slavery. The President and his advisers struck a blow at him, and assured the rebels that they should have immunity from such danger; their slaves would still be kept “hoeing up the corn, “and removed, at the behest of the Slave Power, the man who ventured his rights to dispute. Slaves are for bidden to enter the lines of several divisions and departments, and suffered to be sent back to rebel? masters, thus discouraging attempts to escape, and aiding the rebellion; rebels all the time using slaves to build breast-works, dig ditches, and shoot our kindred. But, just as soon as General Hunter proclaim freedom and protection to slaves, thereby con fusing, crippling, killing the rebellion, just so soon does the President issue his proclamation, revoking the orderly taking the part of the rebels again, as in the case of Fremont; clearly showing, I think, that he prefers to have a hundred thousand Northern freemen die in the swamps of the coast, or by violence, to having, as Samuel Lewis used to say, “A nigger loose.”
Who can doubt where the President's sympathies
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERESTED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF THE WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory. “-J. Q. ADAMS. 
150
THE LIBERATOR. SEPTEMBER 19
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
are? But Absalom died. And so will slavery. All the Pierces, Buchanans, Lincolns, Davises, McClellans and Hallecks in God’s world, cannot save its life. Its hair is already entangled in the branches of the oak, and some loyal-hearted Joab will, ere long pierce it through the heart. Pharaoh resisted God to his own destruction, and the people were freed. The Romans killed Gracchus because he favored the cause of the oppressed, and Rome fell. “For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him.”
Etna, Minnesota. M. MEACHAM.
FREEMONT AND MCCLELLAN.
We have received a very ably written pamphlet, entitled FREEMONT AND MCCLELLAN-THEIR POLITICAL AND MILITARY CAREERS REVIEWED-BY VAN BUREN DENSLOW,” orders for which are received at the office of WynkoopWaynoka, Hallenbeck & Thomas, New York. It concludes as follows:-
There are many other facts which deserve to be carefully and candidly collated and fully brought out relative to this disastrous Peninsular campaign, which daily will loom up more and more disastrously as its facts become stripped of the gloss with which it is the interest of some to conceal them. We leave them without comment.
We have no epithets-we have only sorrow for the reverses of those to whom the country entrusts the power to serve her cause and promote her glory. Nor is it so much the fault as the misfortune of McClellan that he has failed to be what a portion of the people, without any word or act on his part to justify the expectation, insisted upon mistaking him for, viz., an able man and a great General. We only trust that the people will take to themselves their full share of the blame for the giddy elevation to which they have raised him, and that their ultimate ‘construction of his conduct will be as charitable as that of those who have felt it to be a duty which they owed to the country, to speak with bold, sad kindness and truthful criticism of his career. We have one remark, however, to make. If this rebellion could possibly be put down by conciliatory means, we believe General McClellan qualified to command our armies. We believe that those who have adhered to him in a partisan spirit are those who believe that the rebellion is to be put down by some other mode than fighting. We have conversed with his soldiers, and we know that the basis of much of their former confidence in him was the belief that he would achieve great results without loss of life. All these theories are radically false. Instead of accomplishing great results with little loss of life, he has accomplished only defeat, at a tremendous sacrifice of life, and of every other element of success. We believe this rebellion will be put down by fighting, and kept down by a radical change in the feelings and aspirations of the ruling class of the South; that this change is not to be the result of individual conversions of those who constitute the ruling class, but is to be a change in the class that rules-by sending the class that now rules to the bottom of society, and by bringing the class now at the bottom to the top; by taking the sceptre from the one million of slaveholders, and giving it to the seven millions of “poor white trash” who now do their bidding; by so changing and remodeling the constitution of Southern society as to make it democratic instead of aristocratic-republican instead of monarchical-united instead of disintegrated, liberal instead of despotic-free instead of slave-rich instead of poor-educated instead of ignorant-civilized instead of barbarous-happy instead of miserable.
As the aspirations and feelings of the present ruling class of the South are for slavery, because it helps them to everything dear and valuable in life, as our aspirations are for freedom, because it brings to us everything dear and valuable in life, so will the affections of this upturned common people of the South be for the freedom to which they will have been indebted for everything dear to them, and necessarily to that Union which binds them to free States, free press, free speech, and free schools. This war can have but one or the other of two results-The South must be free, or her slaves must be free. Slavery is our mortified limb, and its amputation is necessary. Let not the task be entrusted to one who believes that amputation is murder. His hand will tremble and his heart will fail him. Let those great radically Democratic ideas, of the superiority of those institutions in which all men are free, for which this war on our part is waging, and not to a devotee of the repudiated ideas of the sovereignty of the States, and the perpetuity of negro bondage, with all its inevitable tendencies, to establish despotism over white as well as black, for which this war on the part of the South, is being waged, but which, by the very act of entering upon this war, the North s logically cast to the winds. Yes, let it be entrusted to that man to whom every constituent of the present Administration looks with a peculiar affection, which it is not given to any man in the nation to rival or destroy; who has in every trial been not merely true to the idea of freedom, but a pioneer in its path; before whom (we quote from the language of a Southern Unionist) “the rebels have run faster and further, during this war, than before any other General”; who, at the battle of Cross Keys, at the head of 10,000 men, defeated Stonewall Jackson, the ablest General of the rebels, at the head of 28,000, and drove him out of the Shenandoah Valley; and who stands to-day not the first monument in history of the temporary ingratitude and incomprehension of Republics, but with a sweet compensation in the discriminating and criticising, but intelligent and affectionate regard of almost the whole people of that North which is to be henceforth the country. We do not suppose there is a man in the country who believes that Fremont, with 185,000 men, could have failed to capture Richmond, defended by 91,000. It is not eulogy, but history, to say that while Fremont has always acted with less means at his command than any other Generals considered it possible for him to succeed with, he has always been successful, except in pleasing red-tapists and slow-coaches, and has often been brilliant in his military achievements: while McClellan, with greater means at his command than Alexander, Caesar, Napoleon, or Wellington, has yet to win his first success; has lost more men and means in his disasters than they in their victories, and, to conclude our comparison, has sacrificed twice as many men as Fremont has ever commanded. Presidents and administrations may pass away; but the principle of freedom, with which the name of Fremont is associated, will endure forever. He that has been crucified with it shall reign with it. Some have embarked into this war, and many have remained at home, to thwart and oppose it, under the fixed determination that, whatever else shall come of it, it shall not free the slaves. The tyrannical edicts of such pro-slavery men as Halleck and Butler show that the alternative is to enslave the masters; and it becomes us to consider whether it is less practicable to free four millions of black slaves than to reduce to political slavery eight millions of white freemen-for we have no evidence that, until Southern institutions are homogeneous with our own the Southern people will, unless compelled by military coercion, remain in union with us. From this blind, illogical, and therefore temporary influence, the American people are soon to emerge, and when they do, and, as a corollary, the military events of this war shall be viewed with sound judgment instead of party prejudice, it will appear that, in deep vision and forecast of the future-in energetic and able adaptation of means to emergencies-in modesty in the hour of victory over traitors in the field, and fortitude under defeats inflicted by “patriots with rebel sympathies” at home-in skillful performance of every duty to which he has been called-and, above all, in that pioneer forecast which makes those who have succeeded but followers in his path, and those who have failed opposers of his plans-one name stands preeminent-it is that of John C. Fremont; and we believe that the people of the North will yet rise in their might, and demand that Fremont, the most experienced and energetic officer in the service, and the senior in rank, be placed where he deserves to be and where the interests of his country in this fearful crisis require that he should be at the head of the American armies. Yet, though this, or aught like this, fail-though Fremont be still kept back-though he be required to do penance for his victories, while others are promoted for their disasters yet, when the smoke and clouds of the combat shall have cleared away, his star shall shine forth as the morning star of regenerated American Freedom, and his fame shall be that of the pioneer in that reformed Republican policy which shall have given to the world a restored American Union.
<c02>
OUR SITUATION.
BY HENRY WARD BEECHER.
After more than sixteen months of war, it may be said that we are apparently no nearer to our end than at the beginning. 
The successes of our armies in the West are frittered away and lost. Kentucky was never so much unsettled as now. Tennessee swarms with guerrillas. Our army there seems like a great man in a summer night fighting off mosquitoes, that it may be permitted to rest. We have failed to open the Mississippi. Vicksburg ties a knot in that stream which we cannot untie. To hold the upper waters and the lower is of little use, if we cannot pass from one to the other. New Orleans is dead. Our little army sits in the door of a sepulchre watching the dust and bones of past prosperities. We have a lodgment upon the coast at Beaufort and at Newbern , but they have about the same relative importance to the Southern territory that a wasp's nest on a castle door does to the whole fortress.
We have still less in Virginia to be proud of. We have made many attempts to penetrate that State. We have been ignominiously driven back from the approach by James River. We have been, with even greater celerity, driven back from Central Virginia. We have been driven out of the Shenandoah Valley. From Fortress Monroe to the Alleghanies, the Southern army hold, or may without hindrance take, the whole line of the Potomac, with the exception of the District of Columbia. And now, after a year and a half of war, a high-spirited and proud people are compelled every morning to read the speculations and probabilities of the safety of Washington! At this rate, how long will it be before Richmond is in danger?
We have been as unfortunate in our generalship as in all the rest. Our armies have been under the control of men, doubtless, of technical military knowledge. But, with a few honorable exceptions, they have been men without comprehension, quickness, or practical skill. They know how to organize armies in camp; but they do not know what to do with them in the field. They have succeeded in introducing an original idea in warfare. Hitherto, war was conducted for the sake of some great public gain, and battle was the means of damaging the enemy. But the daily assurance that “our army is safe,” leads one to suppose that to be the chief end of war.
Military intuition has been deemed an unpardonable fault. Fremont, above any man in the American army, has a natural military genius. He saw the key of the whole campaign. He saw that Slavery was gigantic strength or ruinous weakness to the South. It was the key of the whole conflict. For that masterly intuition he was set aside. After a ruinous floundering through murderous months, the Administration has got to accept this fact, or suffer dismemberment of the Union! The blood of a thousand men a day is a dear price to pay for that wisdom which offered itself without money and without price! Somebody will wade deep in blood on the Judgment Day!
It has been the misfortune of our Generals to be matched against men who have shown remarkable military skill. In resource, in the power of rapid motion, in combination, in admirable handling of their men in the field, our Generals in chief command stand in humiliating contrast with those of the rebels -Johnston, Lee, Jackson, over against McClellan, McDowell, Pope! With more men, better armed and appointed than the enemy, the Virginia campaign has been a prolonged and comprehensive defeat.
Nay; the campaign has changed. We are no longer subduing the South. The South is chastising the North! They have poured their armies into Maryland, and our soldiers, for the first time, have been obliged to turn their faces northward to meet their enemy! We are, to be sure, regaled with glowing accounts of what our Generals are now going to do. We have been fed on too much of that food already. We shall wait to see what they have done.
The contrast of the civil administration, North and South, will give food for reflection. It is said that the Administration have had extraordinary difficulties. But with twenty millions of men, with States teeming with every clement of supply, with almost unlimited control of money, with undisputed command of the ocean, and with the moral power of an old and established Government is it too <Illegible>as leaders of a rebellion, whose States, wholly agricultural, could afford few facilities for manufacturing-shut off from foreign supply, with a people at first greatly divided, and standing upon an institution liable at any moment to betray and destroy them?
And yet, can any impartial man doubt, if the relative difficulties and discouragements be considered, which side has shown the greatest skill in civil administration?
In view of this whole matter, it is painfully true that the free States of the North have failed utterly, thus far, through the weakness of their Government, to produce a moral impression upon the world in favor of liberty. The conduct of affairs, thus far, is obliging the world to say, that ten slave States, with eight million people, are more than a match for twenty free States, with twenty millions of people! We have civilization, wealth, numbers, material, intelligence, moral prestige, and liberty on our side. They have slavery, barbarism, ignorance, and relative poverty. We cannot even say that it is a drawn game! At present, the North is beaten.
Yet, does any man believe that this is a fair adjustment of the relative power of these two great social developments? Does anybody doubt that had Wellington, or Napoleon, or Soults, or Louis Napoleon, or Cavour, or any man of civil and military genius, had the reins of government, such a result would have followed?
It is a supreme and extraordinary want of executive administrative talent at the head of Government that is bringing us to humiliation, and setting this great nation up as a false witness against liberty and Christian civilization!
But, there is a country as well as a President. There is a cause as well as an Administration. Every prudent man foresees the utter exhaustion of the country, if we have one more such year as the last. Yet, we have the same Cabinet, the same floating expedients, the same stationary Generals. It is notorious, that the Generals who control the military affairs of the army are pro-slavery in their beliefs and sympathies. One drop of poison is a match for the health of a whole body-full of good blood!
The South is jubilant. It is the North that desponds. They have leaders who know how to control difficulties to coerce unity among heterogeneous materials. There is will in the chair at Richmond. There is will in the saddle beyond the Potomac. Oh that slavery was as poorly served as liberty is!
Richmond determines, Washington reasons. Richmond is inflexible, Washington vacillates. Richmond knows what it wants to do, Washington wishes that it knew. Richmond loves slavery, and hates liberty; Washington is somewhat partial to liberty, and rather dislikes slavery. Rebellion is wise and sinful; Government is foolish.
It turns one gray to see a noble cause go by default! Such is the heavenly glory of a true and rational liberty, such are the manifold blessings to man and honor to God, that flow from it,. that every generous and noble soul longs to see it worthily 
served.
Liberty should have wisdom and purity and courage; and, above all, courage to do right, and wait. It should never lack chivalric virtues and manly graces in its service.
Are we then to be blamed if we cannot be patient when we behold the noblest Government of the grandest liberty that ever descended to the earth, feeble pulseless, voiceless, lying by the great troubled pool, and waiting for some one to help it in? It is a bitter thing to be made ashamed of one's own side.
If this exhausted nation shall, at length, give up this conflict, and betray the most glorious trust of liberty that God ever put into mortal hands, and on so grand a theatre as this Western Continent, let it not be said that it was the fault of the common people, nor of the institutions of liberty. Let it be known that the nation wasted away by the incurable consumption of central imbecility.-New York Independent.
Ben. Wade's idea of McClellan, expressed the other day, while humorous, is very true. He says that Gen. McClellan's fort is digging, and not fighting. “Place him before an enemy,” said he, “and he will burrow like a wood chuck. His first effort is to get into the ground.”
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,1862.
DRAFTING -THE HOUR OF TRIAL.
The probability in some sections of the country, and the certainty in others, that, in order to meet the requisitions of the government, it will be necessary to resort to drafting, makes it a matter of serious concern to Non-Resistants and Abolitionists to determine in what manner they shall act, in case the lot to be drafted fall upon them. As our opinion has been frequently asked in private, we venture to offer a few considerations upon the subject in our editorial capacity, without assuming or wishing to bring any one to any other conclusion than that to which he may are
rive by his own conscientious convictions.
First, as to Non-Resistants. There are comparatively few who claim to be such, though there are many who profess to be the friends of peace, after the manner of the Quakers. The difference between the Non-Resistants and the Peace men is this-that, while the former are self-disfranchised, for conscience sake, because of the war principles and provisions contained in the Constitution of the United States, and therefore take no part in creating or sanctioning the government; the latter have no scruples in voting at the polls to maintain “the Constitution as it is,” or in occupying any places of trust or emolument under it. Hence, if any are to be exempted from drafting, on account of their religious scruples, the Non-Resistants present the strongest claims. In some States, we believe, only the Quakers are free from all military liabilities, in consequence of their peace principles; but this is conceding to a sect what belongs to conscience, irrespective of sect, and so is manifestly unjust. For he who believes in total abstinence from war, as a Christian duty, though a member of no religious body, ought to have the same toleration as though he wore a Quaker dress and belonged to a Quaker society. We conceive that the government will be fully warranted in refusing to exempt any from military duty, as a matter of conscience, who have no conscientious objection to exercising the elective franchise; for whoever voted at the last Presidential election, whether for Abraham Lincoln or any other candidate, required of him the following oath or affirmation:-
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.”
He also imposed the following duty upon the President:-
The President shall be commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several States, when called into the actual service of the United States.”
So, in voting for Congressional Senator or Representative, he inscribed upon his ballot the following grant of power:-
“Congress shall have power to declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning captures on land and water; to provide and maintain a navy; to make rules for the government and regulation for the land and naval forces; to provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions; to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively the appointment of the officers, and the authority of training the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress.:
Now, as an apostle pertinently inquired in his own day, “Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?”-so, we say that he who votes to empower Congress to declare war, and to provide the necessary instruments of war, and to constitute the <Illegible> the army and navy, has no right, when war actually comes, to plead conscientious scruples as a peace man; but is bound to stand by his vote, or else to make confession of wrong-doing, and take his position outside of the government. He cannot be allowed to strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel; to play fast and loose with his conscience; to make the amplest provisions for war, and then beg to be excused from its dangers and hardships in deference to his peace sentiments. The government has a right to apply this test, and the voter has no right to complain when it is rigidly enforced in his own case.
But we submit to all the people, that such as wholly abstain from voting to uphold the Constitution because of its war provisions, and thus religiously exclude themselves from all share in what are deemed official honors and emoluments, ought not to be drafted in time of war, or compelled to pay an equivalent, or go to prison for disobedience. If conscience is to be respected and provided for in any case, it is in theirs. 
We know of no law, however, for their exemption and, therefore, some of them may be drafted, and put to a trial of their faith. In that case, let them possess their souls in patience and serenity, and meet without any outcry, “as though some strange thing had happened unto them,” whatever penalty may follow their non-compliance with the draft. There is no loss, but great gain, in suffering for righteousness’ sake. They surely knew the liabilities to which they subjected themselves, when they gave in their adhesion to the principles of Non-Resistance; and they will not try to shirk the cross when it is presented, but rejoice that they are counted worthy to bear it. One thing they can and should do, in order to prevent any misconceptions as to their feelings and views in relation to the conduct of those- who have risen up in rebellion; and that is, denounce it as horribly perfidious, and as having for its object the overthrow of every safeguard of popular liberty, and register their testimony that the government has exercised no injustice towards the South, nor given any occasion for such a treasonable outbreak. Thus defining their position, it will be seen by the nation that they are acting in a manner as just and discriminating toward the government, as it is upright and conscientious on their part.
It can hardly be asked by any Non-Resistant, “How, if drafted, about hiring a substitute?” because what we do by another as our agent or representative, we do ourselves. To hire a substitute is, as a matter of principle, precisely the same as to go to the battle-field in person.
“But if the alternative be, to pay a stipulated sum to the government, or else be imprisoned or shot, may we pay the fine?” That is a matter for the individual conscience to decide. Speaking personally, we see no violation of Non-Resistance principles in paying the money; because it is a choice presented between different forms of suffering, and, “other things being equal,” it will be natural to wish to avoid as much of it as the case will admit. Thus, a highwayman, placing his pistol to our head, demands in our helplessness, “Your money, or your life!” To part with the money is certainly more reasonable than to part with life; nor, in yielding it, do we give any sanction to the demand. But if the highwayman should say, “Your money, and an acknowledgment of my right to extort it, or your life,”  then there would be no alternative but to die, or else prove recreant to truth and honesty.
“But,” it may be said, “though I should refuse to hire a substitute, yet, if I pay the price demanded, will not the government take the money, and apply it for that purpose? And is there any essential moral difference here?” We think there is. In hiring a substitute yourself, you actively sustain the war, and become an armed participant in it, and so violate the principles which you profess to revere. In paying a tax, you passively submit to the exaction, which in itself, commits no violence upon others, but is only a transfer of so much property to other hands. If then, the government shall proceed to apply it to war pur-
<c04>
poses, the responsibility will rest with the government, not with you. This is the light in which we regard it: still, we offer no other suggestion than this-let every one be fully persuaded in his own mind.” We shall honor none the less him who may feel it his duty to take the most afflicting alternative, as the most effectual method to meet the issue before the community. Of that he must be the judge; and especially must he be sure to count the cost and act intelligently.
What ought Abolitionists (who are not precluded by peace principles from fighting) to do, in case of a draft, we shall consider in our next paper.
COLONIZATION OF THE BLACKS.
It is stated that Government has completed the arrangements for the settlement of free colored persons in Central America, the precise place depending upon circumstances. Senator Pomeroy, who will conduct the expedition, has full powers in the premises. It will start early in October, in a first-class steamer with five hundred emigrants, nearly all of them provided with implements of husbandry, and everything necessary for comfort and industry. About four thousand of the more desirable of colored persons have already informed Senator Pomeroy of their desire to avail themselves of the President's colonization scheme. The expedition will land at Chiriqui on the Isthmus, two hundred miles north of Aspinwall and the Panama Railroad. If no objection is made by the Chiriqui Government on arrival, a landing will be made in Chiriqui Lagoon, a fine bay looking northward, with several rivers flowing into it from the south.
If objection be made on the part of the present Administration of the State, or if the coal and gold deposits, or the commercial and agricultural resources do not prove as good as is promised, a second trial will be made on the perhaps equally desirable shore of Honduras, and the colony may settle, in the language of the paper of permission from this Government, “At any point within the tropics,” even though it should be the valley of the Nile.
And so, this disgraceful scheme of expatriation is to be prosecuted, in spite of the well known and often expressed determination of our colored population never to leave their native land; and in spite, also, of the strong opposition of the people of Central America (as expressed through their journals and in private letters) to any such influx among them! The first load of emigrants, it seems, is to be sent as an experiment whether they will be permitted to settle or not; if not, then they are to be carried in any other direction, excepting “home again,” according to the caprice or judgment of the commissioner having charge of them, and left to shift for themselves! This is alike inhuman and tyrannous. For it is only a mockery to plead that none will go away, except with their own consent; and that every thing is to be done voluntarily on their part. Virtually, none will leave of their own accord; but only to flee from cruel prejudice and hateful proscription, which they despair of seeing removed, and which are upheld as natural and permanent, on account of their complexion, (!) by President Lincoln, as the professed mouth-piece of the nation. What renders this still more humiliating is, that, at this very hour, William H. Seward, as Secretary of State, is endorsing "the' desirableness, under present circumstances, of an increase of immigration” “from the old world, in consequence of “a deficiency of labor in the country, resulting from our large military operations”! [See his recent letter to James N. Gamble, Esq., of Cincinnati.] How evident it is, therefore, that this scheme of negro expatriation is undertaken, not only without any regard for their welfare, but to give full scope and fresh stimulus to that monstrous spirit of caste which has been engendered, and is sustained, solely by the toleration of slavery in the land! We denounce the whole concern as the most transparent hypocrisy, and deserving the contempt and abhorrence of all noble minds. How just, rational and noble are the sentiments of Count Gasparin on this subject, in his remarkable work, “The Uprising of a Great People-The United States in 1861”! He says:-
“So long as we talk of transporting the blacks to Africa, to St. Domingo, or elsewhere, so long as the peaceable coexistence of the races be not accepted, the <Illegible> America will not cease, the Northern States will maltreat their free negroes, and the South will cling to slavery as to the only means of preventing a struggle for extermination. At the North as well as the South, men need to accustom themselves in fine to the idea of coexistence. Yes, there will be whites and free blacks in various parts of the Union; yes, it is certain that in some parts, the black population will be possessed of influence; it may even happen that, in one or two points of the extreme South, it will come to rule. Words cannot be found severe enough to censure the conduct of those Christians who, pursuing with their indignation the slavery of the South, refuse to fulfill the simplest duties of kindness, or even of common equity, towards the free negroes of the North. But I hope that the Gospel, accustomed to work miracles, will also work this. There is a power in the United States which will overthrow the obstacle of the North as well as that of the South, which will abolish both slavery and prejudice of skin. This power has shown in the Antilles what it can do. There, pastors and missionaries, schools, works of charity pursued in common, have placed on a level the blacks and the whites, devoted to the same cause, and ransomed by the same Saviour. In the United States, likewise, the Christian faith will raise up the one, and will teach the others to humble themselves; it will destroy the vices of the negro, and will break the detestable pride of the Anglo-Saxon. The United States do not know how great will be the transformation of their internal condition, and the increase of their good renown abroad, when their churches, their schools, their public vehicles, their ballot-boxes, shall be widely accessible to persons of color, when equality and liberty shall have become realities on their soil; they do not know how great will be their peace and their prosperity. Let the two inseparable problems of slavery and the coexistence of races be resolved among them under the ruling influence of the Gospel, and they will witness the birth of a future far better than the past. No more fears, no more rivalries, no more separations in perspective, their conquests will become accomplished of themselves; and, no longer destined to swell the domain of servitude, they will win the applause of the entire world.”
THE NORTHERN STAR  Patriotic Song and Chorus. Written by E. H. G. Clark, of Troy, N. Y. Arranged for the piano by Fred. H. Cluett. Published by Wm. Cluett & Son, Troy; S. T. Gordon, New York; Robins & Savage, Saratoga; J. P. Shaw, Rochester; Oliver Ditson & Co., Boston. The music is believed to have been composed by a young lady of Memphis, and was originally attached to most odious secession words. Mr. Clark deemed it too beautiful not to press it into the service of freedom; and so he accompanies it with the following verses:-
Oh! we’re a band of brothers,
Arrayed at Freedom's call;
We're fighting for man's dearest rights,
Which God designed for all.
Our watchword is, “THE UNION!”
We, mean it shall be just;
We hail the Goddess Liberty,
And place it in her trust.
Chorus-Hurrah! hurrah! for Freedom's flag, hurrah!
The red, the white, the heavenly blue,
Where shines the Northern Star!
The haughty Southern traitors
Must fall before our might;
Their hearts are hot, their arms are strong,
But we are in the right.
We wish them nothing evil;
Our welfare is their gain:
But for our country and our God
We must break every chain.
Chorus Hurrah! hurrah! &c.
The Springfield Republican denounces the friends of Charles Sumner in the Worcester Convention as “a set of political blackguards and knaves-a disgrace to the party which they assume to represent-or otherwise a band of ribald boobies, who did not assume the dictates of good manners.” This is not criticism, but blackguardism. The Republican is ever in a factious, pro slavery mood, giving “aid and comfort” to the enemies of impartial liberty, by whom its malignant diatribes are quoted with a relish. The satanic New York Herald is equally enraged at the proceedings of the Worcester Convention. It menacingly says-“These revolutionary dreamers forget that the bayonets of McClellan's army can defend the President from Northern as well as Southern traitors.” For a daring recommendation of the Herald to Gen. McClellan to assume dictatorship, and overturn the cabinet at Washington, see “Refuge of Oppression.”
<c05>
TRUST IN GOD.
It is said that, at the Commencement exercises recently held at Brown University, Rev. Dr. Wayland made an impressive address upon the imminence of the nation's danger, “urging trust in God as our only ark of safety.” Excellent advice this, properly understood. To judge of its practical influence, we must know how the majority of readers will be likely to understand it. 
The New York Observer, whose idea respecting the dangers, duties and interests of this nation differs materially, almost diametrically, from that of Dr. Wayland, has, for a year past, been giving precisely the same injunction, and specifying trust in God as our only ark of safety. 
When the Observer (one of the oldest organs of “evangelical” piety in the country) uses this language, there is no fear of its being understood, by the readers of that paper, in a different sense from the one intended. The words plainly appeal to a well known devotional feeling, and suggest the customary method of manifesting that feeling. But the Observer does not trust to probabilities, in a matter involving the interests of slavery. It takes care to specify that the true method, the specially effective method of exercising trust in God, is to hold prayer-meetings. If, while Stonewall Jackson is praying and working, the Observer could keep our armies and our people praying and not working, its aspirations would be thoroughly satisfied. Most of those who specially recommend prayer at this crisis wish it used as the substitute for work. Their real purpose is that the work shall be left undone, or done only so far as God may specially interpose to do it.
But Dr. Wayland (if we may use his earlier writings to interpret the language which he uses in common with the Observer) would have “trust in God” manifested by diligent work, carried on in the direction, and with the implements, of truth and righteous ness, quite as much as by prayer. He would counsel active opposition to sin, quite as much as to rebellion. A lover of righteousness, and knowing that our Government has heretofore wickedly favored slavery, he would counsel opposition to slavery. A lover of justice, and seeing that our Government is still swayed by the cruel prejudice of caste, he would have the colored race, slave and free, admitted to the rights of men, and of brethren. A lover of law and order, he would have human law modified into accordance with divine law, the lower rectified by the higher, the statutes conformed to the Golden Rule, the Constitution amended by the Gospel, the President's policy guided by the Christian's principle. A man of practical wisdom, he would wish that method to be used in quelling the rebellion which will destroy its germinant principle, and secure us against a future rebellion of the same sort. In a word, (if I judge him rightly,) he would have our existing war turned against slavery, the root, as vigorously as against rebellion, the branch; and he would use freedom, always and everywhere, as the appropriate antagonist of slavery, just as he would oppose truth to falsehood and light to darkness. 
But, if these things be so, Dr. Wayland should make them plain by distinct specification. If his anti-slavery piety chooses to limit itself to the precise phraseology by which a more popular pro-slavery piety has long been accustomed to mislead the people, his language will counteract his wishes, and he will play directly into the enemy's hands. Among a people whose religious teachers have been accustomed to devour widows' houses, and, “For a pretence,” to make long prayers, he who joins this class in prayer, yet feels constrained by his conscience to oppose them in action, should make this distinction very clear to the by standers.
Trust in God is best shown by doing God's work, acting on his principles, practically loving the distressed neighbor whom he has placed beside us. Trust in God calls our timid, hesitating, procrastinating President to neutralize slavery and rebellion together by a Proclamation of universal freedom. Trust in God calls us, the people, to keep urging this course upon Mr. Lincoln, as the only right and the only safe course. And trust in God calls those of the people's teachers who, like Dr. Wayland, hate slavery, to teach incessantly, in season and out of season, with line upon line and precept upon precept, that God's work in this world is not to be done by frequent repetitions of “Lord! Lord!” but by doing justice and acting righteousness; that we are to seek success in the present contest by renouncing our sin of complicity with slavery, and by proclaiming liberty throughout the land, “unto all the inhabitants thereof; that we are to execute justice in the morning; that our President should abolish slavery at once, without waiting for a victory to precede his proclamation; and that we all should urge this act of justice because it is just, even more than because it is our only path to victory.-C. K. W.
“STEADY!”
From the lead-colored despondency of the past week, the public mind has suddenly rebounded to cheerfulness, and almost hilarity. A reactionary wave in favor of McClellan, setting Northward from Philadelphia, threatens again to swamp the country, and to restore the waning idolatry of a year ago. But what is there in our present victory that differs from the history of the Peninsular campaign? Here, as there, our troops are proving their superiority over the rebels in every engagement. Here; as there, the subordinates of the General-in-Chief lead gallantly and fight courageously. But grant that the exploits of Hooker, Burnside, Reno and Franklin must be accredited to McClellan, how can we derive more hope from them than from Williamsburg, Fair Oaks and Hanover? These last culminated in Harrison's Landing, when they should have in Richmond. Have we a right to anticipate more brilliant results on the upper Potomac? McClellan may have changed his nature, as the leopard his spots. The sobriquet, “Tardy George,” may be no longer applicable to him. He may have got rid of that caution which chose the Chickahominy marshes for a military cemetery. Success under his leadership is certainly possible. But can we wisely run the risk?
The people ought to be tired, if they are not, of the absurd infatuation which attaches to the national nursery of soldiers on the Hudson; of that niggardly economy of the government which insists on getting its money's worth out of its proteges, even if the experiment means suicide. We prefer to live in spite of all rules, scientific or otherwise, rather than be bled to death a la West Point. We have no interest in the vindication of West Point at the expense of millions of dollars and thousands of lives for each graduate. We ask why SIGEL, who alone saved us from destruction before Washington, is sedulously kept from active service in the rear of that city? Why FREMONT, who marches over mountains fifteen miles per diem while McClellan is marching five on the king's highway-who alone has proved competent to pursue, overtake and defeat Stonewall Jackson-and whose refusal to be subject to Pope has been justified by the government's virtual condemnation of that officer-must be (most unwillingly) deprived of an opportunity to launch more thunderbolts against the enemy?
Genius may be developed, never bred. As McClellan entered West Point, so he came out, in the matter of native ability. That ability has been tested in a year's time to our entire satisfaction. It has just failed of nullifying the inherent advantages of the Northern over the Southern army. If for this our soldiers reclaim their Napoleon with enthusiasm, and Philadelphia goes wild with joy, what extravagant demonstrations may not be expected when we hear that the Minotaur has devoured our new levies, and that McClellan and Washington are safe!-W. P. G.
The friends of Gen. McClellan who ridicule Gen. Pope about his “lines of retreat,” should not forget “Little Mac’s” proclamation when he declared, “Soldiers, you have made your last retreat! You have met your last defeat!” There have been too much boasting, and too little performance, in various military quarters. 
<c06>
THE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
Witness below the flattering manner in which the editor of the Springfield Republican notices the late enthusiastic Convention at Worcester:-
“Considering the character of the call for the Republican Convention that met at Worcester on Wednesday, some of the doings were simply indecent. The Convention was literally packed with the <Illegible> of Mr. Sumner,  who made the advancement of his interests the special business of the Convention. They were be sought by Richard H. Dana, an old Free soiler from whom many of them had learned their anti-slavery, in the years gone by, to attend to the business of the Convention, respect the exigency of  the time, and honor the terms by which the Convention was called. But all to no purpose. They had come there for the simple purpose of endorsing Charles Sumner, and doing what they could to secure his reelection. We refer to the resolution concerning him and call attention to the fact that not a Representative in Congress is mentioned, not a General on the field is encouraged by a word, and the President gets no compliments. Nobody in Washington but Mr. Sumner is considered worthy of a word, for Henry Wilson is only mentioned as a matter of politeness.
Mr. Sumner himself seems to have been kept out of the Convention by some sort of machinery. It was considered best for him to stay at home, we suppose, but he “writ a letter,” and the letter was read. Now we feel very much about this business as President Lincoln expressed himself, when Red path called upon him on behalf of President Geffrard of Hayti, to offer a white representative from his court to Washington provided Mr. Lincoln, in deference to certain prejudices against color, should desire it. “Tell Mr. Geffrard,” said Abraham, that I shan’t tear my shirt if he does send a nigger.” We do not propose to fracture any under garments, even if Mr. Sumner should be elected. Plenty of worse men and more incompetent men than he are in office; but all this cannot hide from us the fact, that his friends are pushing his interests in such a way that the public 
will simply become disgusted. The key-note was sounded in the Convention for the elections to the Legislature. Every man nominated is to be sounded on the question whether he favors the re-election of Charles Sumner. If not, down goes his house. 
The old State ticket is nominated, with the exception of Mr. Nesmith, who declined to run again on the ticket for Lieutenant-Governor. Joel Hayden of Williamsburgh was put on in his place. Col. Bullock of Worcester presided with his accustomed grace and facility, and made the speech of the day,—a next,- a near strong, telling speech. It was instructive to watch its effect upon the crowd, who were simply insane in their cravings for strong expressions against slavery. They all went with him bravely until he came to tell them that the war was a work of arms purely, that we must bear freedom to the slave at the point of the bayonet, and that we can only strengthen the loyal cause as <Illegible> advance to conquer. That took the starch out of them. There was no cheer for this statement, or for the <Illegible> that followed it: “Besieged at the capital, invaded in our own borders, the brutum fulmen of mere words will only please the heart with a momentary and <Illegible> solace.” There was no applause for this passage but plenty for all that gave vent to passion. Whatever personal glory was won at the Convention was carried off by Col. Bullock and Richard H. Dana.”
Well, if there is any relief in this ebullition of spleen and disappointed ambtion, may the dear fellow make the most of it. Never since politics had a name has Hunkerism. been more effectually laid out and made hideous before the people. Richard H. Dana, the “old Free-soiler” the teacher of antislavery in years gone by, was unmasked, as a polite, intellectual trimmer. Out upon his anti-slavery professional. They are those of the “spider to the fly.” And  thank God, the Convention, in the main, had the good sense to see, that if they were cajoled by the sophistry of this “old Free-soiler” to go up the winding stairs, they would never come down again.
It may be that Mr. Sumner was “kept out of the Convention by some sort of machinery.” Never mind, his friends were on hand; and next to the presence and voice of Mr. Sumner, we may count the valuable testimony of Hon. T. D. Eliot, of New Bedford. In the face of facts relative to faithful services and amount of practical work accomplished by our honored Massachusetts Senator, the people are for to ever undeceived by the petty and flippant talk about the want of a practical statesman in his place.
Mr. Dana, and those who sympathize with him <Illegible> welcome to the “personal glory” they carried of from the late Convention. The truth is, they carried nothing off but disappointment and chagrin, at the new revelation of latent feeling, which is to reduce Massachusetts and the world from hunkerism and <Illegible> very.
Milford, Sept. 14, 1862. G. W.S.
LETTER FROM HENRY 
LOCKPORT, Niagara Co., N. Y., Sept. 7, 1862 W. M. LLOYD GARRISON:
I reached Lockport, in this county, Saturday morning, at 7 o’clock; then attended a Convention till Sunday evening, and helped discuss the following resolutions, among others:-
Resolved, That the United States Government was formed to “establish justice and secure liberty,” and we owe it as a sacred duty to ourselves, to the nation to the continent and the world, to see to it that now, and in all coming time, the United States Government shall answer the ends for which it was created, as those ends are set forth in the preamble to the Constitution and in the Declaration of Independence.
Resolved, That Slavery is the only cause and Abolition the only cure of the rebellion and civil war that now spread anguish and desolation throughout the land; therefore, to justify Slavery is to justify the rebellion, and to sustain and encourage the slave-trading traitors; and to oppose Abolition is to supply and secure to the slaveholding rebels their only means to perpetuate their rebellion and secure its final triumph; and thus to enable them to accomplish their find schemes to destroy freedom and free institutions, and establish slavery and slave institutions over all the nation and the Western Continent.
Resolved, That to advocate the constitutional rights of rebels is to abet and to lend the most efficient and to their treason; and all who plead for the constitutional rights of slaveholding traitors to their property or their slaves, and oppose confiscating, at once and for ever, their property and the emancipation of their slaves, ought to be regarded and treated as the most dangerous enemies of freedom and free institutions, as traitors to their country and to mankind and as the bloody abettors of the civil war that now so fearfully afflicts, not only the nation, but the world.
These resolutions were fully and freely discussed in the Convention. Giles StebbinsStebhins and Mrs. <Illegible> Clark were present, and did good service. The retreat of the army to Washington, the onward and desperate rush of the slave-breeders to accomplish their grand scheme of subjecting the entire nation and continent to the dominion of the foul demon of Slavery-the rumored appointment of Halleck to the place of Stanton-the utter incapacity or treachery of Pope and McDowell-the reluctance of the Union soldiers to go again into battle under them, and the tenderness thus far shown for the property, lives and rights of rebels to their slaves, have all produced a deep impression all over this region.
Some leading pro-slavery, pro-secesh Democrats are doing all in their power to create a diversion in <Illegible> of the Southern rebels here, in Rochester, in <Illegible> and all over the State, by their efforts to deepen the prejudices and arouse the mobocratic spirit of their followers against negroes and Abolitionists. They avow their design, in some places, to prepare the way for the Southern slave-hunters to invade the North by exciting a civil war here. This is a desperate scheme, but rest assured there is a portion of the old Democratic party that is alming to resuscitate their party and get control of the government by thus playing the whole North into the hands of the kidnappers. The mission and destiny of this Republic is to sweep slavery from the continent, and establish liberty. These malignant Democratic supporters of slavery and rebellion aim to make its mission to be to establish slavery and abolish freedom. It is an Abolitions Party, but they would abolish liberty. Mark them! for they are the enemies of freedom.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Garibaldi had arrived at Spezzia. His wounds were in a favorable condition.


<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CHRISTIAN MEMORIAL TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN. 
DEAR GARRISON:
Permit me, lest it should escape your notice, to ask for the publication of a most timely and EXCELLENT MEMORIAL TO THE PRESIDENT, in reference to the present war. A meeting was recently held at Byron Hall, Chicago, composed of Christians of all denominations. Judge Otis was called to preside, and after an eloquent and impressive speech, the following Memorial was read.
To His Excellency, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States:
Your memorialists of all Christian denominations in the city of Chicago, assembled in solemn meeting to consider the moral aspects of the war now waging, would utter their deepest convictions as to the present relation of our country and its rulers to the government and providence of Almighty God, and would respectfully ask a hearing for the principles and facts deemed fundamental to a right judgment of this appalling crisis.
To this we are encouraged by the frequency with which you have recognized the dependence of the country and of its chief magistrate upon the Divine favor. We can never forget the earnestness with which you entreated the people of God to pray for you, when you left your home in this State to assume the Presidential office. With that request we have sacredly complied during the dark period that has intervened. We call to mind, also, references to the same truth in your Inaugural Address, in your messages to Congress, and in your replies to delegations and memorials from various religious bodies. Especially we remember the National Fast one year since, when you called upon the nation to humble itself under Divine judgments, and to implore the Divine mercy; your proclamation of thanksgiving to God four months since, for victories vouchsafed and foreign intervention and invasion averted. These were official recognitions of the fact upon which we base this Memorial, viz.: That as nations are responsible to the King of kings, and as national calamities are indications of Divine anger, so the present war involves not merely a conflict between the United States Government and the Confederate rebels, but a solemn controversy between the Almighty and the American people.
We claim, then, that the war is Divine judgment upon our country for its manifold sins, and especially for the crime of oppressing God’s poor, The history of the past fifty years, and the outbreak and progress of the rebellion, taken in connection with the plain threatenings of God’s word against nations guilty of oppression, leave no room for doubt on that point. The conscience-stricken brethren of Joseph, when they found themselves prisoners in the very land to which they had sold him as a slave, were forced to exclaim: “We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear: therefore is this distress come upon us.” And so must the American nation, in this its judgment hour, acknowledge that the cry of the slave, unheeded by man, has been heard by god, and answered by this terrible visitation. For though we are accustomed to speak of slavery as a creature of State law, the Federal Union has become answerable for it before God. First, by moral countenance and participation, by which social and ecclesiastical sanction and respectability have been given to the practice, and the various profits of oppression have been divided among all sections. Secondly, by manifold political action, tending to its strength and growth. Slavery has existed in the District of Columbia and in the Territories, national soil. The inter-State slave-trade, rivalling in atrocity the foreign traffic, has been openly tolerated on the land and on the high seas. The army and navy have given security to the system, under the provision of the Constitution for the suppression of insurrection. The whole power of the Federal Government has been employed to arrest and remand fugitives from bondage. Under this system of national procedure, slavery has vastly extended its territory, while the victims of oppression have increased from 700,000 at the close of the Revolution, to 4,000,000 at the present time; or a third more than the entire population in whose name was issued the Declaration of Independence, with its assertion of the “inalienable right” of “all men to liberty.”
And now the slave oligarchy has organized the most unnatural perfidious and formidable rebellion know to history. It has professedly established an independent government on the avowed basis of slavery, admitting that the Federal Union, was constituted to establish and promote liberty. All but four of the Slave States have seceded from the Union, and those four, filled with traitors, have been kept in subjection only by overwhelming military force. Can we doubt that this is Divine retribution for national sin, in which our crime has justly shaped our punishment?
Proceeding upon this belief, which recent events have made it almost atheism to deny, your memorialists avow their solemn conviction, that there can be no deliverance from Divine judgments till slavery <illegible> from the land. We cannot expect God to save a nation that clings to its sin. This is too fearful an hour to insult God, or deceive ourselves. National existence is in peril; our sons and brothers are falling by tens of thousands on the battle-field, and expiring miserably in the hospitals; the war becomes daily more determined and destructive; while we speak, the enemy thunders at the gates of the capital, and for some reason, our acknowledged superiority of resources has thus far availed little or nothing in the conflict. As Christians, we dare not conceal the truth, that these judgments mean what the Divine judgments meant in Egypt. They are God’s stern command, “LET MY PEOPLE GO!”
The work of national repentance has been inaugurated by the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and its prohibition in the Territories, as also by encouragement to emancipation in the Border States, offered by Congress at the suggestion of the President. But these measures fail to meet the crisis. They do not end the controversy between us and the Almighty. God pities and avenges four millions of slaves, and not merely those of the District of Columbia. One bondman is as dear to him as another. We urge you, therefore, as the head of this Christian nation, from considerations of moral principle, and as the only means of preserving the Union, to issue, without delay, a decree of NATIONAL EMANCIPATION.
However void of authority in this respect you might have been in time of peace, you are well aware, as a statesman, that the exigencies of war are the only limits of its powers, especially in a war to preserve the very life of the nation. And these exigencies are not to be restricted to what may avail at the last gasp, prior to national death, but are to be interpreted in to include all measures that may most readily and thoroughly subdue the enemy from the outset. The rebels have brought their system under your control by their desperate attack upon the life of the Republic. They have created a moral, political and military necessity, which warrants the deed; and now God, angels and men demand that the opportunity be used. And surely the fact that they have placed in our power a system which, while exposing them, is itself the grossest wickedness, adds infinitely to the obligation to strike the blow.
In this view of a change of power involving an equal change in duty, we will not conceal the fact that gloom has filled our hearts at every indication that the war was still regarded as simply an issue between the Federal authorities and the rebel States, and that therefore slavery was to be touched only to the extent that the pressure of rebel success might absolutely necessitate. Have we not reason to expect rebel success on that policy? Are we to omit from our calculations the necessary conditions of Divine favor? Has the fact no moral meaning. that the war has suddenly placed within the power of the President the vile system that has provoked God’s wrath? Is there not danger, that while we are waiting till the last terrible
<c02>
exigency shall force us to liberate the slave, God may decide the contest against us, and the measure that we would not adopt on principle prove too late for our salvation?
We claim that justice, here, as everywhere, is the highest expediency. We call upon our President to put faith in the words of God through Isaiah, sever so applicable as now: “Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke. Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cart out to thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him, and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh. Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall spring forth speedily, and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the Lord shall be thy rereward. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; and if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noonday. And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones; and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations, and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.”
At the time of the national peril of the Jews under Ahasuerus, Mordecai spoke in their name to Queen Esther, who hesitated to take the steps necessary for their preservation, in these solemn words: “Think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king’s house, more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father’s house shall be destroyed; and who knoweth whether thou art conic to the kingdom for such a time as this?” And thus your memorialists trust that you have been called, in Divine Providence, to the Presidency, to speak that word of justice and authority which shall free the bondman and save the nation. Our prayer is, that the name of Abraham Lincoln may go down to posterity with that of George Washington, as the second savior of our country; the one having freed it from the tyranny of the British crown, and given us the Federal Union, and the other having blotted out the curse and shame of human slavery, and perpetuated the Union to the latest generation.
The reading of this Memorial was followed by great applause, and a Committee chosen to present the same in person to the President. Resolutions of an earnest character were also passed, calling on Abraham Lincoln to enforce the Confiscation Act, and proclaim liberty to the slaves.
This is glorious for the West. Where is the East? Is it not time for Massachusetts to speak stronger than ever, and demand, by the voice of her million sons, that slavery, the prime cause of the accursed rebellion now blighting our beloved country, shall be removed-for ever blotted out? Terrible as is the reflection that golden hours have been squandered, it is not too late to strike the decisive blow. Let all, then, who “name the name of Christ” be sure to depart from the iniquity of American slavery. Let them remember it is not enough to pray for the right, but an earnest service must be rendered in this hour that shall make each prayer offered a blow for universal emancipation. G. W. S.

THE CONTRABANDS AT PORT ROYAL.
Many friends, when inquiring about the freedmen at Port Royal, have asked,” What is now needed among them?” Do they want clothing?” In reply to these kind inquiries, I would say, answering the last one first, that they arc, generally, very well provided for as to clothing. Last Spring, they were quite destitute; but during the Summer, they have bought large quantities of goods, of all sorts. Undoubtedly, they are better clothed now than they were ever before. Mr. McKim spoke of their good appearance at church in his lecture, you may recollect. The presence of the soldiers has offered a ready market for the sale of eggs, chickens, fish and vegetables. With the proceeds of these, together with the money they have earned by their labors on the plantations, the people have provided for themselves to a much greater extent than they were accustomed to do formerly. They prefer to provide for themselves, as far as they can, rather than to have things given to them, as if they were paupers. The only ones among them who now need clothing are the aged people-those who cannot earn money with which to supply their wants. I am now preparing to return to Port Royal, and shall be glad to receive packages of clothing, or of cloth to be made up, for old colored people, men and women, who are in need of winter garments. I will take the things out and distribute them myself, according to my best judgment.
One thing is needed by all the people; that is, comfortable bedding. I am not aware that any thing has yet been done for them in this respect. As a general thing, the people, old and young, unless they lie on the floor, sleep in bunks. The only bedding they have, in most cases, consists of remnants of old clothes, pieces of blankets, and other old rags. These all have the appearance of having been used too long already. They should either be gratuitously supplied with something for bed ticks, or have it offered for sale at once, at a low price. Any kind of stout sacking would answer. They can fill the sacks, or ticks, with corn blades, and so make themselves comfortable beds.
In many cases, their cabins are very much out of repair, but if the Government continues in charge of the people, it will probably, before cold weather comes on, repair their cabins.
All the Superintendents, at times, have to act as physicians, though of course they are not provided with medical stores. We have physicians on the island, but they are not always within convenient distance, and, in many cases, with a few simple remedies, we can get along very well without sending for them. I shall be glad to receive, also, whatever any one may choose to send of medicines, of the commoner; kinds, and of lotions, or “something to rub with.” Almost every day, April, or Sandy, or Sue, or Grace; comes with “pain o’ head,” “pain o’ back” or with an arm “hurting me.”
I know the war is constantly calling on the charitable everywhere, but I also know there are not wanting those whose charities will be freely extended to the contrabands, the poor waifs of the war.
Very truly, yours, D. F. THORPE,
60 South street, Providence, R. I.
Mr. Thorpe has been acting for some time as a teacher and superintendent of the contrabands at Port Royal, in the spirit of true benevolence, performing his duties in a most acceptable manner. Any articles sent to his care will be sure to be faithfully and judiciously distributed.-[Ed. Lib.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, for August, 1862, presents the following table of contents:-1 History, Philosophy, and Mr. Goldwin Smith. 2. Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-Norman Christianity. 3. British Alpine Botany. 4. Edward Irving. 6. Essayists, Old and New. 6. Lord Stanhope’s Life of Pitt. 7. Mr. St John’s Borneo.8. Lord Canning.
Price $3 a year. New York: Leonard Scott & Co., 79 Fulton Street. Boston; Williams & Co., Crosby & Nichols, and Redding & Co.
We have tested a bottle of “Brown ft Brother’s Real Japan Blacking,” and a box of B. F. Brown & Co.’s Indigo Blue, both made in this city, and find them to be of the very first quality. Good articles are ever their own best recommendation.
<c03>
LETTER FROM LEWIS FORD.
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn., Sept. 7, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND MAY,-I suppose you have seen accounts, before this, of the outrages of the Sioux Indians upon the settlers of this State. According to the best and most carefully considered accounts, there have been already nearly or quite five hundred men, women and children murdered on our frontier settlements; their houses have been robbed of money another valuables, and their stock driven away by the Indians for their own consumption, and in many cases their houses have been burned, and where the farmers had their wheat stacked, it was burned also, in many cases. In addition to these mangled bodies strewn over our western frontier, and the starving women and children who have escaped the Indians, but have been unable to find any human being to succor and feed them, it is estimated that the Indians have taken about two hundred women and children captives, whose situation, if still alive, is but little better than that of their lost friends. Besides these, some sixty soldiers have already been killed and about one hundred more wounded, of those who have volunteered or been sent to protect the settlers. Forts are besieged, villages burned, and the country laid waste from Mankato on the Minnesota River to Georgetown on the Red River.
Saux Centre had not been attacked at last accounts, but I expect daily to hear that it has been. The inhabitants there have built a fort for protection, and a force of one hundred soldiers are on their way to the town. I left that place before the Indian troubles broke out, and it is doubtful if there is any safety in returning there very soon. I fear the worst of our troubles arc not yet past. Hundreds are fleeing to this town for safety, and there is fear that this also will be attacked before the war ends.
I think this whole trouble was set on foot by secession influences; and what the end will be, God only knows. I hope God will overrule all for good, and the country be made free. We who survive this war (and I call the Indian war one with the Rebel war) in health will have reason to be thankful. But what-ever the result, I hope to be able to say Amen, knowing that unerring Justice and Wisdom govern the whole.
Yours, as ever, LEWIS FORD.
REPUBLICAN STATE CONVENTION.
The Republican State Convention was held at Worcester, on Wednesday, 10th inst. The attendance was larger than was anticipated, over one thousand delegates being present. The Convention was called to order by Hon. William Claflin, of Newton, Chairman of the State Committee. William Brigham, of Boston, was chosen temporary Chairman. A Committee on Permanent Organization was appointed, as also a Committee on Credentials. The Committee reported the name of Hon. Alexander H. Bullock, of Worcester, for President, and the names of sixteen other gentlemen to act as Vice Presidents, and six Secretaries. On taking the chair, the President made an excellent speech, which was highly approved. The appointment of a Committee on Resolutions, which was moved by Mr. Griffin, of Charlestown, drew out a lengthened debate, in which Richard H. Dana, Jr., participated. The apparent object of Mr. Griffin was to get an expression from the Convention, as to the policy of carrying on the war, while Mr. Dana wished to stifle all debate on that subject.
Quite a number of gentlemen spoke very ably on the question, all of whom, with the exception of Mr. Dana and Mr. Blake, of Randolph, favored the passage of resolutions, expressing the sense of the Convention on the general policy of the government.
A feeble effort was made, while Charles G. Davis, of Plymouth, was speaking, to hiss him down; but Mr. Davis being a good speaker, and having the best of the argument, was able to sustain himself.
All the resolutions heretofore offered were referred to Committee on Resolutions, consisting of on from each Congressional District and six at large, of which Mr. Griffin was chairman. While the Committee on Resolutions was out, a State Central Committee was appointed. The whole of the State ticket of last year having been nominated by acclamation, a letter was read from Mr. Nesmith, of Lowell, declining to stand as a candidate for Lieutenant-Governor for the ensuing election. A ballot was ordered for that office the whole number of votes cast was 717; necessary for a choice, 359; Joel Hayden, of Williamsburg, had 442, A. C. Mayhew, of Milford, had 150, Francis B. Fay, of Lancaster, had 116, and there were several scattering. Mr. Hayden was, on motion of A. C. Mayhew, unanimously declared the nominee for Lieutenant-Governor.
The Committee on Resolutions reported, through their chairman, (Mr. Griffin,) the following:-
Resolved, That Massachusetts, with all her heart and strength, will support the Government of the United States in the prosecution of this war, by the employment of all the means sanctioned by the usages of Christian civilized warfare. 
Resolved, That the most decisive measures for the complete and permanent suppression of this rebellion are the most prudent, and that as the institution of slavery is the principal support of it, that institution shall be exterminated.
Resolved, That we heartily applaud the gallantry and endurance of our soldiers, and mourn the loss of those who are fallen, and that we will cherish their memories in our hearts, and preserve them by most enduring monuments.
Resolved, That we recognize and acknowledge the pre-eminent merits and services of our Senators in the Congress of the United States, the Hon. Charles Sumner and the Hon. Henry Wilson. In the posts of duty assigned them by the suffrages of their brother Senators, one as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the other as chairman of the Committee on Military Affairs, they have cordially and unreservedly, and with masterly ability, supported all governmental measures, and fitly represented the Commonwealth as among the most cheerful and enthusiastic defenders of the Government. And now that the second term of our senior Senator is drawing to a close, we desire to express our warmest approbation of his course, and appreciation of his services, and to commend him to the suffrages of his fellow-citizens, whom he has served so well, that the Common wealth may again honor itself by returning to duty at the capital, a statesman, a scholar, a patriot, and a man of whom any republic in any age might be proud.
Resolved, That the administration of the affairs of the State during the past year, and the intelligent and energetic manner in which its Chief Magistrate and other officers have discharged their several duties, merits and receives our most hearty commendation.
Mr. Dana, in a speech of great vehemence, opposed the adoption of the resolutions as impolitic at the present time. Some other gentlemen took the same view, and opposed the resolution endorsing Mr. Sumner. The whole series was finally adopted by a very large majority.
DEATH OF GEN. JAMES APPLETON. Gen. James Appleton, of Ipswich, died on the 25th of August, at the age of 77 years, after a long and useful life. Before the last war, he was a member of the Massachusetts Legislature. Before the war, he held a Colonel’s commission, and was in command of the troops at Gloucester, where he distinguished himself for the prompt and skilful discharge of his duties in the presence of a threatening enemy. At the close of the war he was appointed a Brigadier General.
He was subsequently a resident in the city of Port-land, Maine, and represented that city in the Legislature. For several years he was a candidate for the office of Governor of Maine. He was greatly interested in all questions and measures of reform, and aided such causes for many years by the constant influence of his voice and pen. His published writings relate to a wide range of political, social, moral and religious subjects. He served his country and the cause of humanity with constancy and faithfulness, and died in the humble though assured hope of the Christian.-Boston Journal.
The announcement of the death of Gen. Appleton of Ipswich will sadden the hearts of many in every part of New England who were his friends. His genial character, his dignified courtesy, his private and public usefulness, commanded a respect and affection not often enjoyed. He took a very active part in oral and philanthropic discussions, aiding them with his voice and pen. He was the first one, we believe, who proposed the absolute prohibition of the sale of intoxicating drinks, and was the first to advocate what was well known as the Maine law, in an elaborate report on the subject. Those who differed from him in opinion recognized in him an able and courteous opponent. He was a patriot and a Christian, and after a long and useful life, has been gathered unto his fathers, in the hope of a glorious resurrection.-Boston Courier.
Gen. Appleton warmly espoused the Anti-Slavery cause at a very early period, and was a firm and outspoken Abolitionist to the end. Even the Courier acknowledges that he was “a patriot and a Christian,” and not a madman and fanatic! The eulogy is well bestowed.
<c04>
LETTER FROM A LOYAL MARYLANDER.
The Boston Journal says it is permitted to publish the following extract from a private letter, written by one of the largest slave owners in southern Maryland to a friend in Boston:-
“CHARLES COUNTY, MD., Aug. 12, 1862.
“You in Boston, I am sure, cannot hare the same feelings that I have in regard to this wicked rebellion. You art far removed from danger, and have not had the rebel flag flaunted if your face by the bragging insolence that knows no truth or honor. Last year that infamous flag was unfurled in Charles County, and every Union man threatened with extermination.
You ought to hear the women talk treason, and then you will believe that Eve was the instigator of the first rebellion. They can beat the men in abuse and slander. They hate, oh! how they hate a Yankee or a Union man!
I hope we may soon be able to crush this wicked rebellion. But to do this we must bring the ringleaders to a speedy and quick punishment. When that is done, our glorious Union will be once more restored. As for the almighty negro, he does not enter into my calculation nor into my loyalty. And all the slaves in the country may go free-or go to the devil-before I would turn traitor to this glorious Union. I hope, for God’s sake, the North has no intention, under any circumstances, of giving up Maryland or Washington, and abandoning the Union men of the Border States to the tender mercies of the relentless devils whose presence would curse any spot. I had almost rather live in the kingdom of the evil one himself than be obliged to live under Jeff. Davis, whom and his principles I am proud to hate. I want nothing to do with him, but to fight him or help hang him. You may think this is strong language, but if you were back here in Charles County, and had my opportunities and experience, you would hate this rebellion as I do. All last winter I was within hearing of the rebel brag and threats. I saw their movements; and on many a dark night saw the flash of their guns, and was in constant expectation of being murdered by men whose ‘tender mercies’ were unmitigated cruelty. I hope you have no rebels or rebel sympathizers at the North. If you have, they must be the meanest, blackest villains in the world.”
What a stinging rebuke is such a letter to the outcries raised by such pseudo loyal papers as the Boston Courier and Poet against meddling with rebel slave property even to save the government.
CHANGE OF FEELING. According to the Washington correspondent of the Boston Traveller, the menacing of the Capital by the rebel forces has produced a great change of feeling respecting the employment of contrabands. He says:-
“Every body believes in contrabands now. They ‘don’t see why niggers shouldn’t work as well as white men.’ There is no objection to black men working in the entrenchments in the hot, enervating autumnal sun; and no one objects to their going to and from their work in double file; and if they do keep step and “file right” when they turn the corner, and if their leader says “halt” when they stop, or ‘march ‘when they go on, or ‘close up, men,’ when they are straggling, who cares! Now that they carry their implements in a uniform manner, and conduct themselves in a business way, now that they dress similarly, and wear their clothes becomingly, it is admitted that they look much better. As they go backward and forward between the trenches and their quarters, they might readily be taken for fatigue parties of soldiers.
“True, some do say that ‘them nigs gives themselves airs,’ but still no one objects. The four thousand blacks now at work on our fortifications make less noise, take less room, and are less felt in the community as blacks than were the four hundred similarly employed last your. Time was when it caused an outery here if an officer’s black servant appeared in his master’s cast-off clothes, lest it should ‘ give color to the idea’ that Africans could serve as soldiers; and time was when the provost guard stripped old uniforms from the backs of the colored teamsters; but that is passed now. In fact, I don’t believe that Count Gurowski’s Black Regiment on parade in Pennsylvania Avenue would cause much sensation.”
EXTRAORDINARY STATEMENT. A Washington (colored) correspondent of the Philadelphia Christian Recorder writes to that paper as follows:-
“Contrabands are coming into the city in great droves. It appears that many of them, in making their escape, (I speak from what they say,) threw their little, children into the riper and drowned them, to facilitate their flight. And there are two intelligent contrabands sitting down now in my house, who tell me that some where near Richmond, Va., there is a large coal mine, where several hundred colored people are at work, very low under ground, and a quantity of combustible materials are prepared and placed in it, and that a cannon is situated at a suitable distance, so that should the Union forces take Richmond, it is to be fired, which will ignite these conbustibles, and destroy every one in the coal pit. They further believe that it was God’s mercy that prevented Gen. McClellan from taking Richmond; for had he taken it, the lives of thousands of colored people would have been imperilled. But it is needless to try to particularize the horrid, hideous, shocking and inconceivable scenes of suffering which are reported by some of these poor dejected sons of humanity. Oh God, were I not confident that thy mercy endureth forever, I would despair for my people; but still we ask Thee, O thou Prince of peace, in wrath remember mercy. A few weeks ago, there was a great excitement in this city, which arose from a false apprehension that certain parties were trying to expatriate the contrabands from the country. It is to be hoped that equally as high a feeling for these homeless human beings will animate them to give of their substance, and divide their comforts, and open their doors, so that they may find shelter.”
TESTIMONY OF DR. CUTTER. Dr. Calvin Cutter, acting division surgeon of Reno’s division, recently captured, has been released. He estimates our casualities at 4,500 killed and wounded. Of these, 2,000 are still on the battle-field. They are being cared for. Dr. Cutter reproaches chief medical director Guild, and other rebel officers, in the bitterest terms, for leaving our poor men three days without food or even water, and warned them that this unheard of barbarity should be faithfully reported to our surgeon general. The wounded were left lying where they fell, surrounded by putrefying corpses, exposed to all inclemencies of weather, their wounds not even moistened, nor a cup of cold water put to lips which were swollen and blackened by three days’ fever.
The inhumanity of the enemy went so far that they supplied our surgeons with neither food, stimulants, lint, bandages, nor operating instruments for thirty-six hours. Dr. Cutter was not even permitted to give his professional services to the wounded. In one interview with medical director Guild, he told him that he had had charge of battle-fields before now, and that he had seen that the Confederate wounded had water, foot, shelter and clothes before he went to sleep. Upon which Guild said he wanted to hear no more such talk, and closed the conference.
MORE REBEL POISONING. A letter dated Alexandria, Va., Sept. 5th, from a young soldier on the way to join the 13th Massachusetts regiment, gives the following warning to beware of rebel women:-” On the railroad between Baltimore and Washington, three members of one of the companies were poisoned by eating pies and cakes sold by women, and one died in ten minutes after eating an apple thus poisoned.”
Is there to be no end to such atrocities?
FROM RICHMOND. A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, under date of Fortress Monroe, September 7, says:-
“Gen. Pope’s officers are kept in close confinement at Richmond, and are not allowed to purchase anything to eat or read. A Bible was sent to Captain Williams by a cousin, but they took it away from him. No communication is allowed between Pope’s officers and the other Union prisoners. One officer was brought from Orange Court House in irons. Lieut. Fisher was placed irons for attempting to write to his friends.”
In the rebel House of Representatives, Foote, of Tennessee, offered a bill for retaliatory purposes. It recites that the enemy refuse to treat our partisan soldiers as prisoners, and have also punished innocent private citizens for their acts. It provides that an officer who may have ordered such atrocities be put to death, if captured. An equal number of prisoners, officers to be preferred, taken from the enemy, to suffer the fate inflicted on our captured soldiers or citizens.
Also a bill for the treatment of captives. It provides that any officer or private captured by our army, who shall have committed any offence pronounced felonious by the laws of the Confederacy or any State, shall be delivered up for trial.
Also bill to punish negroes in arms. It provides that the Federal armies incongruously composed of white and black shall not be held entitled to the privileges of war, if taken prisoners. Of such as may be captured, the negroes shall be returned to their masters or publicly sold, and their commanders to be hung or shot as may be most convenient.
Also a bill to retaliate for seizure of citizens by the enemy. It provides that for the prisoners held by the United States, a number equal to that of the citizens seized, shall be held as hostages for their safety, and subjected to like treatment. Any officers, civil or military, concerned in their service, shall be imprisoned during the war.
All the bills were referred to the Military Committee.
<c05>
DEFEAT AND RETREAT OF THE REBEL INVADERS-FEDERAL VICTORIES! 
The Rebel sympathizers and Unionists alike from Frederick, all agree that the invasion of Maryland has proved a grand failure. The enemy confidently calculated on obtaining not less than fifty thousand men for their army from the entire State, and instead of that number did not get enough to form one company at Frederick, and they were skedaddlers from the coming draft in that State. The most earnest and touching evidences of loyalty to the old flag were made when our forces entered the place. The loyal ladies were specially enthusiastic, while old citizens who bad not even been disturbed in their property or interfered with personally, came forward and welcomed our troops as the deliverers from tyranny. The contrast between our troops and the rebels was moat striking. The latter with their once light uniforms were dingy and filthy. Few had any under-clothing, while most all were hatless and shoeless, and otherwise demoralized by their long, weary marches and continued fighting. They seemed to be well armed, and that they fight, and desperately, too, none of our soldiers question. Washington is to-day rejoicing over what now appear to be brilliant victories in Maryland. The success of our arms is the theme on every lip, congratulation passes from hand to hand, and the great, strong hope that is abroad to-day, is deep enough to settle the rebellion forever. It is the first news that has broken the gloom for months, and everything else is abandoned here to its revivifying influences.-Washington Corr. Boston Herald.
Gen. Burnside passed through Frederick early on Saturday morning, and the whole army pushed on after the enemy by every road, even crossing fields.
The people of Frederick turned out to welcome Burnside with the wildest enthusiasm-men, women and children-and when Gen. McClellan came, the people blocked up the streets so that it was difficult for him to reach his headquarters. The scene is described as most grand. The waving of flags and handkerchiefs was universal, and the women and children screamed words of welcome at the top of their voices.
The haste of the rebels to leave Frederick was so great that they left a number of cannon, also much ammunition and provisions. In their train were about fifteen hundred wagons, nearly all empty, which would probably be filled in the valleys on their way to Williamsport. The rebels were very destitute, but an eyewitness says that the discipline was most severe amongst them. For the slightest offence, he saw officers knock men down with the butt of their pistols, and otherwise treat them with the greatest severity. All accounts represent them as excessively filthy.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 16. Harper’s Ferry was surrendered to the rebels yesterday forenoon, after Col. Miles had been severely if not fatally wounded. There were about 2300 cavalry in the command, all of whom but about 40 escaped about 8 o’clock Sunday night, and cut their way through to Greencastle with but little loss. The balance of the troops, numbering from 6000 to 8000, with Gen. White’s command from Martinsburg, were all surrendered. [The rebels have since quickly evacuated Harper’s Ferry.]
NEW YORK Sept 17. The Herald’s Washington dispatch has the following:-An officer, who just arrived from Harper’s Ferry, reports that the rebels evacuated the place in a great hurry. They are sending everything across the river as fast as possible. They left Harper’s Ferry in such haste that they had not time to complete paroling the prisoners, and a number were unconditionally released in consequence.
Drayton’s South Carolina Brigade is entirely gone-either having been killed, wounded or taken prisoners. The 17th Michigan, a new regiment, used up this brigade-first with bullets and finally with bayonets.
Howell Cobb was wounded and taken prisoner, and will be back to Frederick sooner than he boasted he would.
General McClellan was pushing on them very close, and had already sent to the rear 8000 prisoners and 4 batteries.
We have taken, since Friday last, about 6000 prisoners, with less than the usual proportion of officers. The mountains are full of straggling, starving, and demoralized rebels, who are giving themselves up as fast as they can find their way into our lines.
The Union army is in splendid condition. The men are all in light marching order, and full of buoyant spirits over their successes. Several regiments of new troops were in the fight of Sunday, and behaved with great bravery.
MIDDLETOWN, Md., Sept. 15. There was some heavy fighting beyond here in the mountains yesterday. Our loss was about 1200; the enemy’s was very much larger, and they were repulsed. General Reno was killed. The generalship on our side has been extraordinary. The soldiers are extremely enthusiastic.
BALTIMORE, Sept. 16. Gen. Longstreet is killed, and his body is at Middletown. Gen. Hill is wounded and a prisoner. The rebel General Garland was also killed. Our victory is regarded as one of the greatest of the war.
NEW YORK, Sept. 17.-The Times has a special dispatch from Hagerstown, stating that two portions of the rebel army have united this side of the Potomac to the number of 70,000 men. Also a dispatch dated 8:49, P. M., that a battle is reported going on all the afternoon. Results unknown.
The Times special account of the late battle states that Longstreet was killed and Hill taken prisoner.
Hagerstown has been abandoned by the rebels, and re-occupied by our troops.
The rebel loss during the day and night of Sunday was fully 15,000 in killed, wounded and missing. Gen. Lee acknowledged to the citizens of Boonsboro’ that they had been defeated with terrible loss.
Our loss in killed and wounded will probably reach 3000. We lost but few prisoners.
A gang of Porter’s guerrillas were attacked and routed on Monday at Shelburne, Mo., by Col. McNeil. Twenty wagons and a number of horses and guns were captured.
HARRISBURG, Pa., Sept 17. Seventy-two thousand men have responded to the call of the Governor, to drive the traitors from our borders, who have been armed and equipped.
Gen. Lee telegraphed to Jeff. Davis on the 5th that he had paroled 1000 prisoners and captured thirty pieces of cannon and a number of stand of arms.
The rebel General Armstrong’s operations in West Tennessee has been published. He claims that he passed between Boliver and Jackson, destroying the bridges and tressle work, and in the different engagements he claims to have taken 213 prisoners and killed and wounded 75.
The rebel Congress on Friday adopted resolutions thanking Gen. Lee for his late successes, and declaring it to be the policy now that Maryland was to be occupied for the purpose of advancing into the enemy’s country.
LOUISVILEE, Ky., Sept 14. Further particulars of the Mumfordsville fight have been received from Mr. Thomas, who arrived from there this evening. He was present during the battle. The rebels under Gen. Duncan, numbered from 5,000 to 7,000, including cavalry, artillery and infantry.
The rebels made the attack from both sides of the river, and boldly advanced to our breastworks. They were repulsed with fearful loss. The Federal forces under Col. Wilder numbered about 2,000. At the commencement of the fight, they were reinforced by Col. Dunham with the 5th Indiana regiment The first the rebels knew of his whereabouts was his pouring in a whole volley, killing many and stampeding the balance.
The Federal loss was 8 killed and 27 wounded. The rebel loss was from 500 to 700 killed and wounded. The rebels who brought a flag of truce admit a loss of 400 killed. Two pieces of artillery were captured from the enemy.
The bridge at Bacon Creek has been destroyed.
The rebel Gen. Bragg is supposed to be at Glasgow.
The guerrillas have changed their policy in Missouri. Instead of organizing into large bands, they are now dividing into small bodies, aid encamping in squads of twenty-five and thirty. In this way, they are enabled to spread over a vast area of country, and obtain good hiding places. From these, they issue in small squads to commit depredations. No camp is held over three or four nights. They are constantly shifting.
A gentleman who left Lexington, Kentucky, on Sunday, says the Confederates were having a high time there. They were living on the best; had transferred the contents of the stores to their persons, as far as they were transferable; were publishing a newspaper, receiving sensation despatches from the South, and lying and stealing generally.
PITTSBURG, (Pa.,) Sept 17. A frightful explosion occurred at the U. S. Arsenal this afternoon, at 2 o’clock. It occurred in the large frame building known as the laboratory. One hundred and seventy six boys and girls were employed in the building at the time of the disaster, of whom seventy-five or eighty were killed. One explosion followed another until the entire building was destroyed, and those who could not escape in time were burned up.
The scene was most appalling, the dead bodies lying in heaps as they had fallen. In some places where the heat was most intense, whitened bones could be seen through the smoke and flames. In other places, large masses of blackened flesh were visible.
Up to the present time, 63 bodies have been taken from the ruins.
<c06>
Gen. Pope’s report is a remarkably clear and luminous military paper, and, if his statements are correct, it shows that his failure was in no sense due to any want of exertion, skill, and care on his part, or lack of bravery on the part of his men, but to the disobedience of some of his lieutenants, to Gen. McClellan’s refusal to send him supplies, and to the want of food and ammunition. At present, we know not how lust his charges are, and probably we never shall know, for government has sent into the field the very men against whom they are preferred. The court of inquiry has been postponed, not because there is no occasion for inquisition, but because government durst no more act contrary to the wishes of Gen. McClellan and his friends than the Roman Senate would have dared to institute an inquiry into the conduct of Caesar and his legates after they had crossed the Rubicon. The causes of Gen. Pope’s defeat will be added to the vexing questions of history, because there is no power to make the inquiries necessary to get at the truth. That the inquiry has been postponed-forever-will be regarded by most people as strong corroborating evidence that the accusations made by Gen. Pope are well founded, and not the inventions of a disappointed commander.-Boston Traveller.
Most of the digging in the work of fortifying Cincinnati has been done by black men. Is not such conduct unconstitutional, and have not the rebels the right to demand that all fortifications thus made should be destroyed? Let the question be submitted to Taney, C. J., forthwith, or there may be some chances of the rebels getting beaten.-Ibid.
The rebels boast of having seized, and sold into slavery, the black men who were sent to help bury our dead, last week. Their conduct was not very honorable, but it was no worse than that of the men who sent the negroes into their hands, knowing well what their fate would be, and that the Southrons had pledged themselves, to themselves, thus to treat all dark-skinned Federalists.-Ibid.
It is said that Gen. McDowell’s letter to the President, asking for a court of Inquiry, is a very decided document. With reference to the words said to have been uttered by the dying Col. Brodhead, of Michigan, to the effect that he “died a victim to the imbecility of Pope and the treachery of McDowell.” the latter desires a thorough investigation, not only into the facts out of which such a charge may have sprung, but into all the circumstances connected with his campaign from the beginning.
The terrible peril in which the Union cause is now placed at the National Capital grows out of the awful blunder committed last spring, in failing to pursue the rebels when they evacuated Manassas, and in dividing the Potomac army-sending one pan of it to the peninsula, and leaving a part on the Rappahannock. That piece of strategy has cost the nation 75,000 soldiers. $400,000,000, and six months of precious time, and may lose us Washington, Baltimore, Maryland, and Heaven only knows what other disasters m be in store for us, as the penalties of that stupid blunder.- Chicago Tribune.
ESCAPE OF APPLETON OAKSMITH. Appleton Oak-smith, who has been confined in Suffolk jail since December last, and was convicted in June of fitting out a vessel for the slave trade, made his escape from the jail Thursday morning, and it is supposed had been gone four hours before he was missed. His escape was not known until 10 o’clock. Sheriff Clark offers a reward of $300 for his arrest and return, with the intimation that the runaway is likely to disguise himself as a woman or a sailor. A motion for a new trial was pending, to be argued in October- Boston Courier.
DESCRIPTION OF OAKSMITH, THE SLAVE DEALER. -Sheriff Clark thus describes Appleton Oaksmith, who escaped from Charles Street Jail on Thursday of last week:-
‘Height 5 ft. 9 inches, dark, swarthy complexion, sharp, full, dark hazel eyes, Roman nose, very dark brown hair, thin on the top of his head, had long, full beard, probably trimmed or shaved off since, stout built, weight 160 pounds, genteel address, air of shrewdness, soft, white hand, handsome teeth, fine-looking, and about forty yean old.”
ST. PAUL, Minnesota, Sept. 13. Four persons were killed today by the Indians near Mankato while threshing wheat. This was done within a mile of a company of troops. The Indians took the horses from the threshing machine, and left before the troops could reach them. These bold exploits will prevent the farmers from returning to their crops.

MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
Receipt into the Treasury, from May 22, to Sept. 10. 1862.
Collection at Feltonville, (Middlesex Co. Society,) $7 00
M. & s. M. McFarland, to redeem pledge, 10 00
John B. Pierce, Lynn, do. do. 10 00
Bourne Spooner, Plymouth, do. do. 20 00
H W. Blanchard, Neponset, 1 00
Collection, Miss Dickinson’s lecture, Worcester, 7 25
Do., C. C Burleigh’s lecture, do. 6 50
John C. Haynes, Boston, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Ira Gray, Reading, to redeem pledge, 5 00
W. W. Dutcher, Hopedale, to redeem pledge, 25 00
M. A. Dutcher, do. do. do. 25 00
Luther Melendy, Amherst, N H., 5 00
Mary May, Boston, to redeem pledge, 100 00
Cornelius Cowing, West Roxbury, Mass., 1 00
Rev W. J. Potter, New Bedford, to redeem pledge, 5 00
Dr. Daniel Mann, Boston, do. do. 5 00
Adams Twitchell, do. do. do. 1 00
Wendell P. Garrison, do. do. do. 2.00
Reuben H. Ober, do. to redeem pledge, Jan. 1862, 10 00
Edward S. Vennard, Manchester, to redeem pledge, 1 00
J. H. Moore, Sudbury, 0 25
Mrs. Richard Clap, Dorchester, to redeem pledge, 20 00
Miss Martha Clapp. do. Do. do. 1 00
Adams Twitchell, Boston, do. do. 0 50
Miss E. H. Day, Lewiston, Me., to redeem pledge,
May, 1862, 5 00
Thomas Martin, Portsmouth, N. H., 2 50
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, Sept 10, 1862. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, on behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, is now in the State of Vermont, and will speak as follows; his subject, Slavery and the Rebellion: 
Peaeham, Sunday, September 21.
Danville, Monday, September 22.
Groton, Wednesday, September 24.
Ryegate, Friday, September 26.
Wells River, Sunday, September 28.
A. T. Foss will please inquire for a letter at Albany, (Vt.) post-office; or send thither for one mailed at Leicester, (Mass.) on Monday last.
Letters for William H. Fish should be addressed Vernon, Oneida Co., N. Y., whither he has removed.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
MARRIED-At Hopedale, Milford, Maw., Sept. 15, by Rev. Adin Ballou, Capt Wm. F. Draper, 36th Regiment Mass. Vols., to Miss LILLA W., only daughter of Hon. David Joy, of Glen Haven, N. Y.

DENTISTRY.
DD. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Hopedale Home School.
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks 
For particulars, address
WM.S.HEYWOOD, A.B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6. 4t

BRISTOL BOARDING-SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located is the borough of Bristol pa., on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia. It will open its fall session on 2d day, Ninth month. 1st.
Terms-$75 per session of five months.
For circular, address
RUTH ANNA PEIRCE, Principal
REFERENCES.
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia.
ANNE CHURCHAM 908 Franklin street, Philadelphia.
C. N. PERICE, 501 N. Seventh street Philadelphia
HENRY W. RIDGWAY,.Crosswicks N.Y 
DAVID L. GRISCOM, Woodbury, N. J.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, EARLVILLE La Salle Co., III
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants 
August 8. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
A WORD FOR THE PRESENT.
When shall mankind its living prophets know?
Not tombs, alone, but temples, build below-
Accept inspirations as they roll
From lips touched by the altar's glowing coal,
And own I AM has message for to-day,
Not less than for the ages passed 
"Hadst t but known in this, thy day”- he said,
Who the dark future of his nation read
"But now, alas! ‘hidden from thine eyes,
Till s rayless night lowers in thy skies;
Hidden because thine eyes refused to see,
Hidden because thine ears were deaf to me"
How through the centuries sighs that patriot wail
From one who knew  mission could not fail,
But yearned to see his country lead God's van,
By merging selfish lusts in love of man!
Land of brave warriors and of bards divine,
Be thy sad doom the saving power of mine!
From the first chosen may the latest learn
How ‘ Eternal Truth to spurn;
Learn, ere too late, what all time's teachings give-
Only by justice can a nation live.
"Give us Barabbas, and away with him"
Shouted the rabble in the twilight dim:
Crime stalked abroad, without condition free,
And God's own Son was hanged upon the tree!
In our faint hearts poor Pilate questions still-
The clamorous Present, or the Eternal, will?
These rebel passions we must gently quell,
Further to rouse their fury is not well;
'Tis early morning-ere the close of day
Truth may be ransomed in some easier way;
Truth, ere the close of day, to heaven has fled,
And midnight darkness wide earth is sprd.
Now! warning, awful voice
This hour, my people, make your solemn choice!
There stands Barabbas-ah! ye know him well!
All shames and crimes his hideous visage swell;
Choose him, this morning rabble rage may cease,-
Farewell, forever, to a nation's peace!
There stands the Just One firm in his meek might,
While hordes of evil madden at the sight;
Make him your choice-the tumult fiercer grows,
Raging awhile with desperate, dying throes;
But vainly, now, your power it will defy-
Jehovah, Infinite, is your ally!
To one wild hour the contest is confined-
The righteous treaty by God's hand is signed!
A newborn nation leads the great world's van,
And through our sufferings we have ransomed man!
My Countrymen! prophet speaks TO-DAY!
Turn not, O, turn not from the call away!

From the American Baptist.
FOR WHAT ARE WE COMING?
“We're coming, we’re coming”; the call has been heard;
With the response our bosoms have stirred.
We've left our companions, our loved ones at home,
For what” Father Abraham,” for what have we come?
Our in danger! cry has gone forth,
From the East to the West, the South to the North;
And, promptly responding, our brothers and sires
Have poured out their life-blood to smother its fires.
To smother its fires and leave the dark stain,
The root of the Upas, its wonted domain,
Where the poor bleeding slave, still quivering in death,
‘Neath the lash of his master must yield up his breath!
Hark!  "Father Abraham"; from Washington's grave
The Angel of Mercy is pleading to save
These sorrowing captives. Their prayers are on high,
And God, in his mercy, will yet hear their cry.
Then speak “Father Abraham"; but one word proclaim!
'Twill lift from our country its curse and its shame!
Inscribe on your banners, ere vengeance shall fall,
Our motto forever is "Freedom for 
Ah! then will Jehovah appear for the right,
Our foes to subdue and crush by his might;
Each Star reinstated in grandeur sublime;
Our Flag, long insulted, with glory will shine.

From the Congregationalist.
HELP FROM THE COTTON FIELDS.
We have waited, Uncle Abraham, as our fathers by the sea,
When the Lord went forth with Moses, to set his people free;
We are waiting for the watchword, but the time seems very long;
We can raise you up an army ten hundred thousand strong.
We hear that you are coming to sell us far away,
But in our hearts we're trusting it is not as they say;
We see your brave ones falling, we hear the cannon's roar,
But we would like to join you, ten hundred thousand more.
We hear your bugles playing, and the drummers' rattling rolls,
Our hearts beat with the music so thrilling to our souls;
We see your banners flying-your army marches along,
And we would like to join you, ten hundred thousand strong.
We are waiting, Uncle Abraham, for you to say the word,
We'll help you in the contest-this battle for the Lord;
From canebrake, field and forest, we'll come, a mighty throng,
We'll help you save the nation, ten hundred thousand strong.
Our brothers at Port Royal are forming into line,
We see their bayonets glisten, their eagles brightly shine;
We'll fight till death for Freedom, for Right instead of Wrong,
We are waiting, Uncle Abraham-ten hundred thousand strong.
, July 28, 1862. C. C.

From the American Baptist.
WATCHMEN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
Oh tell us, ye watchmen, the signs of the night,
What cause of man's sorrow delayeth the light?
Does the day-star of peace yet appear on the hill,
Or is the dark future unreadable still?
They told us rebellion was thrown from the track,
The arms of our soldiers had broken its back;
The pressure our nation was bringing to bear,
Indirectly, was killing the beast in his lair.
But the wail that arises all over our land,
From thousands of victims bereft by its 
Shows a strength of vitality which it were well
To consider, while striving the monster to quell.
Mistake not the head of the beast for its tail;
Rebellion will live until slavery fail;
Nor can we expect of great conquests to tell,
Till we aim at his powder our hot shot and shell.
Oh tell us, ye watchmen who stand on the wall,
To whose voices we listen whenever ye call,
And speak to our nation in words that are plain,
Give a sound to the trumpet we all can explain!
Oh tell us what sins we are clinging to still,
What proud, selfish Achan has coffers to fill;
Does the lowing of oxen-the cry of the slave
Show the victim alive God refuses to save?
We are weary, O watchmen, of fighting with God;
Though kind his chastisements, yet fearful his rod.
Oh listen, ye great ones, who stand in the path,
Nor suffer our nation to die from his wrath!

THANKS.
For the dear love that kept us through the night,
And gave senses to Sleep's gentle sway;
For the new miracle of dawning light 
Flushing the East with prophecies of Day,
We thank Thee, oh our God!
For the fresh life that through our being flows
With its tide, to strengthen and to bless;
For calm, sweet thoughts, upspringing from repose,
To bear to Thee their song of thankfulness,
We praise Thee, oh our God!
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVERY AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
No. II.
BY JOSEPH F. BRENNAN, OF LOUISVILLE, KY.
In the Slave States, manual labor is considered menial and degrading; it is the business of slaves. The slaves themselves have no respect for the man or woman who performs the labor they are accustomed to perform, and few white people, after a short residence in a Slave State, have the nerve to incur the contempt of a slave. In the Free States, the majority of the people work with their hands, counting it not a degradation or reproach, but a duty and a dignity. Thus in Boston, the richest city for the number of its population in America, out of 22,000 families, in 1860, but 6000 kept a servant, and only 1300 had more than one servant to perform their household labor. In the matter of freedom is involved the great point of difference in a Slave State between labor and independence. Where it is a social disgrace to work, men of spirit will not work. So the high-minded freemen are continually getting worse off by reason of their idleness, and either make desperate attempts to enter the professions or emigrate to the new Free States, where labor is not degradation; not, however, as the enterprising New Englander, seeking more room for his expansive ideas, but because his condition is a reproach to him.
Most of the work of a productive character in the Slave States is therefore done by slaves. But as the slave has no stimulus to labor, the natural instinct of production is materially checked, The master has the desires which consume, the slave only the hand that earns. He labors not for himself, but for another, who continually wrongs him. His aim, therefore, is to do the least he can avoid punishment by doing. He will practice little economy, no thrift. The master cannot force him to think or contrive; he therefore does neither. He only gives what the master can force from him, and be cannot conceal. There is no invention in the slave: in fact, there is scarcely any among the masters, for their business is to act on men, not directly on things. This circumstance unfits the slaveholder for the great operations of productive industry. All labor saving contrivances are produced in the Free States. The proportion of patents granted to inventors in the Slave States, up to the present time, compared with those granted to inventors in the Free States, ranks as one to eighty. The State of New York alone has received more than three times as many patents as all the Slave States, since the Patent Office was established. In the North, the freeman acts directly upon by his own will; in the South, only through men reduced to the rank of things, and these things then act on material objects, without pleasure in their labor. Here it will be perceived lies the immense disparity in the results. The slave can only be employed to advantage in the culture of the earth. It was the same in Italy two thousand years ago. He produces the coarse products, such as cotton, corn, rice, tobacco, and the sugar cane. His rude and ignorant culture impoverishes the soil, kills the land. He knows nothing of the component parts of a fertile earth. With such labor, in a few years, the land becomes barren, and the slaveholder believes he must seek new land, virgin soil, which in a few years is in its turn by the culture of the ignorant slave ruined, and has to be deserted. Nothing less than a semi-nomadic life is the natural result of those who retain exclusively slave labor. The patriarchal institution requires the patriarchal style of living, now and always practiced by the uncivilized nomadic peoples, and as a consequence, labor saving tools and machinery are almost unknown. The hoe and plough, the latter but a degree or two superior to that of Virgil, two thousand years ago, are to-day the principal tools employed in Southern fields, where slaves, in squads and companies cultivate the land. The soil is never entered beyond the depth of from four to six inches for purposes of cultivation. In Massachusetts, a slaveholder might own nearly all the land between Dorchester and Plymouth, east of the Old Colony Railroad, and with such cultivation as he bestows upon his land in the South, he would in a few years starve. Slavery, as a system of labor, discourages the immigration of poor but able-bodied men from the Free States. The slaveholder, if you ask him the reason of this, will tell you they cannot stand the climate, but this is false. He and his class dread, rather, the influence of the society of such men upon their slaves, and therefore they discourage their emigration thither. In the Free States, the proprietor of machinery or land has to buy only labor; in the Slave States, he must buy not only machinery or land, but likewise laborers. This is what hinders the advancement of manufactures in the Slave States. At Lowell or Lawrence, the manufacturer builds his mill, buys his cotton, and, reserving a sufficient sum for his floating capital, he hires five hundred men and women to work his machinery, paying them from week to week for their labor. In Virginia or South Carolina, he must buy all; not only mill, cotton and machinery, but operatives also. Putting these five hundred operatives as slaves at but $600 each, there are $200,000 more necessary to start a cotton mill in Virginia than is required to start one in Massachusetts. This additional sum is needed before a wheel can turn; consequently, the wheels don't turn in Slave States. Once in a while, a Southern Convention will make a convulsive effort to organize operations in the manufacturing way in the Slave States, but nothing is produced by them but talk. At such meetings, it is generally proven to a demonstration that no finer water powers are to be found in the world than in the South, no finer harbors; and as for the raw material, is it not raised by every planter at the very doors of the capitalists? But they ignore the fact that it is man power and woman power-the power of intelligent free men, energetic free women-that is needed to make a cotton or woolen factory a paying concern.
In a community of free labor, each laborer stimulates the other. The farmer not only consumes a portion of what he produces himself, but also a portion of every necessary and some of the luxuries produced by his neighbors, either on the ground or brought from other countries-tea, coffee, sugar, rice, molasses, salt, spices, cotton and woolen goods, shoes, hardware, tinware and cutlery, crockery and glassware, clocks, jewelry, books, paper, agricultural implements and the like. His wants stimulate the mechanic and the merchant, while theirs in return stimulate him. All grow up together, all prosper-together, each having a market at home, and a community of interest in each other. Industry, activity, intelligence and comfort are the result, and labor of all kinds is respected. In a slaveholding and slave populated State, the reverse of all this takes place. The Southern planter purchases nothing for his slaves except coarse cotton cloth, called jeans, to clothe them, negro brogans for their feet, and pork and corn to feed them. “Hog and hominy” are the staple provender of slaves-the only food provided by the masters. Twenty dollars a year are considered adequate for the support of an able-bodied field hand. Except it be the producers of corn and hogs, negro brogans, and the article called: jeans,” no one is benefitted by the consumption of the slave population. Indeed, a slaveholder prides himself upon being independent of the world for his supplies. Enumerating the slave population at 2,500,000, who are thus provided for as consumers of twenty dollars' worth a year, outside of what they grow on the plantations, and we have fifty millions of dollars a year to cover the total consumption. How will that compare with the consumption of a free population? In 1880, the 1,300,000 inhabitants of Massachusetts consumed one hundred and twenty millions of dollars' worth, or seventy millions of dollars' worth more than the whole laboring slave population of the Southern States combined. comparison is not to be tolerated in such a connection.
<c03>
In the Free States, the free man comes directly in contact with the material things, which he wishes to convert to his purpose. To shorten his labor, he makes his head save his hands. He thinks, he contrives, he invents machines. His productive capacity is extended an hundred fold by his use of wind, water, and steam. Such extension is a solid gain, not only to him, but also to all mankind. While South Carolina enslaves men, Massachusetts enslaves the elements of nature. New England has kidnapped the Merrimack, the Connecticut, the Androscoggin, the Kennebec, the Penobscot, and a hundred smaller streams. She has seized fire and water, and bound them with an iron yoke, making with them an army, a nation, of powerful but pliant workmen. The patriarchal institution of slavery represents the 19th century before Christ; the economic institution of machinery represents the 19th century after Christ. The law of the former discourages progress; the law of the latter invites progress. In their results, they are thirty-eight centuries apart. From a review of the results of the former, it is delightful to turn to those of the latter. The object of the economic institutions of the 19th century is the good of mankind, in a sense which the mass of mankind always have understood and always will understand the word It has lengthened, life by reducing the drain upon its vitality. It has extinguished many virulent diseases. It has increased he fertility of the soil. It has given new securities to the mariner. It has spanned great rivers and estuaries with bridges of forms unknown to our fathers of the earlier age. It has conducted the thunderbolt innocuously from heaven to earth. It has lighted up the night with the splendor of the day. It has extended the range of human vision. It has multiplied the power of human muscles. It has accelerated motion. It has annihilated distance. It has increased correspondence, all friendly offices, all dispatch of  It has enabled man to descend to the depths of the sea, to soar into the air, to penetrate securely into the noxious recesses of the earth, to traverse the land in cars which rush along without horses, and the ocean in ships which sail against the wind. These are but a part of its fruits, and its first fruit; for it is an institution that never rests. Its law is progress. The point that was invisible yesterday is its goal to-day, and will be its starting-post to-morrow.
I will not dwell further upon this branch of my subject, nor even touch on the vast difference in the internal improvements and value of the land and property in Slave and Free States. These differences, as well as the difference in population in proportion to relative territory, are known to all. The effects of slavery on education will next engage our attention.

[Translated for the Liberator from the Pioneer of Sept 10.]
JEFF. DAVIS TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
I must confess to you, that I have indeed always placed the greatest confidence in you, and, from the beginning of the insurrection, built my chief hopes upon you; but, of late, you have justified my confidence in such a way that I should be the most ungrateful man in the world, if I did not communicate to you my feelings, at least by a friendly sign. Your election was my elevation; your government was my preservation; and your safety will be my future.
Formerly, when I did not know you intimately, your unassuming way made me rather depreciate you. Your words, as well as your acts, since then, have made you invaluable to me. Even as a writer, you have surprised me by productions which I had never given you credit for. Who but you could have written the inimitable letter to Abolitionist Greeley, and the still more original address to the negro committee? In the last-named document, there courses a humorous vein, which betrays wholly unlooked-for qualifications. I have not for a long time read any thing more happy than the advice with which you banish the black devils to the coal pits of Central America; but, at the same time, I did not mistake the earnest meaning in the comic dress. Yes, I may say to you, it has already done its work. The slaves who learn that the ruler of the North, to whom they besotted looked as their liberator, knows no better fate for them than making coal graves for themselves under the equator, have for ever abandoned the idea of running away from or rising against us.
I mention your written performances, however, merely to show you that I slight none of your services. But words would fail me if I attempted to give due prominence to all the services which you have rendered my native land by your policy and your deeds. Much as I esteemed Buchanan, if I could set him in your place, I would not do it at any price. This simple expression of my regard says more to you than the most excessive emphasis could convey.
The very first acts of your administration revealed to me that you were a true statesman. The true statesman is characterized, above all, by sturdy adherence to the past. The past is a sure thing, an accumulated fact, and therefore a firm foundation; the future is a, fog-streak, ranged by airy ideas, and has no basis: it is seductive to enthusiasts and revolutionists. The statesman looks behind him, and steers calmly, with averted face, towards coming events, if he has the compass of the past before his eyes. Of all the isms which rule the world, the statesman prizes but one-conservatism; and of new acquisitions, only two have value for him-power and money. He is complete, if he knows how to appropriate to himself that dullness which is impervious to all enticements of honor and freedom, principles and humanity, which enthusiasts reckon chief among their so-called ideas. Nor should the statesman even be concerned with the understanding; for since the world, whose maintenance is the problem of statesmanship, is destitute of it the understanding must necessarily be revolutionary, if allowed to enter into the administration. Had you suffered yourself to be afflicted with understanding, I should have been lost as much as if you had been accessible to honor and freedom. And what would have been the consequences? Revolution!
This assertion may seem strange in the mouth of a man who is called a rebel against his rightful government. But it will not have escaped you that your party alone exhibits revolution, while I represent the proper conservatism which has merely been compelled to restore to the past her well-earned rights, and to secure their organic future development by opposing revolution. When that work is accomplished, you as well as I will be called by our right names, and a grateful world will bless your benevolent, conservative statesmanship. Your merit will be the greater, the more arduous your task, that, namely, of helping me to dominion, while fighting me; of employing your superior power as Commander-in-Chief for the support of my weakness; and of swearing me a brother, while seeking to annihilate me as a foe; and all that without damaging your “honesty.”
If I had any instructions to communicate to you, perhaps they would run somehow thus:-
"Make a banker Secretary of War, or, if you cannot find one take a lawyer.
"Make no preparations till I have made mine.
"Do not try to secure important points till I have captured them, nor to obtain decisive positions till I hold them, nor to remove stores till I have lugged them off.
"Everywhere put Generals at the head who have most sympathy for me; and where this sympathy is wanting, it must be supplied by stupidity and incapacity
"Should you unfortunately gain a victory, be careful to retrieve it as soon as possible by a defeat.
"Never oppose corruption, for virtue is revolutionary.
"If you have a General suspected of treason, promote him, that he may not waste his talent on trifles; and if he is incapable, give him the best troops, that what he sends under the ground may be worth his trouble.
"Of course, protect ‘the 'traitors’ at the North, and do not disturb their secret organization; so that when the time of my visit calls me that way, I may not lack the acclamation and support of ‘the people.’
<c04>
“Be nowhere consistent-except in your efforts for the chief end-that everything may remain paralyzed by uncertainty and anxiety; only on one point be true to yourself-nowhere permit the interests of slavery to be earnestly assailed, or the anti-slavery spirit to enter the army. Remove every General who has abolition sympathies; and if you cannot universally order the rendition of fugitive slaves, at least you will punish no officer who prosecutes the business in spite of the laws.
“Aim to squander as much blood and treasure as possible without doing us special harm, that the people of the North may become thoroughly exhausted, and disposed by faintness and despair to consent to my plans, as soon as the moment has arrived for their execution. Suffer, too, your ministers wantonly to interfere with personal security and the freedom of the press, that your countrymen may be somewhat accustomed, when they fall under my government.”
Nearly in this wise, my esteemed colleague, would I instruct you, if I were authorized to, and deemed it necessary. But, as it is, I modestly leave every thing to your own discretion; for, as before said, my confidence in you is unlimited. To give you a still further proof of this, I will reveal to you my whole plan.
Since your Generals, whom you knew how to select so appropriately, have opened for me the way to Washington, the mob believes that my next step is the possession of your capital. The think I am endeavoring to destroy my own residence, and prematurely to remove my best friend from the management of my possessions. I shall seek to take, and, if necessary, annihilate Washington, only when I despair of accomplishing my other plans. These are, at present,-by gaining the Border States, and a firm hold in a couple of Northern States, with the isolation of Washington,-to prove the opposition of Northern revolutionists to my undertaking unprofitable, and to enchain the sympathies of my Northern friends. Then first, when this has come to pass, will I enter my capital as a victor, and (of course) with the olive branch in my hand. I would, it is true, be content with the independence of the South as a makeshift, if I absolutely must; but her future would be too precarious and contracted without the addition of the North, and therefore I, the Secessionist, am as good a Union man as you. But the Union which I wish is the old Union, and the development I wish is that organic development which your party destroyed. The natural expiration of that party is the condition of the development and continued supremacy of slavery-a condition on which alone the Union can have stability and a grand future. By our quarrel, we have for the first time learned the full extent of our strength. No power in the world will withstand us, if I, at the head of the two million soldiers who now are fighting each other, and master of a proportionate fleet, dictate law to the people of this Republic and to the whole continent. The paltry European monarchs, who think they can now withhold from me the favor of their recognition, shall tremble, after I have first secured my recognition this side the water. Mexico, Cuba, and the African slave-trade will be my first foreign aims; and who to the power that blocks my way to their accomplishment! In ten years, this Republic, founded anew on the broadened basis of slavery, and strengthened by efficient precautions against the misuse of what the ideologists style freedom, will be the mistress of America and the arbiter of the world.
You, dear colleague, could now, to be sure, cross these vast schemes by a very simple means. You need merely with your iron-clad ships take Charleston, Mobile and Savannah, and land there an army with Generals a la Fremont, Hunter, Phelps, &c., for the instigation of the slaves; receive the blacks everywhere into the army; proclaim universal emancipation; and have every traitor seized by the throat. But even without my conjuring you, you will know how to avert such revolutionary attempts. If you do this, and the people of the North continue you at your post, I shall have no fear for the hereafter.
We shall meet again in Washington.
Your sincere friend, J. DAVIS.

WHERE THE REAL BATTLE IS TO BE FOUGHT.
If the United States were at war with a foreign nation, who can doubt that the conflict would be “sharp, short, and decisive”? Our military leaders would not need the pressure of an impatient people to force them to advance. Strategy, which excuses incompetent generals for months of wasted time, millions of wasted money, and thousands of wasted lives, would be less popular. Celerity of action and vigorous severity would mark the conduct of the war. The swift-pouncing eagle, not the tardy tortoise, would be our emblem.
Acknowledging the truth of this, can thinking minds avoid the conclusion, that the policy of our Government, in its efforts to subdue the South, is radically wrong? Seventeen months have passed since the capture of Though vastly superior in physical strength, pecuniary resources, and moral power, to the South, we have been worsted in the field, and the emptiness of our boast, that the rebellion would be “speedily crushed,” made manifest. The end recedes as we advance. Not Richmond, but Washington, is in danger.
How much longer must we stumble along in this disheartening gloom, before the people will understand that the real battle which is to decide the future of the Republic is one of OPINION, and to be fought, not at the South, but at the North? Thus far, Slavery in arms has been triumphant, because Slavery, under the guise of loyalty, has interposed to paralyze every blow aimed at rebellion. Senator Wilson stated the exact truth at the Fremont meeting-“The man who believes slavery to be right is a traitor.” “The difference between the Northern and the Southern traitor is the difference between the assassin and the soldier. The former stabs under the guise of friendship; the latter strikes without concealment, and with fair warning. Therefore, the first work is to expose and crush out treason in our midst. Every day of indecision and paltering, on the part of the Government, adds strength to these allies of Jefferson Davis. Though numerically small, as compared with the great mass of loyal people, their influence is immense. Loudmouthed and positive in their assertions, untiring in their efforts, and using the shibboleth of “the Constitution and the Union” to cloak their treasonable designs, they overawe the weak and the timid. Democratic pro-slavery earnestness is more than a match for Republican indifference.
Into the hands of these men our cause has been betrayed. The President, in his anxiety to avoid being partisan in his appointments, has given the control of our armies to generals who were his strongest opponents. In attempting to escape Scylla, he rushed upon Charybdis. In his eyes, the record of a pro-slavery Democrat is a better passport to governmental favor than an anti-slavery life. It is an indisputable fact, that the men who were in fullest sympathy with the rebel chiefs, before treason rose in arms, are now mainly trusted with the conduct of the war. Can we wonder that the National cause is in disgrace, while half-hearted McClellan leads our armies, and brave, far-seeing Fremont is left without a command?
Let the people be vigilant in this trial-hour of our history. While the friends of freedom rest trustfully upon their oars, waiting for “the logic of events” to give us final victory, the enemies of the Republic work with unceasing vigor.
In Massachusetts, the secession element is banding to prevent the reelection of CHARLES SUMNER. Be not deceived. Though professedly Republican papers, like the Boston Advertiser and the Springfield Republican, are bowling in unison with the secession Couriers and Posts, the movement has its origin in the hatred of free institutions. The absence of Sumner from the Senate Chamber, in these revolutionary times, would national calamity. The news of his defeat would be most welcome to ears, and every newspaper of doubtful loyalty in the Northern States would shout aloud its hosanna.
<c05>
Before we can expect success, we must be as united for freedom as the South is for slavery. The shackles of the slave will never bind again the Union. We are fighting to build a glorious mansion for the future, not to revamp the decayed edifice that from its innate weakness has fallen upon us. Disaster is the natural consequence of an equivocal and contradictory policy.
No wonder our attitude bewilders foreign nations!
For sea and land don't understand,
Nor sky, without a frown,
See rights for which the one hand fights,
By the other cloven down.”
The great heart of the North is right. It waits anxiously for the talismanic word of EMANCIPATION to be spoken by the President. Wait no longer. Patience has ceased to be a virtue. Freedom should be aggressive, not apologetic. When the people shall proclaim, in unmistakable terms, that the war must be fought on the single principle of universal liberty, treason in our midst will hide its diminished head, and  armies in the field march to certain and lasting victory. J.

MR. DICEY’S OPINION OF THE ABOLITIONISTS.
Till very lately-in fact, till the outbreak of the insurrection-to hold abolition opinions was to exclude yourself from society. It has been my good fortune in New England to see a good deal of the Abolitionist party, and I have never come across a set of people whom I admired and respected more. For the sake of principle, they have suffered social martyrdom. They have been excluded from office, from political distinction, and even from the courtesies of social life. I don't believe myself that persecution is good for any man, and I have little doubt that the Abolitionists have their minds to a certain extent warped by persecution. Every man's hand was against, them, and therefore they had an irresistible sympathy with all isolated and unappreciated sects and doctrines. The churches, one and all, were against them, and so the Abolitionists have fallen away from the churches, and have thus lost in a great measure the support of the religious world. Religion, I suspect, has suffered more than the Abolitionists by the separation, but still the Abolitionists have suffered also. The great cause of Abolition has been mixed up with, and discredited by, the distinct causes of Spiritualism and Non-Resistance and Women's Rights. Take Win. Lloyd Garrison, for instance-as earnest and single-hearted a reformer, I believe, as the world has seen; yet the influence of his gallant life-long struggle against slavery has been nullified by the fact that he was also the avowed advocate of every one of the many “isms” which New England has given birth to. It is astonishing how little the leaders of the Abolitionist cause are known of in their own country. The other day, at a party I was present at, I heard a lady ask, in apparently good faith, and as far as I could judge, without any affectation, whether Mr. Garrison was not a negro; and the remark hardly seemed to cause astonishment. I was surprised, too, to find how many of the people I met, most of whom were staunch Republicans, had never heard Wendell Phillips lecture; yet, to my mind, of the whole Abolitionist phalanx, Wendell Phillips is the tower of strength. His friends say that he is the Aaron of the party, while Garrison has been the Moses. It may be so; but the words and voice, which have stirred up the hearts of the New Englanders, for long years past, have been those of Phillips. Whatever your opinions may be, I defy you to listen to that scathing, living eloquence of his, and not be carried away for the time at least. Most of us have a heart somewhere about us, and Wendell Phillips, more than any English orator I have ever heard, knows how to find the heart out, and work upon its chords.
Let me not be understood, by these remarks, to convey an impression that the influence of the Abolitionists has been small. It is to them, in great measure,-to their unceasing testimony as to the truth of the “higher law”-that the existence of the Republican party is due. The last few months, too, have much altered their social and political position: they are no longer against the Union, but advocates of the Union. As the people became more and more convinced that the Abolitionist maxim is true, and the Union is incompatible with slavery, the bitter opponents of slavery became, in popular idea, the friends of the Union. Indeed, the recent policy of the Abolitionists is explained, better than by any elaborate explanation, by a saying of Wendell Phillips. Some one asked him, how he, who had been preaching for years “that the Union was the fruit of slavery and of the devil,” could be now the advocate of the Union? His answer was “Yes; but I never expected then that slavery and the devil would secede from the Union.” So it is. Secession has brought the Abolitionists and the Republicans into the same camp; but the Abolitionists are still a distant outpost, a sort of enfans perdus of the army of the Union.-From MacMillan’s Magazine.

ORPHEUS O. KERR’S LAST.
From the last letter of Orpheus C. Kerr we extract the following passage:-
It is the “Union as it was” that we want, my boy, and those who have other articles to sell are hereby accused of being accursed Abolitionists. I was talking the other day to a venerable Congressman from Maryland, who had just arrived to protest against the disturbance of mail facilities between Baltimore and the capital of the Southern Confederacy, and says he “I have several friends who are Confederacies, and they inform me they arc perfectly willing to return to the Union as it was, in case they should fail in their present enterprise.”
“If I thought.” says the Congressman, hastily placing a lottery ticket in his vest pocket, “if I thought that this war was to be waged for the purpose of injuring the Southern Confederacy, rather than to restore the Union as it was, I should at once demand more mileage of the Government, and repeatedly inquire what had become of all the ‘Wide-awakes.’ ”
As he uttered the last horrible threat, my boy, I was impressed with a sense of something darkly Democratic. Too many of the wide-awakes of the last campaign arc indeed fast asleep now, when their country needs them. I saw one of them slumbering near Culpepper Court House last week. He was sleeping with his right arm twisted in the spokes of a disabled cannon wheel, and a small purple mark was on his right temple. But he was not alone in his forgetful sloth, my boy, for near him, and rigidly grasping his disengaged hand, was a Democrat, slumbering too!
The sight, I remember, rendered me so honestly indignant that I could not help pointing it out to the chaplain. The chaplain looked a moment at the Fusion Ticket before us.
"They sleep for the Flag,” says he softly,” and may its stars shed pleasant dreams upon their loyal souls forever!”
Orpheus has written many witty passages, but neither he nor any one else in this war has written a prettier thing than the closing passages of the above extract.

THE SITUATION.
If anybody can inform us as to the situation of affairs on the Potomac, he can do more than we can. After Stonewall Jackson has attended to Maryland and Pennsylvania, he will visit New York, and may be prevailed upon to extend his tour to Boston. A Committee should be appointed at once to prepare an address, and to make suitable arrangements for the reception of this distinguished military hero. He could dine in Faneuil Hall, and have quarters provided for himself and staff at the Severe House, wine and cigars thrown in. While this is going on, it will be well for us to act strictly upon the defensive, and to conduct the war upon scientific principles, and in accordance with the dictates of the highest civilization.
Great care should be taken not to offend Jefferson Davis, as he intends soon to take possession of Washington, and to proclaim himself President of the new Confederacy. "Done at the city of Washington, in the year One of the new Confederacy. William L. Yancey, Secretary of State,-with the great seal hereunto affixed January 1. In the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three” The address, already written, may be found below:-
ADDRESS.
“To the People of my Kingdom, South and North: Whereas It has pleased Divine Providence to the arms of my troops with victory; and, whereas, the slaveholding States have fully vindi-
<c06>
cated their superior power and bravery over the  intruders, upon the field of battle, who have dared to question our right and capacity to rule and govern this whole country; therefore, be it known that I, Jefferson Davis, by virtue of my power and in obedience to the expressed wishes of my faithful subjects in both sections of the nation, do declare that the instrument known as the Constitution of the United States is hereby defunct and squelched; that I have caused a new order of things to be established on this side of the Atlantic Ocean, which will be duly promulgated through the Department having these matters in charge. The people in the free States will be taxed to pay the expenses which they have imposed upon my loyal subjects in the slave States, in befriending me and the peculiar institution, and for and for property destroyed by reason of the invasion of my beloved Charles Sumner & Co. are hereby admonished that they had better not show their heads in this climate, unless they desire to become somewhat notorious in the annals of history as having  ‘idea.’
My faithful and pious friend, Stonewall Jackson, is appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the new Confederacy, and will be respected and obeyed accordingly.
One hundred dollars will be paid to any white man who will return my runaway coachman who has betrayed my secrets.”
JEFFERSON DAVIS, President
-Boston Herald.

From the New York Sunday Mercury.
A LEAF OF HISTORY.
The “concatenation of consecutive conquests achieved by military genius in Virginia finds due glorification in this agreeable lyric, which comes to us from a profound believer in
STRATEGY.
Since war is a trade by generals made,
To puzzle the shrewdest of foes,
‘Tis not very strange its moves should deranges
The scent of the multitude's nose.
Let those who suspect a trifling defect
Somewhere in our national plan,
Consider once more, as never before,
Our gains since the fighting began.
From fight Number One, at storied Bull Run,
Our army demoralized fled,
When Abe had the grace instanter to place
Our own “little Mac” at its head;
Who sent it to drill, and gave it a fill
Of trenching, parades and reviews;
And deeming it wise to reorganize,
All challenge to strife did refuse.
He stayed in one spot, cold weather or hot,
Till loudly the people did cry-
Quite blind to his plan, not knowing their man-
“Our cause by inaction will die.”
“Be patient.” he said, uplifting his head,
And pointing to Munson's at hand,
The rebels up there will soon be nowhere,
For sure I will capture the band.”
Ere scarcely a month, while never a gun th-
rew shot at the rebel redoubt,
With infantry light he travelled at night,
To find-not a rebel about.
The people did cheer, the tidings to hear,
And said, “He has captured the Hill”;
And truly he had, though some men were mad
Because he found nothing to kill.
Manassas came next, and many, perplexed
To find him delaying so long,
Cried- “Haste, little Mac, on Beauregard's track,
And you shall be famous in song.” 
With thousands five score he marched as before-
That is, he was cautiously slow-
And reaching the place of former disgrace,
Took captive all things-but the foe.
'Twas then that it seemed, what no one had dreamed
That war could be bloodlessly waged,
And little Mac's stock went up like a rocket, leaving his critics enraged.
Then Yorktown he sought, and having first brought
His-men and his guns to a stand,
With marvellous skill, kept digging, until
The rebels took leave of command.
From thence by degrees, through morass and trees,
Much promising headway he made,
Till gaining by toil some miles of the soil,
The order was-“Out with the spade!” 
Then followed at sight the Seven Days’ Fight
With Dixie’s superior race”;
The end was retreat, some called it defeat,
But he called it “changing his base.”
What after that came is patent to fame;
And now, that his strategy’s o’er
We find little Mac to Washington back,
And just where we found him before.
He gained what he sought-or, so we are taught-
The Richmond adventure, of course,
Could only be styled, unless by a child,
A stout reconnoisance in force.
Then honor to Mac; with him at our back
We surely have nothing to dread;
Just give him a corps of a million or more,
And still he'll keep pushing ahead.
But in case there should be certain ones who can't see
His strategy's excellence plain;
His fame to enhance, Abe gives him a chance
To practise it over again! “BARNET”

From the Evening Post.
THE NEGRO ON THE FENCE.
Hearken to what I now relate,
And on its moral meditate.
A wagoner, with grist for mill,
Was stalled at bottom of a hill.
A brawny negro passed that way,
So stout he might a lion slay.
“I'll put my shoulder to the wheels,
If you'll bestir your horse's heels!”
 So said the African, and made
As if to render timely aid.
“No,” cried the wagoner “Stand back!
I’ll take no aid from one that's black;”
And, to the negro’s great surprise,
Flourished his whip before his eyes.
Our “darkey” quick “skedaddled” thence,
And sat upon the wayside fence.
Then went the wagoner to work,
And lashed his horses to a jerk;
But all his efforts were in vain
With shout, and oath, and whip, and rein.
The wheels budged not a single inch,
And tighter grew the wagoner’s pinch.
Directly there came by a child,
With toiling step and vision wild.
“Father” said she, with hunger dread,
“We famish for the want of bread.”
Then spake the negro: “If you will,
I’ll help your horses to the mill.”
The wagoner, in grievous plight,
Now swore and raved with all his might,
Because the negro wasn't white;
And plainly ordered him to go
To a certain place that's down below.
Then rushing came the wagoner’s wife,
To save her own and infant's life;
By robbers was their homstead sacked,
And smoke and blood their pillage tracked.
Here stops our tale. When last observed,
The wagoner was still “conserved”
In mud at bottom of the hill,
But bent on getting to the mill:
And hard by, not a rod from thence,
The negro sat upon the fence.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTERWOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its <illegible> color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,No.31 Winter Street, Boston
