THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXXV. NO.2 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1865. WHOLE NO.1771.
<c01>
Selections.
SHERMAN’S TOUR IN GEORGIA.
HOWELL COBB’S PLANTATION.
Just before his entrance into Milledgeville, General Sherman camped on one of the plantations of Howell Cobb. It was a coincidence that a Macon paper, containing Cobb’s address to the Georgians as general commanding, was received the same day. This plantation was the property of Cobb’s wife, who was a Demar. I do not know that this Cobb ever claimed any great reputation as a man of piety and many virtues, but I could not help contrasting the call upon his fellow-citizens to “rise and defend their liberties, homes, etc., from the step of the invader, to burn and destroy everything in his front, assail him on all sides,” and all that, with his own conduct here, and the wretched condition of his negroes and their quarters.
We found his granaries well-filled with corn and wheat, part of which was distributed and eaten by our animals and men. A large supply of syrup made from sorghum (which we have found at nearly every plantation on our march) was stored in an outhouse. This was also disposed of to the soldiers and poor, decrepid negroes, which this humane, liberty-loving Major General had left to die in this place a few days ago. Becoming alarmed, Cobb sent to that place, and removed all the able-bodied males, horses, cows and slaves. He left here some <illegible> old men-cripples and women and children-with clothing scarce covering their nakedness, with little or no food, and without means of procuring any. We found them cowering over the fire-places of their miserable huts, where the wind whirled through the crevices between the logs, frightened at the approach of the Yankees, who, they had been told, would kill them. A more forlorn, neglected set of human beings I never saw.
General Sherman distributed to the negroes with his own hands the provisions left there, and assured them that we were their friends, and they need not be afraid that we were foes. One old man answered him: “I spose dat you’se true; but, massa, you’ll go away to-morrow, and anudder white man will come.” He had never known anything but persecutions and fears from the white man, and had been kept in such ignorance of us that he did not dare to put faith in any white man.

REBEL LIES TO NEGROES. 
This terrorism, which forms so striking a feature of slavery, has had marked illustration ever since we left Atlanta. The negroes were told that, as soon as we got them into our clutches, they were put into the front of the battle, and we killed them if they did not fight; that we threw the women and children into the Chattahoochie, and when the buildings were burned in Atlanta, we filled them with negroes to be roasted and devoured by the flames. These stories which appear so absurd to us, are not too extravagant for the simple, untutored minds of the negroes. They are easily frightened and full of supersition. In most any other instance, such bloody tales would have frightened them entirely out of our sight to the woods and other hiding places, but they assert with much earnestness and glee that “massa can’t come dat over we; we know’d a heap better. What for de Yankees want to hurt black men? Massa hates de Yankees, an’ he’s no fren’ ter we; so we am de Yankee bi’s frens.” Very simple logic that, but it is sufficient for the negroes.
WHAT THE NEGROES THINK.
Near Covington, one Judge Harris has a large plantation. Before we arrived, it was well stocked; I can’t answer for its condition afterward. A jollier set of negroes I never saw than his were when the blue coats came along. Horrible stories of their cruelty to the negroes were also told by their master to frighten them, but the negroes never put one word of faith in them. I asked Judge Harris’s head man: “Well, how do you like the Yankees?”
“Like ’em! bully, bully, bully, bully. I ’se wanted to see ’em long time: heered a heap ’ bout’em. Say, Sally, dose be gentlemen dat’s passing.” A compliment to our soldiers, which they no doubt would have appreciated could they have heard Mr. Lewis.
“Yes, sar, I’se hope de Lord will prosper dem and Mr. Sherman.”
“Why do you hope the Lord will help the Yankees?”
“Because I tinks, and wese all tinks, dat you’se down here in our interests.”
“You’re about right there. Did you ever hear that President Lincoln had freed all the slaves?”
“No, sar, I neber heerd such a ting; de white folks nebber talk fore black men; dey mighty free from dat.”
In other parts of the South, the negroes I have seen seem to understand there is a man named Lincoln, who had the power to free them, and had exercised it. We have reached here a stratum of ignorance upon that subject. All knowledge of that nature has not only been kept from the blacks, but only a few of the whites are well informed. The lieutenant commanding the escort of Gen. Sherman was born and has always lived in Milledgeville, is an officer in the First Alabama cavalry regiment, tells me that he never saw a copy of the New York Tribune until he joined our army. His history, by the way, is a most interesting one, and will one day be worth the telling. His adherence to the Union army grew out of his natural abhorrence of Slavery, whose cruelties he had witnessed from childhood. His name is Snelling. A young man of good education and high integrity, simple hearted, brave, and who has been most useful to the cause of his country.
We are continually meeting with comical incidents illustrative of the ignorance of the people, and more especially of the funny side of negro character.
One old lady, a white woman, stood at her gate watching, with wondering eyes, a drove of cattle as they passed. “Lor’, massy,” said she, “whar did all them beef come from? Never seed so many in all my life.”
“Those cattle were driven all the way from Chicago, more than one thousand miles.”
“Goodness, Lor’! what a population you Yanks is!”
General Sherman invites all able bodied negroes(others could not make the march) to join the column and he takes especial pleasure when they join the procession, on some occasions telling them they are free; that Massa Lincoln has given them their liberty, and that they can go where they please; that if they earn their freedom, they should have it-but that Massa Lincoln had given it to them anyhow. They all seemed to understand that the proclamation of freedom had made them free; and I have met but few instances where they did not say they expected the Yankees were coming down sometime or other, and they are very generally possessed with the idea that we are fighting for them, and that their freedom is the object of the war. This notion they got from hearing the talk of their masters.
“Stick in dar,” was the angry exclamation of one of a party of negroes to another, who was asking too
<c02>
many questions of the officer who had given them permission to join the column. “Stick in dar! it’s all right; we’se gwine along, we’se free.”
Another replied to a question, “Oh, yes, massa, de people hereabouts were heap frightened when dey heerd you’se coming; dey dusted out yer sudden.”
Pointing to the Atlanta and Augusta Railroad, which had been destroyed, the question was asked, “It took a longer time to build this railroad than it does to destroy it?”
“I should tink it did, massa; in dat ar woods over dar is buried eber so many black men who were killed, sar, yas, killed a working on dat road— whipped to death. I seed ‘em, sar.”
“Does the man live here who beat them?”
“Oh no, sar; he’s dun gone long time.”
The majority accept the advent of the Yankees as the fulfilment of the millennial prophecies. The “day of jubilee,” the hope and prayer of a lifetime, has come. They cannot be made to understand that they must remain behind, and they are satisfied only when Gen. Sherman tells them-as he does every day-that we shall come back for them some time, and that they must be patient until the proper hour of deliverance comes.
At a house a few miles from Milledgeville, we halted for an hour. In an old hut I found a negro and his wife, both of them over sixty years old. In the talk which ensued, nothing was said which led me to suppose that either of them was anxious to leave their mistress, who, by the way, was a sullen, cruel looking woman, when all at once the old negress straightened herself up, and her face, which a moment before was almost stupid in its expression, assumed a fierce, almost devilish aspect. Pointing her shining black finger at the old man crouched in the corner of the fire-place, she hissed out: “What for you sit dar? You spose I wait sixty years for notten? Don’t yer see de door open? I’se follow my child; I not stay. Yes, nodder day I gose ‘long wid dese people; yes, sar, I walk till I drop in my tracks.” A more terrible sight I never beheld. I can think of nothing to compare with it, except Charlotte Cushman’s Meg Merrilies. Rembrandt only could have painted the scene, with its dramatic surroundings.

KILLING BLOODHOUNDS.
A significant feature of this campaign, which has not before been mentioned in this diary, received a marked illustration yesterday. Except in a few instances, private residences have not been destroyed. Yesterday we passed the plantation of a Mr. Stubbs. The house, cotton gin, press, ricks, stables, everything that could burn, was in flames, and in the door-yard lay the dead bodies of several bloodhounds that had been used to tear and pull down negroes and our escaped prisoners. And wherever our army has passed, everything in the shape of a dog has been killed. The soldiers and officers are determined that no more flying fugitives, white men or negroes, shall be followed by track-hounds that come within reach of their powder and ball.-Corr. N. Y. Evening Post.

“SAMBO” ON GUARD.
[From Leaves from an Officer’s Journal.]
It was very dark the other night,—an unusual thing here,—and the rain fell in torrents; so I put on my India-rubber suit, and went the rounds of the sentinels, incognito, to test them. I can only say that I shall never try such an experiment again, and have cautioned my officers against it. ‘Tis a wonder I escaped with life and limb,—such a charging of bayonets and clicking of gun-locks. Sometimes I tempted them by refusing to give any countersign, but offering them a piece of tobacco, which they could not accept without allowing me nearer than the prescribed bayonet’s distance. Tobacco is more than gold to them, and it was touching to watch the struggle in their minds; but they always did their duty at last, and I never could persuade them. One man, as if wishing to crush all his inward vacillations at one fell stroke, told me stoutly that he never used tobacco, though I found next day that he loved it as much as any one of them. It seemed wrong thus to tamper with their fidelity; yet it was a vital matter to me to know how far it could be trusted, out of my sight. It was so. intensely dark that not more than one or two knew me, even after I had talked with the very next sentinel, especially as they had never seen me in India-rubber clothing, and I can always disguise my voice. It was easy to distinguish those who did make the discovery; they were always conscious and simpering when their turn came; while the others were stout and irreverent till I revealed myself, and then rather cowed and anxious, fearing to have offended.
It rained harder and harder, and when I had nearly made the rounds, I had had enough of it, and simply giving the countersign to the challenging sentinel, undertook to pass within the lines.
“Halt!” exclaimed this dusky man and brother, bringing down his bayonet,-“de countersign not correck.”
Now the magic word, in this case, was “Vicksburg,” in honor of a rumored victory. But as I knew these hard names became quite transformed upon their lips, “Carthage” being familiarized into Cartridge, and “Concord” into Corn-cob, how could I possibly tell what shade of pronunciation my friend might prefer for this particular proper name?
“Vicksburg,” I repeated, blandly, but authoritatively, endeavoring, as zealously as one of Christy’s Minstrels, to assimilate my speech to any supposed predilection of the Ethiop vocal organs.
“Halt dar! Countersign not correck,” was the only answer.
The bayonet still maintained a position which, in a military point of view, was impressive.
I tried persuasion, orthography, threats, tobacco, all in vain. I could not pass in. Of course my pride was up; for was I to defer to an untutored African on a point of pronunciation? Classic shades of Harvard, forbid! Affecting scornful indifference, I tried to edge away, proposing to myself to enter the camp at some other point, where my elocution would be better appreciated. Not a step could I stir.
“Halt!” shouted my gentleman again, still holding me at his bayonet’s point, and I wincing and halting.
I explained to him the extreme absurdity of this proceeding, called his attention to the state of the weather, which, indeed, spoke for itself so loudly that we could hardly hear each other speak, and requested permission to withdraw. The bayonet, with mute eloquence, refused the application.
There flashed into my mind, with more enjoyment in the retrospect than I had experience at the time, an adventure on a lecturing tour in other years, when I had spent an hour in trying to scrabble into a country tavern, after bed-time, on the coldest night of winter. On that occasion I ultimately found myself stuck midway in the window, with my head in a temperature of 80 deg., and my heels in a temperature of—10 deg., with a heavy window-sash pinioning the small of my back. However, I had got
<c03>
safe out of that dilemma, and it was time to put an end to this one.
“Call the corporal of the guard,” said I, at last, with dignity, unwilling either to make a night of it or to yield my incognito.
“Corporal ob de guard!” he shouted, lustily, “Post Number Two!” while I could hear another sentinel chuckling with laughter. This last was a special guard, placed over a tent, with a prisoner in charge. Presently he broke silence.
“Who am dat?” he asked, in a stage whisper. “Am he a buckra [white man]?”
“Dunno whether he been a buckra or not,” responded, doggedly, my Cerberus in uniform; “but I’se bound to keep him here till de corporal ob de guard come.”
Yet, when that dignity arrived, and I revealed myself, poor Number Two appeared utterly transfixed with terror, and seemed to look for nothing less than immediate execution. Of course I praised his fidelity, and the next day complimented him before the guard, and mentioned him to his captain; and the whole affair was very good for them all. Hereafter, if Satan himself should approach them in darkness and storm, they will take him for “de Cunnel,” and treat him with special severity.-Atlantic-T. W. Higginson.

THE DEMOLISHED DEMOCRACY-SLAVERY-A NEW DEPARTURE DEMANDED.
The Northern rump of the old national democratic party was demolished in the late Presidential election. The verdict of a “crowner’s quest,” sitting upon its remains, would be, “Died of the Chicago Shent-per-Shent Convention.” Nothing but the name remains to its followers, and “a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.” In fact, the mission for which the democracy were reorganized at Chicago is ended. They have failed in it. They may “hang their harps upon the willows;” “for their silly songs of peace-at-any price have been “played out.” But, as exiles from Zion or the flesh-pots of Egypt, they will never be reclaimed while they sit still with their faces to the past, and their backs to the future. They must look about them, take a careful observation, ascertain their latitude and longitude, and take a new departure.
From the time of Martin Van Buren’s election to the Presidency in 1836, the history of the democratic party is the history of a pro-slavery organization. The original nullification or secession movement of South Carolina on the tariff question having been snuffed out by Gen. Jackson in 1832-3, that restless and disappointed champion of Southern State rights, John C. Calhoun, began to work up the South on the slavery question for his ambitious purposes, in view of a Southern confederacy. Thus, when Van Buren was brought out for the Presidency, in 1836, as the lineal democratic successor to General Jackson, he was required by the Southern democracy never to interfere with slavery in the District of Columbia, or in any other place, except to give it a helping hand. He signed the bond, and was elected. In 1840, however, as a candidate for re-election, he was overwhelmingly defeated upon the money question. In 1844, the money question being settled, he was required again to toe the mark on slavery, as involved in the project of the annexation of Texas. This time the Southern democratic leaders asked too much. Van Buren declined to sign this bond, and so, with a majority of the national party convention elected in his name, he was thrown out by “Bobby Walker’s two thirds rule,” and Polk, a genuine Southern pro-slavery man, became the democratic nominee. Polk was elected; Texas was annexed; the war with Mexico followed, as predicted by Clay and Van Buren both; extensive acquisitions of territory resulted; and then came up again, in a new shape, the old slavery trouble upon the question of organizing those new territories.
This brings us down to 1848, when General Cass, on a movable patent lever pro-slavery platform, was set up as the democratic candidate for President, and was defeated by General Taylor, assisted by Martin Van Buren, as an independent, free soil, anti-slavery candidate, on his Buffalo platform. Thus “Little Van” was amply avenged for that Southern two-thirds rule—that pro-slavery trick of “Bobby Walker” of 1844; and thus began the disintegration of the Jacksonian democratic party. In 1850 Henry Clay’s great compromise measures on the slavery question were adopted; and as the best representatives of that peace platform, in 1852, poor Pierce was triumphantly elected President. Had the Southern leaders of the democracy been content with that liberal adjustment, they might have held the balance of power in every department of the national government now and for an indefinite time to come. But they demanded the repeal of the Missouri compromise, incorporated in Mr. Clay’s adjustment, and poor Pierce and the Northern democrats in Congress basely yielded it. And so General Grant is besieging Richmond to-day, and Sherman, with his avenging army, is sweeping through the heart of Georgia.
So, too, it has followed from that act of repeal that Abraham Lincoln, elected President in 1860 upon the platform of the exclusion of slavery from the Territories, is re-elected in 1864 upon the platform of the absolute extinction and perpetual prohibition of slavery, over every foot of soil within the jurisdiction of the United States. It is altogether probable, too, that before the close of Mr. Lincoln’s second term the institution of slavery will have ceased to exist from the Potomac river to the Rio Grande. The course of events is drifting strongly in this direction. What, then, is the great fact to which the Northern remnants of the democratic party, demolished by slavery, should turn their attention? It is this: that their vocation, as the servants of their former Southern pro-slavery masters, is gone; that there will be no mere debasing concessions to slavery required, no more grovelling in the dust to Southern pro-slavery politicians for a sop among the fat things of the government kitchen, no more Chinese sprawling flat on the ground to the three-tailed mandarins of the empire for their favor All this is done away with. They could not see it-they of the Albany Regency at Chicago; but they can see it now, unless they are as blind as poor old Buchanan was in 1860.
What, then, should be the new departure of the Northern democracy? They should take the initiative in Congress, and co-operate in the States for that amendment of the Constitution which will remove this stumbling-block of slavery entirely out of the country, and forever and ever. This done, the opposition elements of the Union restored can easily organize a victorious national party upon the great practical issues touching our foreign and domestic affairs that will then come into the foreground. On the other hand, while the Northern democracy continue to cross themselves, and mutter their old party prayers before the grinning skeleton of Southern slavery, they can do nothing. We advise the forlorn democracy to look about them carefully, and they will see that they are behind the times, and will never catch up by standing still.-New York Herald.
<c04>
SECESSION HATRED.
The depth of secession hatred for the Union is illustrated by an observation of the Richmond Enquirer. Says that Journal of Dec. 16th, “We would not return into the Union, if every slave could be returned to his master, and every guaranty that human ingenuity could devise were secured for the protection of the institution. We prefer liberty with free society rather than Union upon the secure basis of slavery.” This is the most astounding specimen of anti-Unionism that ever has come from the Confederacy. It occurs in course of an article in favor of converting slaves into soldiers, in which the writer also says,-“If we are prepared to abolish slavery, it will not be necessary to go to European nations for protection. They will give us not only recognition, but follow recognition with such intervention as will secure nationality and liberty. Whenever we are reduced so low that we cannot maintain the contest, then we can secure liberty and nationality by the sacrifice of slavery; but until we are prepared to make this sacrifice, it is no use to look to Europe for help, either by recognition or by intervention. We must fight, though unaided either morally or physically, if we are determined that the cause of nationality shall be coupled with the maintenance of slavery.” This is a frank admission of what every Northern man whose opinion is worth anything has always said was the true character of the contest; but we are inclined to the belief that the rebels have made the discovery too late to admit of its being very useful to them. If they resort to abolition in order to conciliate European communities, what is that but an admission of failure? And if they have failed, how can they expect recognition? Recognition is the prize of successful revolutionists, not of desperate rebels. Had the South been as wise in 1862 as it is in 1864,-had emancipation followed Fredericksburg, and not been postponed until furtune had changed sides,-recognition would have come, and we should not have been able to help ourselves. But it is not all probable that emancipation would now lead to recognition, unless the emancipators should conquer the federalists as well as their own prejudices,-and victories in the field they now find it hard to gain. “Too late!” might be written on their banner, as it was on that of Louis Philippe, when in 1848 he sought to regain power which he had foolishly forfeited.—Boston Traveller.
The Richmond Sentinel contains a very important editorial, believed to be from the pen of Jeff. Davis. Secretary Seward is reported to have sent it to all the foreign ministers, as showing the complete exhaustion of the rebellion, and consequently the rebels are no longer entitled to consideration as belligerents.
It says: “Our late reverses have done much toward preparing our people for extreme sacrifices if subjugated. The question is simply whether we shall give for our own use, or whether the Yankees shall take for theirs? It would be more glorious to devote our means to success than lose them as spoils to the enemy. Our situation, stripped of our property, but masters of our government, would be infinitely better than if despoiled by the enemy, and wearing his bonds.
Subjugation is a horror that embraces all other horrors. Troublesome times are upon us. Great exigencies surround us. We need all our strength and wisdom. Let there be a conference of our wise men. Let there be a calm investigation of our wants. Then let all obstacles to the employment of all our resources be removed.
So long as we have a man or a dollar, let the call for them be honored. It would be adding disgrace to our misery if we were overcome without exhausting every resource of defence. If the government determines that it needs our lands, houses, negroes, horses, money, or ourselves, it must have them.
If Providence condemns us to a master, let it not be a Yankee. Of all people on earth, we have most reason to loathe and dread them. Any terms with any other would be preferable to subjugation by them. If statesmanship cannot save us, it can palliate our misery by saving us from the Yankee. Our people would infinitely prefer a favorable alliance with European nations.”
The Richmond Enquirer, after commenting upon the above, says, “If it be necessary to convince the world that we are fighting for self-government of the whites that we should liberate the negroes, and if that liberation should secure our recognition and the guaranty of England and France to our independence, we believe the people of these States would not hesitate to make the sacrifice. The consequences of emancipation would fall upon the negro. The act would be one of necessity, not of choice, taken against our judgment and convictions, but to save us from the horrors of a prolonged war, and the disgrace, ruin and destruction involved in the success of our enemy.”
The Richmond Sentinel closes thus: “If France and England will enter into a treaty with these Confederate States, recognizing our nationality upon the abolition of slavery in all the States, rather than continue the war, we should be prepared to urge the measure upon our readers. We believe such a proposition would be favorably received and acted upon by those nations, and it ought to be made to them.”

SLAVERY GIVEN OVER-THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
We gave in our last, by telegraph from Washington, the gist of a most important leader from the Richmond Enquirer, of last Friday, calling on the Confederate authorities to abolish slavery, and attempt to save the rebellion by filling up the ranks of its armies with negroes. “Gen. Lee asks that this experiment be made,” says the Enquirer; and a paragraph not contained in our despatch states that this request had been made in a letter to the Hon. W. Porcher Miles, of S. C, Chairman of the House Military Committee. It is therefore clear that the rebel Generalissimo not only perceives but admits that the slaveholders’ rebellion is played out -that, unless it can be propped up by negro bayonets, and thus made a matter of miscegenation, its collapse and downfall are imminent.
Simultaneously with the appearance of this “sign of woe” from Richmond, the Copperhead oracle in our city gives formal warning that slavery is overboard-that its Northern servitors in the past must now stand from under, or be buried beneath its ruins. In a leader exhorting its disciples to devote their attention and their efforts to matters of Finance, the World says:
“One reason why the thoughts of the party should be turned into this channel is, that is involves questions which cannot grow obsolete with the lapse of time, while some of the issues in the late election may. Before another Presidential Election the Abolition question, for example, will probably be in such a state that past ideas will not apply. As the problem advances toward its predetermined solution, we shall see public opinion more and more disposed to acquiesce in the manifest tendency of events. Before the expiration of its new lease of power, the Republican party will have secured a constitutional amendment for the entire ex-
<c05>
tirpation of slavery in the United States. If the South should, meanwhile, gain its independence, slavery can be no longer a question of Federal politics; but if we disarm Southern resistance, the anti-slavery amendment will have been put in force and have done its work before the Democratic party can be in power. Why should the party bind itself to a dead corpse?
Unless the Democratic party is blind enough to run the hazard of disintegration, it must distinguish between questions virtually settled, and questions that still remain open. It must so far keep pace with events as to accept their logic. Public opinion has no efficiency without political combination; but for masses large enough to form a majority to act in concert, thought must be left free on all questions save those which rank as living, vital issues. The number who oppose the abolition of slavery (now a minority) is not likely to grow larger but to grow less, with the progress of time. Every Democrat can, of course, hold whatever opinion he chooses on that subject. Such opinions are no longer of the slightest political consequence. Individual Democrats will think what they please; but the subject must be dismissed from the range of topics on which the party is expected to have distinctive views. There is no conceivable position on the slavery question on which the Democratic party can plant itself, and become a majority. Its antecedents and associations, as well as its respect for the Constitution as it stands, forbid it to become an Abolition party; the progress of events and the tendency of public opinion, as well as the Constitution in the form into which it is certain to be amended, forbid it to commit itself to the fortunes of a moribund institution.”
Whatever may be said of the morality or chivalry of the above extract, its sagacity is undeniable. Slavery is in the article of death; it would be rather a good joke if the rebels should get rid of it before we do; but they are not likely to do it. And, once fairly coffined, it will have a smaller and dryer-eyed following of mourners than any illustrious criminal who has proceeded it on the way to “the house appointed for all the living.” Thousands shallowly presume that the South is a unit in fanatical devotion to the giant curse; when, to say nothing of the negroes, there never was a time when a very large proportion of the Southern Whites, including their wisest and best, did not feel and know that slavery was their bane and curse. But the slaveholders held the reins of power; they could and did smother expression, but not thought; so the ear of Juggernaut rolled on, over prostrate, crushed, inwardly shuddering while volubly adoring multitudes. Slavery once admitted to be dead, the secrets of that giant prison-house will be revealed, and thousands will learn that those whom they have regarded as isolators of the Southern Moloch were at heart its deadly foes all along.-New York Tribune.

“BE FIRM, MOSES.”
At a time when the Jews in Portugal were used for fuel on the festive occasions which, in the language of that country, were called Autos da Fe, or acts of faith, a poor Jew was led through the streets of Lisbon, to be burned at the stake, followed as he went by a numerous rabble, all eager for the sport, and impatient for the kindling of the pile. Fearing, however, lest they should be balked of their amusement by a recantation of his errors, and a declaration of his conversion to Christianity, some one of the crowd would from time to time come close up to the Jew, and, by way of encouraging him to persevere in his faith, would clap him on the back and say, “Be firm, Moses-be firm, Moses.”
If the Evening Post should, by chance, fall into the hands of Mr. Jeff. Davis and his Secretary, Mr. Judah P. Benjamin, we would address them in words of like encouragement, concerning their scheme of putting arms into the hands of their slaves, and rewarding them with their liberty. It is an uncomfortable thing that you are about to do, we would say to them; it must be, to use a familiar comparison, like pulling teeth; but never mind; screw up your courage to the sticking point, and give the world an example of constancy and fortitude. “Be firm, Jeffy; be firm, Judah;” or, using the Greek form of the latter name, “Be firm, Judas!”
The abolitionists of the North, including Wendell Phillips and Lloyd Garrison, are already chuckling over the conversion of so many of the bigots of slavery, as they call them, to the creed of universal liberty. They will be almost beside themselves with delight when they see the rebel government, by a solemn act, breaking the chains of a hundred thousand slaves at once, taking them away from the plantations, putting arms into their hands, and thus giving them the means of demanding the liberty of their wives and children before they lay them down. It would be cruel to deprive these philanthropists of the pleasure of seeing the slaveholders’ government resolving itself into an abolition society. We therefore conjure the rebel leaders, in the old Portuguese formula, to adhere unflinchingly to their purpose. “Be firm, Jeffy; be firm, Judah.”
The Southern apologists for slavery have all along maintained that the negro is happier in a state of bondage; happier in a condition in which he is driven to his work every morning, and flogged whenever his overseer, or his master, or any member of his master’s family, may take a fancy to administer the lash; happier in a condition in which his wife and children may be sold from him or he sold from them, than if he were master of his own time and person, working for wages, and certain of passing his life with his own family. To offer him liberty as the reward for taking up arms for the rebel government is acknowledging slavery to be an evil, and liberty a good. It tells the negro that he has been kept hitherto in a condition of hardship and debasement, and that, if he is wilting to fight, he shall be relieved from it. But let the rebel leaders consider that the more their present practice contradicts their former pretences, the greater will be the fun. They have astonished the world by their rebellion against a government which had never given them cause of complaint; let them now astonish it by practically retracting all they have said in favor of the very institution for the propagation of which they desired to form a separate government. We therefore say again: “Be firm, Jeffy; be firm, Judah!”
Mr. Lincoln, two years since, issued a proclamation declaring all the negroes in the rebel States emancipated. It will give that gentleman great pleasure to see his example so handsomely followed and justified by those who have so furiously declaimed against it. He will be much obliged to them if they will, in this manner, show the world that he wisely anticipated them, by first bestowing the boon of liberty on the negro, and without any condition of military service, so that the negro of the rebel States is already free, if he but knew it, as thousands of them do, without taking up arms for his master. We therefore repeat the phrase of encouragement, “Be firm, Jeffy; be firm, Judah!”
It is true that there is great danger that the blacks,  that armed, may not choose to employ their weapons against the federal government. They may say, “Let us fight for those who first acknowledged our freedom.” They may say, “Let us not murder our brethren of the African race, who have been freed and enlisted in the federal army by our
<c06>
friend Lincoln.” They may shoot their own officers instead of the federal soldiers. They may say to their late masters: “You have acknowledged the wrong of slavery by setting us free; now set free our entire kindred-every man of color within your limits-or we lay your country waste.” But the greater the risk, the greater admiration will fall to the share of those who courageously take it. “Be firm, therefore, Jeffy; be firm, Judah.”
In short, the whole civilized world is looking on, with an eager curiosity, to see the leaders of the rebellion take this last desperate step. They have not distinguished themselves of late by any act or measure which commands the attention of the world. The extraordinary things just now are all done by those who are in the service of the federal government-Thomas’s great victory over Hood-Sherman’s astonishing march through the heart of Georgia-Porter’s formidable expedition against Wilmington-to say nothing of other matters, including the gallant conduct of our colored troops wherever they have been tried. It is time that the rebel government should do something in its turn to make the world stare. Its time is short; its end is manifestly drawing near; and it should bethink itself whether it is not better to go out, as some fire-works do, with a grand explosion, rather than to be extinguished with a feeble sputtering and hissing amidst the expiring embers. We therefore, again and finally, say to the two most conspicuous members of the rebel organization, who have thought of arming the slaves in the cause of the revolt, “Be firm, Jeffy; be firm, Judah.”—N. Y. Evening Post.

A PROPHECY FULFILLED.
Theodore Parker, in a letter written from Rome in the month of November, 1859, uses these words:
“The American people will have to march to severe music, and it is better for them to face it in season. A few weeks ago, it did not seem difficult first to check slavery, and then to end it without any bloodshed. I think it cannot be done now, nor ever in the future. All the great charters of humanity have been writ in blood. I once hoped that of American Democracy would be engrossed in less costly ink; but it is plain, now, that the pilgrimage must lead through a Red Sea, wherein many a Pharaoh will go under and perish.”
Looking back now over the dark and bloody record of the last four years, these words of the great reformer sound in our ears like the voice of a prophet of old. It would almost seem as if for him, whose steps were even then drawing near the confines of the other world, the veil of the future had been partially lifted, and be was allowed to see things yet hidden from other eyes. The verification of his words has not, perhaps, come in the manner in which he looked for it. It used to be a terror of many thoughtful minds that the chained black giant of the South, maddened by his wrongs, would rise some day, and fling off his fetters, marking his path to freedom with the blood of his enslaver. Not only to the northern observer was this danger apparent. The horrors of San Domingo have haunted the dreams of Southern women for years. But not in that quarter was the storm to burst. The character of the black man is such as to make him the safe victim of a long course of tyranny. Inferior to the white in intellectual power, he is also less strongly moved by the instinct of liberty and the impulse of vengeance. Not through his own efforts have the chains of the oppressed been rent asunder, but the tyrant himself, blind and drunken with blood and crime, with his own hand lighted the torch which has laid his power in ruins.
And God, whose great Providence makes even the wrath of man to praise him, is bringing out of all results which but a brief time ago seemed utterly impossible. Through the parted waves of contention, which rise like the foaming Red Sea wall on either side, the slave will march forward into the promised land of freedom, where he will be enabled to work out unimpeded the problem of his capacity for a nobler development. He has already done much in this struggle to prove that he may be safely trusted for that work. But ours, not his, is the greater deliverance. Through the wild Red Sea which rages yet around us, the nation is passing out from a bondage worse than his-from the slavery of old prejudices, party shackles, conventional moralities, the lust of power and the greed of gold into the blessed Canaan of a freer thought, a freer speech, and a freer conscience, where the sacred ark of our liberties shall be enshrined in the temple of a purer, grander civilization than the world has ever seen.
So, at least, it may be if we so will it;-if we are willing to learn the lesson God has been teaching us through these dreadful years, that there is no safety but in Right and Justice. We must be fools and blind indeed, if we cannot read His words when they are written in characters of blood, and lighted up for us with the red glare of war. If we fail to do so, be sure they will yet be burned into our souls by the fierce brand of still deeper woes.
Years ago, the same wise thinker whose words stand at the commencement of this article said, “The existence of slavery endangers all our Democratic institutions.” And again: “Republicans will eventually see that they cannot defend the natural rights of freemen without destroying that slavery which takes away the natural rights of the negro.”
Is it not well to take heed of such words?
-Maine State Press. EPSILON.

SHALL SLAVERY BE SAVED?
We have noticed a disposition, in some quarters, to look upon the policy of government toward slavery as likely to be modified, should the war be brought to an early close. The proclamation of freedom to slaves, they argue, was a war measure, and it would cease to have effect with the cessation of hostilities; or, at the utmost, its bearing on slavery would be determined by legal tribunals. We do not so understand the subject. The proclamation was issued as a war measure, it is true, but it was not meant that its operation should cease and determine with the operations of war. The rebels had an hundred days’ grace allowed them, and had they availed themselves of that long time for repentance, they could have preserved slavery; but they laughed at the President’s gracious offers, and would not abandon their evil ways. The 1st of January, 1863, came and went, and the next day found them still in arms, still resisting federal authority, and still declaring that they would not return into the Union on any terms. From that date our government has stood before the world pledged to the overthrow of slavery on every acre of territory that was then in rebel hands. It was pledged by its deliberate word, and by every consideration that has weight with humane and honorable men, to abolish slavery in the Confederacy. The world so understood its position; and because such was the general understanding, the rebels could not obtain foreign recognition nor foreign aid. There was not a government in Europe that durst so far outrage the common sentiment of the old world as to draw its weight into the
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extent to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory,”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
scale of slavery, and act adversely to the interests of a nation that stood pledged to freedom. But that we were thus pledged, the rebel victory at Fredericksburg would have extorted recognition of the Confederacy from France and England and Spain, and probably from other countries. No one, either at home or abroad, then thought of limiting the terms of the proclamation. We were too glad to have it as a shield against British force and Gallic fraud, to think of limiting its terms. Like the greatest of poets, it was for all time. But now that success is crowning our arms, and the Confederacy is tottering, wretched political pettifoggers, who were craven in the hour of failure, or whose courage was manifested only in threats of overthrowing President Lincoln through resort to mob violence, crawl out into the sunshine, and cant about the proclamation being limited in its operation to war time. They will not be listened to. The country has made up its mind on the slavery question, and is determined that it shall cease to trouble the world any longer. It is as clear as the existence of evil that slavery brought all our troubles upon us, whether it was the cause of the war, or simply the occasion of it; and the people have resolved that it shall cease out of the land: by force, in all territory that was held by rebels two years ago; by more moderate agencies in the loyal States which stilt are cursed by its infernal presence. They do not believe that the proclamation is of a qualified nature, but understand, as for two years they have understood, that it is a sentance of death to slavery. They are justified in their belief by the last declarations of the President himself, whose recent Message shows how he interprets the document he wrote and put forth, against, the interests of his most influential advisers. He is as resolute against slavery now as he was in the days that followed Fredericksburg. He sees in success no reason for being false to his word, insulting to the world, and oppressive to a long-wronged race. Slavery is outlawed. It is a caput lupinum,, -and we should treat it as we would any wolf that it is given us to dispose of. The people will not be any the more likely to support the limitation doctrine when they shall understand that it is a mere dodge on the part of sordid, selfish party men, who wish to preserve slavery in the South in order that they may have slaveholders there with whom to ally themselves as soon as the war shall have been brought to a close, hoping to find them as useful associates as they were found by the democrats. But there has been enough of the pro-slavery element in our politics to satisfy the people, and they mean to have no more of it. Were there no other reasons for abolishing slavery, the desire to keep it out of the hands of politicians ought to suffice to make abolitionists of us all. That is the way to keep slavery out of politics, an object much sought before the war by certain persons, but which all persons are now determined shall be accomplished, through the only possible means of accomplishing it,-namely, the entire removal of slavery from the entire soil of the Republic-Boston Traveller.

THANKS FOR SAVING MERCIES.
In reviewing the many cheering events of the past year, the Boston Traveller pertinently observes: -
It is to be hoped that we feel grateful for what has taken place, and that we render praise to the source of our country’s salvation, and that our after course shall be such as to show that we have a proper sense of the evils from which we have been delivered by the goodness of God. The best way of returning thanks for saving mercies received is by being merciful to others, to those whose fate in some measure depends upon our action. This nation, having been saved from destruction by the aid and interposition of Providence, is doubly bound to use its victory, not only with moderation, but with strict justice. Let there be no patching up of peace on terms favorable to slavery, or we shall show that the successes that have been gained were undeserved, and that we have no just sense of the character of the contest that was forced upon us, and which should be waged until not a slave be left throughout the length and breadth of this long and broad land. What a year 1864 would be in history, if slavery should date its death therefrom! And it would so date it if our victories should prove to have been won over the slavocracy; for slavery could nowhere long survive the overthrow of the institution in the United States, which nation had become the shield of slavery, while the secession movement was meant to make it slavery’s sword as well. Gratitude alone should suffice to make us firm in our purpose to rid the country of an evil that came so near ridding us of a country. In no way can we better show our sense of the greatness of heaven’s blessing on our exertions than by helping to accomplish heaven’s purposes on earth, and those purposes are the removal of sin, the suppression of wrong, and the promotion of justice. Work has well been called worship, and the better the work the purer the worship; and what work can be better than that which removes bondage, and confers freedom upon the oppressed?

UNPUBLISHED LETTERS FROM GENERAL JACKSON.
The following letters from Andrew Jackson, recently given to the press by Col. J. A Hamilton, to whom they were written, have never been published before. They are instinct with the sterling, practical patriotism of their author, and may be read with profit by thousands who have been hitherto calling themselves Jacksonian Democrats, but who have sadly fallen away from the sentiments of these letters:
“WASHINGTON, November 2, 1832.
MY DEAR SIR: - I have just received your letter of the 31st ultimo, with the inclosure, for which I thank you.
I am well advised of the views and proceedings of the great leading nullifiers of the South, in my native State, (S. C.,) and weep for its fate and over the delusion into which the people are led by the wickedness, ambition and folly of their leaders. I have no doubt of the intention of their leaders, first to alarm the other States to submit to their views, rather than a dissolution of the Union should take place. if they fail in this, to cover their own disgrace and wickedness, to nullify the tariff and secede from the Union.
We are wide awake here. The Union will be preserved, rest assured of this. There has been too much blood and treasure shed to obtain it, to let it be surrendered without a struggle. Our liberty, and that of the whole world, rests upon it, as well as the peace, prosperity and happiness of these United States. It must be perpetuated. I have no time to say more. My health is good, improved by the travel. With a tender of my kind salutations to you and your amiable family, I am sincerely your friend,
ANDREW JACKSON.
Col J. A. Hamilton.”
“WASHINGTON, Dec. 6, 1832.
MY DEAR SIR: -Yours of the 3d instant is just received. I accord with you fully in the propriety of the people giving fully and freely their sentiments and opinions on nullification, and the course pursued by South Carolina in her late proceedings.
The ordinance passed, when taken in connection with the Governor’s message, it rebellion and war against the Union; the raising of troops under them to resist the laws of the United States is absolute treason. The crisis must be, and, as far as my constitutional and legal powers go, will be met with energy and firmness. Therefore the propriety of the public voice being heard; and it ought now to be spoken in a voice of thunder that will make the loaders of the nullifiers tremble, and which will cause the good citizens of South Carolina to retrace their steps, and adhere to the Constitution of perpetual Union they have sworn to support. This treasonable procedure against the Union is a blow against not only our liberties, but the liberties of the world.
This nullifying movement in the South has done us great injury abroad, and must not only be promptly met and put down, but frowned down by public opinion. It is, therefore, highly proper for the people to speak all over the Union.
I am preparing a proclamation to the people of the South, and as soon as officially advised of those rebellious proceedings, will make a communication to Congress. I can say no more, as I am surrounded at present, and bid you for the present adieu. 
ANDREW JACKSON. 
Col. J. A. Hamilton.”

In the rebel House of Representatives on the 24th ult., a resolution, declaring that the writ of habens corpus ought not to be suspended, was defeated by forty-one negative to thirty-one affirmative votes.
<c02>
MESSAGE OF GOV. ANDREW.
The message of Governor Andrew to the Legislature of Massachusetts is a long, able, interesting, and in some parts eloquent document, reflecting great and deserved credit upon the Commonwealth whose historic renown has been so largely augmented under his efficient and patriotic administration. We give, below, the concluding portion of it.
AMENDMENTS OF THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION.
The proposal to amend the Federal Constitution by empowering Congress to abolish slavery is urged by the President, in his last annual message, upon the reconsideration of the House of Representatives. In the Senate it has received the needful two-third majority. In the House it barely failed. It is hoped that reconsideration may disclose a change of votes, and establish the adoption by the present Congress of a measure, which will ultimately extinguish slavery and prohibit it forever.
If this shall be done, it will be the welcome duty and the lasting honor of the present General Court to ratify the amendment on the part of Massachusetts. If it shall fail, I trust the President will promptly call a special session of the new Congress, by which its adoption may be considered certain. It would well become the Legislature of the Commonwealth, in such an emergency, by solemn resolution, to request the President to convene Congress for a duty so grand in purpose, as well as practical in character and exigent in importance.
I venture also to suggest the proposition of an amendment to the Federal Constitution, repealing its inhibition of duties on exports. A moderate tax on the exportation of cotton, and perhaps of some other articles, might be levied by Congress, which would materially increase the national revenue, without diminishing the production or sale of those articles; while at the same time, indirectly promoting their manufacture at home, and thus strengthening the country in its competition against other nations in the markets of the world.
Had the rebellion been successful, the Southern policy would have been to impose a light revenue duty on exports, (which would have affected the Northern as well as the European buyers,) and also to impose a greatly reduced duty on European manufactures. Thus on introduction of foreign manufactured goods into the South, they hoped by discriminating against our manufactures, and by controlling seven-eighths of the navigable rivers of the continent, and of their reach into the interior, to smuggle foreign good into the West and Northwest, despite the laws of the United States-with the intent to disintegrate the free States, to break down American manufactures, discourage skilled, intelligent labor, and reduce the laboring classes, by measures alike audacious and insidious, to the dependence held by the slave power appropriate for the masses of men.
I desire to see not only slavery extirpated, but its policy reversed, and an American policy inaugurated which will secure at once the freedom of the People, the strength of the Government, and the independence of American industry.
The statesmanship of the future gives cause for more anxiety than any military concern of the present. How to combine the austerity of a Government determined to vindicate its rightful power, with the parental forbearance which discriminates those who are swept into the current of treason from those who are the wanton architects of ruin; this is one of the problems. For myself, I would counsel forgiveness to the masses of our countrymen, hurried, precipitated by a superior power dominating their intelligence and their capacity of resistance, into the vortex of a ruin they neither foresaw nor even yet comprehend. Cheated, misguided, conscribed, overwhelmed, they have been led to battle by the light of their blazing homes. They have periled their own lives while they have assailed ours, without comprehending the occasion of the war, and without the ability to avoid it. Victims of an evil, subjects of a wrong, which involved their own fate, they were unable to escape its meshes or to resist its power. Let the people of Massachusetts remember that the poor oppressed democracy of Georgia and the Carolinas are their brethren. We fight to carry the school-house, the free press, the free ballot, and all the independent manhood of our own New England liberty to the people of the slave-ridden South. Delivering them from their oppressors-as Maryland has just now delivered herself-let them enjoy with us the fruit and feast of victory. Nor let sentimental politics surrender either them, or the black man, with whom they have shared the voiceless woe of his servitude, or the country on whose fate our own depends, to the possibilities of any reactionary theory. So, too, let the color of an African extraction, so long the badge of slavery, cease to be the badge of exclusion from any of the privileges of citizenship. Let intelligent manhood enjoy that recognition, and reap its due reward. Then we will restore government, order and society. Then we will reconstruct the States in rebellion on a ground of principle and faith, which will command the friendship of the nations, the sympathy of mankind, and the benediction of God.
The old Hall of the House of Representatives at Washington, with which is associated the fame, the wisdom and the eloquence of so many American statesmen, has been set -apart by Congress for a National Gallery of Statuary, commemorative of citizens illustrious for their historic renown, or distinguished civic or military service, whose careers on earth have ended. Each State will be invited to furnish two statues in marble or bronze. Many years will elapse before this gallery of historic Art will be complete. But there are already names ample in number, belonging to history, and forming a part of the renown of our ancient Commonwealth-venerable names of men over whose graves retreating Time has long cast his shadow, and of whom such monumental commemoration would be worthy and becoming. I respectfully recommend the appointment of a Commission to report during the present session a plan of co-operation on the part of Massachusetts in this eminently patriotic national design.
If these honors are paid to the heroes and sages of the past, what commemoration awaits those who in this generation shall command the gratitude of posterity?
In the vestibule of the Capitol of the Commonwealth, you passed to this hall of your deliberations beneath a hundred battle-flags, war-worn, begrimed, and bloody. They are sad but proud memorials of the transcend ant crime of the rebellion, the curse of slavery, the elastic energy of a free Commonwealth, the glory and the grief of war.
There has been no loyal army, the shout of whose victory has not drowned the dying sigh of a son of Massachusetts. There has been no victory gained which her blood has not helped to win. Since the war began, four hundred and thirty-four officers whose commissions bore our seal, or who were promoted by the President to higher than regimental commands, have tasted death in defence of their country’s flag.
The names of nine General officers, sixteen Colonels, seventeen Lieutenant Colonels, twenty Majors, six Surgeons, nine Assistant Surgeons, two Chaplains, one hundred and ten Captains, and two hundred and forty-five Lieutenants, illustrate their Roll of Honor. Nor will the history be deemed complete, nor our duty done, until the fate and fame of every man-to the humblest private of them all-shall have been inscribed upon the records of this Capitol-there to remain, I trust, until the earth and sea shall give up their dead. And thus shall the Capitol itself become for every soldier-son of ours a monument.
“ Nothing is here for tears, nothing for wail
Or knock the breast, no weakness, no contempt.
Dispraise or blame, nothing but well and fair,
And what may quiet us in a death so noble.
Then plant it round with shade
Of laurel ever green, and branching palm.,
With all his trophies hung, and acts enroll’d
In copious legend or sweet lyric song.
Thither shall all the valiant youth resort.
And from his memory inflame their breasts 
To matchless valor and adventure high;
The virgins also on feastful days
Visit his tomb with flowers.”
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:
Standing, probably for the last time, before the General Court of Massachusetts, to assume the office of her chief executive magistrate, I cannot repress my gratitude for the opportunity I have enjoyed of serving her, at a period so stirring to the heart, when every day is sublime; and for the generous indulgence of her People towards my efforts for the welfare and glory of the State.
And whatever may hereafter betide or befall me or mine, may the God of our Fathers preserve our Commonwealth
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The THIRTY SECOND ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held at the MELODEON, in Boston, on Thursday, January 26th, 1865, day and evening, commencing at 10 o’- clock, A. M. The members and friends of the Society, one and all, are requested to attend.
At the morning session, with the least possible delay of organization, addresses are expected from Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., and others.
As heretofore, the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION FESTIVAL at the Music Hall, on the previous evening, (Jan. 25th,) will constitute an additional attraction to all friends of the Cause.
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCT, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec’y.
EQUAL POLITICAL RIGHTS.
The liberation of those who are held in bondage as chattels personal is one thing; the possession of the elective franchise is quite another. In enumerating the grievances under which the slaves of the South have been crushed so long, no abolitionist has ever alluded to their exclusion from the ballot-box as in that category. In the thirty years’ discussion of the slavery question, we do not recollect to have seen or heard a single declaration as to the necessity or duty of granting the elective franchise in immediate connection with the bestowal of personal freedom. Nor was that subject even once touched upon, that we are aware of, during the protracted struggle in England for the abolition of the West India slave system. Nor do we believe it entered into the mind of any one, that, whether the slaves under British control or at the South should be peacefully or violently delivered from their galling yokes, they would forthwith be invested with all political rights and privileges. Of course, there was no difference of opinion as to the fact, that, inasmuch as slavery was the extinction of every natural right, so its abolition would open the way for ultimate social, civil and political equality; but this through industrial and educational development, and not by any arbitrary mandate. Nor has there been, nor is there now, among the abolitionists in this country, any conflict or division as to the wrongfulness of complexional proscription, whether at the ballot-box or elsewhere. If no white man loses his vote on account of his ignorance, then, they maintain, no black man should be deprived of his vote, for the same reason. Whatever is made requisite to constitute a voter in the one case, should also be in the other. But, because the white man is allowed to vote, and the black man is not, is it for any abolitionist to treat the overthrow of slavery as in itself a small matter? And are we not to indulge in singing and shouting aloud, in chorus with the redeemed, in view of that stupendous change, without subjecting ourselves to the imputation of lowering the standard of equal and exact justice?
The rebellion having culminated in the treasonable secession and hostile confederation of eleven States, presents an anomalous and undreamed state of things as to what is to be done, when that rebellion is put down, in the matter of reconstruction. There is no precedent to fall back upon, and the case must be put upon its own merits. Yet it is not without great difficulties as a practical measure, however easy it may be to form a theory. Conflicting opinions are already assuming a partizan shape. How many loyal inhabitants in a rebellious State shall be allowed to organize a new State, and of these who shall exercise the elective franchise? Or should no State organization be recognized, either by the Executive or by Congress, until the rebellion is crushed in all its territorial domains, and the people of the State, as such, in the ordinary political sense, determine by their votes what shall be the form of the new government, and who shall hold the offices under it?
This subject is now before Congress, in the application of the loyal fractional portion of Louisiana to be recognized as the State, and represented in both houses at Washington; and must, of course, soon be authoritatively decided upon.
Our conviction has been from the start, -and we have been explicit in the Liberator in stating it, -that each seceding State, as soon as it raised the flag of rebellion, and declared war against the General Government, forfeited its organic existence and relationship to the Union, and reduced itself to a territorial condition; that its reconstruction as a loyal State, claiming all the prerogatives and exercising all the powers of a bona fide State, should neither be recognized by Congress nor attempted at home until, by its own force, or by the auxiliary aid of the Government, it had conquered the rebellion within its limits; that to make a State out of a very small minority of the inhabitants, and a mere fraction of the territory, while the great body of the people are still in defiant revolt against the Government, would present a strange spectacle in relation to the democratic theory, that” all governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed;” and, consequently, that while this chaotic state of things exists, the military rule must be dominant, leaving such scope for local civil action as opportunity may present. We strongly objected to the amnesty proclamation of President Lincoln at the time it appeared, and still believe it will be” more honored in the breach than in the observance,” if Congress decline to make it exceptional, as in the case of Louisiana, or to make it the basis of general action. Nevertheless, we have watched with interest the formation of the new State in that quarter, upon the basis of universal emancipation, and have seen no manifestation other than that of decided hostility to the longer continuance of slavery upon the soil of Louisiana. The experiment, locally, appears to be working well, and the people are evidently satisfied with it.
Our eloquent friend Wendell Phillips, in various speeches and lectures, has been particularly severe upon Gen. Banks for allowing only white voters to decide upon the new State constitution. But Mr. Phillips believes that women should not be proscribed as to the franchise on account of their sex, any more than the blacks on account of their color; yet be makes no complaint of their exclusion from the polls by Gen. Banks. Perhaps the same motive-the danger of creating a reactionary feeling, and to imperiling the safety of New Orleans itself-may have led Gen. Banks to follow the State usage, in providing only for white voters. Remembering the extraordinary difficulties of his situation, we certainly do not regard his course in this particular as deserving of special anathema; but charitably incline to the belief that he had no prescriptive intent in the matter; especially as Major Plumly-an old and earnest abolitionist-declares that it was owing to the direct urgency of Gen. Banks that, in the new Constitution, the word” white” was stricken out, and provision made for colored voters on certain specified conditions. This is a better Constitution for the colored citizen than that of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, or any Western State- better, we hesitate not to add, than could have been reasonably expected by the most
<c04>
exacting advocate of the colored population. Was it to be presumed that demoralized, slavery-cursed, rebellion-tainted Louisiana would, in her transition period, surpass in fair dealing to her liberated slaves, sober, evangelical, educated, loyal Connecticut in her treatment of her colored citizens? Why this set disposition that is evinced in certain quarters to decry Gen. Banks, without giving him a particle of credit for anything he has done?-no, though he has liberated every slave whom the Emancipation Proclamation left unredeemed, and planted the New England school system for the special benefit of the freed people! ’If,” said Mr. Phillips, in his Cooper Institute lecture, ”the school-house remains planted when the cannon comes home, we have a nation.” Then all possible credit to Gen. Banks for his educational arrangements for the benighted negroes of Louisiana! The value of these cannot be easily exaggerated. But, it is said,” such a reconstruction as puts the word white into the Constitution, and bases government on the white race, is neither safe for the negro nor for us, and of consequence is not safe for the nation.” That, assuredly, is a sound political axiom; but it is no more true of Louisiana than of any other State. Yet of all the States, loyal and rebel, only Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island make no complexional discrimination at the polls! Is the South to be held to a higher standard than the North? Intellectually and morally, where are the conditions to warrant this? With what face can those States which place their own colored citizens under political ban demand of Louisiana, or of any other reconstructed rebel State, that she shall at once give the elective franchise to her freed population?” Thou that sayest, A man should not steal, dost thou steal?” “Physician, heal thyself.”
Hitherto, in our national history, each State has reserved to itself the right to determine who of all its inhabitants shall be empowered to vote. The Constitution of the United States is wholly silent on the subject. It enumerates the various powers of Congress, but the right to prescribe the ballot in any State is not one of there. Hence the disfranchisement of color in most of the States; and Congress may not attempt to interfere with it. The primary difficulty lies in the state of public sentiment towards the negro. It is to the honor of all the New England States, except Connecticut, that they make no distinction between white and black at the polls; but all the other States in or out of the Union do. How self condemnatory it would be, therefore, for the senators or representatives of these proscriptive States to insist that Louisiana, before her admission into the Union, shall know nothing of such proscription! Her retort might be severe and scathing. True, their injustice would not constitute a defence for her own; but it would properly close their lips on the subject.

A PLAIN- SPOKEN SUBSCRIBER.
We like plainness of speech, especially with reference to our course, and therefore take no exception to the ”rough and ready” style of J. D., of Miller Farm, (Pa.) whose laudatory and condemnatory letter may be found on our fourth page. His consistency is no more apparent to us than ours is to his own vision. In one breath, he praises the Liberator as ”the nearest approach to a free, impartial political (?) publication” that he knows of, and generously pledges five dollars a year to sustain it; in the next, he accuses it of being thoroughly partizan in its character, and “filled with the spiteful traductions of a partizan press” respecting General Fremont! This, we submit, is incoherent language; and we explicitly deny the “spiteful” allegation he makes. Again-he does not question our right ”to prefer and support Lincoln,” but complains of our lack of partiality; that is, we ought to have also preferred and supported Fremont to prove that we were not ”partizan”! More incoherency. Again-he did not want us to support Fremont nor to oppose Lincoln; but he ”did want the Liberator to be above partizanship,” by not going for either of them! Again-he speaks of” the utter perfidiousness of the Government’s treatment of the negroes, of the constant leaning of the President towards his pro-slavery advisers, and of the utter lack of any sentiment of humanity in his dealing with the great crime o’<w> slavery;” and then he makes a special merit of the fact, that he walked seventeen miles, on the 8th of November, over a muddier road than we ever saw, the rain falling on him every moment of the time, (what perseverance and patriotism!)”for no other object than to vote for Lincoln” the perfidious, inhuman, pro-slavery Republican candidate! Here, again, ”the legs of the lame are not equal.” In one thing we are happily agreed-J. D. ”did not like Fremont’s Letter of Acceptance;” nor did we, and we said so at the time without any ”traduction” of its author. Nor did he like the fact, ”that the agents of Fremont paid the railroad fare and hotel bills of a large portion of the delegates to the Cleveland Convention”-a charge we never made, and a piece of intelligence new to us, though we do not doubt its accuracy. Nevertheless, though he admits that ”there were many farcical things about it,” he did not like our speaking of the Convention as a farcical affair! In short, we failed to think and feel precisely as he did, and therein he was greatly grieved; but, notwithstanding all this, he ”likes the Liberator very much, and don’t want to do without it” -sweet consolation for his sharp, paradoxical condemnation!
When we spoke of the Cleveland Convention as preposterous, we did so solely on the ground that it had no political strength in any of the States, Missouri excepted; that its members were not regularly constituted delegates, and represented none but themselves; that no credentials were required, and none given; that a large number of the loyal States had already unanimously gone for the reelection of Mr. Lincoln, while not a town or hamlet in the land had done so for Gen. Fremont; that under such circumstances, to think of achieving the election of Fremont was in the highest degree ludicrous; that there was no radical principle involved in the issue presented, but only a personal predilection; and that political success, unlike a moral struggle, depended upon numbers, which the Fremont movement could not command beyond a small coterie of friends and retainers. Of the impotency of the attempt, and therefore, the correctness of our judgment, both Gen. Fremont and Gen. Cochrane at last became convinced, and therefore reired from the presidential arena. We impeached neither the patriotism nor the character of those who participated in the Cleveland proceedings; we only questioned their wisdom and forecast, and pronounced their hope of success as visionary in the extreme. This we had a right to do, and no offence should have been taken.
How did we display a” partizan” spirit in speaking favorably of Mr. Lincoln as against his malicious copperhead defamers, any more than did J. D. and the overwhelming majority who recorded their votes for his reelection? It is a false accusation.
J. D. thinks ”the New Nation was a creditable journal, in dignity and ability.” It dealt freely in abusive epithets, and was as grossly” partizan,” in the most fulsome sense of the term, as any journal ever published. It has since turned a short corner, and brought damaging accusations against Fremont and his New York coterie. What does J. D.., think of General Clusseret now?
J. D. complains that a criticism of our course by the editor of the New Nation was copied into our ”Refuge of Oppression,” and, while admitting the article was not in good taste, almost sneeringly asks, ”Is the person of William Lloyd Garrison so immaculate as to be the canonized embodiment of anti-slavery, and that a denunciation of him is therefore a defence of the system of slavery?” It is unnecessary for us to reply no. But everything depends upon the animus, which clearly dictates a personal assault, and the use that is made of it by the enemies of the anti-slavery cause. An experience of more than thirty years enables us to readily perceive what is better suited to the” Refuge” than to any other department
<c05>
of our paper; and we did not misjudge in consigning General C’s criticism, or rather his scandalous impeachment of our position, to that receptacle of personal spite and base misrepresentation.
J. D. is guilty of an unworthy fling when he speaks of” that parasitical echo and follower of yours, the Anti-Slavery Standard.” So, also, he is at variance with the facts when he says, ”Many persons have given you largely to sustain your paper., seemingly because of your course upon the late Presidential canvass.” If this were true, we see nothing discreditable about it, but we are not aware that a single dollar has been contributed from any such motive, but only as a token of interest in the continuance of the Liberator, and to enable it to meet the pressure of the times: just as J. D. is ready, if necessary, to pledge his five dollars a year to sustain the paper!
Our worthy friend, it strikes us, has a good deal more zeal than discrimination; but he means well, and we accept his criticisms in the spirit in which they are made.

FAIR FOR DISABLED COLORED SOLDIERS AT ALEXANDRIA, VA.
In behalf of this Fair, expected to take place the last week in January, a letter from which the following is extracted was addressed to an anti-slavery lady in this vicinity, by one of the colored teachers, whose position and services among the colored soldiers and freedmen commend her appeal to the benevolent.
An active promoter of this enterprise is Mrs. HARRIET A. JACOBS, whose mission in Alexandria has been fraught with blessings to the friendless.
Boston. N
“We have between eight and nine hundred sick colored soldiers, and more are daily expected. The Fair will be for their benefit, to procure for them such little delicacies as they need, and the hospital does not furnish.
Our colored soldiers are well quartered; their medical attendance is good; but you know very sick men cannot eat hospital rations; and when they look up to you and say, ’I have not eaten any thing for two or three days-could you bring me a little of so and so? I think I could eat it’-you wish by some magic your purse would lengthen, and you could give to each poor boy what he most craves. Their condition, at least, has but little sunshine in it, -languishing and dying away from home, and all they hold dear-buried among strangers, who neither sigh nor weep as the pitiless earth falls on their coffins.
Yesterday I visited some men who were brought in several days ago, nearly every one of whom was suffering from lung disease. Such fearful coughing I never heard. It costs something to die for freedom.
Improvement among the freedmen goes steadily on; yes, even among the whites, civilization is on the increase here. A recent event illustrates this. Two weeks since, Frederick Douglass gave two lectures. He had the best hall the town affords, and each evening a crowded house. Quite a number of white people were in the audience each time.
He spoke on the times with as much freedom as though he had stood in the Old Cradle of Liberty. At the close of the second lecture, he was invited by a lawyer to partake of a supper prepared for him at the Magnolia House, which ranks among the first of the public houses. Among the guests invited was Governor Pierpont. In this we realize the rapid march of events-a man of acknowledged talent, one proscribed on account of his color, whose incendiary head, three years ago, would have brought a high price, is now an honored guest at the social board, with the Governor of a rebellious State at his side.
Do not let us be discouraged. I see the dawning of a better future for us. Since the Presidential election, I feel that this Republic will live, and in her new life learn justice and a broader humanity to the race she has hitherto despised-a race which, by its present bearing, is awakening respect from its stoutest opponents.”
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for January, 1865, contains the following articles:- I. The Order of Saint Paul, the Apostle; and the New Catholic Church. II. The Unity of the Spirit. III. Saint Francis of Assisi. IV. Under the Ban. V. The Last Phase of Atheism. VI. Hawthorne. VIII. The Eighth of November.
Its Review of Current Literature is varied and able.
It notices a work which we have not seen, entitled” 
“The Confederate Secession,” by the Marquess of Lothian, who exhibits his ignorance and effrontery concerning matters of which he either intelligently, knows nothing, or which he knavishly misrepresents. With all the coolness of a rebel ”to the manor born,” he declares that ”the Southerners did not secede from caprice, but from reasons which would have justified not only a secession but a rebellion”! -”All the provocation came from the Abolitionists.”- Of course, this terrible provocation was found in their agreement with Wilberforce, Clarkson, and the entire body of British philanthropists and Christians -nay, of the Parliament and Throne, in sealing and executing the death-warrant of West India slavery- that to make man the property of man is the crime of crimes, and therefore the chains of every bondman should be broken without delay.
He denies that the blame of commencing the war belongs to the Southerners, and says that ”the first act of war was Lincoln’s perfidious (!) Attempt to: throw supplies into Fort Sumter”! He gives another piece of novel intelligence-to wit, that ”there is no provision by the Constitution for such resistance” as the Government is making to put down this monstrous rebellion! The name of this sprig of nobility (or, rather, debility) is William Schomberg Robert Kerr. There are ”curs of high and low degree,” and he is one of them.
THE ANDERSONVILLE SLAUGHTER PEN. About eight months ago, seventy one members of the Mass. 2d cavalry were captured by guerrillas in Virginia, and sent to Andersonville, Georgia, All of the party have died but two, who have been exchanged, and reached Boston last week. One is very sick, and so much exhausted that it is doubtful if he recovers.
On our last page may be found additional testimonies as to the absolutely fiendish treatment of our unfortunate soldiers in the Andersonville stockade- testimonies which admit of no refutation, and which are almost too horrible for perusal. Yet-such is the difference of spirit between the North and the South! -public meetings have just been held in Boston, New York and Philadelphia, to send prompt and generous aid to the starving citizens of Savannah, (now that city has capitulated,) in the same State of Georgia! What! a contrast!
It is estimated that at that twenty-five thousand of the inhabitants remained in Savannah. Very few, not connected with the rebel military and civil service, left the city. Gen. Hardee’s wife and family were left by him to the tender mercies of our army, which Gen. Hardee has so often described in the darkest colors. His practice seems to differ somewhat from what his general orders advice. They are, of course, as all other families, protected in their lives and property.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS. We shall be reluctantly obliged to erase from our subscription list, on the 1st of March next, the names of such subscribers as shall at that time be indebted for the volume of the Liberator from Jan. 1, 1864, to Jan. 1,1865.
The MUSIC HALL, we learn, has been secured for the Ladies’ Subscription Anniversary on the evening of the 25th inst., and the GREAT ORGAN will be uncovered and played on that occasion. Let this pleasant and attractive Anniversary be kept in remembrance, and the friends of freedom prepared to make liberal subscriptions.
<c06>
REMINISCENCES. THE LIBERATOR.
Must the Liberator die because it went for Lincoln and Liberty as against McClellan and Slavery?
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND-The first number of the thirty-fifth volume of the Liberator I have just read. In January, 1831., (I well remember the day and hour,) I received and read the first number of the first volume. It was an event in my interior and exterior life I can never forget. In the first public address I ever made (it was before a Society whose object was to send preachers and teachers to Africa) are these words:–
“The crushed and enslaved sons of Africa must be enlightened. Liberty and salvation must be secured to them. If there be a people on earth who deserve and have a right to command our sympathy and aid, it is the outraged and enslaved children of Africa. Of these immortal beings, created in the image of God, the American Republic has long made merchandize. Millions of these sons of sorrow are groaning in American slavery, and sold like brutes by the iron hand of tyranny, exercised by American citizens and Christians. What heart so cold and stony as not to beat with pity and horror to see his fellow-beings turned into beasts and things, and compelled to feel after God and immortality, in the dark sepulcher of chattel slavery?”
Such was my first utterance against American slavery, and this was made in 1818, in the town of Houtwick, Otsego country, N. Y. Soon after delivering the address from which the above is taken, I entered the Theological Seminary at Andover, Mass.-Rev. Dr. Bacon of New Haven, Rev. Dr. John C. Brigham, Corresponding Secretary of the American Bible Society, (now deceased,) Rev. Dr. Anderson, Corresponding Secretary of the American Foreign Missionary Society, and Rev. Dr. William Hallock, Corresponding Secretary of the American Tract Society, being my classmates. The subject of slavery, with reference to Colonization, was much discussed in my class-not a word being said about its immediate or gradual abolition. I knew little of the facts of slavery, except that human beings were held and used and bought and sold as chattels. I felt that it was a colossal crime. In 1828-9 I had a few numbers of Lundy’s paper, and got much light from them.
You may imagine how my reason, my conscience, my heart and my whole soul responded to the stern and fervid utterances in that first number of the Liberator. From that day to this I have read your paper, and up to 1862 have had every number of every volume bound; and they are now in Cambridge College library-there to remain to tell to coming generations what William Lloyd Garrison and his coadjutors have done to rescue this nation, its government, its religion, its literature, its churches and priests, its political parties, its commerce from the crime and villany of slave-breeding, slave-trading and slaveholding.
The Abolition of Slavery! Thirty-six years of your life, including all your public life, have been devoted mainly to this one great object. Let the Liberator testify. In this it cannot lie. You have sought the destruction of whatever could not exist without sustaining or conniving at slavery. You have countenanced and encouraged every man, and body of men, so far as they would contribute, politically, religiously, commercially, socially, or in any way deemed right by themselves, to the abolition of slavery. When the Republican party, in 1861, took the ground of non-extension of slavery, you gave them credit for so much. When, Jan. 1st, 1863, the President proclaimed freedom to all the slaves of the rebel States, (3,000,000) you gave him your cordial and enthusiastic approval, thus far. When the Administration, through the Baltimore Convention, in June, 1864, pledged itself to the entire abolition of slavery in all the States, and to its everlasting prohibition within the limits of the United States what could you do-to be consistent with your life-long record-but heartily sanction that party, and use whatever power you possess-you being judge-to give success to it? And when the sole and single issue before the nation, in the late Presidential election, was-Lincoln, Abolition and Prohibition-or, McClellan, Slavery and its unlimited extension and endless perpetuity-how could you hesitate or keep silent? Had you opposed Lincoln, or kept silent or non-committal, you had been recreant to the one great end of your life for thirty-six years-the abolition of slavery. There was no other issue in that election-so far as slavery was concerned-but this:-Lincoln and Liberty: or McClellan and slavery! Lincoln and Free Labor; or McClellan and Slave Labor! Lincoln and Free Institutions; or McClellan and Slave Institutions! Lincoln and Democratic Institutions; or McClellan and Aristocratic Institutions, for the nation and continent! As an Abolitionist, you had no concern in the election, except in deciding the issue in favor of Lincoln and Liberty. Fidelity to the enslaved, to the cause of impartial justice and liberty, and to God and humanity, demanded of you to consecrate all the power which, you being judge, you had, to the triumph of Lincoln and Liberty over McClellan and Slavery. In taking the stand you did, you were true to the spirit that gave existence to the Liberator, and which has controlled its columns from the first number, Jan. 1st, 1831, to the last, Jan. 1st, 1865. You could not have been true to the spirit of Abolition, that has controlled your editorial, public and private life for the last thirty-six years, had you remained silent or non-committal in that great struggle which resulted so grandly for justice and liberty to all.
Yet you are blamed, and the Liberator is to be cast aside and sacrificed, simply and solely because you advocated and did whatever your conscience would allow, to secure the triumph of Lincoln and Liberty. This, I repeat, has been the sole and single charge against you: that you saw in Lincoln the embodiment of political abolition and prohibition of slavery, and you, therefore, did what you could to ensure his reelection-knowing, as you did, and as all do, that the great cause to which your life has been dedicated has gone into the arena of national politics, and must be settled there. The result is, a Congress, a Court, and an Executive, all solemnly pledged to abolition and prohibition. For aiding to bring about this mighty result, MUST THE LIBERATOR BE SACRIFICED? and that, too, in the house of its former friends! I should be equally grieved and surprised to have it so. For myself I must say, I have no sympathy with those who would kill the Liberator because it urged all voters who felt it their duty to vote, to vote for Lincoln and Liberty rather than for McClellan and Slavery; for, to this extent, and no farther, your offence reaches. For this offence the Liberator, the paper that has done more than all other papers on earth to wipe out the stain of slavery from the character of the Republic, and to save freedom, free labor and free institutions from being engulphed in the hell of chattel slavery, is, by some of its former friends, pronounced worthy of death! Could my will be executed, the Liberator should live while its founder and editor lives in the body; and when his body dies, I would have one more number printed, recording that fact, and pronouncing the requiem of its editor; and then let the Liberator, the great vindicator of liberty, equality and fraternity to all of human kind, sleep its last sleep by his body, and its august motto, ”My Country is the World-my Country men are all Mankind,” live in the hearts that have been cheered and refreshed by its words of faith and hope, and made purer and nobler by its stern but loving rebukes.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
P. S. I enclose $5 for the Liberator for 1865. Had I the means, it should be five hundred instead of five.
“Dr. Harriot K. Hunt has issued her twelfth annual protest against taxation without suffrage. The natural right of woman to be man is as clear as the right of a hen to crow-there’s no use arguing the case.” Springfield Republican.
The natural right of an editor, who has the necessary qualifications, to make a donkey of himself, is as clear as any other right-there’s no use arguing the case.
SPRINGFIELD.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE LIBERATOR.
CELEBRATION OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The second anniversary of the promulgation of the Emancipation Proclamation by President Lincoln, and of the abolition of slavery in the State of Maryland, was celebrated on Monday, January 2, 1865, by the colored population of Boston and vicinity, and others interested in the welfare of the African race.
MORNING MEETING.
The celebration of the day was introduced by religious services held in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac street, at. 10 1-2 o’clock. The exercises commenced with reading the Scriptures and prayer by the pastor, Rev. Leonard A. Grimes. Addresses were made by Mr. Grimes, Rev. J. V. Himes, Messrs. Reed and Oliver, Dr. J. B. Smith and Rev. James Sims, interspersed with excellent singing by the choir of the church. A large audience was in attendance.
AFTERNOON MEETING.
The afternoon meeting in Tremont Temple was called to order by John G. Smith, who presented the name of E. G. Walker of Charlestown for President, with a long list of Vice Presidents and Secretaries. Prayer was offered by Rev. H. H. White of Boston, after which Mr. Walker eloquently addressed the assembly on the purpose for which they were met. He alluded to the great progress which had been made toward universal freedom, and appropriately commented on the conduct of the war toward that great end.
The announcement that Hon. Henry Wilson was in the house was received with great applause, and upon that gentleman being escorted to the platform, he was most enthusiastically greeted. Mr. Wilson spoke briefly, but most pertinently to the occasion. He said that they were assembled to celebrate a great event in the progress of the human race. The advances made by the American nation during this war were not fully comprehended by the mass of the people. The nation was marching slowly but surely along to the consummation of universal freedom, He was in favor of immediate and complete emancipation—an amendment to the Constitution that should render it impossible to hold a slave within the territory of the United States. He thought that he might assure them that, in one week from to-day, the House of Representatives would pass that measure, which had already passed the Senate. Congress had a House of Representatives elected to pass that measure. It was one of the great purposes called for by patriotism, justice and humanity, to consummate the freedom of every slave upon American soil, and to thoroughly extirpate the spirit of slavery therefrom. (Great applause.)
Mr. Wilson was followed by Dr. J. B. Smith, Rev. A. A. Miner., D. D., and Rev. Dr. Gilbert Haven. The speeches were all able, and of the most radical stamp as against complexional proscription. The Temple was well filled, and the audience very enthusiastic.
EVENING MEETING.
The exercises of the evening meeting were introduced with prayer by Rev. Mr. Grimes; and a song, ”The Banner of the Free,” was sung by a choir of children of the Colored Sunday Schools, under the direction of Miss R. M. Washington. The chairman, Mr. Walker, then introduced Mr. George Thompson of England, who very eloquently addressed the meeting, and was very warmly applauded.
A hymn having been sung by the children, Rev. Mr. White spoke at considerable length. He was followed by Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Robert Morris, Esq. It was expected that His Excellency, the Governor, would be present, but he was prevented by important business. The audience was large and enthusiastic. The singing of the children was good, and the exercises concluded in a manner that apparently gave satisfaction to all concerned.
PARADE AND DINNER OF THE SHAW GUARD.
The Shaw Guards (14th Unattached Company of Infantry, M. V. M.) under command of Capt. Lewis Gaul, paraded in honor of the day. They turned out with full ranks, accompanied by the Boston Cornet Band, and made a fine appearance. The company after leaving the armory passed through the principal streets, and at 4 o’clock took dinner at Jameson’s in Spring Lane. A very handsome entertainment was provided by Mr. Jameson. Col. Albert J. Wright presided. At the conclusion of the knife and fork exercises, Capt. Gaul proposed the health of the chairman, Col. Wright. That gentleman responded in a speech of great eloquence, concluding with the sentiment:
“Capt. Gaul, Officers and Members of the Shaw Guards-May you be able as soldiers to sustain the noble reputation for bravery and heroism of the gallant dead whose honored name you bear.”
The band played ”Auld Lang Syne.”
Capt. Gaul then returned thanks for the generosity and kindness of their friends, and introduced the Chaplain, Rev. Mr. Rue, who spoke briefly but eloquently, concluding with a sentiment in honor of the memory of the late Col. Robt. G. Shaw, Jr. The band played ”Pleyel’s Hymn,” the whole company standing. Mr. Robt. K. Potter then read a letter from Hon. F. W. Bird of the Governor’s Council, which concluded with the following sentiment:
Then, Now, Hereafter—Yesterday it was announced that the negro had no rights which the white man was bound to respect; to-day the white man confesses that he has rights which he asks the black man to defend; to-morrow the white man will acknowledge that his rights and the black man’s rest upon the same basis.”
Speeches followed from Messrs. C. Curry of Boston, E. D. Foster of Cheshire, First Lieutenant J. P. Watkins of the Guards, W. H. Bald win of Boston, and others.
The festivities being about to conclude, Mr. Curry proposed the sentiment:
“Abraham Lincoln—The author of the Emancipation Proclamation, which inaugurates the day we celebrate.” (Repeated cheers and applause.)
The band played ”Hail, Columbia.”
In the evening there was a levee and ball at the Armory of the Guards, in Chardon street, which very happily concluded the proceedings of the day.

EMANCIPATION CELEBRATION.
The second anniversary of the issuing by President Lincoln of his celebrated emancipation proclamation was observed by a public meeting in Liberty Hall, New Bedford, Monday, January 2, commencing at half past 22 o’clock. Rev. E. Kelly acted as president, and Rev. William Jackson as secretary. Prayer was offered by Mr. Jackson.
Mr. Kelly made a few remarks, in which he alluded to the unsatisfactory character of the meeting held in Liberty Hall two years ago, from the fact that the announcement of the issuing of the proclamation had not been received in this city when the meeting adjourned, and many did not believe it would be issued. But now we have something to celebrate, and the object of the meeting was to rejoice in the doings of God in behalf of freedom in this country during the last four years.
Rev. Thomas H. Jones, of Cambridgeport, said he had always believed the day of freedom for his country would come in the course of divine providence. Three million slaves had already been set free, and in two years he thought there would not be a slave in the land. We have done with celebrations of British West India emancipation, having something of our own to celebrate. Mr. Jones rejoiced particularly in the emancipation of Maryland, secured by the votes of her own people; and emancipation was as great a blessing to whites as great a blessing to whites as to blacks. He expected yet to return to Wilmington, whence he ran away fifteen years ago, and raise cotton and turpentine. He was sometimes amused to hear the latest converts to abolitionism boasting of what ”we” have done within a few years. The rights of the colored man were not yet all secured, but there was abundant cause for rejoicing in the progress of events.
Rev. Mr. Trafton said the hand of God was in the work of emancipation, and the glorious result was in no small degree to be attributed to the simple piety,
<c02>
earnest prayers and strong faith of the slaves. He thanked God that he had always been an anti-slavery man or boy. He had toiled through long years, pushing the abolition train along the up grade, and when it reached the top and began to descend, hosts of new-comers jumped aboard, and as the speed accelerated swung their hats and shouted,” What a dust we kick up!” But such things were not to be wondered at, and he could say that he was glad to see them. In bygone years he had never expected to live to see a general emancipation. He never thought slavery could be peaceably extinguished; our national convulsion is God’s judgment to bring a mad people to their senses. He regretted that so many were slain in battle, but the land has been red with blood for two hundred years, and nothing has been thought of it. And our defeats are gain, for if the war had been uninterruptedly successful, the emancipation proclamation would never have been written. But slavery has received its death wound, and the speaker hoped to live until the day arrives when there shall not be a slave in the land.
Rev. Jacob Mitchell said that he felt unusually happy, and yet sad when he reflected on the injuries inflicted on the colored race. Jeff. Davis displayed good pluck to tackle the government, but it has resulted to the welfare of the colored people. Mr. Mitchell spoke in affecting terms of his wife and children who have been in bondage. One of his sons had just arrived north, and was in the hall.
Rev. William Livesey, of Fairhaven, had always been anti-slavery, but never could understand how a just God should bring about emancipation peaceably. The difficulty of avoiding the moral taint of slavery, by those who are brought into continued acquaintance with it, had been mentioned by some; but the speaker had lived in a slave State nearly a year, and returned a better anti-slavery man than when he went. He once saw a woman sold at auction, and as he left the scene, he felt in his inmost soul glad that there was a hell. He had long watched the political phases of the country. Pierce’s administration beat the devil, though a comparison with Buchanan’s made it appear respectable. But the policy of these two administrations had educated the people, and at the next election slavery received a blow in a vital point, its extension. Mr. Livesey spoke of the wisdom manifested by the President in all his acts on the slavery question, and was ready to acquiesce in all his measures, though he had sometimes appeared to move very slowly. He admired the heroism of the slaves, who no sooner gain their liberty than they enlist to fight for the liberty of others. He congratulated the colored people on this anniversary, and congratulated the country that freedom of speech is hereafter to have full sway.
The meeting was adjourned to half past seven, and the chairman pronounced the benediction.
At the meeting in the evening, after a few remarks by Rev. Mr. Kelley, singing and prayer, Rev. Mr. Potter took the floor. He spoke of the causes of congratulation, and said he could hardly realize the changes that had occurred in the last four years for justice, humanity and freedom. The nation entered on the new year with happy auspices. We could hardly conceive the state of the country four yours since. It was just about the time of Buchanan’s fast, and of the execution of John Brown. Free speech was almost crushed out even in Boston. In New York foreigners thought the people more in favor of the South than of the North. A peace Congress had been held, in which it was proposed to introduce a clause into the constitution, forever prohibiting any action on slavery by the federal government. Those were dark days. Now what triumphs have been gained! Jefferson Davis confesses that two millions of slaves have been set free. The old system is tottering to its fall. In New Orleans, Baltimore and Savannah to-day any man, under the protection of the flag of the Union, can express his opinions freely. The flag carries freedom, free speech, human rights, wherever it goes. Note how the people have progressed, particularly in meeting practically the questions which arise, as in Missouri. The ideas of colonization and compensation are forgotten. What progress in the discussion of the question of abolition! We have come up to the position taken by Garrison thirty years ago—immediate, unconditional, uncompensated emancipation on the soil. Even in Kentucky there is a prospect of the speedy abolition of slavery. Frederick Douglass speaks in Baltimore, visits Washington, and has interviews with the President, who he doubted not was influenced in his actions by those interviews. The crowning act of all is the decision of the people for an amendment of the constitution forbidding slavery. We are not simply passing through a political, a religious, a moral or a material revolution. All of these are included in the changes which are taking place. It is a new civilization we are inaugurating. It is the overthrow of barbarism. The speaker concluded by speaking of the work yet to be done, and urging the audience not to relax their labors till it was accomplished.
Rev. Mr. Skinner spoke of the singing of the song, “Let my people go,” as kindling emotions like those he felt on attending a meeting in the District of Columbia to celebrate the abolition of slavery there. But to-night we celebrate the emancipation of a nation, and our joy should be so much the greater. He related a number of incidents in his experience, showing the meanness of the slaveholders and the capacity of the negro to take care of himself.
Rev. Mr. Quint said the emancipation we celebrate was one of the white as much as the negro. The dominant race had practised tyranny and outrage, and no man belonging to it but should rejoice at being free from this plot. He argued that the negro could take care of himself, and that full justice should be done him, by allowing him to hold commissions in the army as well as to take a place in the ranks.
Remarks were made by several other gentlemen, and the following series of resolutions were read by Isaiah C. Ray, and adopted:—
Whereas, the most unexampled progress, beyond anything that the most hopeful philanthropists had ventured to expect in so short a time, has been made in this country during the last four years, towards the recognition of the rights of the colored race, and the total overthrow of the foul system of slavery, as witnessed in the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation; in the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and its perpetual prohibition in all the territories of the Union; in emancipation by new State constitutions in the States of West Virginia, Louisiana, Arkansas, old Virginia, (so far as under federal authority,) Maryland and Missouri, (the emancipation acts of the latter State being about to be revised, and made more radical:) in the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law; in the recognition of the republics of Hayti and Liberia; in the abolition of the African and coastwise slave trade; in the enrolment of colored soldiers in the United States army; in the admission of colored men as witnesses in the United States courts, and the recognition of their citizenship by the Attorney General of the United States; in the appointment of Salmon P. Chase, the life-long advocate of liberty and of the rights of the colored race, as Chief Justice of the United States; in the opening of schools for the education of colored children; and finally, in the general desire and effort that are manifested on the part of people and government to do justice to a long oppressed race; therefore,
Resolved, That we, the people of New Bedford, in solemn convention assembled, do hereby express our devout gratitude to Almighty God for these great acts of freedom, and our deep conviction that as He is the Supreme Arbiter of nations, so to Him above all do we owe this mighty awakening of justice that has overtaken the nation, and this unparalleled advance towards the full practical recognition of the Christian doctrine of human brotherhood, that all men are created free and equal, and with certain God-given and inalienable rights.
Resolved, That we are also deeply grateful that the government of our country, which has so long denied the rights of the colored race and been a party to their oppression, is now, in all its departments of power, legislative, executive, and judicial, on the side of justice and freedom; and we hereby declare that a government which has done such acts for liberty as are above enumerated, and so long as it shall continue to act in the same direction, is worthy of our fullest confidence and our heartiest support; and in the light of these triumphs already gained, we have faith that we shall yet win, from the government and from the people, our entire military and civil rights as citizens
<c03>
of a common country and children of a common father.
Resolved, That we rejoice, in common with all the loyal people of the land, over the many brilliant military and naval victories that have crowned the Union cause, hailing them, as we do, as victories of right over wrong, of light over darkness, of liberty over slavery; and we rejoice, also, over the reelection of Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States, seeing in it an assurance that no step that has been taken towards justice and freedom will be reversed.
Resolved, That as slavery was the cause of this wicked rebellion, so slavery should be put to death with the rebellion; that in the reconstruction of the Union, no rebellions and seceded State should be restored to its rights as a State, except on condition that it forever abolish slavery by its constitution; and we earnestly implore Congress and the Executive to adopt and enact such measures of reconstruction as shall insure this end, and secure full justice to the colored race and others, everywhere, especially our soldiers on the battle-field, with whom we deeply sympathize and pledge our hearty support
Resolved, finally, That we hail with heartiest approval, and give our entire support to, the proposed amendment of the Federal Constitution, by which slavery shall be abolished and forever prohibited in the whole domain of the United States, and in all the States thereof, so that the flag of the Union shall never more float over a single bondman, but only over a nation of freemen.
The meeting then adjourned.
The exercises were interspersed with spirited singing by the choir and the audience.

CELEBRATION IN PROVIDENCE.
Remarks at the celebration of the Anniversary of the Proclamation of Emancipation, by the colored citizens of Providence, R. I., held in Pratt’s Hall, January 2d, 1865. By REV. CHARLES H. PLUMMER.
The occasion which convenes us, though joyful, and affording us much cause for congratulation, is, nevertheless, full of solemnity, and requires calm, deliberate and sober consideration. The great work of emancipating four millions of our brethren, although in process of accomplishment, is not yet an assured fact. We may thank God that we witness, to day, that the power which was on the side of the oppressor is now broken, and is never to be reestablished. A new era has dawned upon our land, and in all the coming time no day will be so sacred to humanity, all the world over, as the day which we now commemorate.
We are wont to consider, and very justly too, that the grievances of which the colonies complained to the King of Great Britain were weighty and grave that they had good and substantial reasons for dissolving their political connection with him, and the government which he represented. But what were those grievances, when compared with the sufferings, so patiently endured, of our enslaved brethren of the South?
In the colonial times, whose personal liberty (I mean, the right to possess and control one’s own body, mind and soul) was interfered with or circumscribed? Who wrung or wrested from them the earnings of their own hands? Who compelled them to live in a state of concubinage? Who separated husband and wife, parents and children, and sold them to the highest bidder, to be carried away far distant from each other, with no hope of ever meeting again this side of the grave? Whose right to learn to read, to instruct and inform the mind, was denied? Who could be made the victim of the lust of another, without having recourse to law to bring the offender to punishment? Who could inflict corporeal punishment at will? In short, who among the three millions that then inhabited the colonies were despoiled of their manhood, and treated as beasts and chattels? We may search through the Declaration of American Independence, without finding any such grievances as I have enumerated. And yet, all these things have been endured and suffered by the slaves of America. And so, if we compare, or contrast rather,—for the cases do not admit of comparison, the condition of the colonies at the time of sending forth the Declaration of Independence, we shall see that they had far less to complain of than our enthralled brethren at the South.
The conduct of the King of Great Britain was in perfect keeping with his character, and such as we might expect from a man who holds his subjects bound to obey his own will. But what shall we say of our own nation, boasting of its freedom, and which had so earnestly protested against the encroachments and repeated acts of tyranny of the British Government, inflicting upon an unfortunate race the miseries of a servitude which, until the beginning of this war, had seemed well high hopeless?
Who has not keenly felt the taunt of the British poet, as expressed in these lines?
“The fustian flag that proudly waves
In splendid mockery o’er a land of slaves.”
In yet another aspect does the struggle for independence dwindle in magnitude and importance, when viewed in the light of events transpiring around us. That had reference to the birth of a nation. These events are but the agonies of the travail of the nation now giving social, political and commercial birth to a race.
And now, as to the future of the black race. Soon, doubtless, the edict of emancipation will be made sure and irrevocable by an amendment to the Constitution, forever prohibiting slavery in the United States of America. Then must follow, in all the States of the Union, as now in a few, the recognition of their well-earned right to citizenship, by securing to them the free and undisturbed exercise of that right. trust that, in relation to this matter, we shall suffer no frivolous prejudice to control our reason and judgment—that we who so freely accord to foreigners of every nation, without any reference whatever to their educational qualifications, the rights and privileges of American citizenship, will accord to our native-born fellow-countrymen, though their skin be of a darker hue than our own, the same rights and privileges that we accord to them, and claim and exercise for ourselves. Simple, common justice demands this at our hands. Doing this much for them, we place before them the opportunity to do every thing else for themselves. And, be assured, they will do it. Away with your vile cant, that these people cannot take care of themselves! It is an atrocious slander upon them. What! confine a man in prison, chain him hand and foot, and then say,” Lazy scoundrel! he cannot take of himself” when he has no opportunity to do so. Singular indeed, that these people cannot take care of themselves, when they have maintained and enriched their thirty thousand masters, with their families, and supported themselves the meanwhile! O fie!
All that they need is opportunity. This, providence and the nation are now giving them. They are seizing it as a much coveted boon. Give them political elevation, and they will take care of all the rest. They will make the shoe, forge the colter, till the soil, sail the ship, wield the pen, bear the sword and do all other things which come within the range of man’s ingenuity, Wealth, high social position, and fame many may and will acquire. In securing for yourselves the right of citizenship, and so opening the avenues to social elevation, much remains for you to do. The assistance and co-operation of your brethren of the white race you are having, and will continue to have; but you must be self-reliant and unyielding in demanding your rights.
Said Cassius,
“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.”
Remember this, you who are free, and govern your selves accordingly!
Our immediate duty, in view of the circumstances by which we are now surrounded, can all be expressed in three words, constituting as they do an alliteration of the letter P. PRAYER, PATIENCE, PERSEVERANCE.
And first, because most important, PRAYER. Prayer is the one sole means by which the deliverance of our brethren is now being wrought out. It is the greatest moral force in the universe. Why, it was prayer that brought the Son of God into the world.
<c04>
It was prayer that brought the Holy Ghost down from heaven. It was prayer that shook the foundations and threw open the gates of the prison where Paul and Silas were confined. Ay, and it has been prayer that has gone up from the slaves in the rice swamps and cotton-fields of the South, that has brought to pass the grand, the solemn, the stirring events in the midst of which we now stand. The groans and the sighs and the heart-breathings of the enslaved have at length prevailed with God, and he be is answering them through fire and in blood. Mood. They, having wrestled in prayer, have wrought with God, and with most striking significance may cry out,” The kingdom of our God has come!” Therefore, my brethren, be not disheartened in this work, but go on—ay, go on! 
Second, PATIENCE”. “In your patience possess ye your souls. ”These are” times that try men’s souls.” No darker and yet no brighter day ever dawned upon this land. Great calamities have befallen us. Terrible judgments have overtaken us. As a nation, we are verily guilty in the sight of God. When I have contemplated our social, political, commercial and religious corruptions, I have trembled for my country. It has seemed to me that we have forfeited all claim upon the Divine Mercy; that we have merited swift destruction. While visited with such gloomy and depressing forebodings, and feeling that our punishment by the calamity of war was just, I have turned to the black man and the slave, and hope has sprung up within my heart, and I have felt that if God would not spare us as a nation on our own account, he would save us on account of the black race. And this is now my faith. While God is chastising this nation on account of its sins and crimes, he is making that very chastisement the means of deliverance to the slave, and will save our nation in order to give it the opportunity of repenting of its sins and crimes, by doing full justice to the black race, now so providentially committed to its care. And so, have patience, brethren! While the present is so full of promise and the future of hope, wait, and you shall yet see more fully than now the salvation of God. Accept from me this word of earnest exhortation.
And finally, PERSEVERANCE. We cannot mistake the call of duty now. Never were such great trusts committed to our care and disposal. We must be diligent, if we would rightly use and faithfully appropriate them. Heaven is a place of ceaseless activities. Said Jesus, ”My father worketh hitherto, and I work.” He bore upon his shoulders the weight of the world’s woe; but he wearied not in the work given him to do. We are called to be co-workers with him and with God,’ “Work out your own salvation” is the apostolic injunction. This is specially a work day,” “Continue in prayer, and watch thereunto with thanksgiving.” Let patience have her perfect work.” Let unflagging perseverance in duty ever characterize and distinguish you as a people, and the time will soon be when the soil of the United States of North America will not be pressed by the foot of a single slave—when, throughout all our borders, and the borders of every other land, every slave will be” redeemed, regenerated, disenthralled, by the irresistible Genius of Universal Emancipation.”

THE THIRTY-FIRST NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JAN. 25, 1865.
The AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY was organized for the immediate and total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted,” without compromise and without concealment,” for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvellous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States, and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS’ REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so-called loyal sections for the country. Not until its utter extirpation every where should the American Anti-Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long-desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then—and we trust for the last time—let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the” self-evident truths” enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence!
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.

L. Maria Child,
Mary May,
Henrietta Sargent,
Helen Eliza Garrison,
Sarah Shaw Russell,
Sarah Russell May,
Anna Shaw Greene,
Sarah Blake Shaw,
Caroline C. Thayer,
Lydia D. Parker,
Caroline R. Putnam,
Mattie Griffith,
Mary Jackson,
Evelina A. Smith,
Sarah Bradford,
Elizabeth Gay,
Mary Wiley,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Sarah J. Nowell,
Elizabeth won Arnim,
Abby H. Stephenson,
Eliza Apthrop,
Sarah Cowing,
Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Sarah C. Alkinson,
Abby Francis,
Georgina Otis,
Katharine Earle Farnum,
Rebeca Bradford,
Ellen Wright Garrison,
Caroline M. Severance.
<c05>
SAVANNAH AVOWS ITS LOYALTY.
The following is a full report of the speech of Mayor Arnold at the meeting of citizens on the 28th ult.:
“Fellow-citizens of Savannah: At the request of the Aldermen of the city of Savannah, and of a large number of the citizens. I have convened you together this day for you to give expression to your views and sentiments in the trying state of affairs in which you are now placed. It is for at no longer a crisis. The crisis is past, and it is for you to decide upon the particular line of action each and all of you may determine to pursue.
Our action is to be determined solely by our situation, as we have no authority or power to speak for others outside of our limits. But we are the judges of our own situation, can speak for ourselves, and ought so to do, by all the considerations of prudence, and I will say, common sense and humanity, to mitigate, if we can, the effects of the heavy blow which has fallen upon us.
Our city contains twenty thousand inhabitants, without food, without fuel, without any remunerative industrial pursuits, without any place of refuge, cut off from all connection with the country. The heart sickens at the sight thus presented.
It is our duty to mitigate, as we cannot avert, this terrible suffering by all the means which reason and common sense may dictate, regardless of all abstract views. have weighed the matter anxiously, and have arrived at a positive conclusion that there is but one course to pursue. But it is not my province, as calling the meeting, to say more at present. When the city was taken, through me, as chief magistrate, you asked protection. You all know that it was granted to you, and we all feel deeply indebted to Brig. Gen. Geary for his conduct as commandant of the city. Having convened you and expressed in, part my views, it remains for you to appoint a Chairman of this meeting.”
The following Resolutions, reported by a Committee, were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, by the fortunes of war, and the surrender of the city by the city authorities, Savannah passes once more under the authority of the United States: and, whereas, we believe that the interests of the city will be best subserved and promoted by a free and full expression of our views in relation to our present condition, we, therefore, the people of Savannah, in full meeting assembled, do hereby resolve,
1. That we accept the position, and in the language of the President of the United States, seek to have” peace by laying down our arms and submitting to the national authority under the Constitution,” leaving all questions which remain, to be adjusted by the peaceful means of legislation, conference and votes.”
Resolved, 2. That laying aside all differences and burying by gones in the grave of the past, we will use our best endeavors once more to bring back the prosperity and commerce we once enjoyed.
Resolved, 3. That we do not put ourselves in the position of a conquered city asking terms of the conquered, but we claim the immunities and privileges contained in the Proclamation and Message of the President of the United States, and in all the legislation of Congress in reference to a people situated as we are; and while we owe on our part a strict obedience to the laws of the United States, we ask. the protection over our persons, lives and property recognized by those laws.
Resolved, 4. That we respectfully request His Excellency, the Governor, to call a Convention of the people of Georgia, by any constitutional means in his power, to give them an opportunity of voting upon this question, whether they wish the war between the two sections of the country to continue.
Resolved, 5. That Major General Sherman having placed as Military Commander of this post Brigadier General Geary, who has, by his urbanity as a gentleman and his uniform kindness to our citizens, done all in his power to protect them and their property from insult and injury, it is the unanimous desire of all present that he be allowed to remain in his present position; and that for the reasons above stated, the thanks of the citizens are hereby tendered to him, and the officers under his command.
Resolved, 6. That an official copy of these resolutions be sent to the President of the United States, the Governor of Georgia, General Sherman, and to each of the Mayors of Augusta, Columbus, Macon and Atlanta.
Mayor Arnold has divided the city into Wards, for the purpose of distributing food to the destitute, and seems to be doing everything in his power to ameliorate the condition of the citizens. Gen. Geary, commanding the city, holds frequent conferences with him, and complies with all reasonable requests for the benefit of the population.
Gen. Sherman has issued an order giving protection to citizens in legitimate pursuits, and requiring only reasonable restrictions, continuing the Mayor and City Council in their functions, who in concert with the Commandant of the Post, are directed to make provision for the needy. Those who wish to leave Savannah are given permission, and those who remain are required to prove themselves loyal. The newspapers are restricted to two, the editors and publishers of which are held responsible for what appears in print.
The Savannah Daily Loyal Georgian is the name of an able daily paper just started from the office of the News, by Capt. M. Summers, A. Q. A. It is probable that another daily paper will be started in a day or two.
The Republican has already been revived by Mr. J. E. Hayes of the Tribune, who came through with Gen. Sherman’s grand army, and the Loyal Georgian has been merged in it. Another daily paper is to be started in a day or two, by the proprietors of the Palmetto Herald, who have received permission to occupy the Daily News office for that purpose.
REBEL CRUELTY. A correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette, who accompanied Sherman’s army in its march across Georgia, says hundreds of our men who escaped from the rebel prisons at the South have been chased by bloodhounds, which are kept at all guard stations and picket-posts throughout the South, and especially at the ferries and fords of the rivers, for the purpose of hunting escaped prisoners and rebel deserters. He gives the following account of the pursuit of a New York and two Illinois soldiers by a gang of twenty men and fifteen bloodhounds:
“One man finding the dogs close upon them, and no chance of escape presenting itself, climbed on the porch of a house, and waited till the party came up. Enraged that their thirst for Yankee blood had not been gratified, they made Crummel come down to them, then knocked him on the head with a musket, formed a ring, put the dogs in it, and threw him to them. He was terribly torn, and soon after died. Harris and Cloes were treated in the same way, and badly torn.
Patterson, who was a mere boy, kneeled down and prayed these human fiends not to let the dogs tear him; but to no purpose. He was forced down, and on undertaking to regain the porch was kicked in the face, all his front teeth broken out and he rendered insensible, and in that State thrown into the ring. The dogs had satiated themselves with blood, and refused to touch him. This is only a single case of many which could be related.”
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE. The Legislature was promptly organized on Wednesday, last week, by the election of Jonathan E. Field, as President of the Senate, and Alexander hill. Bullock, as Speaker of the House. Stephen N. Gifford was reflected Clerk of the Senate, and Wm. S. Robinson as Clerk of the House. Rev. Dr. George E. Ellis, of Charlestown, was chosen Chaplain of the Senate, and Rev. Samuel F. Upham, of Lowell, Chaplain of the House. John Morrissey was reflected Sergeant-at-Arms. The Annual Election sermon was preached by Rev. A.L. Stone, D.D., of Boston.
STATISTICAL. During the past year, over 100,000. foreigners arrived in the United States, to become American citizens.
There were more people killed and wounded by railroad accidents last year, than in any year since 1854. One hundred and forty accidents occurred:- four hundred and four lives were lost, and one thousand eight hundred and forty-six persons were wounded.
During the past year, the enormous sum of twenty-eight millions five hundred and twenty-two thousand dollars was lost by fire in the loyal States, without counting losses under twenty thousand or losses by the war, as at Chambersburg. This amount exceeds the losses for any previous year within the last decade.
Of the twelve Revolutionary patriots living on the 1st of January, 1864, but five survive to welcome this New Year.
The Richmond Enquirer of December 27 contains a long editorial, urging the appointment of Gen. Lee as generalissimo of the rebel armies. It says that the appointment is now absolutely demanded by our situation. The experience and knowledge of the President would still be of great service to the country, but it is not misstating the case to say that the country reposes more confidence in the experience of Gen. Lee than in that of any other man.
The London Times editorially applauds Secretary Seward’s correspondence with Mr. Parker, when that gentleman sought to submit a peace (?) address to President Lincoln, signed by 35,000 people of Great Britain.
The London Telegraph contradicts the marvellous story of its Constantinople correspondent about the murder of a slave in the harem of one of the late Sultan’s daughters.
<c06>
THE NEW ENGLAND HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN is now permanently established at No. 14 Warren Street,  Boston.
Its object is to furnish to the women of New England the ministration of their own sex, and such isolation and peculiar care as are, in many cases, essential to successful treatment.
The opinions of some of our ablest physicians, and the fact that patients are often sent to us from the Massachusetts General Hospital, prove the necessity for a Hospital for the separate treatment of women.
It is no longer a question whether women can become successful physicians; and public sentiment demands that women who desire it shall have the advice of practitioners of their own sex.
The commodious house, No. 14 Warren Street, and three smaller houses on Pleasant Street, connected therewith, have recently been purchased for the sum of $20,000, of which $13,500 have been already subscribed.
This is a most valuable property, admirably adapted to our use, and has already enabled us greatly to extend the benefits of the Hospital.
We still owe upon the property $6,500, and we need about $4,000 to finish and fit the buildings for use. We therefore appeal, with confidence, to a generous community for the sum of $10,000.
During the last year, 127 patients have been admitted to the Hospital, 120 have been visited at their own homes, and 1977 have been treated in the Dispensary.
About one-half the patients in the Hospital were from the various towns in New England.
It is, therefore, not to Boston alone that we look for the means of carrying on the work, but to the kind-hearted throughout New England.
Thousands of women in our cities and large towns have no homes in which to find refuge in sickness.
Thousands of the abject poor live in damp cellars, or unfurnished, crowded, filthy attics. Unfit habitations in health, what must they be in sickness?
The wives of brave men, who have nobly laid down their lives in battle, appeal to us.
Gladly we do for the soldier—shall we not also provide for those dearer to him than his own life?
Give us, then, a portion of the abundance with which God has blessed you, to be used for the comfort of the suffering and the needy; and accept that accurance that whatever you may entrust to us shall be dispensed with the most rigid economy.
Subscriptions may be sent to the Hospital, 14 Warren Street, to the Treasurer, F. W. G. May, Esq., 1 Broad Street, or to 
MRS. ELLEN C. JOHNSON, 78 Temple St., 
MRS. L. G. FRENCH, 8 Asylum St.,
J. H. STEPHENSON, 12 Arch St., 
Boston, Jan., 1865. Committee.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NUMBER THREE, FOR JANUARY.
CONTENTS.
Timid Tom and Old Gurdy. By Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNE.
With Dedication to Rev. H. W. Beecher.
Out and In, (Poetry.) By BELLE BUSH.
Progress in Literature. By Mrs. ELIZA W.  FARNHAM.
Interest on Money and Rents.
Basic Grey, (Poetry.) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
Sanctification by the Truth. By Rev. O. B. FROTHINGHAM.
The Kinder-Garten. (No. 2.) By Mrs. LOUISE POLLOCK.
The Moral Police Fraternity.
Carmia, Poetry.) By ALICE CARY.
The Conflict of Creeds. 
Minor Topics. Our Library.
Single copies, 20 cents. $2 per year.
To be procured of all news-dealers.
The three numbers sent, postpaid, for 50 cents.
Address C. M. PLUMB & CO.,
274 Canal St., New York.
A PICTORIAL DOUBLE NUMBER.—THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL and LIFE ILLUSTRATED for January, appears with 32 quarto pages, and a beautiful illustrated cover. It contains Portraits of Tennyson, Silliman, Sheridan, Cobb, Philips, Susanna Wesley—mother of John-an Indian Chief, Franz Muller, Miss Muggins, Miss Fury, the Princess of Wales, Florence Nightingale, A Group of Warriors—Hannibal, Julius Caesar, Pizarro, Cromwell, Charles XII., Frederick the Great, Scott, Wellington and Napoleon, with ETHNOLOGY, PHRENOLOGY, PHYSIOGNOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, and PSUCHOLOGY. No. 1, Vol. 41st. Published at 20 cents a Number, or $2.00 a year, by Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York.
WORCESTER COUNTRY SOUTH DIVISION ANTI -SLAVERY SOCIETY.—The Annual Meeting of the Worcester Country (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held at WORCESTER, on Sunday, Jan. 15th, commencing at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M., and continuing at 2 P. M., and 7 in the evening;—all the meetings being at WASHBURN HALL.
The members of the Society are notified, and all are invited to attend.
WENDELL PHILLIPS and ANDREW T. Foss are among the speakers expected on the occasion.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.
MARRIED—In this city., Dec.25,  by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Mr. WILLIAM A. HOPKINS to Mrs. SARAH ALLEN.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF 
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease.
SO wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escapes observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Grate numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALLMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require an alterative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT. SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J.C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Jan. 6. 2m.

WANTED,
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; one who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no use of intoxicating drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such an one may have a good situation by corresponding with 
THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, Mass., Jan. 4. 3w.

55th MARCH,
WITH lithographic likeness of Col. A. S. Hartwell, 55th Mass. Vols., who was severely wounded while commanding a brigade at the battle of Honey Hill, S. C,. The likeness is pronounced by the friends of Col. Hartwell to be a perfect success. Published and for sale only by the author,
J. S. JACOBUT,
No. 8 Dix , Boston.
Extract of a letter to E. W. Kinsley, 37 Franklin st., Boston, introducing Mr. Jacobs:—
“Mr. Jacobs was formerly leader of the Band of the 24th Mass. Regt., and has been one month with the 55th as teacher of the Band, & c. Mr. Jacobs has done the good thing by us, and when better times come, we hope to have him here again.
A. S. HARTWELL,
Col. 55th Mass. Comm’ng.
Hilton Head, S.C., June, 1863.”

MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT 
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Published. Price $1.50 per copy.
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction. 
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher
Boston Dec 20 1864.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE LIBERATOR.
THE NEW YEAR.
Again, within the portals 
Of the opening year we stand; 
Another mile-stone has been passed,
On toward the “Better Land.”
We’re drawing nearer to the goal,
The Aiden of the blessed,
Where all earth’s worn and wearied ones
May find a home of rest.
We’re passing swiftly down the vale 
Where Death’s cold waters glide;
And the pale Boatman waits for all, 
The swift, dark stream beside.
Some go with fearful, trembling hearts,
And shrink in dread away,
Uncheered by Faith’s pure, radiant star,
Lighting the shadowy way.
Some stand in sweet, calm patience by,
The Bostman’s voice to hear;
No mists of doubt around their way,
Their hearts unchilled by fear.
The Life-work which the Father gave
Is well and bravely done;
And now, in earnest, trusting faith,
They wait the summons home.
They sought no flower-strown path to tread,
Nor shunned the rugged way;
Knowing ‘twould lead far up the heights
To realms of purer day.
Remembering ever Him who trod 
That thorny path of old,
That he might lead earth’s erring ones
Up to our Father’s fold.
And should the summons come to us,
And Death, the Boatman, stand,
Waiting to bear us o’er the tide
Unto the Spirit-land,—
Could we his cold hand calmly clasp,
And pass with him away?
Would Faith and Hope illume for us 
The dark and untried way?
Have we been faithful to the work
Entrusted to our care?
Have we obeyed stern Duty’s call,
And sought Truth’s voice to hear?
Has love of praise, or love of gold,
Ne’er tempted us astray?
Have we with firm, unfaltering step
Still kept our upward way?
Have we stood bravely for the Right,
Nor feared to bear the Cross;
And counted every worldly gain,
If bought by falsehood, loss?
With solemn voice doth Conscience ask
These questions of each soul:
What answer shall we find impressed
On Time’s recording scroll?
Brooklyn, Ct., Jan., 1865. CARRIE.

For the Liberator.
IN NEW ENGLAND–NEW YEAR’S EVE.
BY KATY CARLISLE.
Sweet friends of mine, whose earnest eyes
Have read my inmost heart—
From whose unfeigned sympathies
Nor time nor space can part—
Although this distance hides your smiles,
That filled my skies with light,
Still here—of all the round world—here
Is my heart’s home to-night.
O’er your fair inland vales and plains,
How restless I have roved?
How longed the child of Ocean’s isle
For the blue sea she loved!
With eyes turned hither wistfully,
How prayed she, o’er and o’er,
For these dear skies—Atlantic’s coast—
New England’s breezy shore!
Though now ’neath Winter’s ermine vest
My fair New England lies,
And wild gray cloud-drifts veil away
The glory of her skies—
Where these mad waves their caps of foam
Far up the bleak shore toss,
The soft winds yet shall woo me forth
To gather shells and moss;
And by these streams that seaward sweep,
Blue harebells yet shall blow;
And round these rocks shall Mayflowers creep,
And daisies mock the snow.
And I may weep where TORREY’S grave
Guards well for Heaven its trust;
And, softly kneeling, kiss the sod
O’er CHANNING’SCHANNING’S sacred dust!
And in the city’s thronged street
My feet are daily set
In their dear footprints, whom God spares
To bless New England yet!
And, oh! the tones that I shall hear,
The faces I shall see,
Gathered to hail the third glad year 
Of the GREAT JUBILEE!
He will be there, whose hoary hair
Is not his only crown
Of well-deserved glory, won
In battling slavery down—
Our chief, our pioneer;—and he
Who, eloquent and strong,
Broke his own chains, and thrilled two worlds
With the story of his wrong.
And he who bears so worthily,
This hour, the ruler’s sword,—
The Bay State’s chief, to freedom true
In every deed and word!
And will not certain GOLDEN LIPS,
As is their wont, demand,
With their own faithful fearlessness,
Freedom through ALL THE LAND?
That voice whose music stilled, so oft,
The mob’s wild storm to peace;
That brow, whose white calm, braving death,
Bade murder’s fury cease!
Oh! down from Newbury’s blessed hills
Th’ inspiring breezes blow:
Sweet stream, whose music haunts my dreams,
I almost hear thy flow!
Thou classic stream—for Freedom’s Bard
Dwells thy green shades among;
The very wild-flowers by thy tide
Immortal in his song!
Boston, Dec. 31, 1864.

For the Liberator.
FALL, BEAUTIFUL SNOW.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Fall gently, gently, beautiful Snow,
On the sacred breast of my Mother-Land;
For the brave and beautiful sleep below,
Lost links from many a household band;
Young hearts that throbbed high with heroic will,
Like thy gathered wreaths lie cold and still.
Fall gently, gently, beautiful Snow,
On the well-worn path to the cottage-door;
The familiar prints of a year ago 
Shall break the white level of winter no more;
The light in the window grows evermore dim,
And midnight sobs choke the prayer for him.
Fall pure and deep, O beautiful Snow, 
O’er the rents and stains of the field of strife;
Press thy comforting breast to its leagues of we,
And nurse the germs of that better life
<c02>
Which a coming Spring shall wake, fresh and free, 
‘Neath the ruined roots of the Upas Tree.
Fall, fall triumphantly, beautiful Snow,
In grace and parity still increase;
Fill all the welkin, above, below,
With thy stainless banners of coming Peace!
For the hale North-winds of Justice and Right 
Out-sweep thy banners, outstretch thy flight.
Fall, rev’rently, fall, O beautiful Snow—
The winding-sheet of our dreary Past;
O, wrap it from sight till that morning glow
When a risen Nation steps forth, at last,
The Light and Leader of Ages to be,
Till our beautiful World from all chains is free!
10 Temple Place, Boston, Jan. 4, 1865.

The Liberator.
LETTERS FROM SUBSCRIBERS.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Accompanying are five dollars for your paper for the year 1865. I think it the nearest approach to a free, impartial political publication that I know, and, if necessary, I pledge five dollars a year to sustain it.
Your course upon the late Presidential canvass gave rise to much criticism. Many persons have given yon largely to sustain your paper, seemingly because of that course; you have gratefully filled your columns with their puffery thereupon. But I wish to protest against that course. I like the paper, but I did not like the partizan character of your support of Lincoln, and traduction of Fremont. I do not question your right to prefer and support Lincoln, but the Liberator ought to have done it impartially. Many of the old-time, most earnest Abolitionists felt outraged at the President’s halting policy; at the utter perfidiousness of the Government’s treatment of the negroes; at the constant leaning of the President towards his proslavery advisers; and at the utter lack of any sentiment of humanity in his dealing with the great crime of slavery. But your paper only published partizan panegyrics of him. Very many of those same Abolitionists felt that General Fremont was an abler and truer man—that he represented freedom and humanity; but your columns were filled with the spiteful traductions of a partizan press upon him. Not a word against Lincoln nor in favor of Fremont appeared in your paper. I know, and you ought to know, how much weight should be given to the utterances of the partizan press of the country. A junta of country politicians buy a printing establishment, and a journeyman printer, or half taught apprentice, with it, and the paper published is but the tool of the irresponsible junta.
I did not want you to support Fremont nor to support Lincoln, but I did want the Liberator to be above partisanship. I did not like the fact that agents of Fremont paid the railroad fare and hotel bills of a large portion of the delegates to the Cleveland Convention, nor did I like Fremont’s Letter of Acceptance; and I did walk seventeen miles, on the eighth day of November last, over a muddier road than you ever saw, the rain falling on me every moment of the time, for no other object than to vote for Lincoln. Nevertheless, I did not like to have the Liberator speak of that convention contemptuously, nor call it the broadest of farces. There were many farcical things about it; but, as a whole, the movement was as earnest, pure, and sincere as any of your own earliest abolition meetings that only called forth contempt. I voted for Lincoln because McClellan, in my view, was as thorough a traitor in principle as Jefferson Davis, and I had to support the country. And I will say that his late Annual Message and the appointment of Mr. Chase are steps in advance of any thing heretofore done by the President.
The New Nation was a creditable journal, in dignity and ability, and General Clusseret is most certainly an anti-slavery man. But a criticism of his, purely personal against yourself, you copied into your “Refuge of Oppression,” and that parasitical echo and follower of yours, the Anti-Slavery Standard, copied it into its pro-slavery department. The criticism was not in good taste, most certainly, and one which would not have been written by one not a partizan. But is the person of William Lloyd Garrison so immaculate as to be the canonized embodiment of anti-slavery, and that a denunciation of him is therefore a defence of the system of slavery? 
But, notwithstanding all this, I like the Liberator very much, and don’t want to do without it.
JAMES DENSMORE.
Miller Farm, Oil Creek, Pennsylvania.
EAST WESTMORELAND, (N. H.) Jan. 7,1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—Enclosed, please find $4,00 for the Liberator for one year more, hoping there will be no necessity for the Liberator after the progress, success and victories of another year; then, I trust, its mission will have been well and faithfully fulfilled. Then may its worthy, and indefatigable, and venerated Editor, after so many years of unceasing warfare in vindication of human rights, be enabled to say with good old Simeon, “Now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.”
I wish to be kept on your list of subscribers until the Liberator and Slavery shall both cease to be. I owe too much to the old pioneer sheet to abandon it now, just as it is nearly ready to publish the victory won.
I do not share with those who seem some what alienated, because of the expression of your honest convictions in regard to the reelection of Abraham Lincoln. I am sorry to see that any should be thus influenced.
God bless the Editor of the Liberator!-as millions, yet in the future, will rise up to bless his memory.
Yours, to the end of the conflict,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
MOUNT GILBORE, (Ind.) Dec. 25, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—Enclosed find $5 for one year to the Liberator. The old ship, that my good father and I have sailed in for nearly thirty years, I never want to see sink—especially at this time, when the hour for which she has been striving has almost been arrived at.
I often think of my boyhood days, when you were incarcerated in a Baltimore jail, and all the rest of us Abolitionists, big and little, were hunted like game in the prairies, by all the politicians, deeming a hand in their extermination essential to their own success. My mind has been made to run back to those days, tonight, by reading in the Liberator the death of our friend Whitson. How well I remember him at the little gatherings, called the “Clarkson Anti-Slavery Society”! Little did any of us think, in that hour, of living to see such an hour as this. Little did I think, in the days lighted up by the glare flashing from Pennsylvania Hall, and made terrible by mobs against us, that I should live to see my boyish prophecy fulfilled, viz.: that slavery would die out, and be washed from the land in blood. But enough. I thank God every day that I am living in such an era as this; and I pray that you may live to see the end, which most assuredly draweth nigh.
I am, as ever, J. LAMBORN.
LYNN, 1st mo. 5th, 1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND-I never expected to see the day that I should ask for the discontinuance of my Liberator. But that day has arrived. I do not wish it on account of the fifty cents advance, but solely on account of my inability to pay the three hundred and fifty cents. I think the paper cheap at four dollars.
I ought to have written sooner, that my name might have been erased at the commencement of the year, but I could not bear the idea of parting with my old friend. But we must part, though, I am glad to say, we part as friends.
I have done what I could for the Anti-Slavery cause up to the present day. For fifteen years I paid,
<c03>
directly and indirectly, not less than one hundred dollars to the cause of the slave, to say nothing of the loss of business in consequence. I feel now as though I might reasonably be excused, though my interest in the cause knows no abatement. I am not one of those who think the work is done, and there is no further work for the Liberator. I think there is yet a great deal to do, and that the Liberator ought not to be suffered to die. Die? it never can die! I well remember taking up the first Liberator, which I found on the table of the Marlboro’ Hotel, ‘not much bigger than a man’s hand,’ but it has since expanded until it has covered the sea and the land, and caused the whole nation to quake. Let the glory be given to God! My subscription to the paper must have soon ceased by the common course of nature.  This is my seventy-ninth winter, and will probably be my last.
I have read with much pleasure the excellent letter of our esteemed friend McKim, published in the last Liberator. I like the suggestion of changing (at some future day) the name of the paper to that of the Elevator.
And believe me to be, now and ever, thy sincere friend and well-wisher,
JOHN BAILEY.

OUR ANDERSONVILLE PRISONERS.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: Having accompanied the fleet in the recent exchange of prisoners at Savannah, and having seen no account anywhere from an eye-witness, I desire to give your readers a statement of some facts. The exchange is still progressing, though but slowly. About 6,000 of the 10,000 have been received, and landed at Annapolis. The fleet, some 15 vessels, anchored at Port Royal, 25 miles from Point Venus in the Savannah River, where the exchange is being effected. The flagship New York, Col. Mulford’s, the Eliza Hancox, and the Geo. Leary, were employed as lighters to heavy steamers that could not run up the shallow Savannah; and this afforded an opportunity for those on board these vessels to look into and behold wondrous things out of Rebel prisons.
To describe the wretchedness and misery, me filth and starvation, is more than I can do. There is something about this suffering that cannot reach the mind through the medium of words. The indignation, mingled with a strange kind of pity, one feels is not easily described. The suffering of our prisoners surpasses anything, I am sure, ever witnessed in any land, either Christian or barbarian, unless it may be the Inquisition. At first we were disposed to blame our boys for their filth and blackness. It was difficult to tell whether we were receiving white men or negroes, from outward appearances. But when we heard their story, and the story of the” dead line,” how it cut them off from all resources, the matter was made plain. We believed their story, for it was one and essentially the same thing out of every mouth. On receiving our men, we attempted to make them comfortable and clean, and save as many as possible, although an alarming per cent must and will die. They are dying from causes that run back to that living hell upon earth, the Andersonville stockade. Here is an actual case; multiply it by 5,000. A walking skeleton! yes, I mean it, a skeleton! how it had life I cannot tell, but I am sure it was a skeleton, and nothing more; once I should think a large and healthy man, now diseased as much as skin and bones could be—filthy— naked as when it came into the world—speaks: Chaplain, I am in a bad condition.” So I thought, and in the name of God and the “U. S. Christian Commission” I gave him clothing.  I say multiply this case by 5,000, with this exception: it may be some of the poor boys have some part of an old garment upon them; if so, it is abundantly tenanted by other creatures than human. But multitudes are positively naked. Stripped of everything of value to the enemy, they were turned into a stockaded field, something as farmers turn sheep into a lot; and there they were left, without the least shelter, and nothing to lie upon but the earth itself, and with the poorest food imaginable; so poor that I dare not undertake to describe it here, as the soldiers speak of it, lest it should not be believed. The mind must be aided by the actual presence of those men, as they came into our hands, in order to believe one half they say. Our very swine fare better than they fared, for we give them some kind of litter and shelter, and enough to eat. Inside of this stockade at Andersonville, and within a few yards of it, runs a line of slender rail, called the “dead line.” Whoever, whether from accident, ignorance or any other cause, should so much as put his hand upon it, was instantly shot; and any guard who should manage to shoot a “damned Yankee,” could have a furlough of thirty days! I was told that one Rebel on picket managed to shoot seven of our soldiers. New prisoners coming in, ignorant of rules and half dead, were a common target. So that out of thirty-three thousand prisoners, from one cause and another, mostly from starvation, I was assured by every one who opened his mouth upon the subject, that over ten thousand, and some said thirteen thousand, died in a little over five months; and all this in a single prison, and that not Libby nor Belle Island, but simply Andersonville, Georgia!
Ask, if you will, why these men did not keep clean. They solemnly affirm that men were shot for no greater crime than going to the brook, running through their inclosure to wash. A Rebel, brought up a tyrant, and confessedly reckless of human life, would only want a very small pretext to shoot a “Yankee” if he was anxious for a furlough. There is still another feature to this prison. The most consummate meanness is practised in influencing our men to join the Rebel ranks. I cannot now speak of particulars, but lies concerning our Government were common—that it had given up the conflict, and consequently left them to care for themselves—threats, if they did not enlist, they should be shot—starvation, if they would join their army, they should be well-cared for and promoted; so that under one influence and another, it is confidently believed that from three to five thousand have enlisted from the prisoners. I state these things from the unanimous authority of the soldiers returning; I need not say that they are vehement in their exclamations, and touching in their artless statements.
A leaf from my diary: “One poor fellow now on our main deck, merely skin and bones, tells his story, and it is enough to make the hardest heart weep for joy that we have such brave, true, uncomplaining and glorious young men. Nearly at the point of starvation, he was plied daily to recant, and go over to the enemy, but day by day his answer was firm. “He had suffered for his country, and he could die for it.” Glorious spirit! Shall we not in some way do these brave souls justice? As I write, the air rings with patriotic songs; that new revival song, “The Union Forever,” “Rally round the Flag, boys.” And “Three Cheers for the Red, White and Blue,” and groans for the old “bull pen” of Andersonville. I never was known to shout, but I really feel like it to-night. God bless these noble boys! Pen cannot describe the scene here; the emaciated, the lame, the sick and wounded, and yet every man has the soul of a prince. They have been tested; and as Christ, when tempted of the devil, so have they come off more than conquerors. They are unpolluted as to their firmness and loyalty. However, a sadness comes over me when I think of the tens of thousands still left behind, literally to perish by inches in those Southern “hells.” Could these poor fellows be seen by every Northern man just as they come into our hands, I am sure there would be no further need of bounties, but an indignant and outraged people would rise as one man to forever extinguish that power by which such cruelties are perpetrated.
During the hot weather, as many as 170 have died in a day, in a single camp, and the poor fellows dying in their own filth, with none to lift them out of it, became alive with vermin, which actually ate away parts of the system, especially in cases of the diarrhea, while yet the poor fellow had life.
Here is a statement coming from Belle Island, in respect to food. They solemnly affirm that they were reduced to such a point of starvation that a dog or cat was a perfect luxury! The dog of a Rebel Captain came upon the Island with him, and was no sooner seen than he was drawn aside and slain, and some parts of him put immediately in process of cooking. The Captain missing his dog, ascertained the facts in regard to his disposal, found the man who committed the deed, and compelled him to live upon his raw flesh until he had devoured nearly one hind quarter. Nay, more, their starvation was such, that actually beans that had been but partially cooked, and hence undigested, although eaten, were picked from the vomit and excrement of the poor sick boys, and recooked and eaten! And at Andersonville
<c04>
they made soup of snakes and beans, a small black or brown bean, specimens of which I saw, and which had become shells for maggots in almost every case, and these were cooked and eaten. And then too, in regard to come of the dead, it is affirmed by multitudes that the hogs feed upon the dead bodies of our poor boys. I will not say this is designed, but it is nevertheless a solemn fact; a horrible inhuman neglect; a base and revolting feature of inhumanity. It is too shocking to give their statement of the history of bones out of which soup was made. I refrain. Reader, if these statements are revolting, as they are, oh! how terrible the reality to which noble men, brothers, fathers, and American citizens have been subjected! If it were necessary, thousands of names could be appended to these facts. There is no reason to disbelieve them, with these men right before us.
But to crown the whole with a meanness unheard of, our boys were told by Rebel guards that if on coming in sight of our flag, (the old flag of their pride, and for which they had suffered so long and so terribly,) any demonstrations were made by way of cheering, the persons so demeaning themselves should be at once singled out, and remanded back into the stockade. And further, if it should be repeated a second time, they would be fired upon indiscriminately. Expecting some demonstrations of joy, and not seeing any, we were led to inquire as to the cause both from the nature of the case, and also that when the Rebel prisoners left our boats, and even before, the whole region round about was made vocal with their songs and shouts of joy, and no one thought of preventing it But, thank God, these Rebels could not prevent tears of joy from streaming down those haggard but now cheerful faces as they landed once more on friendly ground. God bless those boys! and may their hatred to the Rebellion grow with their returning energies, until the enemy shall feel as he has never yet felt the power of an outraged people. From all I have seen and heard, I am convinced that it is the practice, if not the deliberate purpose of the Rebels, to put to death just as many of our men, their prisoners, as lies in their power, and not murder them outright. It is really and before God murder, but military license covers a multitude of iniquities in this world. This whole matter invites attention and close investigation. I have only referred to a few points, perhaps among the most striking, without attempting a minute account of anything. These soldiers will tell their own story when they get home. It is but justice here to say that the people of Savannah treated our soldiers kindly. The good ladies and friends there will ever be remembered by them with feelings of sincere gratitude. D. H. BLAKE.

REBEL PRISON LIFE.
Mr. Robert Galloway, formerly of St. Louis, was among the returned Union prisoners who lately arrived at Annapolis. He yesterday called upon us, having a few hours previously reached this city, and the statement he makes fully confirms the almost incredible accounts heretofore published, of the sufferings of Union captives in rebel hands. He is a young gentleman of intelligence and frankness, whose narrative bears every evidence of an honest intent to state only the facts which he knows.
Mr. Galloway was clerk for Frederick Avery, sutler of the Ninth Iowa, and with two others was captured at Iuka, November 1, 1863, en route to their regiment. After being robbed, they were taken to Tuscumbia, Alabama, thence on foot to Decatur, making from twenty to twenty-five miles per day, the guards mounted. There they found twenty-nine fellow-captives, and with them were marched to Gadsen, Alabama, two hundred and twenty-seven miles, on foot, half starved and in peril of being shot. They sometimes travelled all day without food, at night retired without food, and at dawn renewed the march without anything, except water, to appease hunger and sustain nature. One night they contrived to buy beef, but were not allowed to cook it, and could only get it cooked by paying a negro thirty-one dollars in greenbacks, or one dollar apiece, for his services. From Gadsen they were transferred via Rome, Atlanta, Augusta and Wilmington to Belle Isle prison at Richmond. At Atlanta they were stripped of every remaining article, except hats, pants and shirt. From Wilmington to Richmond, the passage was made in flat open cars, in bitterly cold weather, and they arrived at Belle Isle with frozen feet.
AT BELLE ISLE.
Here were 10,300 prisoners. The rations were eight ounces of corn bread and four ounces of boiled beef per day. For the last two months of Mr. Galloway’s stay, no meat was furnished, but a pint of a mixture of boiled rice and river water was served instead.
March 6th,’64. Having been there since the previous December, Galloway and five hundred and ninety-nine others were transferred to Pemberton Castle, opposite the Libby, where they were kept three days, and then sent on the cars to the
STOCKADE AT ANDERSONVILLE.
In a snowy night they were driven, like hogs and sheep, into the pen or fenced enclosure which was to become the scene of untold suffering. As often described, it was a shelterless field, with a swamp in the middle, furnished with no protection, or other means of shelter than the branches of the trees afforded. With case-knives the prisoners climbed the trees, and cut off boughs. These they leaned against each other, and covered with mud, and thus formed their sole refuge against a pitiless winter. Severely cold weather continued for above a month. There then were 3,500 prisoners there, in indescribable destitution, squalor, sick, and dying, at the rate of sixty per day. The only hospital for the sick was made by a few pine boards leaned against the fence, and some pine tops or “pine straw’’ strewn upon the ground for a common bed. No medical attendance was given, but doses of oak bark were served to the sick—this being the sole medicine administered. About all who went to the hospital died. The dead were placed on a wagon, twenty or thirty corpses together, and hauled half a mile from the stockade. A trench that held about one hundred bodies was dug, and they were thrown into it, side by side, and sometimes were piled upon each other “cob-house style.” The bodies would await burial two or three days and would be seen in such plight that the lice could be scraped from the corpses with a chip! All the prisoners from Belle Isle were removed to Andersonville, arriving in parties of from six hundred to eight hundred, and with each accession the rations were reduced. With the opening of Grant’s spring campaign, still other captives were crowded in, and the rations were diminished. In June they consisted of a pint and a quarter of mush, two ounces of bacon or half a pint of half-cooked beans with the husks on, and so dirty that the mess was little better than an emetic. From each bucket of the rice soup furnished, a quart of bugs could be skimmed.  The mush was hauled into the stockade in wagon-beds, like mortar, and shoveled into buckets, three or four of which were given to each one hundred men. Salt was unknown. Vegetables could not be had. The sole green things obtainable. were maple trees and blackberry leaves which were sought with avidity.
The prisoners soon amounted to some thirty thousand, and were densely packed.
 The accumulation of fifth and noisomeness was horrible. Scurvy was universal, and no anti-scorbutic was provided. Rarely sumac berries could be obtained. Thousands became paralyzed, and crouched helpless on the ground, with contracted limbs, watching and waiting for death. A general and frightful disease, inflicted by a process called vaccination, from which the best cases only recovered in three or four months, while many died. The vaccine poisoned the arm so that, in frequent instances, it literally rotted off; and the cancer attacked the body also, mercifully causing death. The vaccination was performed by inserting in the muscle of the arm a saturated thread, which was then cut off, and left in. A fearful part of the story of horrors must be told under the heading of
“STIFFS.”
A “stiff” was a corpse. In July the deaths numbered from one hundred and fifty to two hundred in a single night only. The person first finding a dead body made a proprietary claim to it as his “stiff.” The privilege of taking the body out of the stockade for burial belonged to him, and furnished an opportunity to make little purchases with the guards—possibly with other outsiders through them.
This opportunity was most greedily snatched at by any one having the means to buy, either to meet his own wants or to sell at a greatly advanced price to others. The “stiff” thus became merchantable, and were eagerly appropriated or bargained of, generally sold by the finder to the highest
<c05>
bidder. Some eight or ten of the prisoners are reported to have made from ten to fifteen hundred dollars, greenbacks, in this sort of traffic. A coveted article of purchase from the guards was fire-wood, a few sticks selling for a one dollar greenback. (In the cold season, a stick of fire-wood was issued to twenty men to last them one week. The corn bread was frozen, and this the only means of thawing it.) Sweet potatoes, “nigger-beans,” and tobacco were also bought of the guards.
THE DEATH LINE.
Thirty feet within the fence, parallel to it, a line was drawn on the ground, with a bayonet or old plow-point, and the guards were instructed to shoot any prisoner crossing the line. In the crowded state of the grounds, the line was a severe restriction, and casually would be overpassed. The guard wounding one in such case was rewarded by thirty days’ furlough, and the guard killing one received sixty days’ furlough!—Missouri Democrat

HISTORICAL RECORD.
The following is a list of the Presidents and Vice Presidents of the United States, as well as those who were candidates for each office, since the organization of the Government. But few men of the present day can even name the Presidents in order. Let the men and the children learn it.
1789—George Washington and John Adams, two terms, no opposition.
1797—John Adams, opposed by Thomas Jefferson, who, having the next highest electoral vote, became Vice President.
1801—Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr; beating John Adams and Charles C. Pinckney.
1805—Thomas Jefferson and George Clinton; beating Charles C. Pinckney and Rufus King.
1809—James Madison and George Clinton; beating Charles C. Pinckney.
1813—James Madison and Elbridge Gerry; beating De Witt Clinton.
1817—James Monroe and Daniel D. Tompkins; beating Rufus King.
1821—James Monroe and Daniel D. Tompkins; beating John Quincy Adams.
1825—John Quincy Adams and John C. Calhoun; beating Andrew Jackson, Henry Clay and W. H. Crawford—there being four candidates for President, and Albert Gallatin for Vice President.
1829—Andrew Jackson and John C. Calhoun; beating John Quincy Adams and Richard Rush.
1833—Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren; beating Henry Clay, John Floyd and William Wirt for President; and William Wilkins, John Sergeant and Henry Lee for Vice President,
1837—Martin Van Buren and Richard M. Johnson; beating William H. Harrison, Hugh L. White and Daniel Webster for President, and John Tyler for Vice President.
1841—William H. Harrison and John Tyler; beating Martin Van Buren and Littleton W. Tazewell. Harrison died one month after his inauguration, and John Tyler became President for the rest of the term.
1845—James. K. Polk and George M. Dallas; beating Henry Clay and Theodore Frelinghuysen.
1849—Zachary Taylor and Millard Fillmore; beating Lewis Cass and Martin Van Buren for President, and William O. Butler and Charles F. Adams for Vice President. Taylor died July 9, 1850, and Fillmore became President.
1853—Franklin Pierce and William R. King; beating Winfield Scott and W. A. Graham.
1857—James Buchanan and John C. Breckinridge; beating John C. Fremont and Millard Fill-more for President, and William L. Dayton and A. J. Donalson for Vice President.
1861—Abraham Lincoln and Hannibal Hamlin; beating John Bell, Stephen A. Douglas and John C. Breckinridge for President, and Edward Everett, Herschell V. Johnson and Joseph Lane for Vice President.

MOVING THE ARMS.
Dr. Dio Lewis treats of physical health in a way easily understood by any intelligent boy or girl, and illustrates his counsel about correct postures by cuts which teach the eye. He declares war against muffs, and gives young girls the following hints, which parents will approve:
The first time you are walking with your arms at liberty, stop moving them, and hold them by your sides. You will be surprised to find how soon your companion will leave you behind, although you may hurry, twist, wriggle, and try very hard to keep up. One reason for the slow walk among girls is to be found in this practice of carrying the arms motionless. Three miles an hour with the arms still, is as bard work as four miles with the arms free.
I have seen the queens of the stage walk. I have seen a few girls and women of queenly bearing walk in the street and drawing-room. They moved their arms in a free and graceful manner. Could this habit become universal among girls, their chests would enlarge, and their bearing be greatly improved. See that girl walking with both hands in her muff! How she wiggles, and twists her shoulders and hips! This is because her arms are pinioned. Give them free swing, and her gait would soon become more graceful.
You have seen pictures of our muscles. Those of the upper part of the body, you remember, spread out from the shoulder, in all directions, like a fan. Now if you hold the shoulder still, the muscles of the chest will shrink, the shoulders stoop, and the whole chest become thin and ugly.
But some girls will say,” Swinging the arms must be very slight exercise.” True, it is very slight I. you swing the arms but once or ten times, but if you swing them ten thousand times in a day, you will obtain more exercise of the muscles of the chest than by all other ordinary movements combined. Indeed, if I were asked what exercise I thought most effective for developing the chests of American girls, I should reply at once, swinging the arms while walking.

NEGRO IMPRESSMENTS—REBEL CONGRESS.
The special order for one o’clock being the bill for the employment of free negroes and slaves to work upon fortifications, and perform other labor connected with the defences of the country, was taken up.
[The 1st section of the bill holds all free male negroes between the ages of 18 and 50 years liable to perform any labor in connection with the military defences of the country, and provides that they shall receive rations and clothing, and eighteen dollars per month.]
Sec. 2. Authorizes the Secretary of War, and the general commanding the trans Mississippi department, to employ 80,000 male slaves between 18 and 45, on the east side of the Mississippi, and 10,000 in the States west of the Mississippi; and provides for furnishing the slaves with rations and clothing, and remuneration to the owner for their services; and for their loss by death by act of the enemy, or escape to the enemy.
Sec. 3. Provides for the impressment of slaves where the Secretary of War and general commanding trans-Mississippi department fail to procure their services by hiring them.
The 4th section provides that not more than one in every five slaves within the ages of 18 and 45 shall be taken from any one owner, if said slaves are uniformly employed in agriculture or mechanical pursuits, nor where an owner has but one male slave between 18 and 45, and that the impressment shall be in equal ratio from all owners in the same locality, city, country, or district.
The 5th section provides the manner in which rolls of the slaves shall be prepared and the returns made.
Mr. Hunter offered the following amendment to the fourth section of the bill, which was adopted:
“But when the slaves in any locality, or of any person or persons, have been or shall be exempted by the laws or regulations of any State from impressment to labor on the fortifications or other public works of the Confederate States, then the said slaves shall not be impressed for any purpose whatever by the authorities of the Confederate States. Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to exempt any State from furnishing its fair quota of slaves, for the purpose herein specified, and according to the proposition of this act.”
The following amendment, offered to the fourth section of the bill by Mr. Sparrow, was adopted:
“Provided, further, That in each case care be taken to allow each owner a credit for all male slaves, between the ages aforesaid, heretofore impressed or impressed under this act, or hired to the Government, and who are still in service, or who may have died or been lost while in the service.”
The following amendment to the fourth section, offered by Mr. Graham, was adopted:
Provided, further. That all slaves impressed, as heretofore provided, shall be held to labor and service as aforesaid for a time not more than twelve months at any one time, with the consent of the owners.
The bill, as amended, was then passed.
<c06>
THE DEAD OF THE YEAR.
The year just closed has witnessed the death of many persons distinguished in the walks of art, science, letters, and all the learned professions. Thackeray, Hawthorne, Morris, Landor, Schooleraft, Mrs. Kirkland and Catherine Sinclair are lost to literature; Silliman, Hitchcock and Struve to science; Hunt, Roberts and Husson to art; Meyerbeer to music; Robson and Wallack to the stage; Archbishop Hughes, Thomas Starr King, Potts and the Winslows to the church; Sedgwick, Wadsworth, Rice, McPherson, Birney, Ramson and Totten to the army; Storer, McCluney, W.D. Porter and Craven to the navy; Giddings, Lovejoy, Quincy, Hulsemann, O’.Brien, Tallmadge and Dayton to statesmanship or diplomacy; “Mudsill” Hammond, Clay, Marshall, T. Butler King, Gist, Stuart, Polk and Morgan to the rebels; the kings of the Sandwich Islands, Bavaria and Wurtemberg to the throne; Newcastle and Carlisle to the English nobility, and Malakoff to the French; Speke and Gerard to the ranks of intrepid explorers and travellers; Hornblower and Taney to the bench; and William Curtis Noyes to the bar. Peere Enfantin, the head of the St. Simonians, is also numbered with the dead; and the names of Ticknor, Vettemare, Senior, McCulloch, Ampere, Grattan, Sealsfield and Leech swell the list.
Archbishop Hughes died in New York on the 3d of January, at the age of sixty-five years; and close upon this announcement came the tidings of the death of Thackeray on the previous Christmas Eve. Mrs. Kirkland died in New York in April; Hawthorne at Plymouth, N.H., in May; George P. Morris in July; Miss Sinclair in August; Walter Savage Landor in September; McCulloch, the statistician, in November; and Schoolcraft and Mrs. E. W. Farnham in December.
During the battles of the Wilderness, in Grant’s march towards Richmond, the gallant Sedgwick, Wadsworth, Rice and Stevenson fell; McPherson was killed in battle at Atlanta in July; Birney died of disease in Philadelphia in October; and Ransom at Rome, Ga., eleven days later. The rebel Bishop- General, Leonidas Polk, was killed in battle in June; J. E. B. Stuart was killed in the Willderness fight in Virginia in May; and John Morgan was shot in Tennessee in September.
The following is a classified summary of the necrological record of the year:-

AUTHORS.
W. M. Thackeray, Thomas Colley Grattan,
Nathaniel Hawthorne, Alarie A. Watts,
Walter Savage Landor, Charles Sealsfield,
George P. Morris, John R. McCulloch,
Park Benjamin, Ampere,
Henry R. Schoolcraft, Catherine Sinclair,
Mrs. E. W. Franham.
CLERGY.
Archbishop Hughes, Hubbard Winslow,
Thomas Starr King, Miron Winslow,
Daniel Waldo, Peter Bullions,
George Potts.
SOLDIERS.
General Wadsworth, General Stuart,
General Sedgwick, General Polk,
General Rice, General Morgan,
General McPherson, General Jenkins,
General Stevenson, General Jones,
General Birney, General Gist,
General Totten, General Cleburne,
General Ransom—union.General Ramseur—Rebel.
SAILORS.
Admiral Storer, Commodore McCluney,
Commodore W. D. Porter, Captain Craven.
STATESMEN AND DIPLOMATISTS.
Joshua R. Giddings, Caleb B. Smith,
Owen Lovejoy, Smith O’Brien,
Chevalier Hulsemann, Josiah Quincy,
Wm. S. Thayer, Andrew H. Reeder,
Wm. L. Dayton, N. P. Tallmadge,
Governor Fairbanks, Governor Gamble,
George M. Dallas.
ARTSTS, MUSICIANS AND ACTORS.
David Roberts, William Hunt,
Giacomo Meyerbeer, Aristides Husson, 
Frederick George Robson, John Leech,
James W. Wallack, Samuel Cowell.
SCIENCE.
Struve—astronomer, Edward Hitchcock,
Benjamin Silliman, Eben Meriam,
Dr. Franklin Bache.
KINGS AND NOBLES.
King Kamehameha, Duke of Newcastle,
King of Bavaria, Duke of Malakoff,
King of Wurtemberg, Earl of Carlisle.
TRAVELLERS.
John Speke, Jules Gerard.
JURISTS.
Chief Justice Taney, James M. Porter,
Judge Hornblower, William Curtis Noyes.
LEADING REBELS (CIVILIANS).
James H. Hammond, James B. Clay,
Thomas Butler King, W. R. W. Cobb,
Thomas F. Marshall.
NEW YORK MERCHANTS AND OTHERS.
Peter A. Hargous, John Chancy,
Nathaniel Marsh, Alexander Vattemare,
Issac L. Varian, Pere Enfantin,
John Hopper,William D. Ticknor,
John C. Rives.
This list contains the names of nearly one hundred persons who have finished their labors since the year began. It will be seen that the ravages of war have swept away many of the leaders of the loyal and the rebel forces, while the ranks of literature and art have also suffered the severest losses.-N. Y. Evening Post.

CONFEDERATE ROWDYISM.
Yesterday, the eyes of the people going to church were met in every direction by large posters, around which now and then groups of readers were gathered. They read as follows:—
“BRITONS!
TO THE RESCUE!
Several Yankees, some Annexationists, and others silly dupes, intend to hold a PUBLIC MEETING for the purpose of denouncing a BRITISH JUDGE! for the conscientious performance of his duty, as also to express sympathy with ABE ABE LINCOLN and his DESPOTIC GOVERNMENT!
Will you permit this in free Canada!!
IF NOT,
ATTEND AND VOTE THEM DOWN!”
The above needs no comment; its meaning is plain and significant. The right of free speech is to be invaded. A meeting adverse to the interest of the slave Confederacy and of their Canadian tools will not be allowed to proceed. A mob is invited to come and interfere. The attempt is thereby made to intimidate peaceful citizens, and prevent their attendance!
This appeal to mob, riot and violence must settle definitely with all law abiding citizens their opinion of Southern sympathizers in Canada. The cause can be judged at one glance by the means to which it resorts. If it ever had any respectability, it has now degenerated to that of rowdyism. —Montreal Witness, 19th ult.
MARYLAND FREE. Rev. Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, N. Y. writes to a venerable emancipationist in Baltimore as follows:—
SYRACUSE, Dec. 7, 1864.
I congratulate you that you have lived to see the emancipation of your State from the thraldom of slaveholders, and have been enabled, at your advanced age, to contribute so much as you have done to the glorious result. Indeed, I feel not a little proud of my acquaintance with a man, who, though more than eighty-two years old, has had the will and the strength to take so active a part in the contest for liberty, not withstanding the opposition of old associates, and near and dear relations. Be assured, my dear friend, however your children and grand children may feel, they will hereafter, a few years hence, love and revere you all the more for the noble stand you have taken in this day of our national sore trial. When this impious rebellion shall have been quashed, slavery, the sole cause of it, utterly exterminated from the land, and the haughty aristocracy which it has nurtured banished from our borders; when our glorious Union shall have been reestablished on the grand foundation which its framers intended to lay, and the rights of all men, of whatever complexion, shall be held sacred, in all our State as well as Federal Governments, then will the posterity of the present generation of American citizens rejoice in the possession of a country more blessed than any the sun has ever yet shone upon, and will hallow the memories of the patriots of this day, who by their sacrifices and suffering will have secured to them a goodly heritage.
Miss Harriet Martineau writes complimentary to Senator Wilson concerning his volume or Congressional anti-slavery action, and takes the occasion to add:
As far as I can see, the greatest blow yet sustained by the thorough -going Confederate sympathizers in this country is the serious proposal among the Confederate authorities to make soldiers of the slaves. Our secesh partizans evidently don’t know what to make of it. We of the Northern side are trying to teach them; but probably the negroes, themselves will be the first to make all clear to their heaven-born guardians and guardians’ friends. I do hope that soldiering will be attempted. If not, the mere proposal is a great gain.
