THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1,00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXIX. NO. 27. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 8 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1599.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE FREE NEGRO QUESTION IN MARYLAND.
The following extracts are from a Letter of Col. C. W. JACOBS, dated ST. MARTINS, (Maryland,) Jan, 10th, 1859, and addressed to THOMAS J. KEATING, Esq., Editor of the State Rights Advocate. Of all unblushing villany, in language and sentiment, it caps the climax.]
Slavery and Free Negroism Incompatible.-The Doctrine of Equality Exposed and Refuted.-Origin of Abolitionism in this Country, and its Aims.-Vast Disasters Attending Free Negroism every where.-Maryland must Enslave or Expel her Free Negroes, or consent to be ruined by them.-White Slavery at the North; and the General Designs of Abolitionists to Abolish Negro Slavery, and substitute White Slavery in its stead, as is now the case in Monarchical Europe:-Able Letter of Col. C. W. JACOBS on this all-absorbing Question.
No one of the Southern States of this Union has so fully imbibed the false doctrines of English writers on the subject of Slavery and Emancipation, as has our own State; and no State in the Union has the same cause for alarm at the tendency of Free Negroism in our midst, or greater motives to retrace her false steps, and retrieve the position she held at an earlier period in her history.
The notions of universal and unbridled liberty growing out of the French Revolution under Napoleon I, ruined the island of Hayti by the abolition of slavery there; and Great Britain, at a later period, under the teachings of Wilberforce and Clarkson and Brougham and Mackintosh, and others of less distinction, has effectually ruined all her tropical Colonial dependencies by pursuing the suicidal policy of Negro Emancipation. Nor have the blighting effects of Free Negroism been confined to French and English possessions alone on this continent; but wherever the inhuman practice of liberating negro slaves has obtained, there we witness the most glaring commentaries upon the errors and destructive influence of this false philosophy and worse practice, not only upon the moral and social condition of the liberated slave himself, but upon the material wealth of the country and the well-being of the white population. There is not a single exception within the range of my knowledge where those lamentable signs of retrogression in civilization, material wealth and moral culture have not followed the abolition of negro slavery. The Free States of this Union are not exceptions to this conclusion; for instead of immediate emancipation, they warned the Slaveholder in time to find homes for his slaves on the cotton and rice plantations of the South, where most of them now are.
The unstable and revolutionary condition of Mexico and Central America, Grenada and Venezuela, results chiefly from the false step in setting their slaves free. At the beginning of the present century, Mexico under the Spanish rule held at least 1,000,000 of negro slaves; and Grenada and Venezuela were extensive slaveholding colonies. But they all struck for liberty, and, like France, foolishly conferred it upon slaves-a class never recognized by the fair Goddess. What has followed? War upon war, revolution, instability, insecurity, anarchy and ruin now lash and torment those once prosperous, but now miserable and impoverished countries. They have not elevated the condition of the liberated slave; but have vastly lowered themselves in the scale of civilization as a people. The hybrid races of those countries form so many clans of inimical elements that forbid the supremacy of law and order, till the discipline of slavery shall again be enforced upon them.
The philosophy of Abolitionists is that all men, whether white or negro, are essentially free by virtue of their being, and as coming from a God of impartial justice and equality; hence slavery is wrong-one equal cannot control another equal-one class of the human family has no right to make and hold slaves of another class. So far as I know their creed, I have correctly stated it, in order to expose its false and ruinous principles.
Neither in Heaven, Earth or Hell can I find this principle of equality, upon which they prate so much, either recognized or practised by God himself; but on the contrary, inequality, diversity and variety exist wherever the impress of Deity is found. In this, His wisdom and glory are the more apparent, and our essential good the better attested. If God had adopted the principle of equality, or if that principle were now enforced as a divine or practical rule of life, the whole human family, masters and slaves, Christians and heathens, would cease to exist in less than thirty days; for equals could not subsist upon equals without violating the divine rule. It will not do to abridge this theory, and apply it only to the human race, and not to inferior creatures also; for that would destroy the theory itself, and show conclusively that equality entered not into the economy of God's creation.
I know that Abolitionists invoke this principle of equality for a certain limited and defined object-that of equality between the negro and the white races-and would there stay its operations; yet, for this partial purpose, they necessarily claim and apply the principle as constituting a primary and cardinal intention of God in his creation.
How absurd such doctrines! How impious to <illegible> with God himself! No wonder the curses and judgments of God have always fallen upon a nation and people who wantonly violate and triflingly sport with his established order of things. No wonder that portion of our country (the New England States-where these heresies are taught and believed by thousands-has been 'given over to believe a lie;’ having become infidels in faith and practice, and infatuated with their own delusions, they frantically cry after every ism and destructive vice-saying 'lo here! and lo there!' as they catch at every floating fantasy of their own distempered minds. No field of missionary labor upon the habitable globe calls louder for the man of God, than do the New England States. And yet they do not see it themselves; they are so busy in attending to the affairs of the world at large, and the South and slavery in particular; so wrapped up in their own self-righteousness-claiming all the religion and all the knowledge extent-that they sing Psalms by preambles and immortal resolutions, and go to Heaven upon acts of incorporation. There is enough of isms, enough of pharisaical righteousness, and enough of downright infidelity in those six New England States to call up old Jonah from his grave again; for his Nineveh sermon could not be preached to a more imperiled audience. True, there are some who have not bowed the knee to Baul, but their number, like the select few of Sodom. I fear will not be able to stay the edict-‘Let them alone; they are joined to their idols.'
The State of Maryland, and the people of Maryland have the right to enslave every free negro amongst us, absolutely and without condition; we have the right to banish every right to clothe them with the elective franchise, and declare them our peers; in short, we have the entire control over that class of our population; and the Northern States
<c02>
and no other State within the Union or out of it has the right to meddle with the matter in any way whatever. 
If the mute tongue of creation stamps the lie flatly, upon this Abolition creed, what may we expect from the revealed word of God? 
I have read the entire Bible through three times, and studied it carefully with reference to this abolition question My sole aim was to learn the truth, and see what was required of me. I determined that no matter where my material interests might be, I would follow the Bible, lead me where it might. The result of my thorough investigation upon the subject is, that I have found the institution of slavery all through the Bible from Genesis to Revelations. I find the word slave in numerous pages; and bound servant and homeborn slave frequently used. Nor have I found one single passage in the Bible that condemns slavery at all; but on the contrary, I find rules and regulations laid down for both masters and slaves throughout. Abraham must have owned 1,500 slaves at the time he rescued Lot. Our Saviour found slavery all around him while on earth, and yet he never condemned it. The apostles had constant intercourse with slavery, were raised with it, and familiar with it in all its phases; and yet they never condemned it, but always spoke of it as one of the cardinal relations of life; and Paul, speaking prophetically of modern Abolitionists, positively denounces them in his epistle to Timothy, and tells us to withdraw ourselves from them, because they are 'destitute of truth, and dote about strife, envy and perverse disputings' Tim. chap. 6.
It is useless for me to recite in detail those passages of the Bible on the subject of slavery; they are conclusive to my mind, and all the Abolitionists on earth and devils in hell may rant and fume on this subject of abolition to their hearts' content-I shall be satisfied with the word of God and conscience both on my side. I wish all persons would do as I have done-read the Bible, and study it on this subject. It is the last book where the reader will ever find any thing like Abolitionism. But as long as people pin their faith to the sleeve of ignorant and designing Abolitionists, so long may we expect them to be led into error. What has abolition ever done for the negro in this country? What can it do for him? It can only load him with infamy, and send him to his grave prematurely. What has abolition done for the civil government, but threaten its destruction, and learn our people to hate each other with perfect hatred? What has it done for the promotion of good morals and vital piety in the land? It has rent asunder the M. E. Church-M. P. Church -New School Presbyterian Church, and the Baptist Church! Have those Churches been benefitted by the schism? Has one soul more been saved? It is to be feared that thousands of our northern people and preachers have tumbled into hell with both hands hold of the horns of this abolition god-crying, ‘O Baal! O Baal! hear us!'
But why should I extend my remarks on the Bible evidence in favor of slavery? The informed Abo­litionists are familiar with all I have said or might say on this subject. They know there is nothing in the Bible that favors Abolitionism, and they dare not bring their creed to the test of Holy Writ. Hence, at a meeting held in Boston, where Hon. Anson Burlingame and Hon. Henry Wilson both spoke, they prayed for an 'anti-slavery Constitution, an anti-slavery Bible, and an anti-slavery God!' thus acknowledging their creed condemned by those three authorities. That is pretty good authority against abolition, coming from two members of Con­gress from the great State of Massachusetts, and both leaders of the abolition party. 
Now if the unerring finger of God points to nothing in creation that favors Abolitionism; if his re­vealed word condemns abolition emphatically and unequivocally; if there is nothing in heaven above or earth beneath to favor this rotten, damnable heresy, that has been hatched in this nineteenth century, and never before known since the world had a being -whence comes it? Ah! ‘the fool has said in his heart, There is no God.' What angels and demons shudder at, infidelity embraces as a truth; the more monstrous and revolting the creed, the warmer infidelity embraces it. That is the source from whence abolition comes. Where do we find infidelity and atheism most prevalent in our country? In the north, in those six New England States. That accounts for the majority of the great whore of Abolition. 

From the Columbia Guardian. 
LETTER FROM HON. W. W. BOYCE.
SABINE FARM, May 11, 1859. 
An intelligent correspondent,' Harper,' in a recent number of your paper, seems anxious to know my opinion on certain points that he alludes to.
I utterly repudiate Judge Douglass's idea that a Territorial Legislature may discriminate against slavery, and nothing could induce me to support for the Presidency any one standing on this platform. 
I consider it as clear as a mathematical problem, that the South have a right to be protected with their slave property in the Territories, and that Congress, or their instruments, the Territorial Legislatures, should afford this protection. As a ques­tion of practical action, I would not at this time have originated this issue, but having been raised, as a Southern Representative I shall demand the fullest measure of our rights.
In reference to the African slave trade, I cordially agree with ‘Harper,' that while the Union lasts 'it will prove a fire-brand to distract and divide our people, and divert us from the greater and more im­portant issue' of safety and independence.
When I have gathered my fodder, I design to visit my constituents in their several Districts, and hope then to be able to give them at length my views upon the political complexion of the times. 
I may be permitted, however, to say now, that never has the future looked more gloomy to me. We are threatened with the greatest possible calam­ity-the domination of an imperious North, and the paralysis of a disunited South. We shall need all wisdom and moderation to avert the disasters that threaten us; and yet how marked is the absence of these great qualities on the part of many who aspire to direct public opinion at the South! 
It is but too probable that a hostile sectional party North will soon acquire possession of the Govern­ment. In that event, the South should not remain a moment longer in the Union. Yet who does not feel that the success of that movement for independence depends upon the opinion of the people of the South as to how far the success of the sectionalized North was owing to the impolicy of the South. But how little deference do many of the best friends of Southern independence pay to this truth! 
In conclusion-I fear the North sectionalized will soon take possession of the Government. Then I go for Southern independence at all hazards, by a single State leading off, if necessary. To make this movement successful, the South should be made as much as possible one in sentiment, the North should be divided as much as possible; to accomplish this, in my opinion, the three great requisites of Southern Statesmenship are-moderation, moderation, moderation. Very respectfully,
WM. W. Boyce.
MR C. P. PELHAM.
<c03>
From the London Morning Star.
LOLA MONTEZ ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
A numerous and respectable audience assembled on Friday evening last, in the great concert room, St. James's Hall, to hear from Madame Lola Montez a development of her views upon American slavery, and the peculiarities of the negroes upon the planta­tions in the Southern States, as witnessed by herself. She commenced her discourse by a reference to the inveterate habit of the Americans of boasting of their own country. They were wont, she said, to describe it as bounded on the north by the North Star, on the east by the rising sun, on the west by the setting orb of day, and on the south by all creation. Some not very novel jokes were related in illustration of the ability displayed by brother Jonathan, when en­gaged in the game of ' brag.' Let no Englishman hope to compete with a genuine Yankee in the art of glorifying his own country; if he did, ho would be sure to get the worst of it. Madame Montez then referred to numerous statistics, descriptive of the extent, variety, and riches of the soil, and its capac­ity for producing to an unlimited extent every article of tropical and inter-tropical growth, whether in the shape of wines, fruits, grains, or the raw materials required for manufacturing purposes. 
The United States of America were competent to sustain a population of more than the present entire number of the inhabitants of the globe, and be then no more densely peopled than Great Britain. The lecturer then proceeded to discuss the question of a dissolution of the Union, and contended that the entire nation would rather 'give up the ghost' than suffer itself to be disintegrated. The tendency of the political elements in America was not towards disunion and a congeries of separate republics; but towards a form of government resembling a limited monarchy. Noisy, babbling, brawling politicians might in petty towns advocate, for local purposes, a separation of one section of the country from the other; but at a presidential election the nation had but one heart, which in its every pulse beat with invincible and undying loyalty to the Union. The fire-eaters of the South, and the abstract philanthropists of the North, might declaim against the present federation; but there was one thing which would equally prevent both the North and the South from destroying the Union, and that was-interest. If, however, the States were to be sundered, it would be the North that would suffer most; the South would become a manufacturing community, would build cotton mills upon the banks of their own rivers, would make their own shoes, and weave their own fabrics, while the Northern States would rapidly de cay, and ultimately be reduced to ruin. The next branch of the subject was the character of the anti-slavery movement in the United States. Its leaders were described as crazy, infidel, and hypocritical. They were interested men who did not seek the abolition of slavery more than that of the Government, the Church and Christianity itself. She had heard, she said, Mr. Garrison, the father of the movement, declare on an anti-slavery platform in New York, in 1853, that he would sooner Christianity should perish from the earth than that one slave should remain an hour in bondage. She had heard Wendell Phillips pronounce the Union a curse, and add that he could not thank God for having given to America freedom and Washington. The lecturer claimed acquaintanceship with both these gentlemen, especially with the latter, whom she styled a brilliant orator. The audience were assured that the anti-slavery cause in the United States was dying out, and that the once magnificent gatherings in New York during anniversary week had dwindled down to three or four score poor miserable beings with sour, crotchety faces, in some dark room. This was the state of things as she had herself beheld it during the spring of the last year. The abolition lecturers were most of them ' unsuccessful preachers,' and gained no admission into respectable or wealthy families, but put up at the houses of benevolent and simple-minded Quakers, or ‘the better class of niggers. 'The philanthropists of England should know that the sympathy and money they have given to this cause had only riveted more firmly the bars of the slave's prison-house, and had indefinitely postponed the day of his manumission. The condition of the slaves, as described by the lecturer, reminded us strongly of the lively pictures drawn by the advocates of our colonial slave system a generation ago. The lecturer had lived amongst them; she had talked with them; she had seen them lolling and basking at the door of the planter's house, talking as if they were members of the family. They were fat, lazy, and contented. They pitied the condition of the white laborers of this country, whom they were taught to believe lived in hovels, holes, and dungeons. If the slave States should become a separate and independent republic, not even the fragment of an army would be needed for the purpose of overawing the slave population. A civil police would be the only force required to maintain law and order, for the negroes were as contented, peaceable, and well-conditioned as any laboring class in the world. The lecturer said she declined to discuss the question of the abstract lawfulness of slavery, and its agreement with the principles of humanity, justice and religion, and warned the British public against intermeddling in the domestic affairs of their brethren across the Atlantic. With regard to the ultimate issue of the great question, there could be no doubt slavery was an abomination that cried to heaven. There were thousands in the slave States who were kindly and well-disposed; but they were silent through terror of Lynch law-a law, in comparison with which that of Draco was merciful. The people of England should leave the question alone, and the Americans would do the work in their own way, and finally the stars and stripes would flutter in the breeze over a free, glorious, and happy republic, and stand like the flag of England (which might God long defend) the proud emblem of universal liberty. (Cheers.)
At the close of the meeting, handbills were distrib­uted, announcing that on Wednesday evening (the 15th inst.,) Miss Sarah P. Remond, a lady of color, and a member of the American Anti-Slavery Society, would lecture in the Music Hall, Store-street, at 8 o'clock, and reply to the statement of Lola Montez respecting the abolitionists of the United States.
‘A WORD TO THE WISE.’
[Communicated for the Christian Watchman and Reflector.]
Hon. Samuel Houston, in a late Congressional speech, calls upon the men of the North and the South to abstain from ‘all bitterness of spirit, not criminating and re-criminating, but reflecting.' There is need of such counsel. In excess of zeal for and against the 'peculiar institution,' the severest language has become the common dialect. Good men, moved by the popular passion, have joined hands with the infidel and the fanatic, and are found in the front ranks fiercely struggling to establish, or make war upon slavery, forgetting that there is a God that sitteth in judgment,-bringeth order out of confusion, light out of darkness, good out of evil, and who alone can dispose the hearts of men to deal justly, and love mercy. Dr. Kirk, in his Fast Day sermon, truly remarks, that 'it was the work of Satan to have gotten this subject so almost exclusively into the hands of politicians, and men of anti-Christian sentiments.' Now that there is abund-
<c04>
ant evidence that 'infidel philanthropy, angry political violence, and religious devotion,’ enlisted for and against slavery, have brought only evil, certainly Christian men and journalists of every section of our beloved country should, by their candor and moderation, guided by Divine wisdom, set a worthy example; heartily uniting with one another, and in the Master's spirit, earnestly endeavoring to remove all bitterness of feeling, and at the same time firmly resisting the counsels of human wisdom and the demands of selfishness. Upon the subject of slavery, as it now exists, the people of the North and South ‘must agree to disagree,' steadfastly adhering to the constitutional doctrines of State rights. We shall all doubtless be wiser, when the simple question as regards negroes, under existing circumstances, is solved, viz., 'What better use can be made of them?' When this query is satisfactorily answered, the people of the North will probably so far have 'conquered their prejudices' as to be ready to welcome colored persons as neighbors, and to take their proportionate responsibility of supporting and educating them in the event of emancipation.
TEXIAN.
NEW HAMPSHIRE BACKING OUT.
Our telegraphic report, the other day, announced the passage by New Hampshire of a resolution nullifying the laws and Constitution of the United States, making it a crime punishable by five years' imprisonment for the first offence, and by imprisonment for life for the second offence, to assist in the reclamation of a fugitive slave. It passed the House of Representatives on Thursday last, by a vote of 134 to 101, and is said to have been drawn by Parker Pillsbury, a notorious disunionist and defier of the Constitution, the Bible, and all revealed religion which does not make negro abolition its sine qua non. It seems, however, that the members who went to bed on Thursday night intoxicated with Abolitionism, woke up in the morning sick of their debauch. They called the bill up in the same House, and it was indefinitely postponed by a vote of 257 to 14, and the House adjourned, so that it received its quietus for the session. The same device was tried in this State, in Massachusetts,-and, indeed, in many Northern States, where the Black Republicans have control. The nullification scheme passed and was reconsidered, or passed one House and failed in the other, thus keeping up the agitation, and countenancing the sentiment of defiance of law, and yet avoiding that collision of authorities which has only to occur, to show the impotence of this attempted nullification, and the general sentiment of obedience to the laws which animates the people. This fast-and-loose game keeps the disunionists and Abolitionists in play, holds them fast to the party by their hopes, and yet defers to another campaign the realization of their schemes. The same mixture of cunning and cowardice was exhibited by the Republicans of Ohio, who, after threatening to release, by the armed State force, certain convicts under United States laws, ended by a miserable shift of pettifogging in court; and when one of the Judges rebuked them for this attempt to degrade the Bench, threw him overboard, and nominated in his place a more pliant and less conscientious follower of the party.-Albany Argus.

THE GARRISONIAN ABOLITIONISTS.
We envy your Garrisonion Abolitionist. The cool contempt with which he looks down upon the ninety-nine one hundredths of mankind that do not happen to agree with his ultra ultraism shows a consciousness of his own superiority which is truly refreshing for the coming of summer weather. Read the resolutions in another column, passed at the meeting in Blackstone. See how quietly they, who are the only true friends of the slave, if we may believe their own statements, condemn our churches and our politicians. We do not now recall, in our own remembrance of the resolutions passed by our anti-slavery friends, a single one condemnatory of the Democrats or the Church of the South. Their guns are pointed entirely in the direction of Dr. Cheever, Dr. Bacon and their associates in our religious community, and the members of the Republican party in politics. Their cool assumption of their own self-righteousness and of everybody's else wickedness-except the Democrats, who are so nearly right, their few errors with regard to slavery are not worth noticing-is an excellent match for our (fire-eating disunionists of the South, who snuff treason in every breeze that does not blow in favor of slavery.-Worcester Transcript.

SELECTIONS.
LETTER FROM HARRIET MARTINEAU.
LONDON, June 6th, 1859.
To the Editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
SIR: It is a satisfaction to many of us here to see the strong notice, in The Liberator of May 20th, of the case of American seamen; or rather, as we say here, of the case of seamen on board American ships. A small pamphlet has lately been issued under the signature of ‘A Liverpool Merchant,' and addressed, to Mr. Whitbread, M. P., on the subject of the cruelties inflicted on seamen on the high seas, by captains, inferior officers and seamen, and the extreme difficulty of interposing any check, or inflicting punishment. I send you the pamphlet by this post; and the more widely it can be made known; on your side of the water, the better; for the tone is so just and fair that it can hardly cause any offence, while it incites to a cordial agreement between the two nations in getting rid of an evil intolerable to both. The London Daily News has taken up the subject, in an article on the 4th inst., and it is understood that Mr. Whitbread will introduce it into the new House of Commons, as early as possible. What can you do on your side? The thing needed is some provision for securing the safety of seamen between the sea-lines where the police of each country ends. So it appears on the surface; but thoughtful people know very well that legal provisions, however they may be improved, always are evaded, more or less, till men are brought into harmony with them. Thus, while doing every thing possible to obtain a law that will work on the high seas, we must strenuously endeavor to raise the character of seamen and their commanders. By our Merchant Seamen's Act we have done a good deal in this direction; but a new generation must grow up before its requisitions will have become a matter of course. Meantime our maritime brutes and devils are as bad as yours; and there is no ground for recrimination between us. If your captains in the port of Liverpool, last year, hung their colors at half-mast during the execution of an English commander for murder by cruelty on the high seas, it is through American newspapers, cited in The Times, that the fact is known throughout England. Let us co-operate like brethren in this matter. If the 'Liverpool Merchant's' letter could be spread over your whole country, surely the thing would soon be done. On our side the predisposing deficiency seems to be of duly qualified captains; and on yours of duly qualified seamen. We are far from satisfied with our merchant crews; but yours seem to be often not 
<c05>
crews at all, but groups of shiftless adventurers and scapegraces, whom it suits to be always on the rove. We have provided an ordeal for our merchant captains to be tested by. It will be more difficult for you to provide a supply of good sailors, because the deficiency seems to be owing to the disrepute of the vocation. You cannot obtain good treatment for sailors till their quality improves; and you cannot procure a better quality of sailors till the treatment is rendered securely good. Such is the dilemma. But American wits are never finally baffled by such difficulties. They can find a way out of a vicious circle sooner than anybody. Let us hope this case may to be a fresh instance of that acuteness and energy which the world ascribes to you.
This subject induces some speculations among us which it is as painful for me to refer to as it must be to you to read about. We admit, even eagerly, that cruelties perpetrated in American ships are not therefore chargeable on Americans. On the contrary, the masters are, oftener than not, foreigners, and frequently British. Still, the scene is too often an American ship; and it seems to us only too true that there is more oppression of the weak by the strong within the domain of your Republic than anywhere else. The world may be mistaken; but the general impression in Europe and the settlements of Europeans is that the sympathies of Americans are more and more openly declared on the side of brutal force, from year to year-almost from day to day. We do not forget, and never shall, the difference between Abolitionists and all other Americans on this particular point. We can speak to you, sir, and your constituents as to brethren, precisely because you have borne your testimony long and steadily against this growing vice of your national character; but, the Abolitionists apart, what can we think and what can we say of a Republican society in which appeals to physical force are applauded; where citizens carry arms; where to waylay, or take at a disadvantage, an unarmed man, to put women in prison, or chase them from their residence on other grounds than legal guilt, and to insult the depressed, does not exclude men from society? The lack of liberty is had enough. It is bad enough that a man cannot utter his thoughts in the Senate, nor woman in letters to her brother, and that citizens and their wives cannot teach negroes to read; but that great evil of lack of liberty in a country which calls itself free pales before the fearful spectacle of the growth of a barbaric morality in a nation which ought to have been the foremost of the world in morals and civilization. You and I are perfectly aware that the preservation of slave institutions in a Democratic Republic must necessarily produce this consequence, among others; but the verification is equally shocking to those who anticipated it, and to those who did not. The Sickles trial has lighted up the whole scene to eyes hitherto careless. Not to dwell on the evidences of a puerile condition of mind-the excitement, the false enthusiasms, and the total absence of serenity and common sense all round-the moral notions which seem to be actually prevalent fill us with amazement and dismay. There are eccentric people everywhere; and we should not have wondered if one or two oddities had stood up for Mr. Sickles's way of proceeding, or had fancied some ground of feminine gratitude for what he had done; but that a whole crowd of citizens should declare that he had done something right, and that fathers, husbands, and even women should suppose that female virtue was safer on account of his act, utterly confounds our notions, and confuses our conception of the Americans as a civilized nation. It is not only the fuss. We have seen too many epidemic agitations, too many glorifications of very small or worthless persons, to mock at any nation for a passing folly of that kind. It is the low, impure, barbaric morale disclosed by such a scene that dismays European observers. A slaveholder who had reigned solitary on his plantation all his life, reading only the brimstone and sulphur literature of Southern championship, might have been pitied, and allowed for doing as Mr. Sickles did; but that a Northern man should do it, that men from all points of the compass should applaud it, and that women should fancy their virtue the safer for it, makes us ask what age of the world you have receded to, and how you propose to get back to a condition of progress. It does not send the prospect that while society takes part in this way with the strong against the weak with ruffians like Preston S. Brooks and Sickles, and many another, who have assailed unarmed men and goes on insulting free blacks, and flogging and forcing slave men and women, it gets into a great fervor about the new European war. It is natural enough that ruffians should sympathize with the Emperor of the French; and the ruffianized taste of a society that would associate with Preston S. Brooks and make a hero of Sickles, may easily be satisfied with the sentimental brutality of an usurper, who has killed, violently or by inches, more victims than a war cost in his uncle's time; but it is painful to see the apparently higher elements of society condoning the tyrant's offences, on account of his present pretensions, and even trying to make a hero of him.
From the Meigs County (O ) Telegraph, May 9.
AN F. F. V. AND DAUGHTER.
On Tuesday last, our town was thrown into a most intense state of excitement by what was supposed to be a veritable ' Fugitive Slave Case.'
There has been a very pretty girl here attending school for two or three years past, to whom one of the F. F. V.'s stands in the double relation of father and master. As master, he sent her here to go to school, and as the acknowledged father, he has paid her boarding and tuition.
The girl is very much attached to her father, but from the fact that he is engaged in buying up slaves in Virginia, and shipping them South, she has had the good sense to refuse to return to that State, for fear she might share the same fate. Last winter a strong effort was made to induce her to return to Virginia, and large promises were made to her by her father, if she would do so; but she declined. As a last resort, her mother was sent over to persuade her to go, but she still refused. Her mother, on her return, was shipped South; the colored people, and others here, believing that it was the intention to ship both mother and daughter, if the girl could be obtained. On the day above mentioned, the father, in com­pany with a hard-looking customer both well armed with revolvers, called to see the girl. She, having fall confidence in her father, who had always ac­knowledged and treated her as his daughter, was not at all alarmed-in fact, it is said, she had written to him to send, or come and bring, her some money-but some of her friends, believing that the design was to kidnap her, raised such a cry of ' murder,’ and all other cries, that the town was instantly alarmed, and quite a crowd was soon congregated to ascertain the cause of the row. The Virginians solemnly protested their pacific intentions the father protesting that he had come to visit the girl and pay her bills, without any intention of taking her away; that, in fact, he had emancipated her, and in proof of this, showed what purported to be a deed of emancipation, which he offered to give her. This instrument, however, on examination, was found to be of no validity. This fact tended to in-
<c06>
crease the suspicion. All things, however, would have gone off smoothly but for the fury of one of the negroes, who had a private wrong of his own to revenge.
It seems that after the birth of the girl in question, her mother, with the consent of her master, married this excited individual, who by his own efforts had bought and paid for his own body and soul, and had made a payment or two on his wife, whose freedom he had also purchased, and who was the mother of this girl before he purchased and married her.
Tawny as his skin is, he seems to have been somewhat outraged by the sale of his wife, after he had lived with her fourteen years, and had partly paid for her. He claimed that he had other grievances-that he had detected between his wife and the gentleman sundry peccadilloes, and that according to the law in the Sickles case, he had a right to kill the gentleman, and meant to do it instanter.
Hereupon the chivalry of Virginia found safety in the house of a colored man, drawing the curtains of the windows to prevent being shot through them. Here were exhibited some of the tallest specimens of humble supplication ever poured forth from the fear-shriven soul of mortal. Gods, men and negroes were implored to save him from the wrath of the furious ‘chattel.'
At length, after the crowd had been excessively amused, and the Virginians scared, it was proposed that both parties ground their arms, and come to a truce. Whereupon the Virginians surrendered their revolvers into the hands of Squire Lee, and the darkey his into the hands of Sheriff Smith, and the war ended.
The Virginians, pale and trembling with the awful vision of the terrible darkey still haunting them, and accompanied by the 'Squire,' who was to escort them to 'Old Virginia's shore,’ and there, in due form, deliver up the revolvers, reached the ferry, where so terribly were they alarmed that they offered fifty dollars to the ferryman if he would land them 'safely on the other side,' before the darkey could get at them.
We are happy to say that the Virginia gentleman has since sent to his daughter a genuine deed of manumission, and she is now free. She is almost pure white, intelligent and beautiful-such an article as would readily sell at from two to five thousand dollars in the South, according to the abundance or scarcity of that style of goods in the market. So that the gentleman has, according to the ethics of Slavery, sacrificed that amount of property. 

THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IN KANSAS.
The Republicans are exulting over a victory gained by their party in Kansas. The election of delegates to the Constitutional Convention has just been held in that Territory, and has resulted in a Republican majority of from three to seven members. S. N. Wood, editor of the Kansas Press, was a nominee for delegate on the Republican ticket. In his paper of the 6th inst. we find an abstract of the Republican Platform as adopted by the Convention at Osawatomie. He says- 
'The first resolution organizes the Republican party. The second avows that the only true basis of free government, etc., is to be found in the self-evident truths enunciated by Thomas Jefferson and the Fathers of the republic, in the immortal Declaration of Independence.'
We presume nobody will take issue with them on this resolution. Such resolutions generally mean very little, whether incorporated in a Democratic or Republican platform. In order to know whether the editor of the Press regards such self-evident truths as ‘glittering generalities,' or as designed for political adoption, it is necessary to read his next article, in which he objects to the nomination of certain persons as delegates to the Constitutional Convention, and for the following reason, italicising the point which he makes, so that be will not be misunderstood:-
'It is true that both were members of the Leavenworth Convention, and, if our memory serves as aright, voted for all the radical measures of that instrument, Negro suffrage, and all; at least, we know one of them did. The result was, that Constitution fell to the earth, still-born, almost as odious as the Lecompton Constitution itself. Now, for our part, we are in favor of having a Constitution that will be ratified by the people, and thus rid us of our Territorial bondage. But well do we know that another Leaven worth Convention would be voted down, two to one. 
Party lines are now drawn in this Territory; the party that succeeds in getting control of that Convention will have to take the responsibility of the kind of Constitution made. Let, for instance, the Republican party elect a majority of the delegates to that Convention, and endorse Negro Equality or Negro Suffrage, and the Constitution will not only be voted down, two to one, but the Republican party beat for all time to come in this Territory. Only three or four States in the Union allow Negroes to vote, and those are States where there are few, or no Negroes. No Western State allows Negroes to vote. Ohio, known as ‘The Great Abolition State,' refuse to allow Negroes to vote; and should the Republican party of that State take a position in favor of Negro suffrage, they would, in our estimation, be beat fifty thousand votes.’
What now have become of the great 'self-evident truths' enunciated by Thomas Jefferson? They are, with Barnum-nowhere! But the editor don't stop here. He must have a Constitution-honestly, if he can, but have it he MUST. In the same number of his paper from which we have already copied, in commenting upon the Platform of the Kansas Democracy, he says-
'The fifth resolution asserts the "inferiority of the Negro race, and calls upon the Constitutional Convention to prohibit Negro and Mulatto suffrage, and exclude all free Negroes from the future State of Kansas." We are of the opinion that Negroes and Mulattoes should be excluded from voting; but a clause excluding free Negroes from Kansas, we question the policy of putting into the Constitution. Missouri put such a clause into her Constitution, and was required to abrogate it, before she could be admitted, as it was deemed at that day unconstitutional, we know a number of Northern members of Congress would vote against our admission into the Union with such a Constitution. After we are admitted, we can do as we please; besides, this is a question for lawmakers, not Constitution-makers. Our motto is, make a Constitution to get into the Union with; fix it to suit us afterwards.
Verily, this is a kind of wood out of which any thing can be manufactured, from a goose yoke to a Republican delegate. We wish the Republican great joy at having succeeded in getting a majority in the Kansas Constitutional Convention, and especially for having an editorial member who goes against negro equality and negro suffrage, who is not quite so Democratic but he questions the policy of excluding free negroes from Kansas:-is decided, however, in thinking it best not to prohibit their settlement there by the Constitution lest some might vote against her admission into the Union, as they did in the case of Oregon. What an admirable policy is emblazoned in his motto: ‘Make a Constitution to get into the Union with; fix it to suit us afterwards’!-Anti-Slavery Bugle.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
‘The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE NIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A LECTURE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY BY LOLA MONTEE.
From the London Morning Star of June 13.
We have inserted, elsewhere, a report of a meeting recently convened for the purpose of enabling a lady, who has obtained an unenviable notoriety over at least three-quarters of the globs, and opportunity of laying before the British public a statement of her opinions on the momentous question of American slavery. The lecture was a written one, and was recommended by clearness of articulation, a fine voice and by graceful and appropriate action. It does not appear to as, however, to have been a production calculated to satisfy the expectations of those who Might have been desirous of obtaining information upon the topics announced in the programme. The first half of the discourse consisted of statistical details, appertaining to the agricultural wealth, mineral resources, and the past and probable future population of the United States, interspersed with stale anecdotes and attempts at humor. The rest was made up of aspersions upon the character of the leading abolitionists of America, and assertions respecting the condition of the slaves utterly at variance with the facts stated by all reliable authorities whose works have reached this country during the last twenty-fire years. The sins of omission on the part of the speaker were as glaring as those of commission. No one present could learn, from any thing said on the occasion, either the number of the slaves, the laws under which they are held, or any thing regarding the manner in which they are treated a twelve years' acquaintance with their condition enabled the lecturer to say no more than that they were fat and lazyï¿½that she bad seen them lolling at the doors of their masters' houses, talking as if they had been members of the family, and that they were as contented and well-conditioned as any laboring day on any part of the globe a careful, patient, and persevering investigation into the origin, progress, and present state of the anti-slavery movement had resulted in nothing but the discovery that the friends of emancipation were selfish and hypocritical, that they had fallen by their rashness and infidelity into insignificance and contempt, and that the effect of their measures bad been to rivet more firmly than ever the bars of the prison-house of the four millions now in bondage The conclusion of the whole matter was thisï¿½that the people of England should be satisfied with the triumphs they had achieved in the cause of humanity and freedom, under the leadership of CLARKSON and WILBERFORCE, and should abstain from meddling withï¿½ the domestic affaireï¿½ of their brethren across the Atlantic, who were ready to overlook a thousand faults in us, but were too sensitive to endure even so much as a hint at a single vice in themselves. Thus, summarily, did Madame Lola Montez dismiss the subject of American slavery, with reference both to the institution of slavery itself and that great struggle between the North and the South which has convulsed the United States from the circumference to the centre during the last quarter of a century.
The slaves, we are told, are happy and contented. How, then, has it happened that not fewer than forty thousand, who were in this enviable position a few years ago, have sought and found an asylum on British soil in Canada, exposed on their way thither to the fury of the slave hunter's bloodhounds, the deadly aim of the rifle, and the operations of the remorseless Fugitive Slave Law, which punishes with fine and imprisonment the Good Samaritan who gives a cup of cold water to the weary wanderer, in search of a spot of earth on which he may stand erect and say,ï¿½ Now I am no man's slaveï¿½? If the condition of the slave is that of fatness, sloth, and satisfaction, how is it that there an thousands, even in the Southern States, who desire his emancipation, but dare not express what the heart feels, lest they should fall the victims of that Lynch law with which the bloody code of Draco was merciful. But, enough For ourselves, we do not require to go to the men who were denounced by name in St. James's Hall (albeit nobler and better men do not exist) for information on which to found our judgment in regard to American slavery. While we write, we have around us the slave codes of all the Southern States; the works of Franklin, Jefferson, Jay, Changing, Goodell, Weld, Angelina Grimke, and Harriet Beecher Stowe; together with innumerable speeches in Congress by such men as John Quincy Adams, Charles Sumner, Seward, Giddings, Horace Mann, and Gerrit Smith, whose united testimony to the character and influence of American slavery rebukes the hardihood, while it refutes the falsehoods and fallacies sought to be palmed upon the credulity of an English audience under the name of an evening's amusement. Touching the expressions attributed to two distinguished American abolitionists, we may observe, that it is within our knowledge, that the allegation involved in the first is disproved by the authentic record of the proceedings of the meeting referred to, which has come under our own eye; and we have no doubt that the second, if ever employed, was explained and justified by the context of the speech. The Divine precepts of Christianity are by none more consistently practiced, or more faithfully proclaimed, than by the men who were wantonly held up to odium on Friday evening last. 
Not more truthful than the rest of her statements was that made by Madame Montez, relating to the alleged dying condition of the Anti-Slavery cause. From documents now before us, we learn that the donations obtained by the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society in Boston at Christmas last, in lieu of the usual contributions to an annual bazaar, amounted to the sum of 6,000 dollars, while the anniversary meetings of the parent society, bold in New York, have taken their place for many years amongst the most largely attended and deeply interested meetings occurring during the month of May. To the labors of the Anti-Slavery Society are to be ascribed the change and partial renovation of public sentiment on the question of slavery throughout New England, the Middle, and most of the Western Statesï¿½a change denoted by the fact that Mr. Fremont, the professed anti-slavery candidate at the last Presidential election, obtained a majority of the votes of the entire voting population, and was only defeated by the choice of Mr. Buchanan in the Electoral Colleges. 
We need not repeat in this place that we are opposed to every description of interference in the political affaire of foreign nations, and, in accordance with our established principles, we leave the American people to deal with the political aspects of slavery as they may think fit, unless they should require diplomatic action on the apart of our government; but upon the moral and religious aspects of the question, we claim for ourselves, and for all our countrymen, the right of boldly avowing our opinions, and of sending our sympathy, and, if disposed, our money with it, to those who are engaged in the arduous and praiseworthy work of disseminating those great truths, by the power of which the overthrow of slavery can alone be brought about. The parties actually engaged in the abolition struggle in the United States are the persons best qualified to estimate the value of the countenance and moral support of the enlightened and humane public of this country, and we know that they appreciate most highly every expression of opinion in favor of their cause, through whatever channel it may reach them. We venture to tell itinerant lecturers of both sexes, that while we shall carefully avoid, unless compelled to do otherwise, the discussion of their own individual characters, we shall not allow them to defame with impunity the reputation of those whom we know to belong to the most illustrious examples of virtue and philanthropy and When that day shall come, in which the stare and stripes shall flutter in the breeze, over a free, glorious, and happy land,' no names on the scroll of American patriots, or amongst the world's benefactors, will shine brighter, or be more honored, than the names of WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
From the London Morning Star of June 16.
MISS REMOND ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
Miss Sarah P. Remond, a lady of color from the United States of America, last evening delivered a lecture on American Slavery, to a highly respectable audience in the Music Hall, Store street, Bedford square The lecturer was introduced by 
Mr. L. A. CHAMEROVZOW, who said that, as Secretary of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, he had much pleasure in bespeaking for Miss Remond the kind attention of the meeting. His acquaintance with her had bean short, but her reputation for real and labor in the anti-slavery cause had been known to him for years. The lady's brother was a delegate to the World's Anti-Slaver Convention in 1840, and was well remembered for the eloquence be displayed on that occasion. With in the few previous days, a lecture on the same subject, but of a vary different character from that which would on that night be heard, had been delivered by a lady of unenviable reputation, whose statements Miss Remond would feel it her duty to refute.
<C02>
Miss REMOND then rose, and said she was the representative, in the first place, of four millions of human beings, held in slavery in a land boasting of its freedomï¿½of 400,000 persons of color nominally free, but treated worse than criminals. She was the representative also of that body of abolitionists in the United States, reproachfully called Garrisons; an epithet, however, which she deemed it an honor to appropriate. What was the crime of the millions thus enslaved? The head and front of their offending was the color of their skin. She did not represent the politics of the country, not even the religions sentiment of the country, for that had been corrupted by the influence of slavery. Her audience must discriminate between the northern and the southern States. The former were seventeen in number, and were called Free States; the latter were sixteen, and in many of those, the slaves formed the majority of the population. In the former, labor was honorable, dignified, and respected; in the latter, it was the badge of degradation; and the whites who were necessitated to toil were held in even more contempt than the slaves themselves. The gross number of actual slaveholders was not more than 350,000; yet they controlled the public sentiment of the entire country as well as its domestic policy, through their combined influence in Congress.
She pleaded especially on behalf of her own sex. Words were inadequate to express the depth of the infamy into which they were plunged by the cruelty and licentiousness of their brutal master. If English women and English wives knew the unspeakable horrors to which their sex were exposed on southern plantations, they would freight every westward gale with the voice of their moral indignation, and demand for the black woman the protection and rights enjoyed by the white. It was a dark and evil hour when the first slave ship landed its unhallowed I cargo upon the soil of Virginia; but it was a still darker one when the patriots of the revolution compromised their principles, and incorporated slavery in the federal constitution. She (the lecturer) knew something of the trials and toils of the women of Englandï¿½how, in the language of Hood, they were made toï¿½ stitch, stitch, stitch,' till weariness and exhaustion overtook them. But there was this immeasurable difference between their condition and that of the slave-womanï¿½that their persons were free, and their progeny their own; while the slave-woman was the victim of the heartless lust of her master, and the children whom she bore were his property. The situation of the free colored population was one of deep degradation. They were expelled from railway cars and steamboats, and excluded, even in the house of God, from the privileges common to other worshippers. It was easy to bean abolitionist in England, but not so in the United States. 
Miss Remond then traced the career of Mr. Garrison from the year 1833 to the present time, and recounted in a touching manner the perils to which he had been exposed, the sacrifices he had made, and the progress which had been effected by his unwearied labors during the last quarter of a century. 
She had listened with indignation, a few nights before, to the statement that the slaves were happy and contented. If so, why had more than 40,000 fled to the free soil of Canada, and were ready to sell their lives in defence of the sovereignty of Queen Victoria? The lecturer read an affecting account of the saleat auction of a woman who was recommended on account of her being undistinguished by complexion from the white race, for her unsullied virtue, her personal beauty, and her elevated piety, and who, for these reasons, brought a high price that she might become the mistress of some depraved monster. The lecturer paid a high tribute to Mr. Wendell Phillips, who, with Mr. Garrison, had been traduced by the person whose assertions she had already noticed, and concluded by pointing out the value to the American anti-slavery cause of those expressions of sympathy which it was in the power of the people of England to send across the Atlantic, which would cheer the hearts of those engaged in the great struggle now going on, and tend greatly to advance the cause of negro emancipation. 
Miss Remond was listened to with great attention and much apparent interest, and sat down amidst great applause. 
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON said he had no doubt, from the sympathy which had been manifested by the audience, they would be prepared to adopt a resolution which he had prepared as appropriate to the occasion. Some present might think it a strange thing that a woman should stand up in public to speak on the subject of slavery; but, in his judgment, she was the most fitting representative of the two millions in her own country who most deeply felt the influence of the polluting, imbruting, and soul-withering system of slavery. The first person who raised the standard of immediate emancipation in England was Elizabeth Heyrick; the Walter Scott of anti-slavery literature, who had drawn in imperishable colors the pictures of Eva and Uncle Tom, was a woman. Men were too much engaged in secular occupations to give more than an occasional attention to the wrongs of the slave; but when a woman became interested, her whole soul was absorbed in the subject, and she was instant, in season and out of season, in her efforts for the redemption of the oppressed. The resolution he had to propose was the following:ï¿½ 
ï¿½That this meeting welcomes to the metropolis of England Miss Sarah P. Remond, and would assure her of their deep sympathy with her in her labors on behalf of the slave; of their detestation of the system the evils of which she has so ably exposed; and of their earnest wish that her future labors, on both sides of the Atlantic, may be crowned with success.' 
Mr. Thompson, after dwelling at some length on the present state of public feeling on the anti-slavery question, sat down amidst loud cheers. 
Mr. WILLAM CRAFT, a man of color and a fugitive slave, seconded the resolution, and made some observations in confirmation of the statement of the lecturer. 
The Rev. W. H. BONNER seconded the resolution; and, alluding to the lecture of Lola Montez, said that if the condition of the slave was as good as she had represented it, she had better go to the Southern States herself, where she would doubtless find a purchaser, and learn from experience the truth of which she seemed at present so lamentably ignorant. He urged the necessity of calling upon the religious bodies of England to dissolve their relationship with the slaveholding churches of America. He regretted that the question which had that night been discussed, had not been brought forward tit the late meeting of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society. 
Mr. CHAMEROVZOW., in explanation, said that ample justice had been done to the question in the report be had prepared for the meeting alluded to, and that the omission was the result of accident. He fully recognized the principle of the American Anti-Slavery Society; he honored the members of that body; and did not hesitate to say, that in heart and soul he also was a Garrison abolitionist. He hoped that very shortly he should have another and public opportunity of going into the subject, and showing his respect for and sympathy with the lady who had that night so much interested the audience there assembled. 
The resolution was put, and carried unanimously. Miss Remond returned thanks; and the meeting separated. 
For a sketch of the pro-slavery lecture of the notoriousï¿½ mistress' and pugilist, Lola Montez, (upon which the London Morning Star so intelligently and ably comments, and which Miss Remond so thoroughly answered,) see our first page. To the impudent claim set up by Lola Montez, of acquaintanceship with Mr. Phillips and our self, we have only to say that we have never seen, and certainly have no desire to see her, and we presume the same is true of Mr. Phillips. We do not believe she ever attended an anti-slavery meeting in this country, except possibly in disguise. The language she attributes to us we ever uttered; for with us Christianity and Abolitionism have always been identical. Mr. Phillips has most justlyï¿½ pronounced the Union a curse,' but he has never said thatï¿½ he could not thank God for having given to America freedom and Washington. To such an advocate is Lola Montez, the slave-drivers of the South are entirely welcome,]ï¿½Ed. Lib. 
In Egypt, a census of the population, taken by order of the Viceroy, on the French method, has just been completed. From this it appears that the population, which in 1817 was 3,700,000, and in 1847 had increased to 4,250,000, is now 5,125,000ï¿½a great increase for only twelve years in a semi-civilized country. The population of Alexandria, which in 1798 only amounted in number to 30,000, and had increased in 1817 to 230,000, is now within a small fraction of 400,000.
<C03>
The Liberator
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS
BOSTON. JULY 8, 1859. 
THE FOURTH AT FRAMINGHAM.
Reported for the Liberator, JAN M. W. YERRINTON.]
The members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society,ï¿½ remembering them that are in bonds as bound with them,' assembled in the beautiful grove in Framingham, on Monday, July 4th, to hear once more the story of the slave's wrongs, and renewedly consecrate themselves to his deliverance. The day was an exceedingly fine one for an out-of-door gathering, and the number in attendance very large,ï¿½to be counted by thousands. 
The meeting was called to order a few minutes before 11 o'clock, by FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq., of Boston, and organized by the choice of the following officers:ï¿½ 
Presidentï¿½THOMAS W. HIGGINSON, Worcester. 
Vice Presidentsï¿½Francis Jackson, Boston; Edmund Quincy, Dedham; Charles L. Remond, Salem; Effingham L. Capron, Worcester; Adin Ballou, Hopedale; Abijah Allen, Millbury; Henry O. Stone, Framingham. 
Secretariesï¿½Charles K. Whipple, James M. W. Yerrinton, Boston. 
Finance Committeeï¿½Samuel May, Jr., Leicester; E. D. Draper, Hopedale; Sallie Holler, Worcester; Frances H. Drake, Leominster. 
Prayer was then offered by Rev. Mr. Bird, of Hayti; after which, a hymn, by Mary Ward Wellman, was sung, to the tune ofï¿½ Old Hundred.' 
ADDRESS OF REV. T. W. HIGGINSON. 
The President then addressed the Convention, substantially as follows:ï¿½ 
FRIENDS,ï¿½Let us congratulate each other upon the glorious sunshine and cool, fresh air that preside over our meeting to-day. They will put, I trust, such electricity and elasticity into us all, that we shall know more truth to-night, if there is not a word of truth spoken on this platform, than we do this morning, and that all the audience will feel fresh and strong, even if the speakers do not.
This is our dayï¿½our Fourth of July. We can claim it, if nobody else can. The Declaration of Independence, with all its great ideas, is true and genuine for us, if it is not for any body else. You know that the eccentric Concord prophet says, that the four Gospels make the best book in the world, only he hardly ever finds anybody who has read it. I think the Declaration of Independence contains as great thoughts as were ever penned, if we could only find anybody who believed in them. But I suppose that the reason why people do goï¿½for a few of them do still goï¿½to other meetings than this on the Fourth of July, (laughter,) is because they are a little afraid of those thoughts, and they find that here they get a little more than they can stand. In other meetings they hear it read' then go away and forget it all the rest of the day; while here it is actually used as our text, and preached from through the day, and that is more than many to our self-styled Republicans and Democrats can stand. In old Anti-Masonic times in New York, there was a member of the Assembly who removed his boarding-place from one hotel to another, and when they asked him the reason, he said that the place he had left was full of Anti-Masons.ï¿½ But this hotel you have come to is the head-quarters of anti-masonry; the leaders of the party, Seward, Weed, and the rest of them stop here.'ï¿½ O, I know it,' said he; but these men only talk about it, while those fellows down there believe in it.' (Laughter.) That is the reason why those people who cannot stand the Declaration of Independence run away from this meetingï¿½because these fellows actually believe in it. We believe in it, and we reiterate it and reiterate it, until all the community have begun to learn the lesson, and have got a little tired of us. They declare that we say the same things over and over again, until they are quite bored. That is just what we are trying to do. (Laughter.) The only immortality I know of comes from getting hold of some great idea, and boring the people with it. All the reformers were men perfectly intolerable to their own generation; because they talked so much of 'their one idea.' We will try to earn that reputation. We will try to be like those Batavians of whom Tacitus said,ï¿½ Other men go to battle; these are the only men who go to war.' Our fight is no mere series of skirmishes; it is a genuine, permanent conflict. Year in and year out, every Fourth of July, for I do not know how many years past, these trees have echoed, and every Fourth of July, I am afraid to think for how many years to come, they have got to echo, with these same thoughts of liberty; and if telling them by the tens or dozens of times does not answer the purpose, may our children's children tell them by hundreds and hundreds, until at last, by the time these trees have grown monarchs of the forest, and crumbled into dust, there may be this one spot of earth that is free, if no other place is. Old Mr. Wesley, who was the father of the Wesley, who were the fathers of the Wesleyans, was a man of rather an impatient temper, and once asked his wife,ï¿½ How could you bear to tell that stupid servant girl just the same thing twenty times over yesterday?'ï¿½ Because if I had only told her nineteen times, and then stopped, I should have lost all my labor.' (Laughter.) We are not going to lose our labor, if reiteration, year after year, can help it. Let us be considered tire-some, if the thoughts we utter become the food of men. 
The essence of the idea of liberty is far away still from multitudes in this community, as if they had never heard it. They become anti-slavery because others do; they swell the minority, then they a well the majority; and even when they claim that they vote anti-slavery men into office, they themselves have never grasped the principles upon which this truth lies. I talked the other day with one of the most gifted intellects whom I know; a man identified also with every good word and work; and to my amazement that man, in defining the essence of slavery, defined it to be, one man claiming and taking the earnings of another, and using them for his own benefit, instead of using them for the benefit of the man who earned them. That was his definition of slavery. I told him that such a definition of slavery would make himself a slaveholder in five years, if he lived in a slave State and got the chance. The essence of slavery is not in taking another man's earnings and using them for your own good; it is in daring to take another man's earnings, and using them at all. If a man should go and draw your railroad dividends, and use them as he thought best, it would not save him from conviction for obtaining money under false pretences, that he proves, in open Court, that he used the money for your good. You do not want him to take it at all. The distinction between the best slaveholder and the worst is trifling, so long as they are both slave holders. The wrong is not in the use to which the property of the slave is put, but in claiming the right to use it all. Once in Italy, a countryman brought into the market-place a basket full of young wolves. Some one bought one of the animals, and, paying the money, asked the farmer to pick him out aï¿½ good-naturedï¿½ one. ï¿½Take which you please, 'said he; ï¿½they are all wolves.' (Laughter and applause.) The slaveholder is a slaveholder. Whatever circumstances there may be in his special caw to make it less guilty in him at the outset, compared with the man who deliberately, with his eyes open, seizes the opportunity to commit that sin, still, the essence of the wrong is the same. The invasion of the right of property is the wrong; the use you make of it is trifling in comparison. 
<C04>
I tell you, that even here in Massachusetts, we have got again, and again, and again, to repeat the first principles of anti-slavery action, before we can get the community at large to understand that slaves are not and cannot be property. Men think they are a kind of property that ought not to be given up ï¿½but they imagine that they tie property, still; and, going to the South with that impression, it is easy for them to have their sympathies drawn oat for those poor unfortunate beings who are sent into the world with all these slaves to take care of! Their sympathy is for the master, and not far the slave. Even in the ranks of those who call themselves anti-slavery men, yon will find those who sympathize with the condition of those unfortunate slaveholders, whenever they are called upon to give up their slaves, and they talk about compensation ï¿½ to the slaveholder! Did you ever hear the story of the man who, having a great deal of feeling himself, wished to educate the sensibilities of his little boy, and so showed him a picture of Daniel in the lions' den. It was a very highly wrought and impressive picture; painted in the highest style of art; very savage lions; very venerable Daniel. The benevolent father watched the face of his little boy with great eagerness, to see the tender emotions springing there. At last the tears began to collect in the little boy's eyes, and he exclaimed,ï¿½ Oh, father!'ï¿½ Well,' said he, delighted to see the manifestation of so much sensibility in his child,ï¿½ what do you think of it?'ï¿½ Why, see, that poor little lion, away out in the corner, won't get a bit!' (Great merriment.) There is the sympathy for the slaveholder, instead of the slave.ï¿½ Poor little lion, he won't get a bit.' I tell you we have got to reiterate and reiterate, again and again, before we teach the people the first fundamental principles of anti-slavery. In the meantime, they are anti-slavery from vague feeling, or because their neighbors are, or from generous sympathy; but they are not rooted and grounded in the faith, and therefore their anti-slavery does not stand the test. In the mean time, we have got to work. We will put our trust in God; but, with all due deference to our non-resistant friends, we will take care toï¿½ keep our powder dry,' also. We must remember what Erskine says of faith in God, as the Turks express it,ï¿½' God is great; only 1 myself am lazy.' We must have that living faith that expresses itself in acts. God's power is turned away from the man who keeps still when the world is at work; and even to come here and drink, as a mere luxury, the words of freedom, may only weaken us, if we do not go away strengthened for more earnest action than we have ever used before. So let us here to-day have words that amount to something, and then go away and try, as Theodore Parker used to say, to salt them down with action by and by. Do not let us be afraid of exaggeration. Some people are so afraid of it, in an anti-slavery meeting, that they always declare that two and two make three, lest they should be accused of exaggeration if they said that two and two make four. (Laughter.) Let us tell the simple truth here to-day. Of course, telling the simple truth is always called exaggeration by those who do not believe in it. When Stephenson, the English engineer, was about to go before the House of Commons with his plan for a locomotive engine, the counsel who was to plead his cause took him by the button privately, and implored him not to say a word about that idea of his, that a locomotive engine could be driven as fast as twenty miles an hour. Truth is always exaggeration to those who do not want to believe it, or who cannot believe it. Do not let us be afraid of that. 
And, for another thing, do not let us be afraid of personalities. So long as God sends sin into the world, incarnated in sinners, let us be grateful that He sends also reformers into the world, to point out these sinners, and say to every one of them,ï¿½ Thou art the man!' (Applause.) The Doughface in the Bigelow Papers says:ï¿½ 
'I'm willin' a man should go tollable strong
Agin wrong in the abstract, fer that kind o' wrong
Is ollers unpopular an' never gits pitied, 
Because it's a crime no one never committed.' 
Friends, let us have nothing to say about wrong in the abstract; put it in the concrete. Be just to the sinner, but do not shrink from dealing with him. The worst sinner has a spark of good in him; and I sometimes find, from my personal experience, that a man may be a reasonably strong abolitionist, and still have a good deal of the devil in him, after all. Let us, therefore, be just, but do let us be personal to-day. Let us tell the truth about politicians. They tell the truth, and a good deal worse than the truth, about us ï¿½why should we not reciprocate, and tell the truth, at least, about them? Goldsmith says, in hisï¿½ Citizen of the World,' that he was invited to dine with a friend, who promised him venison, and turtle, and a great man. He says,ï¿½ I went to the dinner. The venison was capital; the turtle was delicious; but the great man was intolerable.' That is the diet that politicians serve up to us. (Laughter.) The dishes are better than the men. (Applause.) 
Do not let us be so particular about the Church, either. Some of our friends are terribly anxious lest we should be too severe upon the Church. It is not all of us who have to reproach ourselves, as Stephen Foster reproaches himself, with being timid about speaking unwelcome truth. (Roars of laughter and great applause.) There are some of us who do not suffer from that timidity, which I am afraid has kept him from us to-day. Do not let us shrink, therefore, from telling the truth about the Church. Here are these churches all around us, priding themselves on taking up some little word of anti-slavery that was uttered in thunder tones by men of power years ago, and they claim immunity from criticism because they say that little word to-day; because they now teach the first beginning of the alphabet in their Sunday schools, they expect us to forget all the twenty-four letters. I have no objection to any one coming under their influence, and learning all they can; but in some cases, their position seems to me a good deal like that of the man who was appointed Librarian to the Royal Library at Paris during some change in the government there. One of his friends nailed upon him, and said he was glad he had been appointed Chief of the largest library in Europe; it would be an excellent opportunity for him to learn to read and write. (Laughter.) So we go into the church, with all its magnificent pretensions, only to get the first hint of anti-slavery. Let us not fear to criticize such weakness as that. If we do, we deserve to be criticized ourselves. 
My friends, I have got an arduous responsibility before me to-day. It will not be difficult to keep order among this audience. There is never any trouble in keeping order among people who can go out when they please. My only difficulty will be in keeping order among the speakers. This platform would not hold the many eloquent men I see about me. A little girl in Worcester the other day accused her teacher of partiality. She said she did not care if she did show partiality, but she thought she ought to show partiality to all just the same. (Laughter.) So I will try to show partiality to all just the same. (Load applause.) 
SPEECH OF REV. M. B. BIRD.
MR. CHAIRMAN,ï¿½I certainly very much rejoice in the anti-slavery character of this meeting, and I am thankful to have the opportunity of saying a word on that important question. I am not in the habit of entering into any thing like reasoning as to whether a man has a right to hold property in man. It seems to me that the tune has almost gone by for reasoning on such a subject as that. With regard to slavery, I am, I think, in all the length and breadth of the idea, a disciple of John Wesley, and I hold, with that man of immortal memory, that slavery isï¿½ the sum of all villanies' I look upon it as the offspring of hell, and I would that I could drive it back again to its own infernal home, (Applause.) Alas! I am but a puny mortal in this particular; but I remember tin words 
<C05>
your great danker,ï¿½ I tremble for my country when I remember that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep forever.'
With regard to slavery, I would observe that, in the very nature of things, it is an unsafe, a dangerous institutions. Think, my friends, by way of illustration, of the position of Hayti when it was a colony. The while French colonists were high in authority, living in all the pomp and magnificence of wealth and grandeur, and bat little dreaming of what was beneath their feet. They little thought that that system which they idolized was about to produce a dreadful earthquake. I cannot enter into a description of these scenes of bloodshed and murder, andï¿½ confusion worse confounded,' which wan the result of that system which some men idolize, and which we call slavery. It is unsafe, because it is unnatural; because it is false; because it is an outrage upon the eternal principles of right. It cannot be safe to-day, supported by such props as it is.
Mr. Bird then spoke to the attempt to tar and feather Rev. Henry Bleby, at Jamaica, whose visit to this country will be pleasantry remembered by many of our readers. Mr. B. escaped, but a quantity of tar had fallen upon his cravat, and the missionary Knibb, who was then about visiting England, took this cravat, and exhibited it throughout England as a specimen of the white savageism existing in Jamaica. The result was, as might well be supposed, that the mind of the whole nation was fired with the most decided indignation. It is a truth, said Mr. B., that the slaveholders themselves frequently, perhaps I may say generally, do more to bring down the system which they worship than any one else, by the sets of violence and outrage and injustice of which they are guilty. 
Mr. Bird then referred to the revolution in Hayti, and the causes from which it sprung. He said that the French settlers condescended to have children by their black slaves, and those children were sent to France, many of them, where they received excellent education, and became, in the nature of things, men. At length, one of these young men, One, returning from France, demanded for the class he represented, that they should be recognized as men. The result was, that he was seized and stretched upon the wheel, and those white savages, with the Cross in their hands, in the name of Charity and Christianity, broke the limbs of their unhappy victim; but he expired without a murmur. This was the dreadful starting-point of Haytien liberty. Who were the wretched and miserable authors of the blood and murder, the dread-full struggles and atrocities and fiendish crimes which followed? Let every man blush at the remembrance ï¿½they were white men, calling themselves Christians, baptized Christians. But Hayti was roused, and her sons called to arms. Dessalines, after a deadly struggle, after seeing his own countrymen torn to pieces, and drowned and butchered, and treated in every way in a; manner becoming fiends rather than men, became, very naturally, a fiend himself. Some had seemed to think it awful that he should have cut up some eight hundred white people, men, women and children; but when a man was thus transformed into a fiend, by the injustice and tyranny of others, we need not wonder at any crimes to which he might be driven. Dessalines, however, proclaimed the liberty and independence of Hayti, in the year 1804. He, in his turn,ï¿½ fell, shot by his own people. Why? Simply because the Haytiens were determined to be free, and they were determined that they would not submit to injustice, either from a white or s black man. 
In regard to the statement that Hayti is retrograding, Mr. Bird said that, in his judgment, even if the people had gone back to savageism, that would not be retrograding, as compared with their former condition as slaves. The savage was a man, a noble being, having even some majestic traits in his character; but the slave is a mere thing, the mere living goods and chattels of another. But it was not true that Hayti had retrograded. It was to be remembered that after they had driven out the thirty thousand soldiers sent to the island by Napoleon, they had yet to live under arms, for France still had its eye upon them. The whole nation was one vast military camp, but they had resolved never again to submit to the yoke of slavery. If the course of this people was narrowly watched, it would be seen that, notwithstanding they were necessarily a military people, and living under military discipline, they had gradually organized their civil institutions and their systems of jurisprudence, and took the forms of civilization; and all this with France eagerly watching for the moment to seize upon the island as her prey. Hayti had not retrograded. Her various constitutions, her codes of law, were proof of both mental and moral stamina in her people, to an extraordinary degree. It was true that the people of Hayti had not prospered with that rapidity that their friends could have wished, but the matter was to be looked at in the light of reason and common sense.
He had been asked a great many times since he came to this countryï¿½'Do you really think that those Haytiens are men of capacityï¿½that they are capable of governing themselves?ï¿½ This question, after twenty years of experience among that people, had perfectly astonished him. If any one wished to know what the intellectual character and capacity of the Haytien people were, let him read their laws and constitutions, go into their courts of law, and hear black men reasoning upon questions of law and jurisprudence, developing the principles of right and exposing the wrongï¿½reasoning with power, energy, ability, intelligence, eloquence. Let him look at their system of commerce, at their government dispatches, at their intercourse with England, France, and with all the world, and he would find what the intellectual character of the Haytian is. It would be found that he is a sound grammarian, that he is capable of becoming as able a mathematician as anybody else, that he is as capable of becoming a correct and thorough historian as anybody else. Those who wished to know anything about the intellectual character of the black men of that land should simply take the  trouble to inform themselves of the plain, straight-forward, every-day facts that are seen there in the general movements of life, just precisely everywhere else.ï¿½ My conclusion is,' said Mr. Bird, formed upon twenty yearï¿½ experience, and upon close observationï¿½ and inspection, that the Haytian is exactly like -other people. I find him to be no better; I do not find him any worse. I find him to the same wicked sinner that we ail are; capable of all that education and all that Christianity can do for him. I am perfectly and entirely satisfied with regard to these matters.' 
Mr. Bird then spoke of the many revolutions which had occurred in the island, which are sometimes referred to as evidence that the people do not possess the capacity to govern. He reviewed the history of the several revolutions, and showed that they proved, not an incapacity to govern, but a determination, on the part of the Haytiens, that the nation should progress in dignity, prosperity and intelligence, and a resolution to overthrow every government that hindered such progress. In reference to the Empire, under Soulouque, Mr. B. said he wished it well understood that this form of government was not, and never had been, in harmony with the feelings of the educated portion of the people of Hayti. Soulouque, having risen to power, in consequence of domestic quarrels, feeling himself supported by thirty thousand bayonets, thought he could do what he pleased; and in fact, played a great many fantastic, and acted very foolishly and ridiculously. The result was that the people, when they found he was not carrying out their plans, overthrew Soulouque, capsized his empire, broke his crown to pieces, and sent him about his business. (Laughter and applause.)
Hayti, said Mr. B., has plenty of intelligence; Hayti has great and noble minds; Hayti thirsts for knowledge; Hayti longs to move on in the path of progress with the human race. But, after all some-
<C06>
thing has been wanting in Hayti; this must be admitted. Now my friends, I am in the habit of viewing man as a moral as well as an intellectual being. I believe that man has moral as well as intellectual capacities; and I have long been convinced, that whatever may be the degree of intelligence that men may possess, however broad the grasp of their minds, however capable of following the stars in their courses or unfolding the secret laws of nature, still, there must be the moral ballast; there must be with all this a knowledge of those eternal laws and principles of right which emanate from the great fountain of all right houses and truth; and I do not hesitate to say, that however great the intelligence, however well-developed the mind and the intellect, if there be not that moral compass, the ship will go adrift; immortal man will be like the planet that has lost its centre, and will be in danger of flinging himself into moral perdition. I am under the conviction that in this will be found the secret of all that we have to regret in Hayti. No want of mind there; no want of intelligence these; no want of capable men there; but there is a want of moral principle, a want of moral truth. Not need any one be surprised at this. The condition of the slaves is to be rememberedï¿½believers in fetiehism, and all the other superstitions peculiar to their forefather. Then, again, remember that there is nothing in properly that tends to sanctify the nobler faculties of the human mind and heart. I would here say that the people of Hayti have never recognized the power of the Pope; they have always considered the power of the Court of Rome as inimical to and incompatible with their national liberty; therefore they have never recognized the authority of the Court of Rome, nor have they ever allowed a Bishop of that Church to reside in their capital. The natural consequences has been, that whatever of purity, whatever of good may belong to the Church of Rome has been excluded from Hayti. Therefore, let no one be scandalized when I express myself as I have done in this matter. Let it be remembered, also, that the same principles which prevailed in France, when they trampled upon Christianity, and set up for their idol the Goddess of Liberty, found their way to Hayti, and this will explain at once the absence of moral training, moral principle and moral discipline, in the country of which I am speaking.
My friends, let us not wonder that there should be confusion, that there should be unhappiness, when this moral salt is waiting. This has been the misfortune of Hayti; and, therefore, the cure is in genuine, sound, moral, enlightened, sanctifying Christian piety, well understood; the fear of God, the remembrance that Infinity is always present; the remembrance that there is an Infinite Being who surrounds as in all our movements, and who is perfectly conversant with all our thoughts, and with all our intentions. There must be a sense of his presence to guide as aright through the darkness of this world; and I do not wonder that a nation, a community, or a family, should fall into chaos where these great, eternal principles are not recognized and obeyed. This, therefore, is my explanation of the unhappiness and misfortunes of Hayti. But I leave this whole matter, and come now to a word on the subject of religious liberty.
I am very thankful and very happy to say, that religious liberty is perfectly and entirely recognized by the Haytien people. Perhaps a better illustration of this cannot be mentioned than the simple fact, that I have myself preached in almost every street of the city of Port-au-Prince, in the open air. Probably there is not another Roman Catholic country in the world where I should have been tolerated in such a proceeding. So in regard to interments. There is no distinction in Hayti, as in most other Roman Catholic countries; the grave-yard is open, without distinction, to Protestants, as well as Catholics.
Now, sir, allow me to make one or two remarks in regard to our schools in that country. I am happy to say that a prosperous school is connected with each of our mission stations. There is one remarkable fact in connection with these schools, and that is, that the children coming to them are the children of Roman Catholic parents. I mention this as proof of the liberality of feeling and sentiment that <illegible> through out the country. Having established several schools for boys in that country, I am now anxious to establish girls' schools. I need not say any thing to you in regard tot he unspeakable importance of female education. I should like to do something for the girls Hayti. Alas! my friends, if I were to draw aside the curtain, and expose to you at one view the state and condition of the women of Hayti, I know that you would weep at the sight. I therefore take this opportunity to solicit and impure your sympathies in this undertaking. I am sure that you feel its vast importance to the interests of that truly interesting and deserving people; and if there should be in this assembly and heart that is disposed to sympathize in this important undertaking, I know that such a heart will find a way to manifest its liberality and its generosity, before I leave these shores.
Friends, allow me to encourage you. Go on! Proclaim the everlasting truths of liberty and of righteousness. The law of God proclaims them. Never cease to labor for them. Your noble American institutions are all anti-slavery, necessarily anti-slavery. They cannot live with slavery, and slavery must die from its contact with them. Go on, therefore. Arm yourselves with courage, and be hold in behalf of the everlasting truth. Preach the gospel of Washington, and the gospel of your own institutions, in this important matter, and never cease until every son of Adam shall be free. (Applause.)
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
MR. CHAIRMANï¿½I have listened, with a great deal of interest, to the experience and testimony of the friend who has just occupied this place in regard to St. Domingo. I do not think that there can be a more important chapter of history to the Abolitionist than that which relates to the independence of at. Domingo. We are accustomed to let the pr-slavery press have it s own way in regard to the history of that island. Where as it is the very best and clearest and most unexceptionable chapter in the history of the black raceï¿½perfect as poetry. There is not a single fact nor incident which the lover of the negro would care to erase from the record. I want to dwell upon it a single moment. People imagine that, at the time of what are calledï¿½ the horrors of St. Domingo'ï¿½the original revoltï¿½the slaves rose, in blood and in fire, with nothing bur revenge in their hears down-trodden like the worm, they rose tigers, to bathe their had in the blood of their masters; whereas the whole story of the incorrection, at its commencement, is the finest chapter in the history of the race. The slaves never thought of resistance. Docile, kind-hearted, trodden in the earth, driven almost to despair, they let the contest between the white and the mulatto go on in the upper air, until men imagined they had become indifferent to liberty; that they were besotted; that they lacked the intelligent courage of the white race, and appreciation of liberty. Oh, no! this continued just long enough to show the sweetness of their blood, the absence of revenge, the absence of malignity; and then, at the first firing moment, it vanished. It was thus:ï¿½The slaves, as I have said, never thought of rising. The royal party in France, anxious to get a foothold in the island, when the king's head had been taken off in Paris, sent their agent to create a revolution in favor of the king, and finding all others silent or indifferent, sent their emissaries among the slaves. Charles the Tenthï¿½then the Count d'Artois sent his. The Royal Governor, Blanchelande, sent his. Royalists among the planters went in person. The slaves listened to the political motive. They loved the King. Every link that had been lifted from the heavy chain of slavery on their necks, had been lifted by a Bourbon. They were grateful for the historic memory, and they rushed to the field in the name of the King.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
When they stood there in arms, men-recoginzed as such by the intrigues of parties-then, for the first time, Toussaint, concealed behind the scenes, said to the wire-pullers, 'Gentlemen, we are here in your behalf. We seemed besotted, but we knew our rights, We will stand for the throne to-day, but only on condition that you stand for liberty to-morrow, and that you give us the pledge.' When vistory perched upon the royal banners, they forgot the pledge. But the black man never forgot it; he took up both parties, one in the right, the other in the left hand of his physical supremacy, and dashed them to pieces, shouting Liberty and Manhood as the motto of the new order of things; and from that hour to this, he has held the island as his own. I arrest that in the whole history of civil life, there is not a more skilful, braver, more bloodless, nor more successful effort, on the part of an uneducated, unarmed populace to take the government by the throat. strangle it, and place themselves at the head of affairs. That was seventy years ago. The revolution was bloodless. The slave said, 'I take my own; go your way!' He never took life nor blood. Deserving of memory!
When Napoleon tried to put the yoke upon his neck a second time; when the lion, in his 'pride of place' upon the throne of the island, met the French eagle, then, indeed, fighting with the energy of despair, and on the forlorn hope, the black man showed the courage of the Roman or the Greek, and utterly annihilated the sixty thousand French soldiers that Napoleon sent against him! (Applause.) That was the first test-courage.
The second great test of blood is the capacity to govern a State. My friend (Mr. Bird) alluded to schools and churches and morality-all excellent tests; but the great test of races, the great general test of blood, is the capacity to govern and maintain a State. Now, Mexico has tumbled over and over a dozen times in seventy years. Brazil, Chili, Peru, Guatemala, all the Spanish colonies, are but tumblers-everlastingly turning summersets; History has not pens enough to record the names of their Governors. To write the History of the Spanish colonies would take lightning. (Laughter.) It is like the story of the man in West Bridgwater who said that another man's wife lied. The husband of the woman came to him, and said, 'You say my wife does not tell the truth; I want you to take it back.' 'Now,' said the other, 'tell me, doesn't your wife talk faster than lightning? 'Yes; but what has that to do with it?' 'Well, I maintain there is not truth enough in the world for her to speak it all the time, fast as she talks.' (Loud laughter and applause.) So, in regard to the history of the Spanish colonies, you must have a historian as fast as that woman's tongue to keep up with their changes. But they are of Spanish blood; the proudest, and, in some senses, the most noble in the world; but they are not capable of government. Here are these uneducated negroes, with no sympathy from Europe, with no dollar of capital, their soil burned over-as id Massachusetts were floated back to where the Puritans found it in 1630-they have put their feet on the untrodden and unredeemed soil of Hayti, and said to the world, 'This is ours'-and held their own for seventy years. If that does not prove capacity for self-government, the highest test of the capacity of a race, then I do not know where it is to be found. I wanted to say so much, because I count St. Domingo a very jewel of anti-slavery testimony and evidence. I do not care what Mr. Redpath finds there in regard to morals and education. I know that the black man has conquered that island, and has held it against all races and all arms; that is enough for me to prove his capacity.
But I want to speak of Massachusetts. A year or two ago, I remember making a speech here, in which I referred to the removal of Judge Loring. Some abolitionists thought it was not judicious, because, to remove a judge, rendered the tenure of the judicial office uncertain. The Republican friends, I remember, who stood around the outskirts of the meeting, were especially anxious that Massachusetts should not injure the sacredness of the judicial office. I want to console those abolitionists, and those Republicans, especially, who thought that Anti-Slavery was going too far, by a fact which has taken place the year. Governor Banks and the Republicans, exceedingly jealous in regard to the sacredness of the judicial office, delicate and tender-footed about interfering with Judge Loring, wished lately to unseat twelve judges; but, very anxious to preserve the solemn hoariness of the judicial office, they did not attack the Common Pleas Court and remove the judges-oh, no; they took the bench and cut it off on both sides, and the judges fell! (Laughter and applause.) There was not a man in the Commonwealth, there was not a newspaper, there was not a voice in the Legislature, to say a word about the sacredness of the judicial office. Do not cut the judge off, but cut up the bench, and the judicial office is as sacred as ever, only the judges come plump down to the ground. Thank God for it! We will cut up the whole bench of the Supreme Court, and let them down. It is a new way. In Ohio, the Supreme Court would not release the Oberlin heroes. I am glad we in Massachusetts have set the people of Ohio an example. Just cut off the limb, and the man will come down who is on top of it. I want you to remember this precedent; this 'new way of paying old debts.' Keep it in mind. The very fortress of the Anti-Slavery movement is the judiciary. The battle is to be fought in the jury box. The States are to be redeemed by the judges. Through that Gibraltar we must take Massachusetts out of the Union. When we propose it, my Republican friend, don't throw in our teeth the interference with the sacredness and independence of the function of a judge. Remember the Superior Court!. Remember the twelve judges who woke up and found they no longer had a bench! (Applause.) The Legislature have got out a new patent. It is called 'The Great Republican Panacea; or, Sherman's Poor Man's Plaster for Diseased Constitutions.' (Shouts of laughter and prolonged applause.)
It is very necessary. Here is Mr. Winthrop. He has been writing a letter to Mr. Ketchum, of New York, and he says he knows no reason in the world, none whatever, at the present moment, that calls for any discussion whatever on the subject of slavery! (Laughter.) 'I see nothing that calls for action or discussion, or that involves any conflict between the Northern and Southern States.' He says that he has no dread about the revival of the slave trade; it is only in regard to its being made the 'subject of angry and reproachful denunciation.' That is, Mr. Winthrop has no objection, particularly, to a cargo of Africans sold in Savannah, but only to the Liberator, published in Boston; and he thinks, he indulges the hope, that he can get an administration on those principles, although there be no Whig party in existence! Well, I should like-to see it! He has just waked up, finds himself in Massachusetts, and having a very full-length view of the iron statue of Webster, he does not see anything else. (Laughter and applause.) I remember, when I went into Rome, the postillion in front of me, bobbing up in his sent, his little hat hid the dome of St. Peter's. So it is with the ghost of the Whig party, which, bobbing up and down in front of Mr. Winthrop, like that hat of the postillion,-only his is empty, and mine had a head in it, (great merriment)-entirely shuts out from him the great anti-slavery movement and purpose of twenty millions of the American people. Well, as he has not got out of the grave, we will not take him out. Leave him where he is. Our only business is, to forget the existence of such fossil remains of an extinct civilization. (Applause.) That is the product of Harvard College and the Whig party. (Laughter and cheers.)
I remember that in "Hood's Oddities,' there is a picture of a spoiled child. The baby had been laid in an arm-chair, and there came in a man weighing about three hundred pounds, with the London Times in his hand, and he sat down upon it. When it was
<c02>
found to be dead, the coroner came and said that he would have an inquest. ' I don't see why,' says the mother; 'it died a very natural death.' Mr. Webster sat down upon Mr. Winthrop, and than he is! (Roars of laughter and applause.) He died a very natural death! I do not think it is worth while to hold an inquest on him. (Renewed merriment.) 
Mr. Phillips then proceeded to urge upon his hearers the importance of making all parties in the State who pretend to any anti-slavery feeling, open their eyes to the question that now threatens the American people, namely, ' How much of State sovereignty is there left?' Is there any law passed by the government of a Commonwealth, that can be valid against the usurpation of the United States Courts? Their object was to make Massachusetts sacred ground; to attack the Constitution in its most undefended and indefensible position. He admitted that this was revolution—disunion in essence; and the reason why he advocated it was because it has a point upon which every man's mind was made up, and every man's heart supplies him logic. It was a question upon which no man had the indecency to differ. He wanted to take that as the battering-ram. Politics, so far as could be judged by the present state of the political sky, bade fair to be a failure in the next Presidential election. The ' Two Years' Amendment,' that made foreigners incapable of voting, was the rope upon which, with the spindle in his hand, the little boy of the distaff hung himself, seated in the Governor's chair of Massachusetts. ' Thank God,' said Mr. P. 'for the field out of which that rope was grown and hackled!' (Loud applause.) Banks has no chance; Wilson, a much honester man, has no chance. Perhaps Douglas, perhaps Pierce will be the next President. Massachusetts, like an ill-behaved school-boy, has been sent from the head of the class down to the bottom, and she must work herself up again into respectability on the Republican record. He was willing she should be there and stay there; for, after all, the record of Republican successes was only the record of successful compromisers and hucksters. When next she went to the head of the class, he hoped she would go with disunion flouting at her mast-head, and, outside of the Union, making her mark on the mind of the people of twenty States. 
In this connection, Mr. Phillips spoke, in an exceedingly glowing and eloquent strain of the position of Massachusetts, and New England generally, as emphatically the brain of the Union. It is a glorious country, said he, that God has given us, fit in every respect but one to look up, on this holiday of the Union, and seem worthy of the sun and the sky that look down upon us; for it is the people taking possession, by right, by inheritance, by worth, of the wealth, the culture, the happiness, and the achievements of the age. Show me such another! In the rotten, shiftless, poor, decrepid, bankrupt South, can you find the material that can erect a barrier against the onward and outward pressure of such a people as ours? Yes,—when the dream of the girl dams up Niagara, when the bulrush says to the Mississippi, ' Stop!' then will Carolina or Mississippi say to the potency of New England, with her three million educated, earnest, governing hearts,—say to her, in the tone of this worn-out, effete, rotten whiggery of Harvard College, 'Stop here!' (Great enthusiasm.) Why, by the vigor of such a civilization as ours, we shall take the State of Mississippi by the nape of its neck, and shake every decrepid white man out of it, and give it into the hands of the slave that now tills it, and make America to represent the ideal to which our fathers consecrated it. Be worthy of this day! Create a sympathy among these toiling millions for liberty. What is it that makes us powerless? It is that your Church teaches us to look down on the black man; it is that your State teaches us, with this letter of Winthrop, that we have no duty outside the narrow circle of Massachusetts law. Here, under the blue sky of New England, we teach the doctrine, that wherever you find a man down-trodden, he is your brother; wherever you find an unjust law, you are bound to be its enemy; that Massachusetts was planted as the furnace of perpetual insurrection against tyrants, [loud applause]; that this is a bastard who has stolen the name of the Winthrops, [tremendous cheering,]—been foisted into the cradle while his mother was out [loud laughter and applause]; that the true blood of the Bradfords, the Carvers, the Endicotts and the Winthrops crops out in some fanatical abolitionist, whom the Church disowns, whom the State tramples under foot, but who will yet remodel both, by the potency of that truth which the elder Winthrop gave into our hands, and which we hold to-day as an example for the nation. [Prolonged applause.] This is my speech for the Fourth of July. [A VOICE—'A very good one,'—to which all the people responded 'Amen,' in their hearts, at least] 
The meeting then adjourned for one hour, to give the company time to make a thorough investigation into the contents of sundry and several baskets, of all sizes, which had been watched with lynx-eyed vigilance all the morning, the result of which appeared to be perfectly satisfactory to the respective ' prospectors.' 
AFTERNOON SESSION. At quarter past two o'clock the meeting was again called to order, and a hymn written by James H. Dean, was sung by the assembly.
SPEECH OF WILLIAM WELLS BROWN. 
The first speaker of the afternoon was WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, who commenced by reading the following advertisement, which he said was taken from the Winchester (Tenn.) Journal:— 
'SALE OF NEGROES. By consent of parties, I will, on the Fourth of July next [to-day] sell at the courthouse door in the town of Winchester, for cash, the following slaves: Ella, about 15; Freddy, about 11, Joan, a girl, about 8; David, about 6: Ben, about 4, Charles, about 2; Eda, about 33, and her infant child Judah. about 45, and her only daughter. Together with a top buggy, and several wagons and horses.'
This advertisement, said Mr. Brown, is a very correct illustration of the idea the Southern people have of liberty. A woman and her children, herded with horses and wagons, and brought up, on the national birth-day, to be sold to the highest bidder! Look a that, and compare it with that portion of the Declaration of Independence which declares, ' We hold them truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, LIBERTY, and the pursuit of happiness.' I think that this assembly, in turning its back upon the pomp and show of Boston and Worcester, and other places, have shown their appreciation of the right of man to his liberty and that feeling which must animate the heart of every lover of justice in our land. 
Mr. Brown said that at the South, the great fete days were regarded as specially adapted to the sale a slaves, and used for that purpose to a great extent. because the people, on those days, gathered at home central spot, and the traffickers in human flesh found a larger market for their chattels. He held this to be a fitter illustration of the practical workings of this government, so far as human rights were concerned, than any other illustration that would be presented in the Free States on that day, and it was a fair illustration of the ideas of the slaveocracy of the country in the Southern States. 
Slavery, said Mr. B., is a great crime; and to-day the Abolitionists ought to ring this fact in the ears of the people wherever they can. When the people are thinking and talking about liberty, is the most appropriate time to bring up the question of Slavery; when the people are looking back to the time when the great struggle for American liberty was about to be fought is the time to make an impression. When Pisistratus, I think it was, desired to obtain power in Athens, he went about duping the people, and promising them liberty if they would only put him in power. Solon, an abler and better statesman than himself, warned the people against his sophistry, but they did not heed his warming, and placed Pisistratus in power. Having
<c03>
attained the object of his ambition, he oppressed the people, and they went to Solon, and asked him if he would assist In removing the tyrant from among them. He replied, 'I warned you years ago, but now it is too late. I warned you when this tree was in its germ, but now it has grown, into a mighty tree, and must be plucked up by the roots: that is the only saviour for the people,' So It is with Slavery. A few warned the people, years ago, long before this monster was fastened upon the nation as It is to-day, but they would not take heed. Now, we find it interwoven; into all the ramifications of government and society. Wherever we look, we find slavery represented. The only hope for the nation now is in pulling the tree up by the roots; is striking at the foundation, and laboring there until this foul system is overthrown and annihilated. 
Mr. Brown then referred to the fact, that the fourth of July was dreaded more than almost any other day of the year by the slaves, because it was the great day of sale in the Southern States. Many a husband and wife lay last night, and dreaded the firing of the cannons and the ringing of the bells this morning, because they were the signals for their separation from each other, and from their children. The slave dreaded the fourth of July as he dreaded the first of January, which was the day when the slaves were hired out. This, then, was the day to speak upon the subject of; slavery; and he rejoiced that so many had felt called upon to meet with them on that occasion. He thought these meetings did a great work, and were, perhaps, the most important meetings held during the year, because they were a protest against the nonsense and hypocrisy exhibited in other places, and it was by such means that they were to deepen the impression upon the hearts of the people, and bring about a change in public opinion that should eventually strike the chains from the limbs of their enslaved countrymen in the Southern States. 
In conclusion, Mr. Brown expressed his faith in the future, his confidence that the anti-slavery movement was progressing, and that the day of the slave's deliverance was drawing near. He believed that the day was near at hand when they would realize what is written in the Declaration of Independence, that all men are indeed free. He stated that a new organization had just been started in England, with their noble friend, GEORGE, THOMPSON, (applause) at its head, to co-operate with the American Abolitionists, and he believed they should receive the sympathy and co-operation of the friends of freedom in Europe to a greater extent than ever before. Let us, then, said Mr. B., not be weary in the good work, but labor on, resolved to do all that we may for the emancipation of our countrymen in chains. I feel that the slave to-day, in all parts of the Southern States, if he could only see this gathering, would look up to God and thank Him that the hearts of the Abolitionists beat so warmly in behalf of freedom. Then let us go on, and thank God that we have such a day for holding our meeting, that so many have come together, and that we all feel, as I know all must feel, that the fire of freedom ought to be made to burn brighter and brighter upon our heart's altar, until the last chain shall fall from the limbs of the last slave upon the American Continent. (Applause.) 
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., then made a brief but earnest appeal for funds in aid of the cause, and stated that the Finance Committee would now enter upon the performance of their duty. 
SPEECH OF EDMUND QUINCY, ESQ.
EDMUND QUINCY, Esq., of Dedham, was the next speaker. He said:—As my friend Mr. Brown was reading the advertisement which made the text of his speech, one sentence struck me, on which I supposed he was going to comment, but to which, as he has passed it by, I will take the liberty of calling your attention. I refer to the clause which states that this sale, which is, perhaps,—making due allowance for the difference of time,—at this moment taking place in a Southern State, will be made 'by consent of parties.' What parties gave their consent to that sale? Did the slaves consent to be placed like beasts in the market-place, and sold by public outcry to the highest bidder? Of course, you know that the ' parties' were certain white men or white women, who had some litigation about these slaves, and whose rights in their bodies and souls were in question, and they agreed that these fellow-creatures of theirs and ours should be sold under the hammer of the auctioneer, and the proceeds divided among themselves, or left at the disposition of the Court. 
I did not know, until Mr. Brown informed us, that the fourth of July is the great day for the sale of slaves in the South; but it is a most pregnant fact, and one that we should all remember, and publish from one end of the world to the other. The great market-day for slaves is the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence! Good heavens, Mr. President, could there be such a commentary as that upon our institutions! Could there be such a gloss on such a text as that! And yet we all know it is just what it should be. What other day should be the high market-day for slaves? What have the vaporing orators who have been tickling the ears of the American people, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from the St. Lawrence to the Sabine, or whatever makes the other boundary of the United States— what is it that they have been telling this people was their great duty, in order to prove that they were indeed worthy of this great bequest of liberty they had received from their fathers? It is, as you of course know, that they should 'preserve the Union'—that they should maintain inviolate their loyalty to the Constitution. And what do they mean by that? We all know that they mean that we should be as silent as that degenerate Winthrop tells us to be in regard to the wrongs of the slave at the South, and that we should be at all times ready, when duly called upon, to catch, keep and restore to his master the slave who has escaped from him unto us. Why should not the, fourth of July be the high market-day for slaves throughout the South? It is but the fit expression of the condition of the general heart, of the governing heart, so to speak, of this country.
I do not think, sir, that the old signers dreamed of this thing. I do not think that, when old John Adams said that this day would be welcomed by the ringing of bells, the pealing of cannon, and the shouts of rejoicing multitudes, this idea entered into his mind as one of the elements of his proposition. I do not believe that he wished the cannon to peal, the bells, to resound, and the shouts of men to go up, because this was to be the day when more slaves were to be sold under the hammer than any other; and yet, such has been the inevitable sequence, the logical necessity of the state of things which they left—not on, the fourth of July, indeed, but in 1787, in the next step of the Revolution, when the people came together to knit up the ravelled sleeve of their political institutions, and to make out of it a girdle which was to bind together the sovereign States into a common, empire. They listened to the temptation of the devil who then solicited their ear. They listened to the. devil of compromise, and they consented that slavery a should enter into the elements of their Constitution. If the men of the North had had the virtue and firmness to say to the South, ' We will form no Union with any States in which all the inhabitants an not as free as we are ourselves,' there would have been a conflict, not of arms,—I think that would have been a impossible,—but there would have been a conflict of opinion, which could have had no other end than the emancipation of the slaves of the South. But they let that golden moment pass. They took the little egg of slavery into their bosom, hoping that the serpent a which it produced would die a natural death;—as if that were the normal way in which natural history operates! But, instead of dying a natural death, it has grown up into a dragon, which now threatens to devour their children, and all their rights.
<c04>
We give all <illegible> to the fathers for their revolution. Great was the price which they paid for that freedom which they believed we should inherit; but we cannot forget that they also gave us that Constitution of the United States, in which those slave clauses have grown up into a tyranny which enmeshes us, and threatens to crush us. What has the United States government done for us? By the rulings of the Supreme Court, and by the laws of Congress, it has virtually repealed the habeas corpus, the trial by jury, the right of a man to be tried by his peers, and all those old rights of Britons, to maintain which the Revolution was mainly fought.
Now, sir, you and I, I believe, agree as to the remedy for this. We believe there is only one thing that can entirely cure all these evils, and that is, a revolution which shall overthrow the existing Constitution of the United States, or which shall sunder the tie which binds the Northern States to the Southern, the slave to the free, the living to the dead. But, sir, there are things, as Mr. Phillips has told us, which we can begin to do here. Freedom's battle can be begun to be fought in all the distant provinces of the empire. It is not necessary that we should meet in common. conflict at Washington, or anywhere upon the frontier. Slavery has entrenched itself here. Slavery has set up its fortresses and its fastnesses in all the Free States, and those fortresses we can storm, those fortifications we can carry; we can spike those guns; we can declare our own independence. Why, sir, we almost did it last year, and if we had not had a Presidential baby at nurse, we should have done it. (Laughter and applause.) If we had not been obliged to take care of ourselves, to tread, as it were, upon eggs, last we should, peradventure, damage <illegible> chances for the Presidency—which, thank God, are now utterly annihilated (applause) —if it had not been for that, we should have had a Personal Liberty Bill which would have rendered the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law and the recapture of slaves in this State impossible. We were not very far from it in New York, and we came within sight of it in Maine and New Hampshire. In two States, the work has been really begun. In one, by the decision of the courts, and in the other by the legislative expression of the sovereign will of the people, the Fugitive Slave Law is annihilated. No slave, if the will of the people and the law of the land are executed, can ever be taken from Wisconsin or Vermont. And what a glorious opportunity had Ohio just now to do the same thing! The Republican party, which now holds the political destinies of that State in its hands, might, in the constitutional exercise of their power, by the election of such judges as would represent the mind of the people, have repealed, annihilated, nullified—(it is a good word)—nullified those atrocious laws of the United States Congress. And why was it not done? Because they have there a political huckster, who hopes to carry his principles to the Presidential market next spring. I thank God that his chances are quite as desperate as those of our present Governor. Yet lest, peradventure, the chances of Salmon P. Chase might be hindered in the Republican Convention of 1860, a judge known to hold the pro-slavery opinions of a majority of the court (Judge Swan) was elected. 
Well, Mr. President, this is not going to last forever. We shall have a Personal Liberty Bill here in Massachusetts; they will have one in Ohio, in New York, and in other States; and I hope to live to see the time,—and that, too, without living to be an octogenarian, like my father,—when, if a United States judge dares to disobey the law of Massachusetts, he will be taken from the bench and set to honest work in the penitentiary, and the United States defied to take him out. [Loud cheers.] Then, I tell you, Mr. President, the revolution will have begun to come to its conclusion. It was begun away back in the ages. It was begun by Wickliffe, it was begun by Zwingle, it was began by Huss, by Jerome of Prague, by all those reformers who assailed the power of Rome, and so down to Puritanism, when it was wafted to these shores in the Mayflower. The field was planted and reaped by the sword of the revolution, but the harvest was not gathered in. That work was left for us. It is very true, as has already been said, that this day belongs to us. We abolitionists are the only me in who have a right to celebrate the fourth of July, for we are the men who stand in the place of the fathers, and we are engaged in finishing the work which they began. And if we do our duty in this State, and if the anti-slavery people of other States will do their duty in those States, they can deal a blow to slavery, of which, although it may linger for awhile, it must at last die. [Loud applause.] 
Mr. JOHN BEESON next presented the claims of the Indians to the sympathy of the audience. He spoke of the gross wrongs and outrages to which they were subjected by the whites who stole their children and sold them as slaves, and attributed their own atrocious crimes to the red men, to influence the prejudice against them. He thought the abolitionists would never succeed in the accomplishment of their object of freeing the blacks, until the wrongs of the Indians were redressed. That was the root at which he believed they should strike. The Indians had many noble traits of character, one of which was, their determination never to be slaves. The speaker said the Indians did not want missionaries nor creeds, but homes, protection, sympathy, and to be acknowledged as men. The whites had preached to them, not' glad tidings of great joy,' but bad tidings of great misery. When we send them ' glad tidings of great joy,' they will become Christians at once. Mr. Beeson said a society had now been organized for the purpose of rendering effective aid to the Indians of the country, and he asked for this Society the sympathy and cooperation of the friends of humanity everywhere. 
The President then introduced ANDREW T. Foss, remarking that, some years ago, he invited Mr. Foss to speak for him one Sunday at Worcester, and as he walked with him through the street, he (Mr. F.) having on a full canonical suit, the people whom they met regarded him wish some suspicion, as if he had stolen his companion. They mistook him for an Episcopal Bishop. (Laughter.) He had been round among the Abolitionists since then, and they had got him whitened out somewhat—more into the color of innocence. (Renewed laughter.)
SPEECH OF ANDREW T. FOSS. 
It takes a long time to live down a bad reputation. [Laughter and cheers.] I am sorry to hear that I was ever so small a man as to be mistaken for a Bishop. [ More laughter and applause.]
Mr. Foss said, in reference to the appeal that had been made for the Indians, that, in his judgment, the greatest wrong that the whites had ever inflicted upon the Indians was in making them slaveholders. This was a wrong more to be deplored than taking away his lands, murdering his children, or whatever other wrongs had been committed against them. He appreciated the motives of the gentleman who had spoken for them, end felt for them, but he could not forget, that he could not deliver an anti-slavery speech among the Choctaw or Cherokee Indians to-day, except at the risk of his life. 
Mr. F. then proceeded to speak of the efforts to secure the passage of Personal Liberty Bills in the Southern States, which he said he did not regard as the main work of the Abolitionists, but a work needful to be done, and one which, if accomplished, would be of great advantage to the cause of anti-slavery. He gave an account of the manner in which a bill of this character was received in the New Hampshire Legislature at its recent <illegible> and the causes which led to its defeat. On ordering the bill to its third reading, the votes stood 124 in favor, 101 in opposition; but during the time which intervened before it could be put upon its passage, the politicians were busy among the members, telling them it would not do to pass this bill, and that it must be indefinitely post-
<c05>
<illegible>. In consequence of this, when it came up the next day, only seventeen members had the courage to stand up in favor of its passage. Nevertheless, the people of New Hampshire wanted this law, and they would have it, and it was not in the power of the party leaders to prevent this result. He did not agree with Henry Wilson that the leaders were ahead of the people. He believed that now, as in ancient times, they 'make them to err.' 
As an indication of the popular feeling in this matter, the speaker stated that he had the pleasure of lecturing in the town of Westport, the other day, where, last year, only two names were obtained to a petition for a Personal Liberty Bill. After his lecture, the petition was presented, and over seventy signers obtained. <illegible> to tell, all four of the ministers signed it! (Applause.) He was most hopeful in regard to this movement, and believed we should have such a law, and the slave made secure on our soil, if the friends of the cause would only labor earnestly to that end. It was sometimes said that the Abolitionists were an extravagant people; but it was not so; they were a very moderate people. They only asked for justice; they only asked for that which it would ennoble the State to grant. They asked Massachusetts to take no stand that would not be to her credit, and give her an immortality of fame. (Applause.) 
The President then said that he wished to introduce to the audience a conductor on the Underground Railroad, who, having first transformed herself from a chattel into a human being, had since transformed sixty other chattels into other human beings, by her own personal efforts. It was rather hard to introduce her. She came here from a place in the slave States; she came by land, and had been here a reasonable time. (Laughter,) At the South, she was called 'Moses'—after an ancient leader, who took men and women into the promised land. (Applause.) 
'MOSES,' the deliverer, then stood up before the audience, who greeted her with enthusiastic cheers. She spoke briefly, telling the story of her sufferings as a slave, her escape, and her achievements on the Underground Railroad, in a style of quaint simplicity, which excited the most profound interest in her hearers. The mere words could do no justice to the speaker, and therefore we do not undertake to give them; but we advise all our readers to take the earliest opportunity to see and hear her. 
Mr. HIGGINSON stated that this brave woman had never asked for a cent from the Abolitionists, but that all her operations had been conducted at her own cost, with money earned by herself. Now, however, having brought her father and mother out of slavery, she found that the labor required for their support rendered her incapable of doing any thing in the way of business, and she therefore desired to raise a few hundred dollars to enable her to buy a little place where her father and mother could support themselves, and enable her to resume the practice of her profession! (Laughter and applause.) 
A collection was taken in her behalf, amounting to thirty-seven dollars, for which, at the conclusion of the meeting, in a few earnest and touching words, she spoke her thanks. 
GEORGE W. STACY, of Milford, then addressed the audience. He referred particularly to the false and hollow declarations which were everywhere made in the land, that ours was a free and enlightened country, and spoke with severity of the countenance which was given to these falsehoods by the clergy. Their conduct reminded him of the story of the old lady who, when some one asked her what she thought of total depravity, replied, 'I think it k a very good doctrine, if people only lived up to it.' [Laughter.] He certainly thought these men came as near' living up to it' as any class of people in the world. 
Mr. Stacy said he could not feel so hopeful in regard to the future as Mr. Brown did. He saw no signs of encouragement either in politics or in the Church. Speaking of the shame and disgrace of slavery, Mr. S. related an anecdote told by Philip S. White, the well known temperance lecturer. Mr. White, while travelling in Europe, on one occasion was sitting at the table of a hotel when were representatives of several European nations — Italians, Frenchmen, Germans, and others—and it was proposed that each one should say something in praise of his country. When his turn came, Mr. White launched out into the usual pompous strain of glorification of this country as ' the land of the free and the home of the brave.' When he got through, a very insignificant looking Frenchman, who sat by his side, said to him, ' Mr. White, is South Carolina in your country?' 'Yes,' he replied. 'Well, just listen!'—and the Frenchman read an advertisement of a runaway slave, from a South Carolina paper, described as nearly white, and having sundry scars upon his body, and in conclusion exclaimed,' Good God, Mr. White, is that your country?' 'Oh,' said Mr. White, on telling the story, ' if I could have sunk out of sight, I would have given the world.' 
Mr. Stacy then spoke, with deep feeling, of the importance of preserving their children from contamination in the midst of the prevailing hypocrisy and wickedness, and from being led away by those who sought to instil into their youthful minds a belief in the lies which they themselves utter. In this connection, he referred to a celebration that day in Milford, and quoted the two following verses from hymns which had been prepared for the children to sing on the occasion:— 
'From the pine of the North to the Southern savannah,
From these dark sounding shores to the bright Western tide. 
How glorious the sweep of the star-spangled banner! 
How vast thy dominion, O land of our pride! 
That freedom the fathers from heaven receiving, 
Preserved unpolluted by Tyranny's breath, 
And bequeathed to their children the birthright, believing 
It hallowed the morn by their lives and their death.' 
Their work was to secure their children from the influence of these men. No matter what sanctimonious faces they put on, we know that they are the children of the devil, for his works they do. 'I speak with feeling on the point,' said Mr. S., 'because I see that our great labor is perverted in this way. We are soon to go. The tell-tale hairs upon our heads show that our work is nearly done—who are to follow us?'
Mr. Stacy concluded with an earnest appeal to his hearers to redeem that day from the desecration to which it was subjected by <illegible> politicians and time-serving priests, and never to cease from their labors until the nation was brought to repentance, and Massachusetts stood up in the vanguard of freedom. Then would the angels come again upon the battlements of heaven, and sing, 'Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth, good will to men!' (Loud applause.) 
SPEECH OF C. L. REMOND. 
CHARLES L. REMOND next took the platform, and spoke very briefly. He said that Mr. Phillips had given them, in the letter of Mr. Winthrop to Mr. Ketchum, the product of Harvard University and the Whig party, and he wished to present the product of the Democratic party, in the form of a resolution which had been adopted at the recent Democratic Convention in Maine, which, referring to the ' Two Years' Amendment' in Massachusetts, declares that this amendment is a denial to the foreigner of the rights which are granted to the black man in this country, inasmuch as the foreigner is compelled to wait two years before he is allowed to vote, while the black man could vote in one! Which of these parties was the meanest, the most illiberal, anti-democratic and anti-patriotic; it did not belong to him to say.
Mr. Remond, after referring to the tyranny and oppression to which white men, even, are subjected in the South, in the matter of freedom of speech, said— 
<c06>
I want all those who come here to feel that they are here to speak in thunder-tones those truths which the pulpit and press dare not utter. God <illegible> the day when Massachusetts shall occupy that defend attitudes to which Mr. Phillips has alluded. If we shall accomplish nothing more than that, we shall have done a work of which we may well be proud. (Applause.)
The following resolution, offered by G. W. Stacy, was unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That, feeling the necessity of obtaining the passage of a Personal Liberty Bill at the next session of the Legislature, we recommend an efficient organization in each town, that the latter may be laid before each school district, that all may have an opportunity to give their signatures to redeem Massachusetts, and place her on the side of universal freedom.
Speeches were also made by E. H. HEYWOOD, of Hubbardston, and WILLIAM C. MARTYN, of Worcester, which we regret that want of room obliges us to omit, at least for this week.
Two hymns, appropriate to the occasion, were then sung, after which the President adjourned the meeting until the next Fourth of July, 'unless slavery should be abolished in the mean time, in which case we shall meet sooner.'
At quarter before 6, the cars left the Grove for Boston, Worcester, Milford and Marlboro', bearing 'the great congregation' to their respective homes, which they all reached, we believe, without accident, and with, we doubt not, pleasant recollections of A DAY HAPPILY AND PROFITABLY SPENT
EASTMAN'S WHITS MOUNTAIN GUIDE. A second edition of this neat and reliable work,-making a volume of nearly 200 pages,-has just been published by Edson C. Eastman, Concord, N. H. Mr. E. says that he has been greatly assisted in the preparation of it by Rev. Thomas Starr King, of Boston, Mr. Daniel Goodwin, and Rev. Augustus Woodbury, of Providence, who have each contributed largely to its pages. It contains a map of routes to the White Mountains, and a number of pictorial representations of the most remarkable objects of curiosity, as well as a large amount of valuable information and interesting reading-being just the work which every tourist to the White Mountains should be eager to possess.
CORRECTION. In the article in last Liberator, headed 'Africa,' it is printed that Dr. Delany was hoping to aid the African Colonization Society to found a new nation, &c. It should read African Civilization Society.
A CALL FOR A CONVENTION OF THE COLORED CITIZENS OF THE NEW ENGLAND STATES.
FELLOW CITIZENS:
We issue this call to invite you to attend a Convention to be held in the City of Boston, commencing at 10 o'clock, on Monday, the 1st day of August, 1859. 
The primary object we have in view is, to take into consideration the Moral, Social, and Political elevation of those with whom we are identified, by complexion and condition, in the New England and other Stales. 
In all, except five of the Eastern States, the colored citizens are deprived of the privilege of voting on equal terms with the whites. 
Free suffrage is the basis of a free government, the safeguard of a free people, the strength of the strong, the defence of the weak, a powerful auxiliary to respectability, wealth and usefulness; and just in proportion as men are deprived of this, they are shorn of their strength, and an subject to poverty, disgrace and abuse. 
We are convinced, fellow citizens, that not only our political, but our depressed condition in all other respects in the Free States, is owing in a great degree to the fact, that we are politically weak, not possessing the unrestricted use of the elective franchise. The national body politic see in us nothing to fear, and no favors to court. 
We therefore urge upon colored men in all sections of New England, to evince their self-respect and love of freedom in efforts to promote their moral, social and political elevation, by assembling at the above time,— a day consecrated by the signal and successful example of Great Britain emancipating 800,000 men, women, and children, in her West India colonies, and hence eminently suggestive to us to strive in securing equality to the half free colored citizens of the Northern States, and thus hasten the day of fall emancipation to the millions yet groaning in the Southern prison-house of our country. 
With the exception of Connecticut, the New England States have magnanimously acknowledged our political rights, and great progress has been made in our moral and social elevation within the past twenty-five years. But let us, fellow citizens, extend the words of encouragement to our brethren struggling in other States, until the rights of colored Americana shall be granted and respected everywhere. 
We cordially invite our brethren from New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the far West, to meet with us, that the cause of our several grievances may be discussed, and the remedy sought. 
This call is issued by authority of a public meeting held at Bethel Church, Boston, Tuesday, May 3, 1856. 
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, 
LEWIS HAYDEN, 
WILLIAM C. NELL,
JEREMIAH HARVSY,
JOHN J. SMITH, 
NELSON L. PERKINS, 
HENRY WEEDEN, 
Committee.
MARX R. DEMORTIE,
GEORGE L. RUFFIN, Secretaries.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at Canton, Sunday, July 10.
PARKER PILLSBURY will speak at Natick, Sunday, July 10.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at West Wrentham, Sunday, July 17. 
 ESSEX COUNTY.—The annual meeting of the Essex county Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Danvers Port, Sunday, July 10. C. L. REMOND and A. T. Foss will be present as speakers. Whosoever <illegible>, let him come. 
CHARLES L. REMOND, President.
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
All communications for the undersigned hould be sent to Leicester, Mass. 
SAMUEL MAY. Jr. 
MARRIED—At the Jay homestead, Bedford, West Chester county, (N. Y.) Jane 23. by the Rev. John Jenry Hobart, D. D., of New York, HENRY GRAFTON CHAPMAN, Esq., of Boston, to ELEANOR, daughter of JOHN JAY, Esq. 
WOMAN'S RIGHTS MEETING. 
A FULL Report of the Woman's Sights Meeting at Mercantile Hall, May 27. Speeches by Mrs. SEVERANCE, Mrs. DALL, WENDELL PHILLIPS, and others. Just published by S. URBINO, 10 Winter <illegible>, (up stairs.)
 July 8. 6w 
NEW AND USEFUL BOOKS. 
<illegible>. FLOWER & WELLS,
308 BROADWAY, NEW YORK,
Have recently published,
HINTS TOWARDS PHYSICAL PERFECTION,
Illustrated $1.
NEW RURAL HAND-BOOKS, <illegible> The House, The Garden, the Farm, and Domestic Animals-in one illustrated volume. $1 50.
LAND-BOOKS FOR HOME IMPROVEMENTS;
How to Write-How to Talk-How to Behave, and How to Do Business. One vol. $1 50.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC
ENCYCLOPEDIA-the most complete work on the subject. $3 00.
THE ILLUSTRATED FAMILY GYMNASIUM-Applied to the development of Body and Mind.
$1 25.
<illegible>. FOWLER & WELLS have all works on <illegible>, Phrenology, Hydropaths, and the <illegible> Sciences generally. For sale in Boston by D.
BUTLER, 142 Washington street.
June 24. 4W
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
WHAT OF THE MIGHT?
Addressed to "The Anti-Slavery Watchman."
What of the night, Watchman, what of the night-
The black night of Slavery? Wanes, it space?
Do you are in the East the faint dawning of light.
Which tell that the darkness to day will give place?
Do you hear the trees rustle, awake by the breeze?
Do you catch the faint prelude of music to come?
Are these voices that swell like the murmur of seas,
When the gale of the morning first scatters the form?
And what of fight, Watchman, what of the fight-
The battle for Freedom-how goeth it on?
Is there hope for the Truth-is there hope for the Right?
Have Wrong and Oppression the victory won?
Through the long hours of darkness we've listened in fear.
To the sounds of the struggle, the groans and the cries;
Anon they were far, and anon they were near, 
Now dying away, and now filling the skies.
Say, what of the might, Watchman, what of the fight?
Doth gloom yet the bright Sun of Freedom enshroud?
Are the strongholds of slavery yet on the height?
Is the back of the Negro yet broken and bowed?
Then send forth a voice to the nations around;
Bid the peoples arise, many millions as one,
And say-‘This our brother no more shall be bound-
This wrong to God's children no more shall be done!'

WATCHMAN
The night is far spent, and the day is at hand;
There's flush in the East, though the West is yet dark;
Creation bath heard the Eternal command,
And light-glorious light-cometh on; Brothers, hark!
There's a jubilant sound, there's a myriad hum!
All nature is waking, and praising the Lord;
And the voices of men to the list'ning car come,
Crying-'Up Watchman! send the glad tidings abroad!'
In the dark Western valleys yet rageth the war,
And the heel of Oppression treads down the poor Slave;
But his eye sees the dawning of daylight afar, 
And he knows there are hands stretched to succor and save:
The Standard of Freedom, all bloody and torn,
And trampled, and hidden a while from the view,
Upraised by the hand of a Woman, is borne
In the thick of the fight, and hope liveth anew.
Oh, joy to the Watchman! whose eye can discern, 
Through clouds and thick darkness, the breaking of day!
And, joy to the Negro! whose glances may turn
To the quarter whence cometh the life-giving ray.
It cometh-that Freedom for which we have striven!
We have seen the light gilding the hill-tops and heard
The promise of ONE by whom fetters are riven:
'Tis as sure as His high and immutable Word!
H. G. A.

FREEDOM'S GATHERING.
BY JOHN G.WHITTIER.
A voice has gone forth, and the land is awake!
Our freemen shall gather from ocean to lake;
Our cause is as pure as the earth ever saw,
And our faith we will pledge in the thrilling huzza,
Then huzza, then huzza;
Truth's glittering falchion for Freedom we'll draw.
Let them blacken our names, and pursue us with ill,
Our hearts shall be faithful to Liberty still;
Than rally! Then rally! come one and come all,
With harness well girded, and echo the call.
Thy hill-tops, New England, shall leap at the cry,
And the prairie and far-distant South shall reply;
It shall roll o'er the land till the fathermost glen
Gives back the glad summons again and again.
Oppression shall hear in its temple of blood,
And read on its wall the handwriting of God;
Niagara's torrent shall thunder it forth,
It shall burn in the sentinel star of the North.
It shall blaze in the lightning, and speak in the thunder,
Till Slavery's fetters are riven asunder,
And Freedom her rights has triumphantly won,
And our country her garments of beauty put on.
Then huzza, then huzza,
Truth's glittering falchion for Freedom we draw.
Let them blacken our names, and pursue us with ill,
We bow at they altar, sweet Liberty, still!
As the breeze from the mountain sweeps over the river,
So, chainless and free, shall our thoughts be for ever.
Then on to the conflict, for Freedom and Truth;
Come, Matron-come, Maiden-come, Manhood and Youth;
Come gather! come gather! come one and come all,
And soon shall the altars of Slavery fall.
The forests shall know it, and lift up their voice, 
To bid the green prairies and valley rejoice;
And the 'Father or Waters' join Mexico's sea, 
In the anthem of Nature for millions set free.
Then huzza! then huzza!
Truth's glittering falchion for Freedom we draw.

COURAGE.
BY ALICE CAREY
Knowing the right and true, 
Let the world say to you 
Worst that it can;
Answer, despite the blame,
Answer, despite the shame,
I'll net belie my name,
I'll be a man.
Armed only with the right
Standing alone to fight
Wrong, old as time, 
Holding up hands to God,
Over the rack and rod,
Over the crimson sod,
That is sublime!
Monarchs of old, at will
Parcelled the world, but still 
Crowns may be won;
Yet there are piles to light,
Putting all fear to flight,
Shouting for truth and right-
Who will mount on?

SLEEP
BY JOHN KNATS
What is more gentle than a wind in summer?
What is mere soothing than the pretty hummer
That stays one moment in an open flower,
And buzzes cheerily form bower to bower?
What is more tranquil than a musk-rose blowing 
In a green island, far from all men's knowing?
More healthful than the leafiness of dales?
More secret than a nest of nightingales?
More serene than Cordelia's countenance?
More full of visions than a high romance?
What but thee, Sleep? Soft closer of our eyes!
Low murmurer of tender lullabies?
Light hoverer around our happy pillows?
Wreather at poppy-buds and weeping willows?
Silent entangler of a beauty's tresses!
Most happy listener! when the morning blesses
Then for enlivening all the cheerful eyes
That glance so brightly at the new sunrise.
<c02>
ANOTHER CHAPTER OF SOUTHERN A-TROCITIES AND HORRORS.
The long catalogue of atrocities and horrors peculiar to the Sooth has been accumulating until it becomes indispensable to place them upon record for the consideration of all reflecting minds.
Burnt Alive.-A correspondent of the Galveston News writes from Grand Come, May 2, as follows:
‘A dreadful murder was committed last Sunday weak by a negro on his master. Mr. James Roper passed here with his negro on his way home to reach Tree Village. They camped out a mile and a half above Smithfield; the stage driver in the evening saw them sitting together; half an boar afterwards, the negro dashed out his matter's brains, as it appeared, with an are while be was asleep, and then burned his body. He then proceeded toward home, and stated to some of the citizens that he did not know what bad become of his master. Suspicions were excited, and he was taken to the spot where they had camped: the ashes of the fire were examined, and pieces of bones, buttons and rags found. The negro said the Indians bad killed him, but the evidence of the stage driver was against him, and he owned the whole. On Saturday, the 30th April, the negro was BURNED ALIVE on the spot where he had killed his master. He acknowledged he had a good master. His back was bared, and no indication appeared of his ever having been whipped. Mr. Roper was a new comer, and the negro had left a wife in Alabama. The rest of Mr. Roper's family wished to return to Alabama, but Mr. Roper was opposed to it, but promised the negro to purchase his wife next year if money could be obtained, as he had to return and collect some money. This the negro thought was too long to wait, and he thought that if his master was. put out of the way, some of the family would go back to Alabama.'
Burning a Negro at the Stake.-A correspondent of the Maysville Eagle gives the following particulars of the recent burning of a negro at Troy, Ky., for the murder of his master:
On New Year's day, the annual negro sales took place at Troy, the county seat, and there was quite a collection of people there; everything went on smoothly until about 3 o'clock in the evening, when Mr. James Calaway, a brother-in-law of the deceased, mounted upon an old goods-box before a store-door, and addressed the people for about fifteen minutes. He said if the mass of the people felt as he did, and would do their duty, which he believed they would, that they would take the black murderer out of jail and burn him at the stake, in the presence of all the negroes that were there, to set an example before them, and show them what will be the result of all such conduct if there should ever be such again. Then he closed by saying. 'All that feel as I do will follow me.' He then leaped from the stand, and there was a general shout given, and he led the way to the jail, and nine-tenths of the multitude followed. On arriving at the jail, they found the sheriff and jailor, who did all they could to suppress the mob, but all to no purpose.
They now mustered some 800 or 1,000 strong. They then commenced with sledge-hammers, crowbars and axes, and in about an hour entered the jail, and brought forward their victim, (the negro murderer.). They marched him to the centre of the jail-yard, drove down a large stake, and chained him, in an erect position, hand and feet fast to the stake. There was an abundance of shavings and fine split wood piled around him; this consumed some half an hour. During this time, the negro talked to the negroes that gathered round him. He told them that he had a good master, and that he was always treated too well and given too many liberties, and for them to take warning in time, and never do as he had done. Then the torch was applied, and he seemed to be entirely indifferent about it until the flames began to burn as high as his knees. Then be began to twist, and snort, and groan, and in about a minute more he commenced to scream. He gave some of the most hideous screams that I ever heard come from any human being.
I could not stand to see any more, and left. When I left, the flames were burning as high as his head. I was only a spectator, took no band either for or against. I think that there were some 1,500 to 2,000 people to witness this dreadful scene, and 200 or 300 negroes.
Another Negro Horror.-Instances of the murders of masters by their slaves have become alarmingly frequent of late, and retribution seems to be dealt out to the perpetrators with dispatch, and in the form to which only a people wrought up to the highest degree of indignation and excitement would resort. The Democrat of yesterday contained a short account of the murder of Mr. Simon B. Thornhill, of Lincoln county, in this State, by one of his slaves, and the subsequent lynching of the negro by the excited citizens. We received yesterday some further particulars of the affair, which are as follows:- 
Mr. Thornhill owned a negro, who, by his recklessness, had frequently overdriven his cattle and injured his wagons. Having occasion to get something hauled, he hired a person to do it, which exasperated the negro. He went into the road, and as his master came along, attacked him with a knife, and stabbed him fourteen times. The wounded man ran to a fence, which he was attempting to scale, when the ruffian came up behind him, and cut him again and again in the back. The wounded man managed to crawl to a house, and was there taken care of, but he died shortly after. The murderer was secured, and committed to jail in the town of Troy, in Lincoln county. The people of the vicinity assembled, and in a great fury and excitement, took him from the prison and burned him to ashes.-St. Louis Democrat.
Captured, Tried, Convicted and Sentenced.-The negro Henry, who murdered Wm. Watkins in this parish two weeks since, was captured last Sunday, and brought to town and tried on Tuesday, before Justices Harris and Hillman and ten freeholders, agreeably to the provisions of the Black Code. The murderer was allowed to make his own statement, and the result was a full confession of the horrid crime of which he stood accused.
The prosecution, on the part of the State, was conducted by H. D. Wagnon, Esq. The jury, after retiring for a short time, returned with a verdict of guilty, and Judge Harris then pronounced, the sentence of death, decreeing the murderer to be hung on Friday, 11th, (which was yesterday) at the plantation where the deed was committed.
P. S. Since the above was written, we learn from D. L. Morgan, Esq., Deputy Sheriff, that the negro was executed according to the terms of his sentence. He remained obstinate and unrelenting to the last. It was feared that an attempt would be made by certain parties to wrest the negro from the officer (Mr. Morgan) who had charge of him, with a view of burning him at the stake, so great was the feeling of indignation against the wretch; but through the prudent management of Mr. Morgan, the fiat of the law was earned out inviolate.-Lake Providence Herald, 5h.
Branding Negroes.-The Selma (Ala.) Sentinel, in alluding to the punishment of a negro at Claiborne, Miss., by branding, says: This seems to as a new feature in the punishment of slaves. We were under the impression that such luxuries as the penitentiary and branding were reserved exclusively for the delectation of white folks. It was once the fashion to hang negroes for the crime of arson; but such property is probably too valuable to choke off in that way now. Perhaps the next step may be to send them to the penitentiary for life, when convicted of murder, and pay their owners for the time lost. Won't that he philanthropy? But we cannot see that any punishment' has been inflicted on the negro by branding, as be is not at all disgraced by it. Nevertheless, when we obtain a fall supply of cheap laborers, the community will soon be rid of such desperadoes.'
Murdered by his Slaves.-The Louisville Democrat gives an account of the murder of Mr. James Maxwell, of Spencer County, Ky., by three of his slaves. Mr. Maxwell resided on the road between Bloomfield and Bardstown, a few miles from the Nashville Railroad. He is stated to have had occasion to correct two of his negro women, and gave then a whipping. Business called him away an hour or two afterwards, and he did not return till late at night, when he was waylaid about a raft from his house, by three men dares, who attacked him with clubs. He wounded two of them, but they finally knocked him down and killed him. The other two who had been wounded then fled, and the other returned home, and, claiming to be innocent, told of the deed which he and the others had committed, though he had endeavored to prevent them. The informer is in jail in Spring-field. Pursuit having been undertaken as soon as the neighborhood be aroused, the two murderers
<c03>
were overtaken and arrested near Bardstown, and lodged in jail in that town.
The Georgia Murder.-A few days ago, the telegraph informed us that a Georgia planter, named and, was shot dead by another planter named Brown. The homicide was examined on the charge of murder, and acquitted. The main facts of the case were detailed by a witness named Sellers, as follows:-
'Witness was is Walker's field, and Brown was in Bell's field; saw a man coaling, who Brown said was Col. Bond. Bond rode near, and prisoner said, Good morning, Colonel. 'Bond said, Good morning; you are the rascal that whipped my negro, Tiling Brown with a stick. Bond struck prisoner the second time with a stick, when prisoner either jumped or fell from his horse on the opposite side, Bond jumped from his horse and ran to the prisoner, caught Brown by the shoulder, jerked him down, and struck Brown with his stick-Brown endeavoring to rise. Whilst on one knee and one foot, shot Bond. Brown, when Bond struck him the third time, called to witness ‘to come over there;' Bond said, Stay where you are; this is my own difficulty; we will settle it.'
Bond, after being shot, again struck Brown with is stick; Brown jerked loose and ran off. Brown some ten steps down the fence, jumped the fence, an some fifteen steps into Walker's field. Bond followed to where Brown crossed the fence, and shot at Brown. Bond then turned and walked nearly to Witness and said, 'I am a dead man,' and fell rose and fell again.
A sad difficulty occurred in Sidon, says the Carrollton Democrat, on Wednesday, between a citizen of this county, Mr. A. C. Jackson, and a man whose name is supposed to be Childers. From all the facts in the case, as related to us, it appears that Childers, without any provocation from the other, insulted him. Jackson, fearing a difficulty, and wishing to avoid it if possible, went off from him; but fearing he might be attacked, armed himself with a shot-gun, having been threatened by Childers. As soon as he was seen by Childers, he started towards him, with a large knife upraised in his hand. Jackson called to him several times, that if he did not stop, he would shoot-having the gun cocked and leveled at him all the while. Regardless of the warning, be rushed headlong, as if bent on his destruction, to within about fifteen paces of Jackson, who then fired. Six buckshot took effect in his breast, causing instant death.
Jackson had his trial before S. T. Lane and J.W. McRae, Esqrs., and was acquitted.
Fight between Kentucky Candidates for Congress. The Frankfort Yeoman gives the following account of the recent fight between two Democratic candidates for Congress: 'A personal difficulty and rencounter occurred at Boonville, Owsley county, on last Monday, a week ago, between Col. Theophilus T. Garrard, the Democratic nominee for Congress in the sixth District, and Benjamin F. Rice, Esq., an independent candidate of the same politics. We have the particulars of the affray from a gentleman who was present. Rice, in the discussion, intimated or charged that Garrard had used improper means to get the vote of the delegation from Floyd and Johnson in the Boonville Convention, and had induced them to violate instructions. Garrard interrupted him by saying that the charge was as false as <illegible> or something to that effect, when Rice retorted that he ‘was a d-d liar.' Both parties commenced drawing pistols about the same time, but Rice's weapon hung in his pocket, and he threw himself upon Garrard, who fell backwards over a bench, his pistol going off without taking effect. During the scuffle which ensued, a general' free fight' took place a round the principal parties, and both Garrard and his antagonist received shots at the hands of the bystanders-the former a slight wound in the hand, and the latter two or three severe flesh wounds in the arm. One other person was shot during the melee; but we are glad to learn that none of them were considered as being very dangerously wounded. It seems that the friends of both parties participated pretty freely in the fight, and we suppose the affair will be allowed to rest as it is -at least we hope so.'
Joseph Charles, one of the oldest and most respected of the citizens of St. Louis, was shot and mortally wounded on the street yesterday, by J. W. Thorton, formerly teller of the Boatman's Savings: Institution. Thorton was tried and acquitted about a year ago on a charge of having stolen $20,000 from! the bank, and Charles happened to be one of the 'principal witnesses against him. At about noon, from 2000 to 3000 persons repaired to the jail with the avowed purpose of forcibly taking and banging the prisoner, (Thorton,) but through the exertions of the police, and the influence of several prominent citizens, the excitement was somewhat allayed, and a majority of the crowd prevailed upon to disperse.
A squad of excited men, however, lingered around the jail all the afternoon, whilst others traversed the streets, threatening vengeance upon the culprit. To prevent violence, the Mayor has ordered out the military, some of whom now (8 o'clock) are standing guard in the jail yard, while others are patrolling the streets, prepared instantly to suppress any threatened outbreak.
A New Yorker Murdered.-We learned from a gentleman yesterday P. M., that a horrible murder; was committed last Saturday night on the steamer Matagorda, which left the port of Matagorda on Saturday, 4th inst. Mr. W. Lyons, agent for' a New York firm, got on board at Indianola with Mr. Hill and wife, and disappeared during Saturday night. At daybreak on Sunday, Captain McKay found clots of blood and portions of human brains on the after deck, with evidences of a terrible crime, and that the victim had been thrown overboard. He instantly traced the deed to Mr. Hill, and had him landed at Galveston. Circumstantial evidence proves that Hill had murdered Lyons for his money. The examination at Galveston, which is still going on, elicited the fact of Hill's clothes being bloody, and his having, in his trunks, valuable papers and deeds of Lyons'. It is singular that such violence and robbery could be committed upon the deck of a Steamship. Where could the watch have been? Either sound asleep, or abettors of the crime-in either case criminal-New Orleans Courier, 8th.
White Man killed by a Negro.-On last Saturday morning, the people of the neighboring county of Union, in Kentucky, were startled and horrified by the occurrence of a deed of blood in their midst which has few parallels in the annals of crime. It seems the overseer on the farm of Mr. Burbanks, on the opposite shore of the Ohio, a short distance from this place, had occasion to chastise some of the slaves under his charge for their misdemeanor. One of them, a boy of about 17 or 18 years, resisting the punishment, he called on a young Irishman, by the name of John J. Clark, engaged upon the farm, to aid him in subduing the rebellious spirit of the slave. I The negro, armed with an ax, warned Clark not to press the attack upon him, saying that he wouldn't be whipped by no poor white man. Clark, with revolver in hand, and presented, advanced upon the negro, little suspecting that his threatening attitude foreboded any evil, and not attempting to shoot, when, with one stroke of the axe, the negro felled him to the earth, killing him instantly. The blow struck with the edge, at the point of the shoulder, and glancing downward, laid Clark's breast open in a most frightful manner. As might be expected, the excitement among the people, attending the committal of so revolting a deed, was intense, and the great wonder is that the negro was not hung or burnt at the stake at once. Propositions to that effect were made, bat, we are glad to say, to the credit of the citizens of Union, a better judgment prevailed, and the negro was lodged in jail at Morganfield to await the due course of the law, when there is no doubt he will be hung.-Shawneetown Illinoisan. 
At the University of Virginia, a shooting affair recently came off between two students, who quarrelled about some college medal. The parties were Mr. J. M. Bentley, of Kentucky, and Charles Gachet, of Alabama, in which the former was seriously, if not fatally wounded-the-ball of his adversary passing through the right arm, entering the right breast, at the nipple, and ranging toward the heart. His physician has not been able to extract the ball. Mr. Grachet was admitted to bail. 
A terrible tragedy occurred recently in Bell Co., Texas. Mr. Ashley, who married a daughter of Murrell, the land pirate, killed a brother-in-law, McCormick, and wounded another man, who was standing near; then fled, and ended his own life by taking strychnine He was a native of Kentucky, bad left how borne under unfavorable circumstances- and a short time ago wrote an autobiography, in which he involved some of the beat and most respected citizens of Bell County.
<c04>
Fatal Duel!-A Mobile correspondent of the few Orleans Picayune, writing May 17th, gives he following particulars of the recent had between <illegible> two young men belonging n New Orleans, at Mobile:-
The meeting took place at 11 o'clock, A.M., at the old race course, (Bazoome.) The weapons were common Mississippi rifles; distance, forty paces. They fought on the inside of the course, some eighty yards from toe enclosure, and under the then sun. Coolness and calmness marked each an Agonist as he walked to his position, and indeed until the tragical denouement: Mr. Tick won the choice of position; Mr. Stith won the word All preliminaries being arranged, and the weapons a] placed in the hands of the belligerents, the usual as command was given. Each gentleman answered audibly, ‘Ready. 'At the word' Fire! 'Mr. Vick m brought his weapon down, and discharged it. At ‘One,' Mr. Stith fired, and his antagonist fell instantaneously dead. The ball took effect immediately under the left cheek, and, running upward, passed into the brain, where it lodged. The unfortunate victim fell, stiffened himself oat, and was dead before his seconds reached him.'
Duel.-A dual took place yesterday on the Metairie Ridge, between Mr. W. C. Lipscomb of the firm U of Wilson, Lipscomb & Co., of this city, and. Mr. ft Samuel Nelson, of the firm of W. S. Donnell & Co., also of this city. The weapons used were shot runs, loaded with ball; distance, forty paces. 
After three shots were exchanged, and no dam age done, except killing a horse which was grazing v within range of Sir. Lipscomb's bullets, the parties t left the ground. The cause of the difficulty was some private quarrel, Mr. Lipscomb being the challged party.-N. O. Delta, 15th.
New Orleans June 10.-An affair of honor took t place yesterday within the limits of this city. The % case was a difficulty on election day, last Monday. The combatants were two young Creoles, and they fought with small swords. One of them was badly wounded in the neck.
John H. Gindrat, editor of the Mobile Mercury, challenged H. Ballentyne, editor of the Tribune. Challenge declined; whereupon, Gindrat ' denounces Ballentine as a coward and scoundrel.
Editors Shooting Each Other the Public Streets.-About 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon, Mr. Poindexter, of the Union and American, and Mr. Beaumont, of the Republican Banner, between ' whom a personal collision had occurred at the Banner office in the forenoon, met in Cedar street, opposite the Capitol, each accompanied by a friend, for the purpose, evidently, of settling their difficulty. With a coolness, which, under the circumstances, might be considered commendable, they ' took positions so as to fire across the way, thus avoiding the danger of injuring persons passing up and down the street. Using pistols, they fired almost simultaneously, neither shot, however, taking effect. On the second shot, Mr. Beaumont received a slight flesh wound in the leg. Mr. Poindexter was unharmed. With the wounding of Mr. Beaumont, hostilities ceased.-Nashville Gaz., 21st.
Fatal Rencontre in a Kentucky Court House.- Louisville, (Ky.) March 2.-An old political feud has existed for some time between Thomas S. Low of Hawkesville, and Cicero Maxwell, of Hartford, (Ky.) the prosecuting attorney for that district. Mr. Low had threatened to cowhide Mr. Maxwell on meeting him. To-day, while Mr. Maxwhll was addressing the Court at Hawkesville, he was interrumpted by Mr. Low, denouncing him in grossly insulting language. 
Mr. Maxwell and others then fired several shots at Mr. Low, wounding him in the thigh and arm, cutting off his thumb, and riddling his shirt. A general fire with pistols now ensued, and John Aldridge, a friend of Mr. Low, was killed, and a Mr. Miller shot through the thigh. Mr. Low has been committed to jail for protection from the mob.
Hawkesville, March 3.-The mob last night broke into jail, and seizing Mr. Thomas S. Low, confined there for protection, shot him dead. Low was the individual who yesterday made the attack in the court-house upon prosecuting attorney Maxwell.
A few days since, a notorious desperado named Tom Middleton, the dread of the quiet citizens of the counties of Texas bordering on Louisiana, was arrested in the latter State, and taken to Bastrop, Texas. While the Sheriff was taking! measures to secure him in jail, a number of citizens took him about a mile oat of town, and hung him.
At Louisville, on the night of the 4th ult., Jack Pender was shot dead, and five other persons were wounded daring an attack by Fender and some companions upon a couple of watchmen. 
At West Point, Ga., on the 15th ult., Mr. Brawner, a teacher, was fatally stabbed by one of his pupils only twelve years old, whom be was correcting with a switch for profanity. One of the boy's play-fellows advised him to commit the crime.
The Austin Intelligencer of the 17th says: Hugh Tinnin has been indicted for the murder of his negro girl last summer. It is charged that she died from a chastisement inflicted by the master. Mr. Tinnin has been for some months under bail.'
A slave died from the effects of unmerciful whipping, in New Orleans, on the 26th, administered by her owner, John T. Hatcher.
Murderous Assault.-Capt. Desmakes, while returning from the theatre on Wednesday night with his wife, was attacked by four men, and shot. His wounds will probably prove fatal.-Nashville paper.
A little son of Francis Best, of Wilkinson, Miss., threatened one of his master's slaves that he would tell something about him, which so enraged the negro that he knocked the boy down with a brick, and then jumped upon him and choked him till he was dead. The negro narrowly escaped lynching by flight.
Peter Nicolovich was shot dead in Mobile, on Monday, by G. W. Jordon. They had quarrelled before the shooting.-Port Gibson, (Miss.) paper.
The Shelbyville, (Ala.) Expositor reports the details of a ' Sickles tragedy,' enacted in Bedford Co., Tenn., on the 21st of April-the part of Sickles by one Alien, and that of the victim of sin and vengeance by Mr. Handy.
On Monday night, 28th ult., a boatman named David Bryant was shot dead in the street at Wilmington, (Del.) by a man named Thomas McCoy. It appears that McCoy had been living with the wife of Bryant during the absence of the latter, and that on the two men meeting in the street on Monday night, some words ensued, when a pistol was fired by McCoy, the contents of which took effect upon the person of Bryant, causing his death. McCoy is in jail.
In Pickens county, (Ala.) recently, a man had a controversy with his father, and discharged a shot-gun at him, killing him instantly; he then turned and shot his brother dead with the other barrel, and fled. He was hotly pursued and overtaken when he attempted suicide, but failed, and was taken back for trial.
The San Antonia (Texas) Herald learns from a letter from Fredericksburg, that four house thieves were recently caught, and shot or bung in Mason county, some thirty or forty miles from that place.
Fatal Shooting Affray.-The Danville (Kr Tribune furnishes additional particulars of the fatal shooting affray at Liberty, Casey county, Ky., recently. The parties were Wm. Ousley, of Hustonville, Lincoln county, a nephew of Ex-Governor Ousley; V Peyton, Granville Johnson, Thomas and Evans, and others not mentioned. Ousley shot Johnson and Evans. Johnson died instantly and Evans shortly after and Peyton stabbed Ousley, but not fatally. The difficulty was 'altogether personal between the parties.
Mr. Wm. Sprewell, a wealthy planter of Tyrrell county, (N.C.) was murdered on Friday night last, while sitting in his dwelling. A gun was fired at him through a window, and he instantly fell dead on the floor. It is said that he had a large sum of money in his house, which is supposed to have been the object of the murder. One of his slaves and a white man have been arrested on suspicion.
The negro boy, Cary, who murdered his matter, Mr. Frank Hampton, near Orangeburg, in Mason country, has been tried, and found guilty by the jury of murder in the first degree.
<c05>
Fatal Affray.-A correspondent of the Fredericksburg Recorder, writing from King George county, Va., says:-
Our neighborhood was yesterday evening thrown to considerable excitement by murder. Two young men, named James McDaniel and Wm. Hudson, have not been on good terms for some time, and happening to meet on the land of Wm. H. Scrivener attacked Hudson, although Hudson told him that he could only use one arm and could not fight, and that if he (McD.) struck him, he should defend himself in any manner at he could, at the same time drawing from his pantaloons pocket a large knife. McDaniel rushed upon him, striking him several blows about the head is face, when Hudson plunged the knife into McDaniel's left breast, causing death to about fifteen mates. Young McDaniel's father is a minister of the Gospel. Young Hudson is considered one of the net correct young men in the county, and the occurrence baa cast a gloom over his family and friends.'
Fatal Affray at the River Blue.-Prom Mr. James J. Taliaferro, of Gentry county, who reached this city yesterday, from the Blue, at which point he turned back from his gold hunting expedition, we are that a bloody affray occurred at the Marysville ferry on Wednesday, the 18th., between the ferrymen there and some returning emigrants, in which Wm. Murray, of Hardin county, Iowa, and C. C. Stanly, of Kanawha, Va., were killed, and J.. Barnum, of Hardin county, Iowa, was severely rounded. It seems that a difficulty originated between the ferrymen and the emigrants about the payment of fifty cents ferriage; hard words passed, and several shots were fired by the ferrymen, whose names are H. D. Williams, of Ray county, Mo.; Peter Valliton, formerly of the Empire Saloon of his city, and a Mr. Thompson. The fatal shots were fired by Williams. The emigrants did not fire all, and the killing is represented to us as a great outrage. The ferrymen are said to have fled, to themselves from the rage of the indignant emigrants, who immediately collected in numbers at the scene f the tragedy. This is the report of those who were on the ground.-St. Joseph (Mo.) Gazette, 25th ult.
Shooting Affray in West Wheeling.-On Sunday, in West Wheeling, a man by the name of McMullen went to the residence of a man named Glidden, and called him out in the street. When Glidden appeared, McMullen drew a revolver and commenced firing. Glidden being a strong athletic man, seized Mullen by the arm, and though he succeeded in turning the muzzle of the pistol, be could not escape receiving three balk,-one in the abdomen, another n the right leg, and still another in the left. It thought that Glidden, who is an Englishman could not recover. McMullen was arrested, and yesterday morning he was conveyed to St. Clairsville, there to be confined in jail. The difficulty grew out of a longstanding grudge existing between the two, and it is said that McMullen, being slightly intoxicated, had publicly announced his intention of killing Glidden, and invited a number of his friends to follow him and witness the act.- Wheeling Intelligencer.
Fatal Affray.-A letter to the Cincinnati Enquirer, dated Harrodsburg, Ky., says: 'An unfortunate difficulty occurred at Cornishville in this county, between Harney Walker and Thompson Sallee, resulting in the death of the latter. They fought in the street, with revolving pistols, and each bad fired four or five times, when Sallee received a wound in his breast, fell, and almost instantly expired. Walker had previously received a shot in his thigh, which, however, did not disable him. Sallee fell backward, throwing his arms above his bead, and his pistol flew over the fence. His son, a stoat boy of some eighteen years, jumped over the fence, seized the weapon, and fired at Walker, who immediately fell, to ball having taken effect in hit neck, passing entirely through it. He is said to be dangerous, if not mortally, wounded.
Yet Another Murder.-A cold-blooded murder was yesterday afternoon added to the metropolitan chronicle of crime. Mr. Thomas Berry, the victim, called at the house of his wife's mother, (on Pennsylvania avenue, between 1st and 2d streets east,) to visit his wife, and to change his clothes. While there, he was attacked by two Messrs. Devlin, (brothers of his wife,) and by a third person whose name is unknown, and was cruelly murdered. The brothers Devlin were arrested, and, after examination before Justice Goddard, were committed to jail. The testimony was full and conclusive.- Washington paper.
The Overseer and the Negro.-We learn by private letter from Arkansas County the particulars of a horrible murder and execution of the murderer, on Dr. Bell's plantation. A negro man having some' unknown cause of enmity against the overseer, crept up behind him, and with an axe struck the overseer (Levi Lowery) on the head, the blade entering the brain up to the handle, and splitting the head entirely open-death of course ensuing instantly. The negro was immediately taken in custody by the constable. The night following, a number of persons assembled, and getting forcible possession of the negro, bong him to a neighboring tree.-Arkansas Independent.
Homicide in Madison, Ark.-We learn from the' Pioneer that two men, named Lawson and Bowles, new comers in the town, became involved in a difficulty over a game of cards, last Thursday, in the course of which Bowles drew a pistol and fired two or three times at La wean, the shots taking effect and producing death in a few minutes' time. Another man, name unknown, was also shot through the arm, but the wound is not serious. Bowles was arrested and taken to jail.-Louisville Journal. 
Outrageous Murder.-At Swift's camp, an election precinct in Morgan county, Ky., on Saturday, Llewellyn Bush, an old and much respected citizen ' of Owsley county, was stabbed and instantly killed by a man named Davis. While talking with Davis in regard to a horse trade, an affray occurred with other persons, when Davis started to go and take part in it. Mr. Bosh took him by the arm, and advised him to stay away. Davis knocked him down, and then stabbed him several times, causing instant death. Davis was arrested, and is now in jail. Llewellyn Bash, deceased, was the father of A. E. Bash, of this city.-Louisville Courier.
A letter to the Louisville Courier gives the particulars of another bloody tragedy in Kentucky. The following in an extract: 
'An affray occurred at Mourrier's Toll-gate, a precinct seven miles from West Point, late yesterday evening, in which A. G. Torrence stabbed T. V. Davis through the heart. The friends of Davis pursued Torrence, with the intention of taking his life. He, however, reached his home in safety, barred the doors, and thug kept the infuriate mob from him until a late hoar in the night. The proper authorities left our town at two o'clock hut night, with the intention of arresting Torrence, but since that we have learned that T. J. Dark, a brother to the deceased, shot Torrence through tee window. The parties were neighbors, highly respected by all who knew them, though perfect maniacs on their respective sides in politics, out of which, we are informed, the difficulty originated.'
Wholesale Poisoning in Virginia.-A letter from Lexington, Va., March 31st, to the Richmond, (Va.) Despatch, says: This community has been thrown into a state of extreme excitement by the" poisoning of Dr. Junkin, President of Washington College, and his entire family, on the night of the 20th of this month. The poison used was arsenic, and was put into cream used at supper, by a negro of the Doctor's, named Billy. All -the family, including Dr. Junkin, Mr. Fish burn and her child, Miss Fish-burn, George Junkin, Jr., and a young student named Anderson, were poisoned, bat the dose administered was so large that it acted as an emetic thus saving their lives.'
Negro Man Whipped to Death.-We copy the following from the Marksville, (La.) Central Organ:-
We are told that a negro man was lately whipped to death by his master, one Elijah fisher. Two physicians, who afterwards examined the lifeless body of the salve, pronounced it, in the language of our important, 'a clear case of man-slaugher. This occured in the parish of St. Landry, but near the boundary line with the parks and strange to say, Fisher has not yet been arrested, though he has not gone away from his usual place of residence.
Mr. L. Roberts, a plaster living near <illegible> was waylaid and shed by a man named Holloway who then find, The murdered was purposed, captured, brought back and hand by the citizens on the 15the ult.
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can is made. It is a concentrated extract of Para parilla, so combined with other substances of greater alterative power as to afford and effect antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is <illegible> by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, EACHTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISMASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURAL DISEASE, DEOPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUROUY, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSLA AND INDIGESTION, ESTWINE, LAS, ROSE OR SR.ANTJPMU'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising form IMPORITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud, Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alternative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul and your feelings will tell you when. Even when no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the <illegible> of accomplishing these ends. But the world had been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, party because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla of any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication form the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR.J.C.AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cheery Pectoral has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.

Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt <illegible>, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box, Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERMAN ALMANCAC, in which they are given,; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING,
Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H.H.HAY, Portland;
J.N.MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every were. 6m May 7

LANDS FOR SALE
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass, and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland-most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate., Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. and any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School-flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education-will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R. by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E. D. DRAPER, Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.-tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle is out midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances till allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success-Practical Christian.
