THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General-Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Boston Courier.
PHILLIPS AND LIBERTY.
Several of the New York papers publish in full a characteristic speech of Wendell Phillips, delivered in Brooklyn on Tuesday evening last. We wish to present the best side of the case for the citizens of Brooklyn and so record the fact, that not a little trouble was experienced in procuring a place for the performance. The Brooklyn Tabernacle, which had been engaged ten days beforehand, we dare say without stating the object-for Abolitionists, like all others who hold that the end justifies the means, are not at all times scrupulous about a little deception-was finally refused; and even a proposition for the hire of Rev. Mr. Beecher's church, made to the trustees, who happened to be in session, was voted down, after an hour's discussion. Finally, the Athenaeum was obtained, by favor of the Superintendent, who edified the applicants by quoting a remark of Dr. Wo lsey, President of Yale College, when asked to offer prayer at a Union meeting,-' No; I don't care enough about the Union to pray for it!"-an exhibition of a temper, spirit, and order of intelligence, scarcely to be expected of the head of a college, and certainly very unworthy of a Christian minister. It is not possible, perhaps, in this country, to prevent ranters from ranting somehow. But we are not obliged to have them in our parlors, or in buildings under our control; and that Mr. Phillips should be embarrassed in finding a place to suit his purpose-namely, to deliver what he called’a plea for the dissolution of the Union, outside of a mad-house-is, perhaps, not entirely surprising, even in these harum-scarum days. The Tribune informs us, that this’remarkable plea' was delivered’before a very large and profoundly attentive audience,’ and gives no further opinion upon it; but we observe that even its own report is interspersed with hisses, as well as applause, and at one particular point,’(Hisses and applause long continued)'-so that there was, evidently, a certain diversity of sentiment among that’very large and profoundly attentive audience.'
It is, of course, useless to attempt reply by way of argument to the’remarkable plea' of Mr. Phillips, or to any of the pleas put forth from time to time by him or his associates. They are, one and all, of the spirit so maliciously attributed as the universal characteristic of certain of our fellow-beings,-
‘For if they will, they will-you may depend on’;
And if they wont, they wont-and there's an end on,
If Mr. Phillips should undertake to make a remarkable plea in support of the theory, that twenty billions of angels could dance on the point of a cambric needle, it would be of no use to meet this by any employment of the ordinary modes of reasoning. is arguments on such a point would be quite as transcendental, illusive, and unsatisfactory, as those urged by him in favor of a dissolution of the Union. A Miss Delia Bacon, of New Haven,-we dare say a protage of Dr. Woolsey.-published a voluminous octavo, two or three years ago, in order to prove that Lord Bacon, not Shakespeare, was the author of the plays which made the name of the latter glorious. We cite the fact as evidence not only of what singular aberrations the human mind is subject to, but also to show out of what unpromising material resolute fanatics and enthusiasts can manufacture’s remarkable plea' for almost anything. We doubt whether Miss Bacon ever found a reader: it is certain she never made a con
very. There is a small class at the North who agree with Mr. Phillips-and who, having the same object in view, are in concert necessarily with the extreme slaveholding disunionists of the South. But, except the class referred to, we presume that the main body of the’ very large and profoundly attentive audience' at Brooklyn were there from curiosity, and to hear a speaker who has cultivated rhetorical arts as much as is said to be the case with Mr. Phillips. His manner is that of a pleasant speaker, though we do not remember anything 
produced by him calculated to be of the slightest service to mankind. And this remark is even more applicable to negroes than to white men, because all 
his futile efforts for the former, could they be successful, instead of raising them to a level with the latter, would end in the destruction of enough to 
render the whole no longer dangerous, and in the reduction of the rest to a still more unqualified subjection.
Mr. phillips, like all abolitionists, is a thorough radical-at least in theory.-He fairly gloats over the idea of’ such a hatred of wealth and aristocracy in the heart of the original Saxon democrat, that there is nothing that he likes better than strangling both.' By Saxon democrats we suppose he means all those who have not yet attained that accidental position in this country which he denominates’ wealth and aristocracy,'-a position the holders of which are constantly shifting, one to which all may aspire, under our free institutions, and in which, when attained. we suppose the most original Saxon democrat of all has no disposition to he strangled himself. On the theory of Mr. Phillips, that such is the mortal conflict of classes in this country, where all white men, at least, are free to pursue their lawful desires,-the case would certainly be only aggravated by introducing the artificial and still more discordant element of negro equality-and there would be a great deal more’ strangling' going on than now. The speech of Mr. Phillips is very rambling, but the two ideas running through it are-equality of races and freedom of speech. Abolition is. with him, only one great step towards establishing the first. But here nature interposes. You cannot make black men white men. We do not say that slavery is constituted by nature. It is a matter of law, dependent from the necessity of the case, upon a variety of considerations, which inevitably determine when and where it shall exist. But the inferiority of one race to another is a decree of nature, not of law, subject to modification in certain cases-quite beyond the reach of essential change in others. Physical causes, operating through all generations, prevent any such equality-instinct itself forbids it. This will continue so, just so long as one is black, and the other white. The denunciations of Mr. Phillips against this order of things avail just as much as if he were to set himself to railing against the east wind, or the tidal current of the sea, or should’ bay the moon.' 
Upon the point of freedom of speech,-of all existing men Mr. Phillips surely has the least reason to complain.’ Free lips.' indeed! If twenty-five years of training and practice in vituperation against the Constitution and laws which protect him, and grant liberty of speech to all, in the confidence of free institutions that sense and principle will prevent it from becoming licentious-if the permitted utterance of the most malignant abuse of conspicuous men, only the more anxious to build up and strengthen the temple of Freedom, as they see the incendiary ready to set his torch to its foundations-can furnish any evidence of that liberty of speech which Mr. Phillips declares is forbidden to him,-why then, it does seem to us that it is scarcely worth while to dissolve the Union, in order to
<c02>
afford him the indulgence of still further opportunity-
‘To rave, recite, and madden round the land.'
Mr. Phillips is perfectly infuriated, because he cannot speak in Charleston or Savannah, as he does in Brooklyn or elsewhere at the North. But if tar and feathers are the least indignities which he might reasonably expect in the South, we honestly believe that, after the Union were dissolved, he, would not fare much better at home. The cause of his scolding being removed, there would be no occasion for it-though, perhaps, this would make little
difference to him-but we apprehend that the public indignation, combined with a certain pity for his folly, now scattered and more or less weakened in the process, would be then more concentrated and unappeasable-especially when the people began experimentally to realize how weakly they had been induced by him to give up a bird in the hand for two in the bush. The fact is, the existence of the Union is absolutely essential to the oratorical displays of Mr. Phillips. Without it, he could not make them at all-or, if he did, would only be more laughed at, or be subject to much harsher treatment. The refusal to grant him that kind of liberty of speech which he desires, is by no means confined to Charleston or Savannah. If he were to go into any decent house nearer home, and 
express himself about its domestic affairs, as he does at a distance about those of the South, he would not be likely to reach the door without some more forcible intimations as to disincline him to return. If he were to march up the broad aisle of any meeting house in New-England, spouting abuse of all, the parish, his speedy ejectment might be reasonably anticipated, and probably his delivery to the super intendent of the nearest lunatic asylum. It is not, therefore, that just freedom of speech is denied Mr. Phillips; but that he insists upon that kind of liberty which would be accorded him no where on 
the face of the earth, by those whose interests and feelings his style of speech would particularly affect. Why, the persons who refused him the Tabernacle and Rev. Mr. Beecher's church in Brooklyn, denied him liberty of speech, just as the people of Charleston and Savannah, against whom he makes such complaints, would do. Why does he not say one word about this grievance, to which he is subjected, I on the spot?
Indeed, Mr. Phillips reasons always just as an insane person does-that is, with a certain degree of correctness from his premises, if only those premises were themselves correct. A crazy man is not devoid of the reasoning faculty, but the foundations on which reason itself is based are confused in his mind. Like a clock out of order, it goes, but keeps no time. Like’ sweet bells, jangled, out of tune, and harsh,' they peal, but there is no harmony in their notes. Such a person has lost the power of seeing things in their right relations. His disordered imagination converts his dearest friend his wife, or child-into a foe, and he proceeds to treat him as such, though all the time dependent upon that friend for the tenderest offices of uninterrupted affection. This is exactly the case with Mr. Phillips. If all men are in reality equal, in every particular-if all races are equal, then it might be the height of injustice for one portion of mankind to deprive another portion of equal civil rights, just so far as the latter were competent to exercise them. This reasoning applies with just as much force to a child needing parental direction, or to one of our Indians, still kept under guardianship in Massachusetts, and in every New England State where he is found, as to a negro. The common abolition argument,’ He is a man, a brother,' amounts to nothing at all. So is a Hottentot, in exactly the same sense; but that, nevertheless, is no reason why we should let him vote in regard to our rights and liberties, which he could not understand, and which we know he would abuse.
Another distinguishing characteristic of a disordered intellect is displayed by Mr. Phillips in his malignant and savage pursuit of certain men with whose opinions he disagrees. For this privilege of disagreement, allowed to everybody in a free country, and for no other apparent reason, they are to him like Mordecai sitting in the king's gate. Shall Mr. Phillips claim universal liberty of speech, and yet hate and malign all men who think differently from him?’ What sort of liberty is this? Instead of a’ Saxon democrat,' this is to constitute Mr. Phillips, upon his own authority, of all autocrats the most despotic. To the memory of Mr. Webster he is always unsparing. Mr. Everett and Dr. Dewey are the objects of his incessant spite. In the present speech, he exalts Mr. Seward far above his real merits-who is really only a great man-for a Republican. But, notwithstanding his hypocrisy and falsehood to the principles of his party, which Mr. Phillips finds no difficulty in showing, we have no doubt the abolitionists will vote for him. Though he now, from policy, repudiates the doctrines of their party, without him they could do nothing whatever. Their doctrine is-and in this Mr. Phillips is right, when he says, in effect, that is the nucleus and moving force of the Republican organization-that which agitates, makes and enforces public opinion,-'We mean to reach slavery, and we mean to strangle it.’ Extnguish this central abolition fire, and not an ember of the Republican party would long be alive. But, whatever Mr. Seward may think it convenient to say at present, Without him the abolition elements would soon sink and smoulder in their ashes.

THE HIGHER LAW ILLUSTRATED.
Mr. Sedgwick, Republican, has made in the House an out and out Garrison harangue, of course full of historical perversion and higher-lawism, and thoroughly unconstitutional. He talks of Garrison just as his brother Republicans, even though they may disclaim his schemes, talk of John Brown. Here is Sedgwick puff of his political chum:-
'But this man, gentle, loving, peaceful, truthful, just but inflexible, was resolved not to be put down, neither North nor South; and the result was, that he published a paper, the first number of which I hold in my hand, in which he announced his creed. "I am. ”he said, "in earnest. I will not equivocate. I will not excuse. I will not retreat a single inch; and I will be heard." That was the first number of the Liberator, published in 1831, by Wm. Lloyd Garrison. It
seems to me as if that man Garrison had been sent by Heaven, in answer to the petition of the oppressed ones upon earth.’
This is the way this Republican Congressman illustrates what his party mean when they say they are only against the extension of slavery:-
‘The system was at war with every sentiment of honor; was at war with every principle of that higher law whose seat is the bosom of God, and whose voice is the harmony of the world. I state emphatically here, that no form of constitutional law, however solemnly agreed to, however high may be its claim to authority, intended to recognize or authorize such a system of outrage upon human rights, is of any effect to bind the conscience or control the conduct of any citizen of any government under heaven.’
That's plain talk. This patent Republican takes an oath to support the Constitution, and by doisng
<c03>
this he can take his pay and emoluments under this Constitution; but in the next moment he denies that the oath is of any effect to bind his conscience or control his action. If he can thus renounce one obligation, he would find no difficulty in renouncing any other that does not suit him. In a word: this fanatic would no more hesitate to abolish slavery by force than he would hesitate to eat a breakfast.
Such a fanatic as this is fit for a colporteur to Helper's book; and his words supply a fresh illustration to the American people, that the vital question of 1860 is: will you stand by the Constitution of the fathers? or will you allow such fanaticism as this to overturn it?-Boston Post.
SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
DELIVERED IN U. S. SENATE, MARCH 12, 1860,
IN DEFENCE OF THADDEUS HYATT.
It is related in English parliamentary history, that, on a certain occasion, when the House of Commons was about to order the commitment of a somewhat too famous witness to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms, the Speaker interfered by volunteering to say, as he put the question,’ That the House ought to pause before they came to a decision upon a point in which the liberty of the subject was so materially concerned.' That same question is now before us. We are to pass on the liberty of a citizen.
Pardon me, if I say that such a question cannot, at any time, be trivial. But it has an unaccustomed magnitude on this occasion, because the case is novel in this body; so that what you now do, besides involving the liberty of the gentleman before you, will establish a precedent which, in itself, will be a law for other cases hereafter.
Now, if it is conceded that the Senate is invested with all the large powers claimed by the Houses of Parliament, then I cannot doubt its power in the present case, although I might well question the expediency of exercising it. But this is notoriously untrue. It is well known that Parliament is without the constraint of a written constitution; and it has been more than once declared-much to the indignation of our revolutionary fathers-that it is’ omnipotent' to such extent, that it can do anything it pleases, except make a man of a woman, or a woman of a man. Surely, the Senate has no such large powers; it is not’ omnipotent;' but it is within the constraint of a written constitution. Instead of authority in all possible cases, it has authority only in certain specific cases.
If the Senate can summon witnesses to its bar, and compel them to testify, under pains and penalties, it must be by virtue of powers delegated in the Constitution-I do not say by express grant, but at least by positive intendment. I say positive intendment for nothing is to be presumed against liberty.
There are certain cases in which the power is clear. First, and most conspicuously, in the trial of impeachments; secondly, in determining the elections, returns, and qualification of its members; and thirdly, in punishing its members for disorderly behavior. All these proceedings are judicial in character and purpose, and carry with them, as a natural incident, the power to compel witnesses to testify.
Beyond these three cases, which stand on the express words of the Constitution, there are two other cases, quasi-judicial in character, which, though not supported by any express words of the Constitution, have grown out of necessity and reason, amounting to a positive intendment of the Constitution, and have been sanctioned by precedents. I refer, first, to the case of an inquiry into an alleged violation of the privileges of this body, as where a copy of a treaty was furtively obtained and published; and, secondly, to an inquiry into the conduct of servants of the Senate, like that now proceeding. with regard to the Printer, on motion of the Senator from New York, (Mr. King.) If I were asked to indicate the principle on which these two cases stood, I should say it was the just and universal right of self-defence inherent in every parliamentary body, as in every court, and also in every individual; but which is limited closely by the simple necessities of the case.
Such are the five cases in which this extraordinary power has been heretofore exercised; the first three standing on the text of the Constitution, and the other two on the right of self-defence necessarily inherent in the Senate; all five sanctioned by precedents of this body; all five judicial, also, in purpose and intent; and all five agreeing in this final particular, that they have no legislative purpose or intent. Beyond these cases there is no precedent for the exercise, by the Senate, of the power in question.
And it is now proposed to add a new case, most clearly without any support in the Constitution; without any support in the right of self-defence, inherent in the Senate, and without any support in the precedents of the Senate.
A committee has been appointed to inquire into the facts attending the late invasion and seizure of the armory and arsenal at Harper's Ferry by a band of armed men. and report whether the same was attended by any armed resistance to the authorities and public force of the United States, and the murder of any citizen of Virginia, or any troops sent there to protect public property; whether such invasion was made under color of any organization intended to subvert the government of any of the States of the Union; the character and extent of such organization; whether any citizens of the United States, not present, were implicated therein or accessory thereto, by contributions of money, ammunition, or otherwise; the character and extent of the military equipments in the hands or under the control of said armed land; where, how, and when the same were obtained and transported to the place invaded; also, to report what legislation, if any, is necessary by the government for the future preservation of the peace of the country, and the safety of public property; with power to send for persons, and papers.
And this committee, after several weeks of session, now invokes the power of the Senate to compel the witness to testify. The chairman of the committee, the Senator from Virginia, (Mr. Mason,) who calls for the imprisonment of an American citizen, has shown no authority for such an exercise of power in the Constitution, or in the admitted right of self-defence, or in the precedents of the Senate. He cannot show any such authority. It does not exist. 
Surely, where the Constitution, and reason, and we precedent, all three are silent, we might well hesitate to exercise a power so transcendent. But I shall not stop here. I go further, and point out two specific defects in the resolution of the Senate.
First-The inquiry which it institutes is clearly judicial in character; without, however, any judicial purpose, or looking to any judicial end. The committee is essentially a Tribunal, with power of denunciation, but without power of punishment; sitting with closed doors, having the secrecy of the 
<c04>
Inquisition or the Star Chamber, or, if you please, the grand jury; with power to investigate facts, involving the guilt of absent persons, and to denounce fellow-citizens as felons and traitors. If such a power is lodged anywhere outside of the judicial tribunals, it must be in the House of Representatives, as the Grand Inquest of the nation, with its power to impeach all civil officers, from the President down; but it cannot be in the Senate. Let me cite an illustration. The constitution of Maryland provides expressly that the House of Delegates may inquire, on the oath of witnesses, into all complaints, grievances, and offences, as the grand inquest of the State; and may commit any person for any crime to the public jail, there to remain until discharged by due course of law. But I doubt if the Senate of that neighbor State could erect itself into that Grand Inquest.
If the Senate of the United States have power to make the present inquiry, then, on any other occasion of alleged crime, of whatever nature, whether of treason, or murder, or riot, it may rush to the assistance of the grand juries of the District, or, still further, it may rush to the assistance of the grand juries of Virginia; in short, it will be an inquest of commanding character, and with far reaching, all-pervading process, supplementary and ancillary to the local inquest: or rather, so transcendent in its powers, that by its side the local inquest will be dwarfed into insignificance. Surely this cannot be proper or constitutional. But perhaps I am especially sensitive on this point; for, as a citizen of Massachusetts, I cannot forget that her bill of rights, originally the work of John Adams, provides expressly that the legislative department shall never exercise judicial powers, and the judicial department shall never exercise legislative powers; to the end, as it is solemnly declared, that it may be a government of laws, and not of men.
But assuming that the resolution is defective, so far as it constitutes an inquest into crime, it may be said that the witness should be compelled to answer to the other parts. Surely the Senate will not resort to any such refinement in order to imprison a citizen.
Secondly-But there is a broader objection still: that whatever may be the power of the Senate in judicial cases, it cannot compel the testimony of a witness in a proceeding of which the declared purpose is merely legislative. Officers of the Government communicate with Congress and its committees simply by letter. They are not summoned from distant posts, or even from their office here. And I know not why a distant citizen, who is charged with no offence, and who in every right is the peer of an office-holder, should be treated with less consideration. If any information from him be desired for any legislative purpose, let him communicate it in the way most convenient to himself, and most consistent with those rights of the citizen which all are bound to respect.
At all events, if this power is to be exercised, let it not be under a simple resolution of the Senate; but by virtue of a general law, passed by both Houses, and affirmed by the President, so that the citizen shall be surrounded with certain safeguards.
Mr. President, I confidently submit that a power so entirely without support, and also obnoxious to criticism, at the same time that it is so vast, is not to be carelessly exercised. You cannot send the witness to prison without establishing a new precedent and commencing a new class of cases. You will declare that the Senate, at any time-not merely in the performance of its admitted judicial duties, but also in the performance of its mere legislative duties-may drag a citizen from the most distant village of the most distant State, and compel his testimony, involving the guilt or innocence of absent persons, or, it may be, of the witness himself. This is a fearful prerogative, and, permit me to say, that in assuming it, you liken yourselves to the Jesuits, at the period of their most hateful supremacy, when it was said that their power was a sword, whose handle was at Rome, and whose point was in the most distant places. You take in your hands a sword, whose handle will be in this Chamber, to be clutched by a mere party majority, and whose point will be in every corner of the Republic.
If the present case were doubtful, which I do not admit, I feel that I cannot go wrong when I lean to the side of liberty. But, even admitting that you have the power, is this the occasion to use it? Is it, upon the whole, expedient? Is the object to be accomplished worth the sacrifice? It is well to have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant.
For myself, sir, I confess a feeling of gratitude to the witness, who, knowing nothing which he desires to conceal, and chiefly anxious that the liberties of all may not suffer through him, feeble in body and broken in health, hardly able to endure the fatigue of appearing at your bar, now braves the prison which you menace, and thrusts his arm as a bolt to arrest an unauthorized and arbitrary proceeding.
GEORGE THOMPSON IN AMERICA.
Extract from a very able and eloquent speech recently delivered in Glasgow, Scotland, upon American Slavery, by GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., late M. P.
for the Tower Hamlets, London:-
Well may the colored American curse the soil of his birth, and shake its dust from his feet. To all, save one being, the place of his birth is dear. It is the lode-star of the heart-the point to which the soul continually gravitates. The sea-boy, tossed upon the troubled wave-the warrior, distant on the tented field-the captive, pining in Siberia's mine-the Gospel messenger, on heathen shores-turn, all, their eyes towards the spot which gave them birth.
Encamped by Indian rivers wild,
The soldier, resting on his arms,
In Burns's carol sweet recalls
The scenes that bless' d him when a child,
And glows and gladdens at the charms
Of Scotia's woods and waterfalls.
(Loud cheers.) And who is he who feels no rapture when he thinks of the place of his birth? Nay, more, who associates it with scenes of horror and of dread? Who is he, who shrinks amidst the visions of the night, should fancy bear him to where he first drew breath, and place him again on the spot of his infancy and childhood? What wretch is he, so inhuman in his selfishness-so deeply steeped in parricidal guilt-or wronged so past relenting and forgiveness, that to him the star that shines above the hearth on which his earliest days were cradled is a baleful meteor, whose ray be shuns, to live beneath the one most distant from his home? Who? It is the fugitive slave, who, hunted and mangled by dogs-lacerated by the lash-scarred by the branding iron-has at length reached a land where he is sale from the trafficker in human flesh. The man whom foul wrongs has driven from the soil of his birth, and caused to execrate the name of home, and curse the fate that, in the hour of birth, impressed upon his brow the name of slave! (Cheers.) Ere you condemn such a man for this strange divorce from all which you are taught by Nature's instincts of to revere and love, put yourself in the condition from which he has escaped-a condition in which, in the autumn of 1850, I left England to pay what I in
<c05>
tended to be a short visit to my friends in the United States, whom I had not seen for fifteen years. I landed in the city of Boston that city in which the first tones of remonstrance, the first protests against the tyranny of the British Parliament, the first shots for American independence were heard.
Boston was in a state of wild excitement. Placards covered the walls, announcing the arrival of man catchers, in hot pursuit after two native-born Americans.
‘What right had they there in the home of the white, Shadow’d o'er by the banner of freedom and right?'
They were there, sanctioned and protected in their nefarious purpose by the law of the United States, backed by the entire naval and military power of the country. I found the people of that same city of Boston under a law higher than the law of God-a law requiring them to give up their own fellow-citizens, without the trial granted to a pickpocket, to a doom more terrible than that pronounced upon a murderer. I turned to the public papers, hoping to read there the protest of an outraged, indignant, and maddened community, against so flagitious an insult to the honor of the State, the hospitality of the city, and the rights of humanity; but, instead of thoughts that breathe in words that burn, directed like arrows of light against this insult, I found only vindications of the Fugitive Slave Law-exhortations to the community to obey and assist in enforcing it, and the foulest denunciation of those who refused to bewray the wanderer, and give up those who had escaped from the clutches of the tyrant. This was the first development I had of the spirit of slavery, extending to the capital of the State founded by the Pilgrim Fathers. I discovered that there was no essential difference between the moral atmosphere of mercantile Boston and slave-holding New Orleans. Surely those who catch and return fugitive slaves are as bad as those who buy slaves, and something meaner.
Boston, on my landing, was, with some noble exceptions, a city of slave-catchers. A few days after my arrival, a New England Sabbath dawned. The church bells tolled-the Jerusalem of America poured forth its religious and Sabbath-keeping population. I saw the tribes go up to hymn the praises of Him who wills not that one of His little ones should perish. While the ministers of religion were preaching the love of God, and how he sent his Son into the world to open the prison doors and give deliverance to them that were bound, I walked through the city to find the hiding-place of two of God's children, hunted for their lives, and one of them a woman. I found at last the secret covert of these fugitives, and entered the retreat of two immortal beings, hiding from the human bloodhounds that were baying on their track. I offered them an Englishman's hand-I took them to an Englishman's heart-[sent them to an Englishman's home-and they have now been more than nine years upon this soil, which, thank God, is sacred from the pollution of the man-hunter. (Loud cheers.)
'They touch our country, and their shackles fall!'
Oh, what a spectacle was this for a foreigner to behold! what an exemplification of the universality of slavery on the American soil! The Jews had their city of refuge, to which the homicide could fly and be safe from the avenger of blood; but America, the land of the Pilgrims, the land of Washington, and Franklin, and Patrick Henry, and Jonathan Edwards, has no Cave of Adullum into which one of her own immortal children can crawl, and be safe from the two-legged leopards whose prey is the offspring of God! Oh, America! would that thou couldst see thyself as thou were seen by me, whilst I sat between thy fugitive children, meditating on the spectacle of a temple erected to liberty, served by priests who offer millions of broken hearts upon her altar. Such was my earliest
experience in America. What next? I was invited by the friends of international amity, reform, and universal emancipation, to a meeting in Faneuil Hall-a building which goes by the name of’ The Cradle of Liberty,' and for nearly a century has been consecrated to the genius of civil and political freedom. More than 4000 of the most estimable citizens of Massachusetts, and other States, were there to bid me welcome, and did give me a welcome, of which any man might be proud. But the spirit of slavery was there also. The real instigators of the dis graceful proceedings which took place at that splen did gathering of American reformers were too mindful of their reputation, even in the pro-slavery city of Boston, to be present in person; but their hirelings were there, to the number of two or three hundred, and, acting up to their instructions, they pre vented me from acknowledging, as I wished to do, the kind address which was delivered to me on the occasion. The city papers, on the following morning, applauded the ruffians who had made the uproar, as true American patriots, and rightly described the manner in which they did their duty, which was by’ crowing, hooping, cheering, groaning, roaring, screaming, and imitating cat-calls, whistles, the barking of dogs, the crowing of cocks, and the quacking of ducks;’ they enjoyed themselves, said one of those journals,’ like fiends from the bottom less pit let out on a frolic.' The Mayor of the city was on the spot, an approving witness of the scene. The City Marshal and his men were there, but moved not a finger to quell the riot; and why? Because as far as the telegraphic wires extended into, the slave States, the news was sent by lightning that George Thompson, the Abolitionist, had not been permitted to be heard in Boston. This, of course, raised the character of the city in the estimation of the slaveholding aristocracy, and helped the Cabinet at Washington, then busily employed in enforcing the Fugitive Slave Law. The merchants, politicians, and pro-slavery clergy, in instigating this outrage, or tacitly consenting to it, were but doing what was demanded of them by their rulers at the South.
The eloquent lecturer then proceeded to relate a variety of anecdotes in proof of the prostration of the Northern States before the Moloch of slavery, and concluded his address in the following terms:
I have travelled within the United States of America. I have found myself within the dominions and surrounded by the atmosphere of slavery. The country is magnificent and glorious-the mountains are stupendous and sublime-the rivers roll their floods along in majesty and beauty-the valleys stretch away in verdure and loveliness-there are towering steeples and multitudinous priests, and busy crowds hastening to worship, and a never-ending, still-beginning, round of rites, ceremonies, and observances-there are loud and ostentatious
proclamations of the duties and obligations of religion, and thanksgivings, and feasts, and festivals; but these have not been sufficient to conceal from my view the presence of the foul demon of Slavery-his spirit has been everywhere-his dominion has been universal, his will despotic. The glorious external creation has seemed but the vestibule to his gloomy temple, and all the rites and ceremonies of the people to be subordinate to the profound and soul-<illegible> homage paid to this insatiate fiend, who has seated himself above all that is called God, and daily demands the living death of four millions of the human race. Amidst the countless temples of America one stands out to the eye of my imagin-
<c06>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution, is’ a covenant with death, and agreement with hall.'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'
WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
LE NUMBER, 1528.
<c06>
ation, dedicated to the service of the deity that en-slaves the helpless children of God; and entering its portals, and penetrating to the chamber where sits this fearful being, I beheld him, amid all the symbols of pollution and woe, with his heel upon the manacled form of American liberty, surrounded by crushed hearts, darkened souls, deflowered maidens, weeping Rachels, and lustful tyrants, issuing his mandates for the enslavement of a continent, swaying a sceptre of scorpions over his quivering victims-a sceptre of iron over his voluntary self-degraded vassals, and with demoniacal exultation exclaiming,’ See how these Christians love one another!' There is nothing little about the system of American slavery. There is grandeur in the gloomy vastnens of the colossal superstructure. Try to measure its circumference, and you fail. Let down the line into the horrid abyss, and you shall bring it up again, exclaiming,’ O, the depths!' Try to count the groans, and agonies, and sighs pressed by this system into every instant of time, and arithmetic shall fail you. Try to explore the future, and to grasp the issues of this system, and your imagination, weary and halting, shall give up in despair. Try to compute the value of one of the souls daily imbruted by this system. Put it into the scale against the material universe, and it shall proclaim the vast magnificence of unintelligent creation poor. Then try to compute the value of the slaves-past, present, and to come! Oh, there is a great work to be done in America! Christianity, pure and undefiled, has to be exhumed from the sepulchre in which Slavery has laid her. The genius of Liberty has to be delivered from the bondage to which false republicans have consigned her. Mind, immortal, illimitable mind, waits to be spoken into life and freedom. The Bible waits to be sent upon its holy mission to those for whom it was especially designed. The Earth calls to be delivered from its blight and curse. Labor, now dishonored and infamous, waits to be redeemed, that it may become a blessing and a glory to him who tills the soil. Morality, wounded, violated, struck down, has to be restored, and sent forth to teach with authority the duties and the rights of the human race. (Loud cheers.)
On the motion of the PROVOST, a cordial vote of thanks was awarded to Mr. THOMPSON, shortly after which the meeting separated.
From the Cincinnati Herald. THE CHOCTAW CONVENTION. The reverend and venerable Dr. Spring, of New York, has been greatly exercised by the action of the American Board with reference to the Choctaw Mission. He called a convention on the subject to meet in New York on the 7th inst. We learn from the Evangelist of last week, that about twenty-five persons were present. Dr. Spring was called to the chair, and then appointed Chairman of the Committee on Resolutions. This Committee presented, as a part of their report, the following:-
Resolved, 2. That on the subject of slavery, the Presbyterian Church have been, and are, and ought ever to be, controlled by the example of Christ and his Apostles: and that there is no authority in the Scriptures for such a principle of administration as regards a slaveholder an outcast from the kingdom of Christ; that no church ought to be regarded as unchristianized because some of its members are slaveholders, and that such a principle is subversive of the very spirit of missions; and that of all methods of ameliorating the evils of slavery, the most unwise and ineffectual is to deny to such a community that gospel which is the wisdom and power of God unto salvation.
On this resolution a discussion arose, which developed somewhat fully the spirit and motive of the movement. We quote a few paragraphs from the Evangelist's report:-
Dr. Murray, of Elizabethtown, N. J., opposed the resolution, and wished it stricken out. He said: Let us simply endorse what our Executive Committee has done. We are not called upon here to canvass the propriety or impropriety of the American Board's action. It will produce useless agitation. We must act discreetly, and many from New England and elsewhere will contribute. He had but little doubt but that the $8,000 would be given entirely by those who had not heretofore been contributors to the Presbyterian Board. There were, however, differences of opinion on the subject of slavery in the churches, and it would be impolitic to endorse it thus without qualification.
Daniel Lord, Esq., took the same view, although be thought slavery, as a tutelage was often a benefit to the inferior race. But there were men in the church who would regret the adoption of this resolution, as an unqualified endorsement of the institution of slavery. All of our conservative men say. Let us have as little discussion on the subject of slavery, as possible. Many of our churches contain a large proportion of New England men, of Scotchmen and Scotch Irish. Let us not light a torch or scatter firebrands among them.
Eleazer Lord thought that every man that comes into the Presbyterian church
knows, or ought to know, that we will not have discussion on this subject. The resolution was in accordance with the present views of the church. The being a slave-holder is not a matter of controversy or church recognition. It was high time that all abolitionists were made aware of it.
Dr. Spring thought it was entirely inconsistent to go back now. This meeting was not merely to raise funds, but to express views on this subject, and thus give an impulse to the mission cause, and to assist to liberal contributions generally. The American Board could endorse the first resolution; and he would not have taken the pains he had, if he had supposed a disposition would be manifested to stop there. The Presbyterian Church is called upon to take sides in this controversy. He was in no fear of its result on the churches, congregations, or General Assembly. These were all with them. He had nothing to do with the political hearings of the subject.
Dr. Murray thought that the true policy was not to agitate the subject of slavery. The passage of this resolution would bring about this result. We should look at the subject in view of the pecuniary help needed, and the passage of this resolution would greatly lessen our prospects in New England and elsewhere.
A pastor from New Jersey said that there were strong abolitionists in his church, and they would be offended if this resolution endorsing slavery was passed.
Dr. McElroy remarked that the passage of the resolution was simply a question of expediency. There was not a principle that all did not know the Presbyterian Church to hold to. There was nothing new. The question was whether the views should be thrown out at this juncture. He had bought and sold slaves, and under similar circumstances would do so again. He preached the same views from his pulpit.
Daniel Lord moved that the resolution under consideration be laid upon the table. The motion was lost by a decided majority.
Dr. Plumer moved an amendment, substituting the word’ condition' for’ evils,' as referring to 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
slavery. He hoped the Convention would take no pro-slavery or abolition ground. He supposed they were merely to say to those in New England and other sections of the country, who have heretofore contributed to the American Board, but are now dissatisfied, that we are in a way to receive your aid, without annoying you with further agitation. He trusted they were not about to commence agitation on the subject of slavery.
Finally, a Committee was appointed to report upon the subject, consisting of Drs. Spring, McElroy and Halliday, E. Lord, Esq. and Daniel Lord, Esq., who subsequently reported the following among other resolutions, which were adopted:-
Resolved, 1st. That this convention recognizes no standard of procedure in the great enterprise of Christian Missions but the instructions and conduct of Jesus Christ and his apostles.
The course of the church in this great work is onward; but in her progress she requires the conservative power and direction of heavenly truth and heavenly love. On this rock, and on no factitious principle of human policy, the cause stands, and will prosper.
2d. That the Missions of the Presbyterian church have been, and ought ever to be, conducted on this principle; and that the existence of slavery in the community, and of slaveholders in the church, affords no ground for the withdrawal from them of the gospel, which is the wisdom of God and the power of god.
3d. That in their conduct of the Choctaw Mission, the beloved and honored missionaries so long and faithfully employed in the service of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, have never departed from these great principles; and that in so modestly and firmly adhering to them at every sacrifice, they deserve our implicit confidence, and shall receive our hearty support and patronage.

THE HARPER'S FERRY AFFAIR.
Speech of George Sennott, Esq. before the Virginia Legislature.
The following is the substance of the argument made before the Virginia Legislature, by George Sennott, Esq., in favor of reprieving Stevens and Hazlitt, who were subsequently hung for having participated in the Harper's Ferry affair:
Mr. Chairman of the Senate Committee, Mr. Chairman of the Committee of the House, Gentlemen of both Committees:
As to the case: There are two prisoners. There were seven capital indictments all in vitality against them at one timeï¿½four against Stevens, the others against Hazlitt. On the first indictment Capt. John Brown was tried, and to it Stevens was forced to plead. Of that indictment, if the most strenuous study of the criminal law in its principlesï¿½if the greatest pains to understand how every species of indictment, complaint or information should be framedï¿½and if the most careful and laborious reading of a great number of indictments, with a view to trialï¿½if all these things give me an opportunity to judge, or a right to speak on the subject, I say that indictment was very bad. But your Court of Appeals thought there was enough of it good to hang Capt. Brown and his companions. Stevens, however, was supposed to be dying. He had five bullets in his body; he fell from fainting fit into fainting fit. and the Judge determined not to try him, when a message from the then Governor wise proposed to transfer him to the Courts of the United States. Stevens had been brought in on a bed, and the people, who showed very little sympathy for the others, appeared deeply moved when the young man was laid on the Court-House floor. The case was not transferred, but only continued, and you know, gentlemen, better than I, what efforts were made here to have a special session in February, when the regular session of the Circuit Court was to be as early as May. The law passed, and I was notified byï¿½the newspapers! Gentlemen, I left my distant home at a very great disadvantage and loss; and when I arrived in Charlestown, I found the bad indictment nol prossed, as we call it, and three others, newly made, with all the errors cancelled which eleven lawyers had pointed out. I defended Stevens on the indictment for conspiracy. Two Virginia lawyers, Thomas C. Green and Lawson Botts, defended Hazlitt, and it gives me great pleasure to say, of my own knowledge, that a more eager, thorough, careful defence I never witnessed. It gives me the greater satisfaction to say so, because they were unkindly, and, I am sure, unjustly accused of collusion with the government in the case of Brown. I was disgusted to hear that. I did not believe it then. I feel now it was without foundation, since I saw what they did for Hazlitt. Hazlitt, however, was convicted, and so was Stevensï¿½the first for murder, the second for conspiracy to make slaves rebel. In that case I thought, and think now, and I am sure that the evidence proved a conspiracy to run off negroes, and for that offence he should have been convicted. The Court, however, thought differently, and the jury followed the Court.
There are, then, two indictments remaining. One against Stevens for murder, and another for treason; and one against Hazlitt for treason, and another for conspiracy, Let me now explain how I come before you, since the law gives you no power to pardon any crime but treason, and leaves all other pardoning exclusively to the Governor. The difficulty was raised the moment I arrived here; but a little reflection enables me to see that it is more apparent than real. I suggested that, even under the code, the Legislature might recommend the pardon of criminals whom they could not pardon themselves. This was agreed to, and the result is that you are listening to me, for which I thank you.
But we do not propose to ask your good offices for too much. The state of public feeling here, I am informed, is not favorable for a full pardon. We are in the ground swell after the hurricane. I could not help believing that such a request might be thought unreasonable as yet. So, having no power or influence of any kind, we thought it better to ask for a little, and get it, perhaps; through your kindness, than for much, and fail to get anything.
Surely, we cannot mistake. Surely, the people of Virginia, who might refuse a pardon, will not be in human enough to refuse a reprieve. This is all we ask you to recommend. I know the Governor will attend respectfully to any such recommendation. and Aaron D. Stevens, for whom I ask a bare reprieveï¿½only a few days longer of such light as a dungeon affords him, is not an alien foe, or a domestic foe, or an enemy of any kind, but a young man of our own stock, handsome, powerful, youthful, in the first bloom of manhoodï¿½indeed hardly 28 years old! And be will be publicly strangled to death in eight days from now, if you do not recommend him to mercy!
Gentlemen, do it for humanity's sake! Do it for the credit of our common America! Do it for the honor of this grand old Commonwealth, and thank. Heaven for the opportunity of covering with everlasting confusion those malignant philanthropists, who long for another death, that in every corner of the civilized world they may exhaust the resources of human language, and tire the tongue of the speaker, and blunt the pen of the writer, and wear out the pencil of the artist, in blackening and cursing the noble Virginian name! Do it, and the blessing of those who are ready to perish will fall upon each of you and his house! You can do it with a wordï¿½ just one little wordï¿½Mercy: the word which is to die upon your own quivering lips when you enter with awful misgivings into the presence of Him who is to forgive as we forgive those who trespass against us!ï¿½as we FORGIVE them! Just one little word, which costs you but a breath to utter; and yet it is of that divine force that it will not only save two lives, but it will surely tranquillize a nation, and be the beginning of peace on earth and good will to men down to the remotest generations of American mankind.
The laws of Virginia must be executed, I am told. True, but permit me humbly to suggest to you a way to gratify your obedience to law and your humanity at the same time. A reprieve is a strictly legal transaction. Recommend it, and when granted, it will be as legal as a hanging, and ten thousand times more to your honor and advantage. At that you can retract. The Governor reprieves at his pleasure. Now, if you give us the North a chance, there may be a restoration of ancient good feeling. If not, you can hang your prisoner when you please. But the villanous peculiarity of capital punishment is, that, once inflicted, you may regret it, but there is no remedy. On that ground alone all men hesitate to inflict it, and the wiser and better men become, the longer they hesitateï¿½ and the wisest and best decline to countenance it at all Only the absolute necessities of self-preservation excuse, without justifying it to the leading minds of our time, whether
<c02>
they lead in action or in speculation. Remember the case of Coppic-how he was hung for a letter, which turned out to be written by Cook-and how sorry everybody was when sorrow was unavailing!
If necessity alone can excuse it, how are we necessitated? What overpowering force is upon us, that we do nothing but kill and kill? What obliges you to look with sickening heart upon hands smoking with the blood of a misguided boy? Ah! there is our case, gentlemen. He was misguided -he was deluded Do not delude yourselves into the fatal belief that he was a common murderer, or a low criminal. No, nor any of his associates. It was no common murderer or low criminal that convulsed the State of Virginia. It is only belittling the Commonwealth to say it, if true, and trifling with our own dignity if we do not believe it when we say it. No! empty your Penitentiary into the street, and nobody but the prison guards will so much as chase the criminals. These men are fanatics. At the word, the veils of dead centuries are lifted, and I see a tremendous host sweeping down from their deserts upon terrified Christendom, like fire upon grass! I see the awful eyes of Mohammed-the waving arm of Ali; I see the dreadful face of Khaled, black as night, casting the frown of death over kneeling Damascus. I see his bloody scimetar uplifted-I hear his inexorable voice, 'O, Christian dogs! say God is God, and Mohammed is the Prophet of God, or instantly sink into the flames of hell.' And this man, who could swim his war horse in the blood his own sabre had poured out, was he a murderer? Or was it a murderer who was all but worshipped for, ages, from the Pillars of Hercules to the Sea of Japan? Yet the very least of the slaves of his successors often; slew more human beings in one assault than Stevens ever saw assembled together.
I look again, and behold the innumerable, invincible steel-clad swarms of the Crusade! I behold Godfred, and Tancred, and Bohemond, and Hugh the Great. I see them toil under the flaming sky of Syria. I hear their thundering shouts, 'God wills it! God wills it! 'I see them pour into the Holy City a river of steel. I see their sad possession, and, strangest sight of all, I see their immense assembly, uncovered, unarmed, barefooted, kneeling, groaning with real anguish before the sepulchre that once held the human body of the Son of God! I see these rise. I see them put on the weighty armor. I see them draw the broad bladed dagger and sway the two-handed sword, and trample with bloody, remorseless cruelty, under their iron shoes, the hearts of distracted multitudes in the great mosque of Omar!
Yet what school-boy does not know that the Knight who had cleft the sculls of a hundred Saracens would have had his golden spurs chopped from hung on the nearest tree by the hands of his own neighbors, for fatally felling the poorest Christian camp-follower, in a moment of passion, with the stock of his lance?
The darkest as well as the most enlightened ages have always made this distinction, which, it seems, I am obliged to call attention to this day. Allow me one more rather striking illustration of this distinction between a common criminal and a fanatic.
A young Frenchman once read a small book, LasCasasï¿½s account of the cruelties of the Spaniards to the Indians of America. It is a very remarkable boo,, gentlemen, in subject, style, and illustration, for it was full of pictures by the greatest masters of the then new art of engraving, and it had a circulation greater than the Waverly Novels, or the works of Mr. Dickens, or of the Thackery, or of Dumas-enormously greater, if we consider the difference between now and then in facilities of publication. Not all the soldiers of France, nor all the ships of England, struck such a blow at the power of Spain as that one little book; for, wherever it went-and it went everywhere-no tongue was too tender to frame a curse, and no heart too feeble to throb with hatred for the Spaniards. That book filled the young Frenchmansï¿½s heart with madness. A race, he thought, capable of cruelties so monstrous, must be accursed of God. They ought to be exterminated and he! He must be that agent of Godï¿½s justice! How he acted on that conviction, may be seen in the bloody annals of the Buccaneers. Other men robbed the Spaniards, but blood alone could satisfy the deadly hatred of Lï¿½Olonnois. Now, according to the plainest common sense, according to the dictionary and the Bible, and the shop, and the stable, and the street-what was this man?  A murderer! And yet Stevens, who, as it happens, never killed a human being-for it is notorious that he actually hurt nobody-and who yet walked into this Commonwealth almost alone, did nothing unusual, nothing to distinguish him, either in act or intent, from a common murderer or criminal. A man takes Harperï¿½s Ferry with twenty one men, and actually remains there when he can leave and captures and locks up men, just as if he was a constable with a warrant, or a sheriff with a writ, whom you obey, of course, unless you are crazy. A man does this, and much more, and I am asked, Donï¿½t you think him a common criminal? I do no; I think him an extraordinary fanatic, and I think it is a wrong to hang him, as if he were raving mad. I am told, with much simplicity, when I say so, that he cannot be fanatic-he is so cool and shows what remark to make; but I must answer, I suppose, so I will try. Passion, Mr. Chairman, is a matter of Temperament. Many men who have much passion exhibit very little, because they have control or lack expression. Many who have not much, express all they have, and appear to have more than actually belongs to them. But fanaticism goes deeper than mere passion of any sort. It is a disorder of the entire man, which makes him see things as they are not. It affects every kind of man. Without regard to his passion any more than to his stature. The late Mr. Calhoun, for example, was a perfect fanatic. And yet, who ever heard him say-who ever saw him do-one unpleasant, one unbecoming, one passionate thing? No one. I have not the slightest doubt that, for the later years of his life, his powerful but disordered mind imagined it self to be thinking! Read his books, and you will find a most extraordinary state of things-at use, for instance, of the forms of demonstration not to be found outside of a book of geometry, and an application of them not to be imagined outside of bedlam! Gen. Jackson, on the contrary, was not fanatical at all. If any man ever lived who saw things as they are, it was Gen. Jackson. But he was a passionate man. Mr. Calhoun, who wanted South Carolina to take the United States, never swore, probably, in the whole course of his dignified existence. Gen. Andrew Jackson, on the contrary, swore a great deal during the earl part of his not very dignified, but exceedingly useful life.
Am I told that Brown slaughtered his own countrymen? If he did, Stevens did not. You say Stevens was prepared to help him. Perhaps; but the reply is as obvious as it common-place. If the man fanatically attacks his own family, it is nor that fact which makes the crime more horrid. It is the fanaticism which takes away the moral responsibility!
As to slaughtering his own countrymen, Washington did that by the hundred, and expected to be hung as Brown was, if taken. Nor moral blame whatever can attach to a fanatical outrage, and it is an outrageous abuse of language to argue that it does. Well, then, say the advocates of death, must you turn a lion or tiger, an irresponsible wild beast, loose into the streets, and not kill it? Stevens, I answer, is not a beast, but a man. Kill your beast, and then, perhaps you lose; but it is certain that the most unprofitable use to be made of a man is to hang him.
But one charge which I have very, very often heard since I arrived here must be answered, for I am told it affects many. It is that the North sympathizes with these men, and that therefore, they ought to be hung! Leaving the exceedingly odd sequitur for a while, look the first charge in the face. If we do, can we help it? And is it wrong? We are very apt to sympathize with almost anybody who is going to be hung. It is human to feel hat way, and you feel so yourselves just as often as we do. But if the sympathy goes any further, yourselves are partly to blame for it. I have an excellent chance to know the feeling on both sides; for though my own party always is so ï¿½conveniently smallï¿½ that you can have them all for acquaintances, yet, owing to some singular accident, the greater number of my personal friends are Abolitionists or Republicans. The surprise, then, was complete. The Democrats were furious; and as for the other side, I happen to know that Dr. Howe-upon whom you are very severe, without in the least knowing him-was as surprised as anybody. At his instance we tried to gain time for the trial, and at last, in consequence of an urgent letter fro. Brown to his Honor Judge Russell, we started for
<c03>
Charlestown. Up to that time we-that is, the public-thought Brown was a madman, or, at the very utmost, that he was a cool and courageous fanatic; and for that we have the high authority of Gov. Wise.
At Charlestown, we found an excitement and a suspicion that looked like insanity. People from the North were followed about the streetï¿½stared atï¿½questioned and bored, not only by the authorities, but by super-serviceable men, very likely unknown to them. And I have often remarked that people who are not interested in slavery, to the amount of the thousandth part of a drop of the sweat of a negro, are its most absurd and offensive advocates. Ladies coming to see the prisoners, as ladies always will, were stared at through windows, publicly threatened, and advised to leave, in the country papers. A sculptor, who came in the interest of fine arts, had to accomplish his object by stealth. But all this might never have been heard of but for the inconceivable simplicity which extended the same treatment to the Reporters, particularly after the first reports came in. Now, if a newspaper in my own city chooses to say I was a murderer, or even a thief, I doubt if I should venture beyond the mildest form of denial. For how can you contend with a gentleman who can talk about you one hundred thousand times every morning? It is of no use, as I should think had been ascertained by one Virginia gentleman-who undertook to contend with Mr. Bennett. It is very well known that artists, authors and reporters, et id genus omne, are the most irritable of men, and accordingly, being exasperated at this, to them, novel treatment, they revenged themselves, in their own fashion. In a few days every town in the North, from Portland in Maine to Portland in Oregon, was full of unfavorable notices of the people of Charlestown. I desire it to be expressly understood that I am not now finding fault with the precautions of the authorities, though they irritated me greatly at the time. I am merely telling you the impression made upon me and others by what happened, and showing you how to account for much newspaper ï¿½sympathyï¿½ for John Brown.
Mr. Sennott here adverted to the fact that any one charged with enormous crimes commonly enlisted much sympathy, whether guilty or not. He referred to numerous cases, such as the Jumperez case, the Lemoine case, and spoke of the sympathy shown by ladies of Richmond for Prof. Webster -'a stolid old wretch who cut up his friend's body like a sheep, and went to tea with his family almost without cleaning his hands-a cool-blooded animal, whose only regret at leaving life appeared to be that he could have no more dinners from Parker's;'-and were your lovely and sympathetic ladies murderous because they unknowingly pitied him? You sympathized with O'Connell-did you desire a bloody revolution in the British Empire on that account? But the case of Lopez, gentlemen, I particularly recommended to your reflections. He went to Cuba exactly as Brown came here. He influenced young men to enlist with him. They went and were shot, and did you not sympathize with them? I am sure I did, and very glad was I when the Spanish Government liberated the remnant of his force, as we hope you will the poor remains of Capt. Brown's. And it is clear that if pitying Brown makes us Abolitionists, pitying Lopez makes us fillibusters, negro thieves and land pirates. I can count all the active Abolitionists, even in Boston, on my fingers. I know they make much noise, but so does a parrot at my hotel. He is an excessively noisy bird, and shrieks, and scolds the entire neighborhood from morning till night. But he is hardly a fair representative of the population of that house, though he makes a greater disturbance than all of them put together. Neither do our Abolition or Republican politicians represent to you the feeling of our people-and yet you arm yourselves against us.
And you refuse to pardon Stevens because we wish you would! Gentlemen, this may be a reason, but it requires great practice in arguing about the Resolutions of 1798 and 1799 to enable one to comprehend it.
Does public safety require these executions? Safety from what? A slave insurrection? I have not thought you feared any. People at the North say you do, and go so far as to state that you dare not pardon any one connected with Brown on that account. Now, I know-first, from actually living in a slave State, what the reciprocal sentiments of the slaves and their masters are. Secondly, I know from general principles, that if I had been brought up among slave children-if I had joined their childish sports as a child always will-if I had played hide-and-seek with a little black boy around a wheat-stack, or had him beat me for running off with his marbles, or fought and made up with him over a hundred childish disputes-I might think that a meddling scamp would make him leave me some day; but I should as soon think of cutting his throat as of his cutting mine. No! the days of barbarism are over, unless you choose to reinstate them. Treat the negro as you do, and the kindness. submissiveness and improvidence of his nature will keep him what he isï¿½your faithful, humble, lazy, useless and most burdensome slave. And if he were the fiercest savage of Africa, we are white men, and twenty to one. I say we-I mean we, the citizens of the United States. For whatever you may think, or whatever politicians may say, we are all of one mind on that and kindred points; and though I detest war, I think a small defensive war with some foreign power might be useful just now, if it did not last too long. A union of the Massachusetts Regiment and the Palmettos, under the orders of Col. Memminger, to defend this Capitol against a British incursion-or a union of the Green Mountain Boys and the Seventh Regiment on board a fleet of Massachusetts transports loaded with weapons of the newest Yankee pattern, to arm the people of Savannah and Charleston against the enemy, would be a Union meeting we could believe in!
Even the muscle which must exist somewhere in the anatomy of our most distinguished Union-saver to originate his circulation, might be fairly supposed capable of expanding with something more than muscular irritability in a Union-meeting like that.
Allow us to say what we please at home about slavery. Do not especially try to suppress any discussion, or to punish, directly or indirectly, those who discuss, as long as they do not meddle with your property. If they do that, punish them, and no one can object. We hate slavery, of course. But we need not talk, nor do we propose to talk, abolition to your negroes. There are places and times for all things. The science of physiology, for example, in all its branches, is eminently useful and proper to talk of-but not in general society. The abolition of slavery in like manner is a very important subject of discussion even here-but not so to a crowd of ignorant slaves. So long as we observe on our side that safe and proper rule of action, do you on your side take no liberties with our discussions. Let us alone-hands off, if you please. Mind your own business. It is our turn now to cry out; and, however much we detest slavery, don't undertake to keep us from saying so or thinking so, as long as we never meddle practically with you and yours. That meddling, foolish men, on both sides, have undertaken to interfere in practice with what did not concern them at all, is the cause of all our difficulties. Letting each other's peculiar business alone will probably bring about the cure for them- and now help us by a good beginning on your side. Your broken laws have been dreadfully avenged. The active invaders are nearly all destroyed. The rocks, the river and the hungry gallows have devoured the blood of most of them, and the poor remnant is waiting in a dungeon the result of your deliberations. Let it result in mercy, we conjure you. Mercy is a word that should drop easily from your Virginian lips. Your Commonwealth owes its existence to an act of mercy.
Your founder, like my client, was the invader of a people who had never harmed him; like him, he was taken in an act of invasion; like him, he was tried with all the solemnities of savage law, as Stevens was under the forms of a civilized code; like him, he was sentenced to death, according to the profoundest maxims of those poor barbarians, who knew no better or safer way than always to kill all their enemies. But he was saved by Mercy, incarnate in that sweet Indian maid, whose image glows through the twilight of history with all the loveliest hues of young romance! May the parallel not fail us here in its noblest part! May those whose hearts proudly beat around me with more than regal-the richer than imperial blood of Pocahontas-remember their illustrious ancestress this day! May they emulate her merciful spirit! May they prove their pure descent by their magnanimous actions! May they not refuse to extend, without risk, to a young countryman wholly in their power, the mercy which she risked her life to show to a stranger, an alien, and an enemy!
<c04>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, APRIL 6, 1860.
ANNUAL MEETING.
The Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society will be held in the city of New York, in the Cooper Institute, on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 8th and 9th. The state of the country demands a full and spirited attendance of its members and friends. The Woman's Rights Convention will be held in the same place on Thursday and Friday, May 10th and 11th.
THE FRENCH EMPEROR.
NAPOLEON III. IN ITALY: AND OTHER POEMS By Elizabeth Barrett Browning. New York: C. S. Francis & Co., 554 Broadway. 1860.
The following are the contents of this volume of 72 pages:-Napoleon III. in Italy; The Dance; A Tale of Villafranca; A Court Lady; An August Voice; Christmas Gifts; Italy and the World; A Curse for the Nation. These effusions are crowded with those pictorial delineations, mystical yet pregnant expressions, lofty aspirations, strong imaginings, and deep thobbings of humanity, which characterize Mrs. Browning as the most remarkable poet of the age. 'What I have written,' she says in her preface, 'has simply been written because I love truth and justice quand meme, more than Plato and Plato's country, more than Dante and Dante's country, more even than Shakspeare and Shakspeare's country.' Is it not a strange moral paradox, that such a 'lover of truth and justice' should regard the perfidious usurper of 'the liberties of France-whose hands are dripping with the best blood of the empire-as the true friend of Italian freedom and independence, bent on nothing but the highest and noblest objects for Europe and mankind? Thus does she extol him:-
ï¿½Nay, but he, this wonder,
He cannot falter nor prate,(!)
Though many around him and under,
With intellects trained to the curve,
Distrust him in spirit and nerve
Because his meaning is straight. (!)
Measure him ere he depart
With those who have governed and led;
Larger so much by the heart,
Larger so much by the head.
Emperor
Evermore.ï¿½
Again, referring to the same French usurper:-
'Courage, courage! happy is he,
Of whom (himself among the dead 
But chose to side with suffering men, (!)
And had the world against him,
0when He came to deliver Italy.
Emperor
Evermore.ï¿½
This is personal infatuation, as unaccountable as it is intense. How can the man who has subverted all free institutions in his own country, and caused to be torn down from the public gaze all the emblems and watchwords of freedom, be really interested in the freedom of Italy, or of any other nation? What if the wolf has put on the sheep's clothing for the hour-is he any the less ravenous a beast? Does it prove that he has lost his appetite for mutton?
But why brand him as guilty of perfidy and usurpation? Has he not been twice chosen Emperor by the suffrages of the people?
'Emperor, Emperor!
From the centre to the shore,
From the Seine back to the Rhine,
Stood eight millions up and swore
By their manhood's right divine
So to elect and legislate,
This man should renew the line
Broken in a strain of fate
And leagued kings at Waterloo,
When the people's hands let go.
Emperor
Evermore.ï¿½
Yet these eight millions were manifestly acting only as electoral puppets, under the pressure of violent constraint, and not as free and independent voters; else how happens it that the freedom of the press is struck down among them-that liberty of speech can be indulged only at the peril of imprisonment, ostracism or death-that no public meetings for free discussion can be held in any part of the empire-and that the power of the 'Emperor evermore' is absolute over all the thoughts and movements of the people? This is her reply-referring to the day of election:-
'That day I did not hate,
Nor doubt, nor quail, nor curse.
I, reverencing the people, did not bate
My reverence of their deed and oracle,
Nor vainly prate
Of better and of worse
Against the great conclusion of their will.'
Alas! it was a foregone conclusion, and not a free choice on their part! It was the liberty granted at the last Presidential election, in the slaveholding States of this country: whoever voted for John C. Fremont did so at the peril of his life! Such an election is a mockery.
Under what enchantment is this gifted woman laboring? Hear her once more:-
'But now, Napoleon, now
That, leaving far behind the purple throng
Of vulgar monarchs, thou
Tread'st higher in thy deed
Than stair of throne can lead
To help in the hour of wrong 
The broken hearts of nations to be strong,-
Now, lifted as thou art
To the level of pure song,
We stand to meet thee on these Alpine snows!
And while the palpitating peaks break out
Ecstatic from somnambular repose
With answers to the presence and the shout,
We, poets of the people, who take part
With elemental justice, natural right,
Join in our echoes also, nor refrain.
We meet thee, O Napoleon, at this height
At last, and find thee great enough to praise.'
This would be admirable, if it were true; but it is the strangest mental hallucination! It forcibly suggests the scene between Bottom with his ass's head, and Titania, the Queen of the Fairies, waking from her sleep, in consequence of his braying:-
'Titania. What angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again:
Mine ear is much enamor'd of thy note,
So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape,
And thy fair virtue's force doth move me,
On the first view, to say, to swear, I love thee.'
Bottom. Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that; and yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together now-a-days: The more the pity, that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.
Titania. Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
Bottom. Not so, neither; but if I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.'
The last piece in this volume, written originally for the Liberty Bell, entitled 'A Curse for a Nation,' with reference to American Slavery, is worth the price of it many times. We quote three verses:-
'Because ye have broken your own chain With the strain
Of brave men climbing a Nation's height,
Yet thence bear down with brand and thong
On souls of others,-for this wrong
This is the curse! Write!
Because yourselves are standing straight
In the state
Of Freedom's foremost acolyte,
Yet keep calm footing all the time
On writhing bond-slaves,-for this crime
This is the curse! Write!
Go, wherever ill deeds shall be done-
Go, plant your flag in the sun
Beside the ill-doers!
And recoil from the clenching curse
Of God's witnessing Universe
With a curse of yours!
This is the curse! Write!
<c05>
LETTER FROM REV. THEODORE PARKER, TO A FRIEND IN BOSTON.
ROME, Feb. 25, 1860.
MY DEAR FRIEND:
It is curious to study the institutions of Rome, and see how man decays here with such a government. The people of the Roman States-about three and a quarter millions-have one of the finest climates and countries in the world. See what they make of it. They have about twenty-five or thirty miles of railroad-one track to Frascati, another to Civita Vecchia-though other lines are laid out. The commerce is inconsiderable; manufactures almost nothing-all the spinning and weaving in Rome is done by hand; so is all the sawing! Agriculture returns to the rudest form; in all the fertile campagna about Rome, they get but one crop of grain from the land in three years; the rest of the time it lies fallow. The favorite work of agriculture once was to produce the vine, the olive, the fig, nuts and various grains. Now the farmer seeks chiefly the spontaneous product of the soil, grass, and on that he pastures his oxen, sheep and swine! But the labored products of the farm are on the decline. Rome exports about one million pounds of wool a year. I think it is her chief export, and may be worth two or three million dollars. In the city, the chief industry, after supplying the daily wants of the back and the belly, is devoted to the fine arts. I find that last year, Rome sold old pictures to the amount of $16,000, and new ones to $134,000-say $150,000 for pictures. She sold $2000 worth of old sculpture, and $230,000 worth of new. Then she exports cameos, mosaics, jewels, church ornaments, &c., to about $500,000 a year. Perhaps we might say her industry in the fine arts brought her in $1,000,000 in 1859. But the sale of these things is quite precarious, and depends on the number of strangers here. It is a hard time the poor artists have this year, when there are so few foreigners in town. It is curious to see the contrasts of niceness and rudeness in the same street. In a studio, men make statues of most exquisite grace and beauty- the triumph of mind over matter; in a shop next door, others make the strong boxes to hold those statues: they put a log of wood on two clumsy horses, one man gets a-top, another underneath, and with a miserable old saw they cut the log into planks to make the box! (We don't make many statues in Boston, but a top-sawyer is not known!) The elegant arts are held in high esteem, while the useful sink into neglect. It is curious to see how long it takes mankind to respect the industry which feeds and clothes, houses and comforts the human race. The work of ruling, of fighting, of ' saving the soul,' by some sort of hocus-pocus, this is thought decent and respectable; but farm-work, woods-work, shop-work, that is mean and debasing! Such is the notion that prevails in the classic writers of Greece and Rome, and with the 'gentlemen' and 'ladies' of New England to-day-I mean, with the ornamental males and females. Slavery is only supported by the profound contempt for productive industry which marks the South; and it has its support at the North chiefly in the same contempt. Miss Diddlediddle-diddle is descended from a blacksmith at Beverly or Marblehead; he was grandfather to this foolish thing; she is ashamed of her origin, and never sees an anvil without a blush of mortified vanity. Now, if I had a son, I should rather he would be a great engineer, a great mason, carpenter, or railroad builder, than a great painter, sculptor, or fiddler; and certainly I should rather my son were an ordinary third-rate tailor, shoemaker, brazier, than an ordinary third-rate sculptor to spoil marble and waste the time of men he strove to make statues of. How much better to be a common house-painter than a stupid dauber of canvass! In America-I mean, in the free States, the mass of the people, in their collective action, work right in respect to this-though uncounted individuals make the greatest mistakes; but here it is the community as a whole that falls into the error. Alas for them! the miserable rags which are the clothing of the people, and the wretched food they eat, are consequences of the fatal blunder, and the haggard, melancholy faces of the common people, ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-fed, are the protest of Nature against the worship of Beauty and the scorn of Use. Think of a city exporting one million dollars' worth of trinkets, while she has not a saw-mill nor a power-loom! We manage this matter better in New England. There were seven paper mills in Massachusetts, a foundry at Saugus, and saw-mills more than I can recollect, before a picture had ever been painted in all New England, or a statue made. Jonathan had many a useful notion before he made him a fiddle. 
In Europe, you see many things which seem strange to an American. Take the use of wine. If I am right, the Europeans consume about 6,500,000,000 gallons of wine. In France, leave out of account the pasture land which is not ploughed, and the forests, of the actual arable land, one-third is devoted to the culture of the grape! Yet there are immense districts where no wine can be raised at all. I see it stated that the government returns make it appear that the people of France drink 850,000,000 gallons of wine, and the calculation is that the amount is not much less than 1,000,000,000! Yet I don't believe, in the year 1859, there was so much drunkenness among the 39,000,000 people of France as among the 3,000,000 Yankees of New England! I have been four months at Rome; there are wine shops every where; I am out of doors from three to six hours a day, and I have never yet seen a man drunk; now and then one is merry, never intoxicated. The Romans, Italians, French, &c, are quite temperate; they drink their weak wine with water, and when they take liquors, it is only a little glassful at a time, (which does not make a spoon-full.) I don't believe there is a bar in all Italy where men step up and drink rum and water, gin and water, &c. Excessive drinking is not to the taste of the people. In the North of Europe, and even in Switzerland, it is not so. The English, without help from the Irish and Scotch, drink about 600 or 700,000,000 gallons of beer every year, not to speak of the wine, spirits, &c., they take to wash it down withal. There is drunkenness. So you find it in Scandinavia, in Holland, and North Germany. How do you think the Americans will settle the drink question? Certainly not by taking merely to water, tea, coffee, &c. We shall have more beer, perhaps return to the making of cider, and certainly plant vines where they will grow. Drunkenness is such a monstrous and ghastly evil, I would do almost any thing to get rid of it. But I sometimes think we have taken the wrong track. I am glad to see the license law introduced to the New York Legislature, and think it will do more good than our New England scheme of prohibition by force. 
So we have got a Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives at last! It is a great gain: all the weight of the Union must now incline from the Democratic party. I suppose Kansas may come into the Union this session, and that shameful quarrel be ended. But what violence on the part of slaveholders, what declarations that they will dissolve the Union if Seward is elected! I wonder the Union-savers at Boston and New York do not see what fools they make of themselves by professing zeal for the Union, while they so strike hands with the only men who attempt to destroy it. Just now, I see the South is rich, with her cotton crop worth $200,000,000; while the North is poor-the grass crop short by 33 per cent. in 1859, and the grain crop poor for the last three years. I take it the West is greatly in debt to the East for goods sent forward, not to speak of money put into (wild-cat) railroads, into lands which will not soon be settled, and into city debt. Prospects to me do not look well for the West for some years to come; the people are very improvident and wasteful. Such live lands and such slovenly
<c06>
farming don't go well together. I wonder how much the slave States are indebted to the free, for advances on crops, for money lent on mortgage, and for goods sent forward. I estimate that out of the $200,000,000 to be paid for the cotton crop, $75,000,000 have already been taken up by the South in advances, interest due, &c. I wish you would write me a letter-sometime when you have nothing else to do-on the financial relations of the South and the West with the East.
I see our exchanges with Spanish America amount to $114,000,000 a year (1858), and am surprised at itï¿½though some Americans treat it as ï¿½contemptible.' I think all the Spanish American exchanges of value (exports and imports) only make $340,000,000. Now, if we get more than a third, it is quite our share.
Just now, the two prominent nations of Europe are doing a great workï¿½introducing a liberal scheme of commercial intercourse. Really, Napoleon the little, as we used contemptuously to call him, seems to be the most statesmanlike head in Europe, and is far wiser than the other Napoleon, who broke wickedly with the ideas of the age, and so properly was set down on that little rock at the end of the world, to point the moral of history and adorn its tale. I dislike much that Napoleon has done, but must confess an honest admiration for his efforts to liberate Italy, and to advance the industrial interests of France. After all, it is probably true that his nation deserves no better rule than he gives it, and is not capable of more liberal institutions. Those Celtic people have got EQUALITY; the old aristocratic regime is perished utterly; all depends on universal suffrage; LIBERTY is something they care little about. A strange people are the French-with so much military courage, and no civil courage at all. I don't see how they could live under a Republican government-one like ours, I am sure, would be impossible.
Truly and faithfully, yours, 
THEODDRE PARKER.

SLAVE CASE IN PHILADELPHIA.
PHILADELPHIA, April 1, 1860.
MR. EDITOR-My knowledge of the classics is limited, but I think it was Sysiphus who was engaged in the entertaining employment of rolling a huge stone up hill, which, just as it reached the top, would slip from his grasp, and come thundering down again. Very disheartening and discouraging to the roller that must have been! Somewhat similar to this is the work of abolitionists, especially those of us who are so unfortunate as to have our lines cast in this unpleasant State of Pennsylvania. We thought, last fall, when public opinion forced a favorable decision in the 'Daniel Webster' slave case, that we saw at least the top of the hill, up which we have been so long urging our weary way. It may be we did; but, to some of us, just now, it looks as far off as if we were still standing at the bottom. And were it not that, in a work of this sort, there can be no backward steps,-our seeming defeats being made victories,ï¿½ we would indeed have cause to despair; for we have seen within the last week, another victim sacrificed under a Law, that was part and parcel of those 'beneficent measures' which Mr. Seward says gave peace to the nation.
You have, doubtless, seen the particulars of this case; so I will not enter into them in detail. But as every attempted reclamation of a fugitive becomes more and more important, inasmuch as they are practical tests of the growth of Anti-Slavery feeling, it is well to give the leading facts connected with these cases as wide a circulation as possible.
The alleged fugitive, in this instance, 'Moses Harner,' claimed by a man named Butler, from Jefferson County, Virginia, was arrested on Monday last, near Harrisburgh, and brought to this city that night.
When within a few miles of the city, a collision took place, which threw the cars. off the track over an embankment, and came very near cutting short the career of the slave-hunters, and averting the doom, worse than death, of their victim.
The accident prevented their arrival in the city at the usual time, so that our friends, who had been made a ware of the arrest, by a telegram from Harris-burgh, were foiled in their efforts to secure an inter-view with the man that night, and obtain information as to the time when his hearing would take place.
The affair had been managed so secretly, that the next morning, the public knew little or nothing about it. It was ascertained, however, that a hearing would 
take place at 10 o'clock before Judge Cadwallader of the U. S. District Court. At the appointed time, the parties met; the claimant being represented by Benjamin H. Brewster, who evidently desired to add to the reputation he achieved in the 'Webster' case-George H. Earle, R. H. Warriner, and others appearing for the slave. The defence insisted upon having time to prepare their case, and the Judge having made up his mind as to his ultimate decision, and to secure the merit of giving a fair trial, granted their request. So the case was adjourned until I o'clock of the same day. When the court again met, the defence having no witnesses, made their stand upon the invalidity of the claimant's certificate, in consequence of erasures and alterations. And if the Judge had wanted to defend liberty half as much as he did to serve slavery, he would have sustained them in their objection. But he decided otherwise. The defence then had no alternative, other than to abandon the case at once, or to remain in it, and throw all the obstacles possible in the way of the claimant. They chose the latter course, and succeeded by motions, and arguments upon them, in delaying the case, and securing a postponement until the next day, Wednesday. By this time the excitement was very much increased, although, to the shame of the city, it was confined chiefly to colored people, and those among the whites who are known as Anti-Slavery. The court room was crowded, besides large numbers on the street. When the decision of the Judge was given, remanding the man into slavery, there was an attempt to 'cheer' by Market-street 'drummers,' Southern students, and other Democrats who were present, but it was a failure.
Mr. Earle, whose devotedness and ability in this, as in other cases, cannot be too highly praised, determined to resort to all expedients in behalf of his client, and to make his capture as difficult as possible, procured a writ of Habeas Corpus from Judge Allison of the Court of Common Pleas of this city, upon Marshal Yost, commanding him to produce the colored man the next morning, (Thursday,) at 10 o'clock, and show cause why he should not be set at liberty.
This step caused much excitement among those who have the Union and the Constitution in their special charge, as it boded a conflict between the State and Federal authorities. This would, doubtless, have been the case, if Judge Allison had been courageous enough to maintain his position. The Marshal came into Court the next morning, and made answer, that his duty toward the U. S. Court would not al-low him to obey the writ, and, consequently, he had sent the man South the night previous! Whereupon, instead of committing him at once for contempt, the Judge stated that, had he known all the circumstances, (thereby implying that Mr. Earle had suppressed some of the facts,) he probably would not have issued the writ, and would prefer that, instead of a motion to commit for contempt, the question should be argued as if upon the original motion to grant the writ! The matter was then postponed until yesterday, when it was argued without coming to a conclusion, and was then adjourned for a week; when (if it does not die a natural death in the mean time) the Judge will probably review his position, and say that the writ ought not to have been granted,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I have alluded to the indifference on the part of the public, as compared with the feeling manifested in the ’Webster' case. This apathy and apparent falling off in anti-slavery feeling is certainly very discouraging; and if this seeming relapse of public sentiment were real, we might indeed despair. But it is not so. The causes of this state of things are evident, and are only temporary in their influence. The pious and mercantile respectability of Philadelphia have not yet recovered from the shock they received at Harper's Ferry; consequently, we endeavor to prove to our Southern brethren that we do not sympathize with attempts to rob them of their slaves, by promptly sending back to them all we can lay our hands upon, who have escaped from them. Merchants do it, because they see themselves and families starving if they do not; (at least, that is the result predicted by the South.) Piety does it, I suppose, because it desires to save Christianity from the imputation that it was intended to make the world better. Democrats do it, because they like to; and Republicans, because they want to elect their President, and save the Union. These cases bring to the surface all the latent goodness or meanness that there is in men. Far instance, there is Brewster, the counsel for the claimant in this case. When he was serenaded the other night by government officials, shoulder-hitters and dry-goods clerks; he said in reply, that he considered ‘Slavery a political necessity'; that ‘it is politically right, legally right, socially right, and morally right'; ’sustained by the laws of God and man.' It would be a curious, but very unpleasant, spectacle to see a man who, under the circumstances, could have uttered a more abominable sentiment than that.
Then, again, there was the witness for the slave-catcher, who had volunteered his services-one Harper, originally from Virginia, now a dry-goods clerk in a house in this city. When asked how long he had known the prisoner, he replied,’ All his life; we played together as children.'
The only pleasant feature of this whole business was the brave attempt at a rescue, made immediately after the decision of the case. There was quite a crowd of colored people collected on the street, and when the poor fellow was brought down in irons, they could control themselves no longer, and a desperate rush was made upon the carriage, the pole of which was broken to pieces, the traces cut, and it run on to the sidewalk, where the work would have been completed, had it not been for exertions of an overwhelming force of armed policemen. As it was, it was only after the most desperate efforts that they were able to drive the crowd back, and place the man in another carriage. He was then taken to prison, surrounded by some three hundred officers, all with revolvers in their hands. Some of our friends find fault with this attempt, thinking it ill-timed and imprudent. Imprudent, of course, it was-such things always are; but it was a spontaneous ebullition of feeling, and that it always good; it was bravely and generously manifested, and that is always good. None of the men arrested were armed, I believe, so it is evident there was no desire to take life. But knowing as they did that the officers were armed, they imperilled their own lives in a brave attempt to rescue a fellow-creature from the horrible doom of American slavery. Their act needs no defence, if what Montaigne says is true, that ‘whatever is bravely is ever honorably done, at a time when justice is dead.' R.

PHYSICAL RESISTANCE AND’NON_RESISTANCE.'
These terms, referred to human action, express policy or mode, nor quality or principle. The quality is goodness; the principle is ‘to give to every one his due-to hurt no one-to live honestly'; if any thing further can be demanded, to do good to all in love. To this, both the resistant and the non-resistant may heartily subscribe. They stand together as to quality and principle.
As to policy or mode, they differ; and to what extent? Both say, Love all-hurt none-do good to all. Both agree to hate bad conduct-to hurt under certain circumstances and for certain ends-to hurt mentally, to hurt physically, for mental ends, for physical ends. The sick and bruised must be healed, the mad, the sinful restored. Hurting and wounding are sometimes justifiable for this end. ‘The ends justify the means,' say both. Of course, both say this with a limitation, just as both say, ‘Hurt no one.' Both justify the use of physical force in certain cases and modes, to a certain extent. The non-resistant says, ‘Hold that madman!'-'Shut up that thief that murderer!'-'Restrain that furious boy!'
‘Use physical force, but use no more than is necessary; don't take the sword in any case; don't take any deadly weapon.' The resistant says, ‘The sword, in certain cases, is the least hurtful and the only effectual means of restraint; we must therefore take it.' Both employ moral and physical resistance, to a certain extent; but in the more desperate cases, where the moral is less effectual and the physical the more necessary, one drops all physical means, and trusts wholly to the moral; the other continues the moral, and takes up the more effectual and severe physical means. For example; here is a large boy pounding a small one. He is too furious to listen to reason. Both say, ‘Take him off' Both do it by physical force. He now draws a revolver or a knife, and threatens to kill. The non-resistant pleads to no purpose, but lets go his hold because he sees too great a degree of violence is necessary, throws himself upon the small boy; the large one knocks him off, and continues his injury to the small one. The resistant knocks down the furious large boy, and disarms him-then employs his moral means.
Again: The slaveholder, with his defenders, has his victim. The non-resistant pleads, demands, protests, denounces, perhaps gets knocked over, while the slaveholder continues his tyranny. But the resistant pleads, demands, protests and kills the slaveholder, or overcomes him by the necessary force; then, the victims freed, he uses the moral means to convert the tyrant.
Neither of these cases implies any less love, any less moral power, any less good to all, any more hurt to any-in the conduct of the resistant than in that of the non-resistant. Who in our day has exhibited more genuine love to all men, more moral power, and really hurt any one less, than John Brown? A sabre cut, a blow that kills, does not necessarily hurt, in the absolute sense. It may be the best thing for some men to strike off their heads. I think no one could do me a greater favor, a greater good, in the end, than to stop my killing or enslaving an innocent man, even by taking my life, if there were no other means. I say to all, when you find me in the position of a pirate, a robber, a slaveholder, cut me down, if there be no other way to stop me. And as I would have you do to me, may I not do to you? The Golden Rule-the highest conceivable rule of action, does not forbid killing. The mother who loves her boy as only a mother can, may kill him, if there be no other possible way to stop his killing all her daughters, and the little ones in her arms. It is her duty to kill him, if she see no other possible alternative. But no man has a right to touch even a hair of his enemy's head, except the necessity of circumstances, in his judgment, requires it for good. No man has a right to hurt, to the least degree, for revenge or retaliation, in any sense. Without his consent, no one has a right to commit the least temporary encroachment upon another, except some mental incapacity exist, or some rights of others are invaded, so as to forfeit all the offender's claim to respect in that capacity and position. I would kill the slaveholder only because, under the circumstances, he has not only forfeited all right to life, but made it my imperative duty to kill him, not for his hurt, but for his victim's good. This sentiment, more strongly expressed, have just read in the Liberator of to-day, under the following heading: ’The Right and Duty
<c02>
of Invasion and Insurrection to Free Slaves.' The resolutions which followed, and the remarks, were all true to this tile, but at the close, I was surprised to see the name of that well –known non–resistant, HENRY C. WRIGHT. I turned back, and re–read the article again and again, to see what it meant. I read—
'Resolved, That slaveholders, as such, have no rights.
'Resolved, That any law or Constitution, any religion or government, that accords to slaveholders any rights, and protects them in them, OUGHT TO BE RESISTED.
'Resolved, That it is the right and duty of the people and States of the North to invade [this word is printed in italics, as here] the slaveholding States, to free the slaves, and annihilate the power that enslaves them.'
These resolutions, I think, must have been drawn by Henry C. Wright, the noted non–resistant. At any rate, he endorses them, for he say, ‘I do not think there was one in the audience who dissented.' ‘Have human beings a right to defend themselves and their fellows against all who would enslave them, and hold, use and work them as beasts and chattels? No one doubts it; and it is the very basis of the National and State governments, that they may do this by killing the enslaver. So should the people and States of the North enter the slaveholding States to defend their fellow–beings against appalling wrongs and outrages.' What means this non–resistant advocate of resistance? Simply this–' Non–resistance for me, RESISTANCE FOR YOU.' How clearly our duty in this case is set forth by the words of Jesus concerning those in his time, who would not move one of their fingers: ‘Whatsoever they did you observe, that observe and do, but do not ye after their works, for they say and do not.'
Not unlike Henry C. Wright is S. S. Foster, the ‘Non–Resistant Insurrectionist.' ‘Take your two swords, your revolver, your broomstick, your bundle of small cords, anything you can best use, and I will take my non–resistant pen and tongue, and let us go hence to the slaveholder, and stand shoulder to shoulder in the conflict,' says this noted non–resistant. Others say, ‘We can't use carnal weapons, but we will cast bullets, we will do any thing to sustain those who do.' All, with one or two exceptions, make a saint of John Brown. Some say, ‘his moral power did the great work.' Well, then, a man does not necessarily lose his moral power by taking up and using the physical. It is admitted that no man, in so short a time, has so effectually wrought against slavery as John Brown. What is the secret of this? Had he the greatest moral power of all anti–slavery men? If he had, then be it admitted that a fighting man has exhibited more moral energy than any non–resistant of the age, and have done with this parade of moral force in contrast with physical, as though the two could not co–exist and co–operate.
I think it is perfectly evident, almost to a blind man, that John Brown's rifle made an occasion for his moral power to act. His physical energy, applied in the form of bold resistance, made an opening, and gave him a position, so that he could use his moral force. Without this use of the physical, the moral would never have accomplished any thing worthy of special note. One day of Garrison, morally, is worth as much as one day of John Brown, morally; in itself, worth ten times more, because, without the physical, John Brown would never have been heard from, but with it, he has done more in a day than Garrison could do in a year without it. Yet, a have before said, I do not ask or desire that Mr. Garrison should take the rifle. It is enough that he so well appreciates and nobly endorses the man who does take it. I find no fault with him or other non–resistant Abolitionists, because they are not other–wise, much less, because they make no issue with those who are otherwise. My object in this article has been simply to show how nearly the true non–resistant and his ally, the resistant, agree, and to give some few considerations which have induced me not to change my principles, but to change my policy. Also, to show that this change of policy, involving no quality or principle, does not imply a letting down or going back from a higher position. I have changed my policy, because I think the times demanded the change, and I doubt not many more will do so.
Cambridge, Feb. 25, 1860. H. FOWLER.

SEWARD PLAYING POSSUM.
In conversation with an intelligent Republican, Mr. Seward's late speech in the Senate became the topic. I observed that if that speech indicated the policy of his party, that party seemed to me to have lost all its distinguishing virtues, and to have become a worthless excrescence.
My friend could not see things in that light. He thought the original ends and aims of the party were not lost sight of by its leaders, and would be faithfully adhered to by Mr. Seward, in the event of his exaltation to the Presidency. And he proceeded to point out the various passages in Mr. Seward's former speeches, that defended the highest purposes ever claimed by the party in its days of outspoken radical–ism. He was sure that the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, and an attempt for the restoration of the Missouri Compromise, would be among the first events of Mr. Seward's administration. The Fugitive Slave Law Mr. Seward had most unequivocally placed under the ban of the ‘Higher Law;’ while in his anti–Nebraska speech, he had notified the South that the repeal of the Missouri Compromise would itself be repealable, and for that purpose would probably come up for future legislation.
I suggested that, form that tenor of Mr. Seward's late speech, he regarded the Union as quite too sacred to be exposed to the agitating influences that would necessarily result from any such adhesion to formerly declared principles. My friend said that if I would scan closely Mr. Seward's speech on the Nebraska Bill, I would find that he contemplated the perpetuation of the Union, for the overthrow of slavery by the federal power. He said Mr. Seward had then stated most explicitly, that Freedom and Slavery were antagonistic elements in this government, and that, under the aegis of the Union, one or the other must inevitably cease; and then, plainly enough, to his mind, hinted that the doom of destruction was written by the finger of fate on the ‘peculiar institution.' He had no doubt that, if Mr. Seward were made President, he would faithfully wield the executive power for the sure and certain overthrow of slavery in the States.
Then, said I. Mr. Seward's last speech is a most elaborate effort to conceal from the South any such purpose, and would be an example of political chicanery as base and contemptible as it is pernicious.
But, continued my friend, apologetically, a deal of finesse is absolutely necessary, now-a-days! Mr. Seward is an excellent tactician, and his success depends very much on his pulling the wool over the eyes of the South! Those most in the secret of Mr. Seward's management understand all this, and can heartily assure emancipationists that is perfectly safe for them to vote for Mr. Seward!
A.HOGEBOOM.
SHED CORNERS, N.Y. March 20th, 1860.
'THE NON-RESISTANCE PRINCIPLE.' Our last page is entirely occupied with a very lucid and most timely exposition of ‘The Non-Resistance Principle,' by Mr. C. K. WHIPPLE, showing its application in the treatment of enemies and oppressors. We commend it to the careful perusal of our readers, and to the consciences and judgments of all. It will be speedily published in a neat tract.
CONNECTICUT ELECTION. The annual State Election took place in Connection on Monday last, resulting in the choice of a Republican Governor, a Republican Senate and House, and thus securing the election of another Republican U. S. Senator.
<c03>
THOMAS JEFFERSON AND THE’HIGHER LAW.'
A LESSON FROM HISTORY.
MR. GARRISON-When the contemners of the higher law are reminded that our government has its origin in the practical recognition of the supremacy of that law, they are in the habit of replying, in substance-'We admit the truth of the statement; but the right of appeal to that law is a revolutionary right; a revolutionary right can be rightfully proclaimed and exercised only when the people are ripe and eager for revolution, having first exhausted all other means of redress.' We might pause to inquire here, how a revolution can ever be effected by a people, if individuals, as such, are never to recognize the higher law; if each man is to wait for his neighbor to speak first, till, by and by, a majority of the whole shall all speak at once! Or, the abstract right of a people to revolutionize being conceded by our opponents, this right of the whole body must inhere in each individual member of that body; the right of the whole to revolutionize being therefore the right of the individual, it needs no argument to demonstrate that, of necessity, each man-each member of the community-must be his or her own judge in regard to the time when a revolution should be sought.
But we desire to waive, at this present writing, all such considerations as these. We wish to invite the attention of the revilers of the Higher Law-that law, the faithful subjects of which have given to humanity all its glory, and to history all its value-that law which the bravely good of all ages have honored, and which tyrants and usurpers have ever scouted-to a fact of American history, which they may have forgotten, or not sufficiently considered. I allude to the course pursued by Thomas Jefferson, in relation to the odious ‘Sedition Law' of his predecessor, John Adams.
This law, be it remembered, was the law of the land, surrounded by all the sanctions of legislative, executive and judicial authority which attached to any other law in the statute-book. Congress had enacted it, the President had approved it, and the Courts had enforced it. However obnoxious this law may have been to a particular party, it is certain that its supporters were numerous and powerful. The lamented Robert Rantoul, Jr., in a speech delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, June 11, 1852, makes the statements that’ New Hampshire, when the constitutionality of the “Alien and Sedition Laws" came up in her Legislature, voted unanimously, in a full house, 137 members being present, and unanimously in the Senate, that those laws were clearly constitutional, and, in the then critical condition of our country, highly expedient.' So much for the popularity of the law, though, course, the action of New Hampshire was an exceptional case in its favor. Under its operation, men, in different parts of the country, were prosecuted, fined and imprisoned.
Now, to this law Thomas Jefferson was bitterly hostile. He pronounced it unconstitutional; and not only so, but so grossly unjust and arbitrary, so contrary to his idea of the rights of man, and the spirit of our institutions, that it was entirely unworthy of toleration, and deserved only to be trodden under foot. With these opinions he entered upon the duties of his office, and was hardly warm in his seat before his action most rigidly corresponded therewith. He would not wait for Congress to undo its work. He preferred the shorter process of undoing it for them. In every instance of the execution of the Sedition Law, he interposed the executive prerogative, by ordering the prosecutor to be arrested at the threshold, or, if judgment and execution had passed, by remitting the fines of the suffers, and releasing them from prison.
It may be said that, having the pardoning power in the premises, the president had a constitutional right to act as he did. Whether the power to pardon includes the right to arrest judicial proceedings before judgment has been passed, we will leave for the lawyers to discuss. The constitutionality of his proceedings, however, did not pass unchallenged. It is upon Jefferson's reply to these criticisms that we would fix the attention of the reader, as given in an answer to a correspondent in Massachusetts, who had questioned the constitutionality of the President's interference. We can give but a brief extract:—
'But another fact is, that I liberated a wretch who was suffering for a libel against Mr. Adams. I do not know who was the particular wretch alluded to; but I discharged every person under punishment or prosecution under the Sedition Law, because I considered, and now consider, that law a nullity, as absolute and palpable as if congress had ordered us to fall down and worship a golden image; and that it was as much my duty to arrest its execution in every stage, as it would have been to rescue from the fiery furnace those who should have been cast into it for refusing to worship the image. It was accordingly done, in every instance, without asking what the offenders had done, or against whom they had offended, but whether the pains they were suffering were inflicted under the pretended Sedition Law.'
There is’ Higher Law’ for you! Shade of Webster, hast thou not, ere now, hunted up this ‘rub-a-dub' fanatic, and rehearsed to his ‘prejudiced' ears some of those denunciations of the laws of God. amid the echoes of which you passed to that realm where those laws alone are supreme? To persons of timid constitutions, who dare not look Absolute Right full in the face, who are never sure a thing is just a till they can find a precedent for it, who, it is fair to presume, did not, in their early life, permit themselves on any account to sneeze, till rousing and sonorous echoes proclaimed a precedent; to such as these, the language, and much more the action, of Thomas Jefferson is full of instruction and encouragement. In at least one case, the President of the United States recognized the higher law, and the heavens did not fall.  He interposed the whole power of his official prerogative, to save men from the penalties of a law he held to be unconstitutional and unjust, and the wheels of government did not stop.  He nullified an enactment of Congress, and, overleaping the line of separation between the executive and judicial departments of the government, interfered with the legal operation of a legally established statute, and, strange to relate, all law was not brought thereby into contempt. Finally, scorning to defend or justify his course on constitutional grounds, with one magnificent bound he leaves behind him all the arts of the politician, all the tricks of the demagogue, and sits royally upon the throne of the Eternal Right—and his country honors his memory, and will keep it green forever! 
Ten yean ago last September, the Congress of these nominally United States passed a law, (so called,) in comparison with which the Sedition Law of John. Adams was as white as snow.  Nobody now says the Sedition Law was constitutional. Nobody will censure Jefferson for having nullified it. But where is the man, who, as President of the United States, will travel to the extent of his power to annul the infamous Fugitive Slave Act?  Who will be our’ illustrious Jefferson'?  It is our firm conviction that the President, who, daring to be the Jefferson of our day, would trample under foot the Fugitive Act; pronounce it a nullity, no more sacred or binding than the law that inaugurated Nebuchadnezzar's image; as being only a pretence of law—would be sustained by the bulk of the nation, and with a renown as much brighter than Jefferson's, as the Fugitive Act is more atrocious, (to say nothing of its glaring unconstitutionality,) than the Sedition Law.  Alas! we discern no prognostics of such a hero. A few years ago, William H. Seward would have been hailed as the man. Now he is far more likely to prove a Herod, or a Pilate, than a Prophet.  Howbeit, we will watch and pray; peradventure, through the thick darkness that over shadows our plain, the vigilant, patient shepherds of humanity will by and by hear the thrilling message—’ Fear not, for behold I bring you glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will to men.'
E.R. PLACE.
<c04>
ONE WORLD IN REPLY TO MR. FOSTER.
Mr. Foster feels the necessity of an antislavery organization in politics. (1.) And what true friend to the slave does not? But in what manner, under the Federal Government, can this be effected, when we are required to venerate law and care nothing for justice, before we can enter even the smallest constitutional door of this government, and thus become enslaved mentally in the outset?
The only distinction I find between a mental and chattel slave in this—the mind of the one controls the body, while the body of the other controls the mind; of the master tires hard to have it so, as with the horse.
Mr. Foster, against this snare I would warn you! Now you are nominally free, and can, as heretofore, do great good to the slave. But this matte of freedom is the point to which I wish to draw your attention, as I had no opportunity to reply to you on the 16th ult.
You say you are free. I think you are not, neither can you find one foot of free soil on your farm. If so, it is slave soil on which your brother fugitive can be hunted down. True, you are free to resist the marshal, and he is free to invade. You free to defend your soil, house, family, and the fugitive; but you are not free to escape the pains and penalties. Therefore you are not absolutely free—only nominally so.
That we may keep ourselves unspotted form this inhuman government, let us work shoulder to shoulder by the most powerful outside crushing pressure, and under the most equitable motto, ‘No union with Slaveholders.’ THOMAS P. KNOX.
(1.) See proceedings of a meeting held in the Meionaon, on the 16th ult., as reported in the Liberator of 30th ult.
THE USURPATION OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE!—The undersigned offers the following Prizes—$200 for the best Legal Essay, and $100 for the best Popular Essay—on the following Questions, viz.:—
1st. In what, if any, cases does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to coerce witnesses for information, to merely aid the work to legislation?
2d. In what, if any, cases does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to seize and force witnesses form their states, to merely aid the work of legislation?
3d. In what, if any, cases does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to inquire into alleged crime, to merely aid the work of legislation?
The essays must not exceed 40 pages octavo, long primer type, and are required by the Committee (whose address will be published hereafter ) on the 1st day of June, 1860. The award will be announced on or before 1st July following.
Papers of all parties and of no party, but who favor fair play and free discussion, are respectfully solicited to publish this notice. The Essays will be sent to all who send me marked copies of their papers containing the above. Address’ Care of Army Box 699, Georgetown, D.C.'
THADDEUS HYATT.
Washington Jail, March 28th, 1860.
ATTEMPT AT KIDNAPPING HYANNIS PEOPLE DOWN SOUTH.—The following paragraph, says the Hyannis Messenger, clipped from a Baltimore paper, and sent us by a friend, will be of special interest to the people of Hyannis, inasmuch as Capt. Josiah Parker is a citizen of this place, well known, and highly esteemed by the whole community. It is a poor rule that don't worth both ways. If Hyannis sea captain may kidnap black men and send them into slavery, why may not Southerners kidnap white children for the same purpose? this event brings the question of human liberty a little nearer to public comprehension than the kidnapping of Columbus Jones did,—that's all! The principle is the same,—only this time ‘it is YOUR BULL that gored MY OX:’—
'On Wednesday afternoon, as two children of Captain Josiah Parker, of the Savannah Steamship Line, living on Spring street, opposite the Eastern Fountain, were playing in front of the house, they were approached by an old woman, who engaged them in conversation. She then suddenly picked up the youngest, a boy between two and three years old, and walked off rapidly towards Pratt street. Her actions were observed by a boy in the neighborhood, who followed her, and caused her to release the child.'
PORTRAIT OF HON. JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.—The New York Evening Post says, that on an easel in Huntington's studio is a nearly finished likeness of the Hon. Joshua R. Giddings. It is the work of Miss Ransom, a pupil of Mr. Huntington, and was commenced nearly a year ago at the city of Washington. It is a strong likeness of the veteran, and, in an artistic point of view, is highly complimentary to the lady artist. It will grace the walls of the Academy at the coming exhibition. Miss Ransom is a native of Ohio, and from the same county with Mr. Giddings. Her talents, we think, are of a high order, and we venture to predict for her a successful future career. 
EXPELLED NEGROES GOING TO CANADA.—The Detroit Tribune states that a party of thirty negroes, expelled from the States of North Carolina by the infamous law reducing all free negroes to slavery or driving them from the State, crossed the river into Canada, the home of oppressed Americans, on Friday. The Tribune remark:—'This is Christian civilization in America to-day. And presses are found in plenty to rejoice at this rankest act of injustice, to defend it and urge it forward.
'COLLIERY EXPLOSION.—EIGHTY LIVES LOST.—On the 2d of March, a fearful catastrophe happened by an explosion of gas in Burradon Colliery, Northumberland, England. About 120 men and boys were at work in the pit, 80 of whom perished, from the stifling effects of the choke-damp.
Spencer DeWitt's house in Oxford, Iowa, was burned on the evening of the 2d ult., while he and his wife were at church, and their three children (two girls and a boy, aged nine, five, and three,) perished in the flames. No one reached the house until it was in flames, and a voice, supposed to be that of the oldest girl, was heard once crying’ mercy.'
TEN PERSONS BURNT TO DEATH. —NEW YORK, March 28th.—A fire this morning in 45th street, destroyed a dwelling, and burnt to death ten persons, viz.: The wife and four children of Andrew Wheeler, and the wife and four children of Mr. Bennett.
The Alabamians are stirred up by a correspondent of the Mobile Herald to demand Bennett of the New York Herald for trial and death. He exclaims: ‘Is it right that this head chief of the Abolitionists should go scot free? No; let the Governor of Alabama claim this man for trial. Let him demand the body from Gov. Morgan. Take Bennett South. Procure a copy of the Herald for the past twenty-five years, and try him for that. If guilty, put him to death. Why should a mean soul like Bennett escape, when his superiors, John Brown, Coppic, Stevens & Co., are put to death?’

RECEIPTS
into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from Feb. 1 to April 1, 1860.
Collections by Charles C. Burleigh. in Western Mass West Farms, 84c; Leads, 65c; Norwich Hill, 98c; Chester Factories, $2 88; Middlefield, 1 47; Goshen, 33c; Hattfield, 1 16; Whately, 1 43; South Deerfield, 1 44; Deerfield, 1 90; Conway, 1; Ashfield Flat, 2 20; Ashfield Plain, 96c; Spruce Corners, 41c; Plainfield, 1 08; Hawley, 66c; Buckland, 1 16; Shelburne Falls, 1 58; West Whately, 1 65— $23 53
From S. May, Jr.
For additional collections at annual meeting, 2 00
Andrew M. Howland, to redeem pledge, 2 00
Richard P, Hallowell 3 00
C. Perry, West Needham, donation, 1 00
Proceeds of Twenty -Sixth National Anti-Slavery Subscription-Anniversary, 842 95
Mrs. Eliza Lee Follen, a donation, 100 00
Mrs. E. M. Randall, for proceeds Fair in Abington, December, 1859, 100 00
Do. do. do. Levee in do. February, 1860, 47 58
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
Boston, April 2, 1860.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:—
East Templeton, Sunday, April 8.
Winchendon, Wednesday, April 11.
Fitzwilliam, N. H., Friday, April 13.
Keene, N.H., Sunday, April 15.
DIED—In this city, March 10, WILLIAM, Son of James and Ann Flint, aged 10 years.
<c05>
DR.CHEEVER'S GREAT WORK.
The Guilt of Slavery,
AND THE
CRIME OF SLAVEHOLDING,
DEMONSTRATED FROM THE HEBREW AND GREEK SCRIPTURES.
BY REV.GEO.B.CHEEVER.D.D.
THIS work embraces an examination of all the passages in the Bible on the subject of Slavery and Slaveholding as a sin against God and man. It contains a thorough analysis of the Mosaic laws of domestic service, as well as of tributary subjection; and of the national history in illustration of the laws he learned author that spent years of research upon this work, and it is without doubt the ablest effort of his life, and the most thorough demolition of all pro-slavery arguments, based upon the Scriptures of the old and New Testaments. 
PRICE, $1 25. 
JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS,
No.20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
March 9. 6wis; 

Mrs. Lydia Maria Child's
LIFE OF
ISAAC T. HOPPER, 
THE DISTINGUISHED QUAKER PHILANTHROPIST,
IS one of the most intensely interesting and useful biographies of MODERN TIMES. His was emphatically
'A TRUE LIFE.' 
A NEW EDITION.
THE TWELFTH THOUSAND
Is just published. No library is complete without the record of this TRUE LIFE—a life spent in deeds of the most active philanthropy and benevolence.
PRICE, $1 25. 
JOHN P. JEWETT &. CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
March 9. imis

The Herald of Progress
EDITED BY
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
THIS new Journal of Practical and Spiritual Reform is commended to the favorable notice of all; interested in any of the progressive movements of the day.  Its columns are open to well written articles upon any and all Reform questions. Unlike most Spiritual papers heretofore published, its circulation at the South is limited by the sentiment there which declares it among ‘incendiary documents.' 
Its tolerant spirit towards every question of human interest, should commend it to all’ who love their fellow-men.'
Terms—$2 per year. To be had of all news agents.
A. J. DAVIS & CO., Publishers, 
M30 3t 274 Canal street, New York.

CARPETING.
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, beat qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c, Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept 16 tf

THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS.
AND.
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.
Mchl6tf BOSTON, MASS.

Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON.
JUST PUBLISHED: a pamphlet of 36 pages, by HENRY C. WRIGHT, entitled, ‘NO RIGHTS, NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Right and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North.' 
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill. Price 10 cents.

PHRENOLOGY.
BY urgent request, Prof. N. WHEELER, well known as a scientific and truthful Phrenologist, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, corner of Hanover, Boston, where he will make Phrenological Examinations, give written delineations of Character, and furnish Charts; heal the sick, impart instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children. tf. March 4. 

Executors' Sale of Real Estate.
On TUESDAY, April 10, at 12 o'clock, M., on the premises,
THE Davis estate, in  Dix place, opposite 560’ Washington street, containing about 7816 feet of land, with the old brick mansion house thereon. It adjoins an ornamental garden in its rear, and is one9 of the most elevated and desirable localities for dwelling-houses in the southerly part of the city; central, and yet retired and quiet; just far enough from Washington street to avoid the noise of the carriage wheels, and near enough to enjoy its many advantages.
It is seldom that an ancient estate like this, so near the centre of business, comes into the market. It will be sold to the highest bidder, without limit or reserve, on favorable terms of payment. By order of the Executors of the late 
C. F. Hovey, deceased. 
For Lithographic plans and further particulars, apply to the auctioneers, 
N. A. THOMPSON & CO.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances. 
This pleasant and valuable presentation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others. 

‘IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN 
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?' 
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass. 
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle. 
'Incomparably the best preparation  we have ever used.' N. Y. Evangelist. 
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N Y. Independent. 
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.’ Michigan Christian. Herald. 
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness. 
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate 
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal. 
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless. It being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston, 
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.'-Philadelphia Mercury. 
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.  Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the’ World's Hair Restorer.’ Newark Register. 
We have reason to be assured that’ Mrs. & A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER’ is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have bean remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y. 
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.' St.Louis Ledger. 
‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR. RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty.  So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years.  After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off.  But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer.  She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed and assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old.  Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.' Providence Daily Tribune. 
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit’ Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.'  It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER, is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of  many worthless  imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' Brooklyn Morning Journal. 
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia. 
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch. 
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.'. Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript. 
It is just what it purports to be.' Clevs Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT. 
We export these preparations to Stamps even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, in which they make move profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, Written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for u'rs information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LIBERATOR.
THE NON-RESISTANCE PRINCIPLE:
WITH PARTICULAR APPLICATION TO THE HELP OF SLAVES BY ABOLITIONISTS.
Among other good results of the noble enterprise of John Brown in Virginia, I am happy to see that some minds are stimulated to inquire into the definition, scope and obligation of the principle briefly entitled 'Non-Resistance.' Since the inquiries of Dr. Mann have brought this subject anew before the readers of the Liberator,(1) and since it is a subject always timely and highly important, I will contribute my mite towards the answering of these questions.
Self-defence not only seems, but is, a natural instinct and a natural right; and the same may be asserted of the defence, not only of our friends and neighbors but of every human being whom we see wronged, and have power to help; and this is preeminently true of those unfortunate fellow-creatures who are most wronged and outraged, within the reach of our aid. Nobody doubts, nobody ever questioned that it is a good and a right thing to avert injury from ourselves and others.
The question next arises-Am I to do this right and desirable thing, the averting of injury from myself or others, by the use of any means, indifferently? by the readiest and most convenient instrument, irrespective of all other considerations?
If, travelling in a barbarous country, (say Virginia,) I am threatened with violence as an abolitionist, may I lie to secure my escape?
If my friend, arraigned under an unjust law, or on an erroneous charge, asks me to be his bail, may I, to do him this kindness, falsely swear myself possessed of the needful amount of property?
If my mercantile credit, dear to me as life, is imperilled by the want of money at a critical moment, may I resort to theft or forgery to avert this danger?
If a case at law, involving both my personal reputation and the subsistence of my wife and children, is sure to be decided against me through the testimony of a particular witness, may I kill him? may I even kidnap him, and keep him a prisoner?
The consideration of cases like these will show us that there are some acts which may not be done even in self-defence; and a little further reflection will make it plain, that since the rules of right and wrong, the principles of morality and religion, remain quite undisturbed by our private exigency, such exigency does not at all release us from obedience to them; and that, therefore, we are limited in self-defence, as in all the other transactions of our lives, to the use of means and instrumentalities that are right.
To say otherwise would be to reverse the verdict of the world and of our own consciousness, in some of the most honored examples that history has given us. It is universally allowed that Aristides did well to adhere to that justice which caused his banishment: that Socrates was wise in pursuing the very course which brought him to the fatal hemlock; that Shadrach was right in refusing to worship the golden image, even in sight of the burning fiery furnace; and that Luther did nobly in the persistent declaration, even when ruin seemed about to overwhelm him-'Here I stand! I can do no other!'
Do our true wisdom and safety lie in any different path from that taken by these men? Must not we, too, in any exigency which may befall us, find what measures of defence are permitted us by first asking-What is right? I will assume it to be settled that we must do so.
The next question is-'How shall we ascertain what is right?'
All sorts of different authorities are appealed to by different people on this subject. The Catholic will point you to 'the church' (meaning the clergy) for direction; the Protestant, to the Bible; one man, to the law of honor; another, to public sentiment; a third, to the law of the land; and a fourth, to the 'higher law,' or the 'inner light.' Each man must necessarily decide this point for himself, since, before he can follow either of these rules, or any other, he must first have chosen that one, and rejected the rest.
I choose, as my rule, Christianity; by which I mean the rule of living which Jesus of Nazareth summed up in these two provisions: to love God with the whole heart, and our neighbor as ourselves-defining our neighbor to be any one who is in need that we can relieve-illustrating the nature of love by showing that it should be practical in its operation, and should include even our enemies-further explaining that this love must have a constant and active energy in reforming the world, overcoming its evil, and overcoming it with good-and emphatically enjoining that all good shall be cherished and all evil overcome in each man's own heart and life, as well as in the world around him.
I choose this rule simply because it is the best that I can find, or conceive of. It seems to me perfect, adapted in the most thorough manner to secure the progressive improvement, the welfare, and thus the happiness, of the human race. If, however, you choose a different rule, very likely you will disagree with my conclusions. What I am now concerned to show is, that my rule, (above stated,) the Christian rule, requires that the law of love should regulate our overcoming of evil as well as every other department of our action, and this equally, whether the evil in question is directed against ourselves or others. I trust that thus far the case is plain.
Here then are the laws which are to regulate our action against evil-doers, whether the thing assailed be our individual welfare, or the individual welfare of a 'neighbor,' or the general welfare of the community.
LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF!
LOVE EVEN YOUR ENEMIES!
OVERCOME EVIL WITH GOOD!
Let us make the application of these rules to a particular case.
Stealing is an evil and a crime, unhappily too common in all communities. It is an injury to individuals, and an offence against society. Theft is one of the recognized evils which it is the duty and interest of us all to overcome. But it is to be overcome with good, riot with evil.
A man who has lost property by theft sometimes knows the thief, and knows where he possesses property of equal value. Shall he steal that, and thus restore the disturbed equilibrium of property? This might compensate for the loss, but would it remove the evil? Is it a right method of proceeding?
Nobody will say so. Instead of removing the evil, it has doubled the evil. If one theft is an offence against good morals and the welfare of society, two thefts must be yet more so. This is not the proper mode of proceeding. Nobody uses it, nobody would justify it. On the contrary, it is the interest of the person robbed, and of the whole community, to pay a sacred regard to the laws of property, and to show, by their whole conduct, that they respect and scrupulously observe those rights which the thief has violated. Only thus can they justify themselves in complaining of him, and applying remedial measures to him, as a thief. If they show themselves dishonest in the very case in question, with what face can they accuse him of dishonesty?
(1) See Letter of Dr. DANIEL MANN in the Liberator of March 16th, 1860. In the course of it, Dr. M. says-'Moral measures, so long as they serve effectually, are doubtless most proper. If we can persuade the robber and murderer to pass by, and leave us unharmed, or if we can run away from them, and thus prevent mischief, it is well to do so. But if our own safety, or that of others, requires other means of protection, involving danger or destruction to the aggressor, I know of no just restriction of our right to use them, according to the apparent necessities of the occasion. The same power which gave me a tongue to persuade, and legs to run away, gave me hands capable to fight, and. so far as I can see, gave me the right to use either of these three remedies against wrong, according to the exigencies of each occasion.'
<c02>
What I wish to have noted here is the fact, that, in proceeding against the thief-(unhappily and unjustifiably the custom of the community is to proceed against him, instead of applying to him the law of love!)-we ourselves set the example of a faithful adherence to the laws of property, and do not at all pretend that his prior commission of the offence in question justifies us in committing it.
Suppose, instead of a theft, that the offence committed is an assault. A man strikes me, wounds me! Perhaps his aspect gives good reason for the supposition that he means to kill me! What am I to do?
This man appears to be an enemy! He certainly acts like one! Under the circumstances, I must consider and treat him as an enemy.
What is the treatment in question, according to my rule, heretofore given?
LOVE YOUR ENEMIES!
Again: he has done me a wrong. He has no right to kill, or to wound, or even to strike me. This is not brotherly treatment. Besides, who knows how far his enmity, or passion, may carry him? This is clearly a case for self-defence!
Shall I kill him-wound him-strike him?
What! do to him the very thing which I censure in his conduct to me? Perpetrate a second wrong by way of redressing the first? Show that I am as ready to commit violence as he, when my supposed advantage requires it?
Am I not, then, to defend myself at all?
Yes! self-defence is right, but let us not deceive ourselves by a wrong use of language. To kill, to wound and to strike, are acts of offence even more than of defence. I will save myself from harm, if I can do so by any right means, but to strike the striker would be like stealing from the thief, a repetition of the wrong act, a casting out Satan by Satan.
Let us look again at the rule!
OVERCOME EVIL WITH GOOD!
I remember, too, that one of the venerated teachers who have written on this subject, as if in reply to the question whether the general rule admitted of any exception, gave his precept in this emphatic negative form, namely:
'See that none render evil for evil to any man!’
My rule, then, the rule which I recognize as the best I can possibly conceive of, requires me to use none but good means, right means, to overcome evil.
If a calm and friendly aspect, an inquiry why such an assault is committed, and an appeal to reason and justice, without either passion or retaliation, will avail to calm the passion of my antagonist, and make him explain, apologize, and offer satisfaction, this is the best possible termination of the affair. 'If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.' I will by all means try this method first. It may be that I shall, by this simple and easy method, transform an enemy into a friend; a work which the whole police of the city, backed by the army and navy of the United States, could not accomplish. This, manifestly, is the first thing to be tried. Moreover, this would certainly be successful in a large number of cases which are now prolonged and made more bitter by violence and retaliation. Is it not true that 'A soft answer turneth away wrath'? and also that 'Grievous words stir up anger'?
In cases where this does not succeed, but where the violence of my assailant is continued or increased, I have to decide on the spot whether it will be better for me and my brother (I must try not to lose sight of his welfare, however regardless he may be of mine,) to bear with perfect quietness whatever his passion may inflict-in the hope that, when passion has subsided, he will see, repent of, and acknowledge his injustice-or to use my strength to restrain him without injuring him. If I adopt the former of these two methods, if I bear his insults and assaults with a patience manifestly proceeding not from fear or meanness of spirit, but from good-will to him and conscientious self-control, and if this course produces the desired effect, and he comes to me on the morrow to acknowledge his fault and offer reparation, this is the second best possible termination of the affair. Again, I shall have gained my brother! And that man will be, ever after, more likely to befriend me, and more likely to control himself, than if I had returned his injurious treatment. Moreover, as in the case before supposed, I am sure that this method would succeed in a certain proportion of cases. God's arrangement for mankind is, that wrong-doing should breed self-reproach, and that this should tend to confession and amendment. I will trust to God's arrangement!
On the other hand, if my bodily strength is sufficient, and I judge it best to use that in self-defence-grasping my opponent, and, without injuring him, holding him so that he cannot injure me-this method also is at my option. The right of self-defence is unquestionable, and circumstances may show this to be the best way of using it. And if, while I thus prove to my opponent my physical superiority, my language and demeanor, manly and yet friendly, can show him his fault, and make him sincerely regret it, this is the third best possible termination of the affair. Again, I have gained my brother!
Suppose, finally, that all these methods fail to preserve me, as they all sometimes will fail; for Non-Resistance must often receive the cross before the crown, and triumph only through suffering, and the followers of Jesus and Paul, in this heavenly path, will still sometimes meet with foes as powerful and unrelenting as theirs; if all these resources fail, and I am killed on the spot, what then? Have I erred, have I acted foolishly, have I thrown my life away by refraining from the return of injurious violence upon my adversary? I do not think so; but let us delib-
* The true way of looking at theft is to recognize the fact that here has been a loss not only of property, but of integrity, not of a watch or a purse only, but of a man. The property stolen should, if possible, be restored to the owner; but it is of even more importance that the culprit should be restored to honesty, and that he should really be transformed from a malefactor to a benefactor. Hitherto, society has contented itself with providing, by the coarsest appliances of material force, that he who stole shall steal no more for three months, or six months, or a year, but, instead of this, that for the same brief period he should be compelled to labor, working with his hands the thing which is good. If in any cases it has done more than this, it has been merely the appointment of a parson(l) to exhort the prisoners, and the permission that volunteer teachers (usually with no qualification but good-will) might give them Sunday School instruction.
But these things are far from filling up the measure of our duties, either to the culprit or to the community. The culprit himself-he is our brother, the child of our Father, is he not?-has real and important claims upon us. For him, as for the rest of the population, we have made some classes of provision; as, of a Poor-house, where he may be nourished, if destitute; a Common School, where he may receive some instruction; a Hospital, where his body may be cared for, if it becomes diseased; and an Asylum, where his reason may be restored, against his will, if necesary, when that becomes diseased. Is it not of equal consequence that help, and a place of help, should be provided for his moral nature when that is manifestly diseased? And will it not be as great an advantage to the community as to himself if, through the operation of a system established for this end, and wisely adapted to it, this thief can be thoroughly reformed, and restored to the community as a useful citizen? If this can be done, it will be an advantage equal to the very greatest now enjoyed in civilization, securing the progressive diminution of all crime, and the cultivation, far more thoroughly than at present, of good morals and true religion. But no man can say that this is impossible, until it has been tried. It has never been fairly tried!
Some suggestions upon this subject may be found in an essay, hereafter to be published, entitled-'Non-Resistance, applied to the internal Defence of a Community.'
(1) It is said that a convict in the Massachusetts State Prison once protested against going to the prison chapel on Sunday, saying that the law forbade all 'cruel and unusual punishments'; that he had been legally sentenced to hard labor for a term of years, and was willing to submit to it; but that he had not been sentenced to hear Mr. preach!
<c03>
erately look at it, and see the balance of advantage and disadvantage.
For me, the most important thing in the whole world is to be in the<illegible>! I have certain duties to wife, children, friends, enemies, and society, which are to be attended to in their turn; but my first and most essential duty is to keep my own heart and life in conformity with the great law of God, which I have above described as Christianity. This law, as I have said, prescribes love as the invariable rule and motive of action; it requires, generally, the avoidance of injury to others, and requires particularly and emphatically the avoidance of injury to enemies. Even if I die in carrying out this rule, I have gained the first and most important point, and I die in the path of duty, leaving behind me a noble, not a shameful, example.
In the next place, this duty to myself precisely coincides with my duty to the enemy with whom I am immediately concerned. He is one who eminently needs precisely this lesson, the knowledge that there is such a thing as a practical recognition of duty as more important than bodily safety, or even the continuance of this mortal life. If he has held the opinion attributed to Satan in the old fable-'All that a man hath will he give for his life'-he has now seen his mistake. If he has formerly heard me express allegiance to the principle of Christian love for all men, even for enemies, or if he has known that I try to live in accordance with it, he now knows this allegiance to be real, not assumed. He has put himself more than ever in the wrong. He can hardly, fail to see that I have been wholly in the right. If these circumstances make so deep an impression as to convict him of sin, to show him the path of duty, and to lead him heartily to embrace it, again I have gained my brother. This certainly is worth dying for.
If this best result does not happen, still I have faithfully adhered to my own principles, and have left on record this testimony, the strongest I could possibly give in favor of the Christian rule, that I chose to die rather than violate it.
Now let us look at the other supposition.
If I save my own life by killing my assailant, in the first place I sacrifice my rule, the great, glorious, divine rule of love. I desert my colors! I violate, for my mere bodily safety, the great principle which I have upheld and praised as immeasurably more important than bodily safety or temporal interests of any kind. This position is neither a pleasant nor a satisfactory one.
In the next place, neither is it satisfactory to say, as my explanation of the transaction to the public, and to other individuals concerned-' I killed him because he was so wicked as to try to kill me!' If the mere attempt to kill me showed wickedness in him, what character does the actual killing of him show in me?
In the third place, I have taken the responsibility, merely to protect my bodily and temporal interests, of violently thrusting my brother out of the sphere of action in which our Father had placed him, out of the reach of those influences and that moral discipline which God has plainly designed for the treatment and development of men in this stage of their existence. Our Father's house has many mansions, and He, no doubt, will take good care of this, his erring child; but who am I, that I should expel my brother from the school where our Father placed us both? It is for the Power that placed us here to decide how long we shall remain! I have rashly and wrongfully assumed an authority which was never committed to me!
Finally, let us look at the consequences, the carrying out into other particulars, of the principle upon which I have acted. If homicide is unjustifiable only when wanton and entirely unprovoked, and if some sorts of provocation shall be deemed to justify it, where shall the line be drawn? If I may commit it to save my life, may I also commit it to save my character-my reputation-my fortune-the interests of my political party-the interests of my religious sect? If for my individual life this act may be done, may it not be done to help forward a great principle?-the cause of God-the cause of humanity-the cause of Protestantism-the cause of liberty-may I not, for the sake of such great interests us these, smite him who imperils them under the fifth rib? If I can cut short a career so pernicious as that of James Buchan­an or of Louis Napoleon, by sudden execution, may I not do it? If I may do it by club, or sword, or pistol, may I not do it by poison?
There is no end to these questions! No end to the supposition of cases in which great good may be done if we are to be allowed to do it by violent and evil means. The only way is to say to such insinuations -'Get thee behind me, Satan!' The only way is utterly, positively and invariably to refuse to do evil, with whatever plausibility it be offered to us as the means of accomplishing good!
Among those statements in the Declaration of In­dependence which Mr. Choate styled 'glittering generalities,' is the claim that the right to life is one of the inalienable lights of man. The signers of that document did not thoroughly comprehend the force of their own words, since they proceeded to a long and bloody war, and afterwards established death as the legal penalty for various crimes-to our cost, who are now suffering great and numerous evils as the consequence of both these errors on their part. Their statement, in that great historical document, was juster than their practice. 'They builded better than they knew.' The life of man is inviolable.
Just as the slaveholder's claim of property in a black man is shown to be absurd and ridiculous by the fact that the black man's hands, and feet, and head, having been born parts of him, necessarily belong to him, and cannot possibly become the property of another rather than of himself-so the claim of a right to take the life of a man, whether made by the community or by another individual, becomes absurd and preposterous in view of the fact that God gave him his life, and that the taking of it by another is a presumptuous interference with God's appointment and God's prerogative. No man has, or can possibly acquire, the right to take the life of another.
But the Christian doctrine of love goes further than this. No man has, or can possibly acquire, the right to injure another. To prevent or to repel injury, by uninjurious means, is our right and our duty; but we are not to cast out Satan by Satan; the history of the world overflows with evidences of the folly of attempting this; gaining, sometimes, a temporary and partial measure of success, it always fails in the long run. But even success is not the measure of duty; and the Christian rule stamps intentional injury as invariably wrong; our overcoming of evil is to be, invariably, an overcoming with good!
I am aware, however, that the inquiries of Dr. Mann, which I am attempting to answer, have a benevolent, not a selfish object. In making these inquiries, he is not thinking mainly of his individual safety, but of the extent to which he may proceed in helping the weak and oppressed. I must therefore make particular reference to the case of the defence of o	thers, who have general or special claims upon me.
Besides the general obligation which rests upon me to love all men, and to help such needy ones as I can help, I have certain special obligations. My wife and my children have particular and emphatic claims to protection from all injury that I can avert. And, since I am one of a very small minority in this country who recognize the rights of four millions of slaves, and earnestly wish to restore those rights, and feel bound to interfere for their restoration by active and efficient help, these circumstances give the slaves also a special and emphatic claim upon me. What effect is my Non-Resistance to have upon the protection of these parties? Will their necessities, their danger or suffering, be good ground for a modification of, or an exception to, or a temporary departure, from, my Christian principles?
<c04>
Let me test this matter by proceeding at once to the strongest possible case, an injury threatened to my wife; my dearer and better self, to whose protection I am bound even more by present love than by the long-standing compact tinder which I promised her protection.
Of course, all I can do shall be done for her safety. My strength, my life, shall interpose between her and harm, and he who would assail her must, pass over my body. It is the duty of us both to suffer wrong rather than do wrong, but I, as the stronger, choose to take upon myself the suffering for both. I shall meet the violence of the assailant as I did in the former case, but, while my life lasts, the assault must be made upon me, not upon my wife. She is to be safe while I live. So far all is plain. But may I, fearing lest the sacrifice of my life be not sufficient to avert the threatened injury, may I proceed to kill the assailant? doing for my wife what I am conscious that the Christian law forbids me to do for myself! committing an injury to prevent the commission of an injury!
I have said above that the rules of right and wrong, the principles of morality and religion, remain quite undisturbed by our private exigency, and that such; exigency does not at all release us from obedience to them. I have said, further, that the Christian rule of love to all, even the injurer-and of invariable abstinence from injury on our own part-and of the use of good only, never of evil, in the work of overcoming evil-is the best rule I know, or can possibly conceive of. And, finally, I have admitted that this rule, though, best, incomparably best, on the whole, does not in nil cases secure the bodily safety of him who practises it.
It would seem that the question is already answered. Shall I demand, in the case of my wife, a different rule of action from that which God has appointed for the whole human race, which he has so appointed because it is the best possible rule, and which I myself have recognized as the best possible rule, both for the whole and for every individual?
My wife and I constitute (perhaps) one five-hundred-millionth part of the human race. No possible injury can be threatened to, or inflicted upon us, which was not recognized and contemplated in that system by which God governs the race, and in that system also by which He has appointed that they shall govern themselves, namely, the Christian system. No possible injury can be inflicted upon us which has not already been inflicted in thousands of other instances, without occasioning, or requiring, any change in the rule. Who are we, that we should rebel against it? Who are we, that we should demand to be better protected, more thoroughly cared for, than the rest of mankind? that we should demand a better destiny than that afforded us in God's world, and under his laws?
Is there not a sound, a just, a grand meaning in that saying of the great Teacher, that a man may lose his life by saving it, and may save his life by losing it? 
To me it seems plain that the true safety and interest, both of me and my wife, lie in placing ourselves, and in keeping ourselves, in conformity and co-operation with this great Christian law, and in trusting the consequences of such conformity to Him who made the law.
But it is not merely the 'higher law' which points in this direction. Let me descend to the region where my opponents in this debate have (as they think) their strong hold, the ground of present success and bodily safety, and see if they have that realm wholly on their side.
What says the voice of history? What says the applause of men in regard to those who have disdained to purchase the bodily safety and temporal interests of their nearest and dearest by a violation of duty? What made Mrs. Hemans select for the subject of her beautiful dramatic poem (The Siege of Valencia) one of two instances which the history of Spain records, in which a Christian knight refused to surrender the city which had been given him to defend, even when the Moorish besiegers made the lives of his captive children the price of his fidelity? Was it not because men had honored his fidelity as glorious, even at the cost of such a sacrifice? What made Miss Edgeworth describe the wife of Vivian as saying-when he had abandoned his principles and his honor to regain her lost fortune-‘And you did consider me? And that did weigh with you? Oh, this is what I dreaded most!' cried lady Sarah.-‘When will you know my real character? When will you have confidence in your wife? What pain can be so great to me as the thought of my husband's reputation suffering abasement?'
My wife is not less noble in soul than Vivian's. She, too, would scorn to be protected at the sacrifice of my principles-of the rule of right-of the law which our common Father, having made for all His children, must be supposed to have intended for her also. We will together take the risk of abiding by that law.
Then-to glance, in passing, at the results of the, opposite course of action-would that course absolutely insure us success? Does violence in defence always conquer violence in offence? Do they that take the sword for what are called good reasons-that is, because they are assailed-never perish by the sword?
I come, lastly, to the ease of the slaves! a case, certainly, of great urgency, of the very highest importance, appealing, in the most moving manner, to 
our humanity, to our sense of justice, and also to our self-interest, since the whirlpool that has engulfed the slave is also, year by year, drawing more and more of our rights and interests into its pernicious vortex.
That natural instinct which prompts us to defend ourselves from injury, and those reasons which make clear our right to use all means accordant with the law of love for this object, apply equally to the giving of aid to a suffering or oppressed neighbor. We are not at liberty to refuse any aid which he asks, and which is within our power to give. And, if the case be one of such extreme urgency that he cannot even ask, if he be imprisoned unjustly in a dungeon, or fenced so securely within certain bounds that a tyrant has prescribed, that his voice cannot reach those disposed to help him, so much the more should help be given; in a case like that, the right is clear for any human being to interpose between the oppressor and the sufferer, to demand for him his rights, to help him in the attainment of them, and to obstruct those measures of the tyrant which would prevent his attainment of them. This is one of the very purposes for which strength of body and strength of will were given us; and the possession of these qualities is the condemnation of him who refuses to use them for such a purpose. Well sang one of the poets of freedom-
'Men! whose boast it is that ye
Come of fathers brave and free,
If there breathe on earth a slave,
Are ye truly free and brave?
If ye do not feel the chain,
When it works a brother's pain,
Are ye not base slaves indeed-
Slaves unworthy to be freed? 
All the circumstances of the case make manifest this right of any third party, any individual, or any community, to interfere with the slaveholder for the relief of the slave. If the Good Samaritan had met the robbers in the act of attacking their victim, and had been able to prevent, or to cut short, their outrage, should he not have done it? The necessities of the traveller were the same, the right of the Samaritan to help was the same, as when the help was ultimately given. The robbers, as robbers, had no rights whatever. The function of robbery is evil from beginning to end, it has no right to exist on the earth, and they who exercise it are, so far, utterly and entirely in the wrong. It would have been absurd in the extreme for the robbers, in such a case to have said to the Good Samaritan-'What right have you
<c05>
to Interfere with us?-Everybody had a right to interfere with them.
Is it needful to say so plain a thing as that the traveller was under no obligation to the robbers, as robbers? that no duty required him to deliver up his property to them or to submit, in any manner or degree, to their injustice? that he owed no duty of submission to them whatever!
Alas! yes! In the circumstances of our country, Considering the sort, and the amount, and the presumptuous arrogance, of the oppression which we practice-considering the position held by our national government in support of it-and considering  the complicity openly maintained with it by our religious teachers-it is needful to affirm, and to maintain, a thing so obviously true as this.
The slave is one who has been stolen-either at his birth or at some subsequent period-from that natural liberty which is the right of every human being, and which the American Declaration of Independence declares to be inalienable If he was thus stolen at birth, he was also stolen from the natural right of his mother to protect him, to educate him, and to make arrangements for his future welfare. The whole course of discipline under which he is placed, how­ever varied (perhaps) by capricious indulgence from time to time, is a course of injustice. His relation of plundered person neither imposes, nor includes, the slightest obligation or duty to the plunderer.
On the other hand, the slaveholder is a robber. His claim of property in the body and soul of a brother man is grossly and impudently false, his enforcement of that claim is utterly unjust, and all the means by which he enforces it are shameful and wicked. His hold upon his victim, alike when he was first seized (whether at the birth of the victim or at any subsequent time, and by whatever means he has come in possession of his victim) and at every moment of his continued detention, is an outrage. He has no just claim upon the brother man whom he calls a slave, no right over him, no right to prevent his taking his natural liberty at any moment, no right to prevent, or object to, or complain of, the help which any humane person may give him. And no labor, or service, or duty, is due from the person thus robbed to the robber.
But, still further, the slaveholder, like every other sort of robber, is a dangerous person in the community. He is injuring its interests, not less than the interests of his particular victims. He is spreading false principles, helping to break down morality and religion, obstructing honest industry, and freedom of speech and of the press, infringing upon the tights even of those whom he admits to be free men and fellow-citizens, and doing all this by a series of overt acts manifestly prejudicial to his immediate neighbors and to the community. The slaveholder, then, as such, is a public nuisance; a nuisance such as it is the first duty of any properly constituted government to abate; a person dangerous to the community, who, if he perseveres in this attitude, should be taken in charge by the police, and put under restraint.
But, unfortunately, all governments are neither properly constituted nor well regulated. In fact, there are in the world, even now, more specimens of governments grossly tyrannical and unjust, than of those which rightly perform their proper function. We have then to consider whether-when a government obviously and grossly neglects its function of removing public nuisances, and preserving the rights of quiet and honest men-individuals may not, to the extent of their ability and opportunity, and in the use of right means, kept within a right sphere of operation, (each individual being his own judge in regard to all these,) do those things which the government has criminally neglected?
Suppose, for instance, that in the region between Jerusalem and Jericho, in the life-time of Jesus, an organized band of robbers had become so powerful as not only to work their will throughout that territory, but even to have bribed the local government to permit and favor their depredations! Would this fact have made the slightest difference in the right of the Good Samaritan to help the traveller after he had been plundered, or to defend him if he had been present at the lime of the assault? Would such a state of things have given the robbers in the slightest manner or degree a right to rob, or imposed upon the traveller the slightest duty of consenting to be robbed, or interfered with the absolute right of any third person to help the victim? I assume that it would not! I assume that the right of help, inherent in every human being, is not so forfeited by the appointment of a particular official helper, that others must remain quiet and inactive in the cases where he chooses to neglect his duty! I assume that Florence Nightingale was. right in breaking down the door of the arsenal in the Crimea! I assume that any man has the right to help any slave to his freedom, entirely irrespective of the fact that in this country the great gang of robbers called slaveholders have secured the complicity of the government in their depredations!
I have come, then, to these conclusions:
THE SLAVERHOLDER HAS NO RIGHTS WHATEVER OVER THE SLAVE
THE SLAVE, as such, OWES NO DUTY OR SERVICES WHATEVER TO THE SLAVEHOLDER.
Help to the slave in the recovery of his freedom is a thing which THE SLAVE HAS A RIGHT TO RECEIVE, WHICH EVERY THIRD PERSON HAS A RIGHT TO GIVE, AND WHICH IS NO WRONG OR INJUSTICE TO THE SLAVEHOLDER, WRETHER IT BE GIVEN SECRETLY OR OPENLY.
I have said that the slave, as such, owes no duty or service to the slaveholder.
This is perfectly true. But both the slave and the master are human being, and, in that capacity, each has duties to the other; each is bound to practise towards the other the law of love; the great and glorious law which God hits appointed to regulate the intercourse of all men with each other.
Unfortunately, and most culpably, the master ignores, disregards and tramples under his feet the law of love. So much the worse for him. But the wrong-doing of the master to the slave, does not in the slightest degree release the slave from his duties to God, and his obligation to obey God's law of love, The slave has duties to perform as well as rights to vindicate. God calls upon him, as well as upon other men, to forgive his enemies; to fore his enemies; to 
return good for evil; and to overcome evil with good.
These are hard duties. They are hard for all of us. Even we, educated, cultivated people, of the privileged class, with so little injustice to undergo, with such ample means of knowing our duty, and with such strong incitements to perform it, how hard do we find it to exercise due forbearance under the trivial specimens of injury that we meet with ! How few of us, in the course of our whole lives, have met even once with an injury equivalent to the infliction of thirty-nine lashes with a cow-hide, upon the bare back, bringing blood at every stroke! It is a great deal to ask of the slave that he forgive his enemies; the slaveholder, who sold away his wife, and yet constantly told his Northern visitors, after this, as well ns before, that he was well treated, happy and contented; the slaveholder's son, who ravished his daughter; the overseer, who has flogged him, kicked and cuffed him, laughed his manifold miseries to scorn, treated him worse than ft dog; and the proslavery parson, who, knowing all these things, has kept on relating to him the infamous lie that God has appointed him to this condition, and that God requires him to do faithful service to the villain who has robbed him of everything; it must be very hard to fulfill the duty of forgiveness to these, or to return good for their evil. Nevertheless, such is God's command! Such is the duty of the enslaved man! and such, also, is his interest; for it is his interest to be entirely and absolutely in the right.
How is the slave to return good for the slaveholder's evil? So destitute, so impoverished is his condi-
<c06>
tion, so limited are his means, that I see but one way in which he can do this; but one positive action by which he can contribute to the real welfare of the slaveholder. Happily, that one way is precisely coincident with the right path of duty towards himself.
His first duty of good-will to the slaveholder is utterly to refuse any longer to be a slave! to put a stop, by this unchangeable with it, to a relation in which the slaveholder was sinking himself deeper and deeper in sin and in manifold evil.
I do not consider 'Uncle Tom' to be the highest type, either of the manly character or the Christian character, in the relation he bore to various slaveholders. I would not be understood as making unreasonable demands upon those poor, ignorant, oppressed, cheated and humbugged creatures; it is much, if, like Uncle Tom, they refrain from stealing, lying, drunkenness and lust, in all which things their masters are constantly setting them evil examples; and from hypocrisy, such as they see to be practised by their masters' ministers, which would perhaps give them some indulgence; it is much if, like him, with heroic self-control, they can subdue the natural desire for vengeance, can rise above wrath and passion, and sincerely pray for those who persecute and despitefully use them. But there is another duty, of not less importance, to be performed by the trusman, the true Christian, who is claimed as a slave.
Quiet, continuous submission to enslavement is complicity with the slaveholder. It is acquiescence in the double injustice he is doing, both to himself and to the slave. It is the duty of a man and a Christian not only to protest against this, but, if he is able, acting in the right way, to put a stop to it. The slave is able to put a stop to it, and to do this in the right way, by utterly refusing to be a slave; by showing himself a man, and taking possession of a man's rights. This, then, is his duty, alike to himself and to the slaveholder. And circumstances must decide whether this duty shall be performed in the most satisfactory manner, by a firm, manly, open declaration made to the face of the slaveholder, or by the attempt to escape. Such is the duty of the slave, as I regard it.
But the slave is poor, ignorant, weak, uncultured, unable to combine with his fellow-slaves, or take counsel with more intelligent persons as to the best course of action. He is hemmed in on every side with restrictions, doubts and dangers. He has been, thus far, the most helpless of human beings; to our unspeakable disgrace, who have been living, not only in the same country with him, but in formal alliance with his tyrants. This ought not so to be. The slave must have help, and ice must help him!
How are we to help him? Of course, by using our courage and energy, our strength of body and mind, our wealth, our intelligence, our Christian principle, and our various means of combination and action, is do the right thing, IN THE RIGHT MANNER. To set the slave free, or help him to set himself free, by means accordant with our duty and his duty; that is to say, by means accordant with the Christian law of love!
If in any place the slaveholders are such, and the slaves such, and the numbers and character of the interposing freemen such, that a new arrangement can be made, giving the slaves their rights without banishing them from their native soil, leaving them thenceforth free, and in the enjoyment of such rights and opportunities as white freemen have in the Northern States, with a frinedly and helpful disposition to wards them on the part of the white population, (such as was actually realized in Antigus and Bermuda after the immediate emancipation of the slaves there, in 1834,) this would be the very best possible result. This would fulfil our highest wishes, and afford a rational expectation of permanent prosperity and happiness. Unfortunately, however, the vicious and brutal characters, and the insolent and domineering, habits, of the slaveholders and their parasites, place this best solution of the trouble almost out of the bounds of possibility.
If, in failure of this method, the thing could be accomplished which John Brown sought to do, without the resort to violent and bloody means by which he proposed to maintain it against the resistance of the slaveholders, namely; if places of secure resort, well stored with provisions, could be established among the mountains of the slaveholding States, to which the slaves could repair and hold themselves safely entrenched, giving shelter to all fugitives, and in a short time draining the whole region of the entire Is boring population, and leaving it so deserted until the proprietors of the land were willing to obtain laborers by treating them justly and paying them laborers by treating them justly and paying them fair wages-this would be the next best solution of the difficulty; a solution infinitely preferable to a quiet continuance of the slaves in slavery. In such a movement, the slaves should of course take possession of all the provisions, and all the materials for clothing, on which they can lay their hands, both at its commencement and during its continuance; for all these, and much more, are their property, the avails of their unpaid labor. In a slaveholding country, the movable property, as a general rule, may be assumed rightfully to belong to the slaves. If also it be necessary, in accomplishing such a movement, to size and put under restraint, by uninjurious means the persons of any slaveholders, until the departure of the slaves is safely effected, this would be perfectly right, for it is only what the government ought long since to have done. A slaveholder is a public long; a person emiently dangerous to the community; and if the government does not do its duty in restraining him, any person who has the power may properly use all uninjurious means to do it.
In failure of these two methods, the next test thing to be done is to help as many slaves as possible to a safe removal from the land of bondage to some place of freedom. To inform them, as extensively as possible, of the existence of white friends and helpers, to give all needed material aid, with counsel and direction, and the personal superintendence of <illegible> freemen, where that shall seem best; to demand the slave's rights and effect his rescue by calmly and openly confronting the slaveholder. when success will not be hazarded there by; otherwise, to use still needful secresy; to protect the slave in some of the States called free, where that can be done. and to work diligently towards increasing the number of such truly free places; to enlarge, and extend, and multiply operations of this sort in all accessible parts the slave region, making these movements a serious and a constantly increasing check upon the impunity which slaveholders have hitherto enjoyed; by faithful inculcation of anti-slavery truth in the North, to increase the number and strengthen the confidence of such sympathizers; and finally, by using the greatest care, in all these movements, to keep the slaves and their friends absolutely and entirely in the right, leaving the wrong where it now is, absolutely, entirely and exclusively on the side of the slaveholders.
Is it said that, in transactions like these, or as the result of them, violence would be sure to come? Is it asked what those persons shall do who, beginning a right work by uninjurious means, are assailed in the prosecution of it with violence and injury?
I answer, they are to do just what a Christian, and who believes in and endeavors to live by the great law of love, is to do in any other case where he is to met by violence and injury! He is first, and accomplish what good he can by right means, to leave undone for the present all that he cannot do by right means, and to bear with fortitude, and without fusing the sprit of love, or departing from the <illegible> of love, whatever evil may befal him.-C. K. V.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON,
PRINTERS
21 COENHILL, LOSTON.
