THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS–Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON:–WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAMWILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 31. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 1, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1643.
Refuge of Oppression.
<C01>
A SERIOUS SUBJECT.
"We are told by a gentleman who heard him, that Parker Pillsbury, the embittered Abolitionist, delivered a Sunday harangue to a crowded audience in Milford, Worcester Co., Mass., last Sunday. He painted in vivid colors the horrors of the war, and told them not to enlist; urged them to discourage recruiting–until such time as the Administration declared for an abolition war. This is the ground taken by Gov. Andrew, in his letter to the Secretary of War, in which he stated the terms on which Massachusetts would consent to furnish volunteers. Pillsbury abused the President, and ridiculed the policy of the war; depicted the agonies endured by the wounded soldiers-the shrieking shot and shell, the mangled bodies, the returning soldier with stooping form, slow sallow cheek, and bending crutch. He said it would be folly for our young men to go down there and be made targets for the rifles of Jefferson Davis, until there was a proclamation of abolition, and then he recommended fight. "Hartford Times
We have recently had occasion to lay before our readers the proceedings of the Essex County Abolition Society, the resolutions of which were so thoroughly disloyal that they shocked all who read them. They were offered by the same person named in the above paragraph. We recall, in this connection, the recent letter of Senator Summer in reply to an invitation which was sent to him to attend the New York Union meeting. We extract a sentence, which demands Mr. Pillsbury’s profound attention:-
“To this end the cries of faction must be silenced, and the wickedness of sedition, whether in print or public speech, must be suppressed. These are the Northern allies of the rebellion. An aroused and indignant people, with iron heel, ought to tread them out forever, as men tread out the serpent so that it can neither hiss nor sting."
Does Mr. Summer wish it to be believed that he is really in favor of suppressing those seditious men, his friends and admirers., who are to-day preventing the enlistment of the young men, sons of Abolitionists, who make up Essex County societies, and attend of a Sunday on the preaching of Mr. Wendell Phillips in Boston?. If he does, we shall hear him open his lips in Boston to denounce these men. He will boldly risk his reelection to the Senate by using his influence to silence the sedition he professes to abhor. Perhaps we have mistaken him, and he did not have these men in mind when he wrote the sentence. But they are the only men who oppose enlistments, and distinctly avow enmity to the Government, excepting the Southern rebels. We suggest the subject in all seriousness to Mr. Summer, as one demanding his attention as a patriot. He can do instant and vast good. He has great influence with all that class of men. He knows, as we all know, that they utterly refuse to enlist, or to send their son to the war, and that this is due, at least in part, to the teachings of their leaders; we cannot think it is entirely due to personal disinclination to fight the battles of the Union. But if Mr. Sumner desires to do a noble service to the Government, let him now persuade the Abolitionist leaders in Boston to enlist personally, and bring in their men with them. If they are loyal, they will do it: and as they boast of loyalty, and freely call all who do not agree with them traitors, we submit that the opportunity is good for testing their allegiance.
We say frankly, that we don’t believe they are loyal. If this man Pillsbury is a fair specimen, and he is certainly high in their church, they are as disloyal as the men that fought against us at Richmond.
The present state of the enlistments makes this matter a much more serious business than Mr. Pillsbury seems to imagine it. The danger is imminent; the necessity of the Government presses as never before. In ordinary times, he and his like are of too small account to be noted, and arrest and imprisonment would only give them coveted martyrdom. But now, when discouragements of the smallest kind drive us towards the necessity for drafting, and a single obstacle may make expensive and difficult measures necessary, it is wicked, even to criminality, for any man to pursue this course in a loyal State. And inasmuch as imprisonment is considered martyrdom by such fanatics and their followers, it is worth consideration whether a law cannot be passed condemning these men, who are preaching enmity to the Government in Worcester and in Boston, to be passed through our lines before Richmond, and into the lines of the rebels, where they belong, as enemies to the Union. Governor Johnson found some such law for disposing of disunion men in Nashville, and the Government did something of the sort at Washington. We don’t know what or where the law is. but if it can be found, it would fit the case of Mr. Pillsbury and some others to a nicety.-Journal of Commerce.

ABOLITION PURITANISM.
Abolitionism and Secessionism are one and the same in purpose, if not in profession. Both are working for the same end-the overthrow of the Constitution-and the Union professions of the devotees of Abolitionism are only to sub serve their own base and selfish purposes of personal aggrandizement. Our armies are dealing with Secessionists, and it is for the press to deal with Abolitionists The Abolitionists forget everything else in their hatred of their brethren of the South who happen to own slaves, and, by their fanaticism and bigotry, show themselves worthy descendants of the Puritans of earlier days, who burnt witches, whipped Quakers, sacked convents, murdered the pious missionaries to the Norridge walk Indians upon the altar steps, and seemed to revel in acts of proscription and persecution. " “Blood will tell,",” especially the Puritan blood, and the blood never yet had the power unless it abused it. From the days on which the fierce followers of Oliver Cromwell massacred the garrison of Drogheda, and shed the blood of two thousand women and children who clung around the cross-the symbol of Christianity-down to the present day, the spirit of intolerance and persecution has descended like an heirloom to and through the Puritan stock.-Vermont Argus.

THE ISSUE.
Had the conduct of the war been left to the President and the generals, it would have been ended long since. But the objects of the radicals were spoils and the abolition of slavery, and their idea was to protract the war and increase the expenditure of blood and treasure, in order the better to accomplish their objects, while the grand object of the war-the Union as it was and the Constitution as it is-was to be baffled and defeated in order that the radicals might retain their political ascendancy in the Northern half of the dissevered republic. This, therefore, is to be the issue at the next elections; and the Wades and Wilsons, Lovejoys and Sumner's, most be Sumners must be rebuked by the puplic as unfaithful to their trust, and better men must be sent to the councils of the nation." -N. Y. Herald
<c02>
Selections.
GENERAL McCLELLAN’S STRATEGY.
Nothing has taken place, during the past week, to mend the sad condition of affairs in the Peninsula. Nay, matters are fast getting worse, and the proud army which was to abate the pride of Richmond, is in imminent danger of being intercepted of supplies, and its power of retreat cut off.
The young Napoleon, who, with a quarter of a million of men, permitted the National Capital to be menaced and the Potomac to be blockaded for months by an insurgent force of sixty thousand, is now burrowing on the banks of the James river, after a most disastrous retreat, and engaged in his usual occupation of throwing up obstacles between his forces and the enemy. He has been outrageously interfered with by the Confederates while endeavoring to develop his favorite theory of avoiding battle, and he may safely charge against them (the rascals) the present dangers of his situation. For a while, however, it is not likely he will be interfered with in the narrow lines of his new camp; the enemy has retired from the open burning glebe and deadly marshes, to a more convenient neighborhood with his own base of operations, and our Young Napoleon will, therefore, be left to the undisturbed enjoyment of the spade, while they adapt their effective Potomac cannon practice to the lower bank of the James river. By-and-bye be will discover that the smooth six-pounders, which are now spoken of rather contemptuously in the despatches, will be replaced by heavy Parrot guns, and all of our transports will be subjected to a tremendous cannonade. It is true, the gunboats can shell these fellows out, when they can find them, and can give partial safety by their convoy to our supplies; but the batteries thus driven off in the daytime may be run back at night, and there cannot be much security or steady dependence on a means of communication which is thus constantly perplexed.
Nevertheless, we are told that "the army is safe!"-!humiliating term!-and McClellan, who is certainly the most extraordinary general ever known to history in the way of despatches, humors and pets our desire for good news by calling the enemy’s last movement a retreat. We ought to be thankful for the high military dictum which mercifully directs our unpractised judgments to view it in that light; and for ourselves, we should obtain much consolation from it, were it not for the other facts which protrude from all other portions of the record. Like all hopeful men, we have endeavored to derive what relief we can from the declaration that the army is safe, and also to believe that McClellan achieved a great operation by planting his forces in the swamp, and then running them out at the cost of only twenty thousand men! The loss of twenty thousand men is a mere bagatelle to this great country, in fact really a bargain,-though rather a bloody one,-in exchange for such a fine position as our Young Napoleon has found amid the flies and mud of Turkey Bend! But we reflect, unhappily, that the movement sets us back about six months, and that, though we burned our tents and stores, and with masterly decision did not even burthen our retreating columns with the useless dead and sick, this check and its consequences may be counted at a cost of at least four or five hundred millions of dollars to the treasury.
Even this vast sum, however, is not too much, if, as McClellan’s friends assure us, it has served to demonstrate a military genius which will make Europe henceforth awfully respectful to our country. But we fear this may be questioned, while the fact that with 230,000 men he refused for eight months to give battle to sixty thousand, within five miles of him, in order to postpone, till his enemy was strong, and he could seek him in his lair with the odds all the other way, will be very apt to impair his chances with foreign observers for such transcendant reputation. Moreover, if it shall prove, that pending his recent intention to retreat, he neglected to instruct the War Department to occupy the attention of Stonewall Jackson, while he executed an important movement, he is chargeable with as serious an over sight as Patterson, who gave Johnson a vacation to unite with Beauregard, for our confusion at Bull Run. The Government, though it has drained Washington to give McClellan every soldier it could spare (the clamors of secessionists and men of doubtful loyalty to the contrary, notwithstanding), still had enough of men upon its northern line to effect that object, if duly notified, and thus spare us from one-half of our disasters.
Nothing, however, could have entirely saved us from misfortune the moment McClellan decided to go out to sea after Richmond, to attack it by the round-about road of the Peninsula. And it is as absurd to suppose he did not choose and approve this movement, as it is to charge the government, which was entrusting its safety to his hands, with a disposition to defeat itself, by reducing his chances of success. Such a supposition is not even a good piece of nonsense, and it could only spring in minds hopelessly perverted from all powers of reasoning, or devoid of intelligent and honest purpose. No Government, in time of war, would dare take the responsibility of thwarting the operations of the Commander of its armies. The world has never yet seen a specimen of such bold insanity: though it has seen instances where Governments, which have been deluded by the incapacity of military leaders, showed the courage to depose them. Whether our Government will again be called upon to perform this unpleasant duty for the people we do not know, but though we are opposed to it in politics, and are proud to be associated with the Democratic party, we do not hesitate to believe it has the courage to do its duty, and will perform it at the first due pressure of conviction.
Were Mr. Lincoln of our mind at present, he would order the ill-fated expedition of McClellan out of the Peninsula at once; and if it cannot be extricated in that way, and we now fear, indeed, it cannot, then let it go on throwing up mud for its protection, while Pope is hurried down along the true road to Richmond, via Fredericksburg, with two or three hundred thousand men, to perform the service that may save Napoleon from a siege, and perhaps from a capitulation.
We have no doubt that thousands of well-meaning, men, who, like ourselves, have been persistent believers in McClellan, will wonder at these views, and ask, with bewildered minds, How could everybody be so much mistaken in him? Ah! good friends, there is nothing about which there is so much humbug as about human greatness; and errors of this sort take the deeper root, because the very best qualities of our natures combine to assist us in deluding ourselves. McClellan burst upon us in a period of great disaster. The heart of the nation, disgusted at the blunders of Bull Run, was yearning for a hero, and the Napoleonic style of the bulletin from Rich Mountain hit the imagination favorably. It is true, that the concluding line, after its showy recital of exploits, to the effect that he hoped this would
<c03>
prove satisfactory "to the Commander-in-Chief, "seemed hardly consistent with high qualities; but no one felt disposed to criticise him closely, and be was accepted with a sort of superstitious hope. Scott was superannuated, McDowell had been beaten, Patterson was disgraced, and our other rising military men, having no prejudices against the coming chieftain, could afford to allude to him as the best military scholar of the Academy.
With an enthusiastic people progress of all sorts is rapid, and our young Commander-in-chief soon took the dimensions of a Cesar and a Napoleon rolled into one. Among the rest, honestly actuated by a desire to add to a reputation on which the country would be required to lean, we yielded to the fashion, and wrote such prognostications in his favor, that we are almost ashamed to turn back and think them over. At length, the Young Napoleon began to show himself. We heard him accept his Station by reflecting upon the misfortune of a brother officer- ostentatiously declaring " “we had met with our last "defeat,” and would have no "more Bull Run "affairs.” Then came the blunder of Ball’s Bluff, resulting largely from the deficient information sent to Stone. Then came the "short, sharp and bitter "prophecy-he" “stick by me and I’ll stick by you"” orations, the acceptance of swords, and the sensation orders, calling in all furloughs, and perturbing the country by constant expectations of "movements of importance." 
But there were no movements of importance, and no battles, and the Fall and Winter wore away, with good roads from September until February, without any sign of action. Finally, the enemy, of his own accord, and out of very weakness, yielded first Munson’s Hill, and then Manassas, leaving disdainfully behind him his " Quaker guns,"” to provoke against us the laughter of the world. Still, our mysterious young chieftain appeared not in the least affected, but kept on with his reviews, leading our great docile country up and down by the bridle, as if he owned it, and was offering it for sale. Meanwhile, all the other generals of the republic prospered, and, except in the spell-bound Department of the Potomac, the whole country was enveloped in a blaze of victory.
At length it became absolutely necessary for Young Napoleon to move; so he turned his head to the Peninsula, where we soon find him before York-town manipulating mud, and sticking to it for several weeks with the greatest devotion. Presently the rebels walked away, taking plenty of time to do so, and losing not even a wagon in the operation; whereupon our Young Napoleon, finding them gone, whips off his hat, gives three cheers for himself, and actually calls his entrance into the worthless place a brilliant victory (?) Nay, he was then going to "“drive the enemy to the wall; ";” but instead of that, we find him, after suffering heavily at Williamsburg and Fair Oaks, flying from the swamps of the Chickahominy, shattered and humiliated, to coop himself up behind earthworks, in narrow stifling lines, on the blistering banks of the James river. Those whose interest it is still to exalt him, demand hosannas in his praise for his " “masterly retreat;";” but will they please to tell us why, without any pressure upon his rear or either wing, or hurry of any sort to disturb his choice of ground, he deliberately placed himself in a position from which, the rebel journals say, he could not have escaped with a man, had their generals been fully equal to their duty.
With all these signs and results before us, we are of the opinion that our Young Napoleon is a failure, and that, if he be not extricated by Pope, in a direct march on Richmond, the whole of his present force, which, instead of "pinning the enemy to the wall," cannot get even so much as a loaf of bread without running the Confederate batteries, will be in imminent danger of capitulation No sophistry nor blind, unreasoning applause can defend the incapacity which betrays itself in this; and we think that mind is to be pitied, which has not the courage to reason upon and to condemn it. Every patriot has an equal interest in the welfare of the country, and while each day explodes its share of error, no man should hesitate to exercise his rights of thought Generals are not infallible. There is no witchcraft in the art of war, and the humblest observer can decide, that the general who promised us "no more retreats, no more defeats," and that he would drive his opponents "to the wall," cuts a poor figure prone upon his back in the mud of the James river, and poorer figure still in the fact that the people of every Northern State are forced, by the result of his first campaign, to hang their heads with shame. Down to the date of his expedition to the Peninsula, the national arms were triumphant in every quarter, and fainting rebellion seemed to be giving up the ghost; but the result of his generalship is, that the grand army of the Potomac is paralyzed and useless, gold stands at seventeen per cent., a scrofula of shin plasters has broken out upon the previously healthy surface of the currency, and pale-faced traitors are mocking us with bets that the Confederates will capture Washington, before McClellan reaches Richmond.
The rebels have thus won, by their successes over him in the battles of the Chickahominy, that co-operation in the North, which was the first hope of the rebellion, and postponed the conclusion of the war, even in the predictions of the most sanguine, for at least six months. Are these things not so? And do our present misfortunes, dangers and humiliations not spring from our Young Napoleon’s blundering effort to drive the enemy to the wall? Do we not also owe to these blunders the new raid of Morgan, which, at this moment, threatens Frankfort, and the combinations against Nashville and Corinth, which have been suddenly started up to prevent our being spared any reinforcements from the West?
It is not pleasant for us to be the pioneer in this review, but individual reputations are of small importance when weighed against the interests of the country; and we see no reason why there should be any more sanctity in McClellan’s blunders, than in the mistakes of McDowell, Halleck or Fremont. The Republic must be saved, but the worst way to help toward it is by closing the eyes, and blindly hurrahing for the errors of a popular leader.
There are but two theories we can conceive of for McClellan’s surprising course, since the hour of his chief command. One is, that while in the Crimea, his mind became so thoroughly saturated and imbued with earth by a daily study of the operations of Sebastopol, that his academic brilliancy was smothered, and he came back to us with mud upon the brain; or that, unbalanced by Southern compliments and Northern flatteries, he conceived the weak idea of performing the part of a diplomatist rather than a warrior, and ending the rebellion, on his part, by bloodless strategy instead of battle. Being of the Breckinridge democracy, be might have fancied he would be listened to with favor, at a proper opportunity, when he had out managed Davis in the field, and that by thus maneuvering the Confederates into a bloodless laying down of arms, he would be hailed as the Great Pacificator, the modern Washington, and descend through the distant vista of posterity, profusely wreathed with laurel by the orators, and labelled by patriotic painters, as " PATER PATRLE."
<c04>
The error of this plan was, that the rebels took no stock in it, and perceiving his aversion to battle, without understanding its cause, they pressed upon him a whole week of carnage in the marshes of the Chickahominy, and laid out much more such red work for him and other Federal generals in the same unrespecting neighborhood.
Here let us leave the mournful subject. What we have written has been wrung from us by an urgent sense of duty, and if it prove we have unwisely questioned McClellan’s mode of driving the defenders of Richmond "to the wall," we will seek solace it in the hope, that his late lessons may change his tactics, and make a fighting general of him hereafter.
It is certain that Napoleons do not depend much on mud.—Wilkes’s Spirit of the Times.

THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC.
In the Liberator of last week, we published a synopsis of the startling and most timely speech of Senator Chandler, of Michigan, delivered in the U. S. Senate, July 16, on the management of the army on the Potomac under the command of Gen. McClellan-a speech which should have the widest circulation, and be read by THE PEOPLE on whom devolve the sufferings and burdens of this terrible slaveholding rebellion. Here is the closing part of it:-
On the 1st day of January, 1862, and for months previous to that date, the armies of the Republic were occupying a purely defensive position upon the whole line from Missouri to the Atlantic, until on or about the 27th of January the President and Secretary of War issued the order forward. Then the brave Foote took the initiative, soliciting 2,000 men from Halleck to hold Fort Henry after he had captured it with his gunboats. They were promptly furnished, and Henry fell; then Donelson, with its 15,000 prisoners; then Newbern, and the country was electrified. Credit was given where credit was due. Do-nothing strategy gave way to an "immediate advance upon the enemy’s works," and the days of spades and pickaxes seemed to be ended. On the 22d of February a forward movement upon our whole line was ordered, but did not take place. The army of the Potomac was not ready; but on the 10th of March it moved, against the protest of the Commanding-General and eight out of twelve of the commanders of divisions, but the President was inexorable, and the movement must be made. It proceeded to Centreville, and there, found deserted huts, wooden artillery, and entrenchments which could and can be successfully charged by cavalry. It proceeded to Manassas, and found no fortifications worthy of the name, a deserted, abandoned camp, and dead horses for trophies. The enemy, less than 40,000 men, had leisurely escaped, carrying away all his artillery, baggage, arms, and stores. Our army of the Potomac, on that 10th of March, showed by its muster -roll a force of 230,000 men. Comment is needless. The grand army of the Potomac proceeded toward Gordonsville, found no enemy, repaired the railroad, and then marched back again.
Why this grand army of the Potomac did not march upon Richmond has never been satisfactorily explained, and probably never will be. One reason assigned was lack of transportation; but there were two railroads, one by way of Acquia Creek and Fredericksburg, the other via Manassas and Gordonsville, which could have been repaired at the rate of ten miles per day, and our army was ample to guard it. Had this overwhelming force proceeded directly to Richmond by these lines, it would have spent the 1st of May in Richmond, and ere this the rebellion would have been ended.  This grand army, ably commanded, was superior to any army the world has seen for five hundred years. Napoleon I. never fought one hundred and thirty thousand men upon one battle-field. Yet this noble army was divided and virtually sacrificed by some one. Who is the culprit?
Before the advance upon Manassas, Gen. McClellan changed his plans, and demanded to be permitted to leave the enemy intrenched at Centreville and Manassas, to leave the Potomac blockaded, and to take his army to Annapolis by land, and there embark them for the rear of the enemy to surprise him. In the council of war called upon this proposition, the Commanding-General and eight out of twelve of the commanders of divisions (and here permit me to say that I am informed that seven of the eight Generals were appointed upon the recommendation of Gen. McClellan) voted that it was not safe to advance upon the wooden guns of Centreville, and to adopt the new plan of campaign. The President and the Secretary of War overruled this pusillanimous decision, and compelled McClellan to "move immediately upon the enemy’s works." He marched, and the trophies of that memorable campaign are known to the Senate and the country.
At Fairfax, Gen. McClellan changed his plan, and decided not to advance upon the Rebels with his whole force, but to return to Alexandria, divide his army, and embark for Fortress Monroe and York-town. It was decided that 45,000 men should be left for the defence of the Capital, and he was permitted to embark. After much delay (unavoidable in the movement of so vast a force, with its enormous material) the General-in-Chief himself embarked. Soon after he sailed, it came to the knowledge of the Committee on the Conduct of the War that the Capital, with its vast accumulation of material of war, had been left by Gen. McClellan virtually without defence, and the enemy’s whole force, large or small, was untouched in front. 
The country has been deceived. It has been led to believe that the Secretary of War or somebody else has interfered with Gen. McClellan’s plans, when he had an army that could have crushed any other army on the face of the earth. One hundred and fifty-eight thousand of the best troops that ever stood on God's footstool were sent down to the peninsula, and placed under command of Gen. McClellan; and yet the whole treasonable press of the country has been howling after the Secretary of War, because of his alleged refusal to send reenforcements to Gen. McClellan. As I said the other day, he has sent every man, every sabre, every bayonet, every horse, that could be spared from any source whatever to increase that grand army under Gen. McClellan in front of Richmond. Why did he not enter Richmond? We shall see. Gen. McDowell’s force was not sent down, because it was deemed necessary to protect the Capital and the vast accumulation of military stores. Although the President and Secretary of War would have been justified in holding the whole of that force. Gen. Franklin’s division was taken from it and shipped to the peninsula, at Gen. McClellan’s most urgent solicitation, and it was his urgent cry for reenforcements that brought Shields down to unite with McDowell, and thus united, those two columns were to march upon Richmond, and still further reenforce and aid .Gen. McClellan. 
It is not for me, sir, to state the strength of  McClellan’s army at this time; but I know it is 158,000 men, less the number lost by sickness and casualties.
<c05>
Does any man doubt that this army, ably handled, was sufficiently strong to have captured Richmond and crushed the Rebel army? I think not, if promptly led against the enemy;  but instead of that, it sat down in malarious swamps, and awaited the drafting, arming, drilling, and making soldiers of an army to fight it, and in the mean time our own army was rapidly wasting away. Unwholesome water, inadequate food, over-work, and sleeping in marshes, were rapidly filling the hospitals, and overloading the return boats with the sick. Sir, we have lost more men by the spade than by the bullet-five to one since, the army started from Yorktown under McClellan. Had the soldiers been relieved from dig- and menial labor by the substitution of negro laborers, the army of the Potomac would to-day, in my estimation, contain 30,000 more brave and efficient soldiers than it does. Had it been relieved from guarding the property of Rebels in arms, many valuable lives would nave been saved. Yorktown was evacuated after a sacrifice of more men by sickness than the enemy had in their works when our army landed at Fortress Monroe. The battle of Williamsburg was" fought by a small fraction of our army, and the enemy routed. During the battle, Gen. McClellan wrote the following dispatch, miles from the field of battle:-
[Received at War Department, at 12-22 P. M., May 6th.]
BIVOUAC IN FRONT OF WILLIAMSBURG,
May 5, 10 P. M. 
Hon,. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War: 
After arranging for the movements up the York river, I was urgently sent for here. I find Joe Johnson in front of me in strong force, probably greater a good deal than my own. Hancock has taken two redoubts and repulsed Early’s Brigade by a real charge with the bayonet, taking one Colonel and a hundred and fifty prisoners, killing at least two Colonels and many privates. His conduct was brilliant in the extreme. I do not know our exact loss, but fear Hooker has lost considerably on our left. I learn from prisoners that they intend disputing every step to Richmond. I shall run the risk of at least holding them in check here, while I resume the original plan.
My entire force is undoubtedly considerably inferior to that of the Rebels, who will fight well; but I will do all I can with the force at my disposal.
G. B. MCCLELLAN, Major General Commanding.
He would try to "hold them in check"! He could not hold them. He could not stop his eager troops from chasing them. After a small fraction of his army had whipped their entire force, and had been chasing them for hours, he penned that dispatch and sent it to the Secretary of War, and, if I remember aright, it was read in one of the two Houses of Congress. As you may suppose from that dispatch, there was no great eagerness in following up that victory. Three Michigan regiments were not only decimated, they were divided in twain in that bloody battle at Williamsburg. They fought there all day without reenforcements. One Michigan regiment went into the trenches, and left 63 dead Rebels, killed by the bayonet, weltering in their blood. But who has ever heard, by any official communication from the head of the army, that a Michigan regiment was in the fight at Williamsburg? do not blame him for not giving credit where credit is due, for I do not believe he knew anything more of that fight than you or I.
When that battle was fought and won, all the enemy’s works were cleared away, and we had an open road to Richmond. There was not a single fortification between Richmond and Williamsburg. All we had to do was to get through those infernal swamps, march up, and take possession of Richmond. What did we do? We found the worst swamp there was between Richmond and Williamsburg, and sat right down in the center of it, and went to digging. We sacrificed thousands and tens of thousands of the bravest troops that ever stood on the face of God’s earth, digging in front of no intrenchments, and before a whipped army of the enemy. We waited for them to recruit; we waited for them to get another army. They had a levy en masse. They were taking all the men and boys between the ages of fifteen and fifty-five, and magnanimously we waited weeks and weeks for them to bring these forced levies into some sort of consistency as an army. The battle of Fair Oaks was fought. There the enemy found again a little fraction of our army-very much less than half-and they brought out their entire force. I have it from the best authority that they had not a solitary regiment in or about Richmond that was fit to put in front of an enemy, that they did not bring to Fair Oaks and hurl upon our decimated army. Again the indomitable bravery of our troops (of the men, of the private soldiers, the indomitable energy of Michigan men and New Jersey men—but I will not particularize, for all the troops fought like lions), and the fighting capacity of our army, not only saved it from being utterly destroyed by an overwhelming force, but gave us a triumphant victory. The enemy went back to Richmond pell-mell. I have been informed by a man who was there at the time, that two brigades of fresh troops could have chased the whole Confederate army through the City of Richmond and into the James River, so utter was their rout and confusion.
And what did we do then? We found another big swamp, and we sat down in the centre of it, and went to digging. We began to throw up intrenchments in our front, no enemy that was not utterly broken. We never took advantage of the battle of Fair Oaks. Again Michigan soldiers were cut to pieces by hundreds. Go into the Judiciary Square Hospital in this city, and you will find more than half the occupants are Michigan men who were shot at Fair Oaks and Williamsburg, men who stood until a regiment of a thousand men were reduced to one hundred and five, and even then did not run. Sir, these men have been sacrificed, uselessly sacrificed. They have been put to hard digging, and hard fare, and hard sleeping, and if there was any hard fighting to do, they have been put to that; and besides all this, at night they have had to guard the property of Rebels in arms. They have been so sacrificed that two or three of the Michigan regiments to-day cannot bring into the field two hundred and fifty men each, out of a thousand with which they started.
Fair Oaks was lost; that is to say, we won a brilliant victory, but it did us no good; we did not take advantage of it. Of course, it would have been very unfair to take advantage of a routed army (laughter); it would not have been according to our " “strategy.".” We magnanimously (stopped, and commenced digging. There was no- army in  our front; there were no intrenchments in  our front;  but we did not know what else to do, and so we began to dig and ditch, and we kept digging and ditching until the Rebels had impressed and drilled and armed and made soldiers of their entire population. But that was not enough; they sent Jackson up on his raid to Winchester, and we waited for him to come back with his 20,000 or 30,000 men. We heard that Corinth was being evacuated, and of coarse it would have been very unfair to commence an attack until they brought their troops from Corinth, and so we waited for the army at Corinth to get to Richmond.
<c06>
After the Rebels had got all the troops they ever hoped to raise from any source, who did not attack them, but they attacked us, as we had reason to suppose they would. They attacked our right wing, and as I am informed upon what I must deem reliable authority, they hurled the majority of their entire force upon our right wing of 30,000 men, and during the whole of that Thursday, our right wing of 30,000 men held their ground, and repaired that vast horde of the enemy over and over again, and held their ground at night. Of course, you say a reenforcement of 20,000 or 30,000 men was sent to these brave troops that they might not only hold their ground the next day, but send this dastardly army into Richmond a second time, as at Fair Oaks. No, sir, nothing of the sort was done.
At night, instead of sending them reinforcements, they were ordered to retreat. That was "strategy,”. The moment they commenced their retreat, as is said in the dispatches, the enemy fought like demons. Of course they would. Who ever heard of a retreating army that was not pursued by the victors like demons, except in the case of Rebel retreats? No other nation but was ours was very guilty of stopping immediately after a victory. Other armies fight like demons after a victory, and annihilate the enemy but we do not. Our let wing and center remained intact. A feint was made upon the let and center, and I have here, not the sworn testimony, but the statement o one of the bravest men in the whole army of the Potomac-I will not give his name-but a more highly honorable man lives not-that when his regiment was ordered under arms, he had no doubt that he was going to march into Richmond. He believed the whole force of the enemy had attacked our right wing; he believed there was nothing but a screen of pickets in front; and he thought that now our great triumph was to come off. His men sprang into line with avidity, prepared to rush into Richmond, and take it at the point of the bayonet. He never discovered his error until he saw a million and a half dollars' worth of property burned in front of his regiment, and then he began to think that an advance upon Richmond was not intended. And it was not. We had been at work there, and had lost ten thousand men in digging intrenchments; we had spent months in bringing up siege guns, and we abandoned these intrenchments without firing one gun. Our army was ordered to advance on the gunboats instead of on Richmond. This colonel told me that his regiment fought three days, and whipped the enemy each day, and retreated each night. The left wing and center were untouched until they were ordered to retreat, No portion of our vast force had been, fought except the right wing under Porter, and they whipped the enemy the first day.
This is called strategy! Again, sir, I ask why was this great army of the Potomac of two hundred and thirty thousand men divided? Human ingenuity could not have devised any other way to defeat that array; divine wisdom could scarcely have devised any other way to defeat it than that which was adopted. There is no army in Europe to-day that could meet the army of the Potomac when it was two hundred and thirty thousand strong, the best fighting; material ever put into an army on the face of the earth. Why was that grand army divided? I simply charge that grave and serious errors have been committed, and, as I have said, no other way could have been devised to defeat that army. If the one hundred and fifty-eight thousand men that were sent to Gen. McClellan had been marched upon the enemy, they could have whipped all the armies the Confederates have, and all they are likely to have for six months. One hundred and fifty-eight thousand are about as many as can be fought on any one battle-field. One hundred and fifty-eight thousand men are a vast army, a great deal larger army than that with which Napoleon destroyed six hundred thousand of the Austrians in a single year. One hundred and fifty-eight thousand men ably handled can defeat any force the Confederates can raise; and that is the force that went down to the Peninsula. But, sir, it lay in ditches, digging, drinking rotten water, and eating bad food, and sleeping in the mud, until it became greatly reduced in numbers, and of those that were left, very many were injured in health. Still they fought; still they conquered is every fight; and still they retreated, because they were ordered to retreat.
Sir, I have deemed it my duty to present this statement of facts to the Senate and the country. I know that I am to be denounced for so doing, and I tell you who will denounce me. There are two classes of men who are sure to denounce me, and no one else, and they are traitors and fools. The traitors have been denouncing every man who did not sing pecans to "strategy," when it led to defeat every time. The traitors North are worse than the traitors South, and sometimes I think we have as many of them in the aggregate. They are meaner men; they are men who will coma behind you, and cut your throat in the dark. I have great respect for Southern traitors who shoulder their muskets, and come out and take the chances of the bullet and the halter; but I have the most superlative contempt for the Northern traitors, who, under the pretended guise of patriotism, are stabbing their country in the dark.
This instructive extract should find a place in every loyal journal at the North.

UNION OFFICERS MUTILATING PASSES TO ACCOMMODATE REBEL SPIES.
WINCHESTER, Va., July 14, 1862
It is an unaccountable fact that our Union officers are very much inclined to favor the Secesh. Many of them board in rebel families, and some of these not of the most respectable, I state the following on authority ready to be produced, if officially required. An officer of the Twenty-ninth Pennsylvania regiment, lately in command, save a pass to two well-known rebel ladies, who loudly declared they would stay in Winchester ten years before they would go under the description of "true and loyal citizens of the United States." The officer promptly erased these words, substantially constituting these women spies in the rebel service, with authority to cross our lines. He got small thanks from them, for they laughed at him, and called him a fool as soon as", they were out of his presence. I don't know that it can be of any service for a Union man to write you these facts.
There is a special courtesy extended to the rebel wounded and their nurses. Fremont's men, who were much exhausted by their severe mountain march and brave fighting on half rations, have come here to recruit in considerable numbers. They occupy unfurnished rooms and a church, lying on the bare floor, while sound rebel men nurses are sleeping on the beds gratuitously furnished by benevolent people from the North. Why the rebel wounded and sick are not quartered on rebel citizens may be a mystery to yon, but it is not to us, seeing that officers wearing the United States uniform are comfortably domiciled, bedded and befooled by. these same citizens. -Correspondence of the New York Evening post.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slave in the invaded territory.”–J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE WAR.
1. The character of the war: It is a desperate rebellion.
2. Rebellion forfeits all constitutional obligations on the part of the Government.
3 Necessity hath no law-or, rather, is the supreme law; and none but weak consciences and craw-sick politicians will now think otherwise.
4. The rebellion must be dealt with as States as well as individuals.
5. The most beneficial results possible should follow our immense sacrifices. To have, after all, the old chimes about free-soil and rendition questions would make the very heavens sick, and cover the country with worse than mourning, because depriving reason of self-esteem and the sustaining dignity of a becoming pride.
6. DECLARE THAT SLAVERY IS FOREVER AT AN END IN THE UNITED STATES.
7. Compensation, moderate, for slaves belonging to undoubted Union men when the war is over, to be settled by a stern commission. And the border States are here invoked to draw still further upon their patriotism and true self-interest. As to offending them, for which we should be exceedingly sorry, for their sakes as well as our own, I have to say, let it come if it must; we are equal to our whole work, if we work on a right principle and right system.
8. The slaves to be fully cared for, and employed in labor-men, women and children-all of the most appropriate kinds: one hundred thousand of the men, in the battle-field, commanded by volunteer citizens, under the most rigid military subordination: such command to be considered wholly respectable, and specially patriotic.
9. This abolishing of slavery forever in this country would straighten out and simplify the state of things among us; cut off rebellion from all future effort; give us an immense moral position, influence and support throughout the whole civilized world, advance the cause of universal liberty by a leap of a dozen centuries; and create forus an epoch of renown in history, without a parallel.
10. Immediately on the close of the war, pour into Eastern Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, three millions of Northern and Western men-particularly laboring men-agriculturists, (a great chance for a new foreign emigration,) to be protected by an ample military force; in order that this new element of population may keep down and neutralize individual Southern hostility, and to bring forward the immense agricultural resources of every kind of those regions, particularly cotton, sugar, rice, that can, at any moment, in countless quantities, be converted into gold-making a very hey-day of trade and comfort for all Europe.
Such a course would prove that all labor at the South, by white men, is practicable and honorable, as well as profitable; and it would be a wealth to the country, in commerce, covering, a hundred fold, all the cost of the war. As to white men, Northern men, not being able to stand sun shine, and a black, teeming soil and miasma, it is an old bugbear, and as baseless as witchcraft. White men can stand all these things, if they will crowd off their stagnant blood by labor, live carefully, keep by them a little blue mass and quinine, lay by a little in the very beat of the day, avoid the night dews, and generally take care of themselves-especially to fear nothing, except what is dishonest and dishonorable, and unkind towards others.
The foregoing ideas are presented, not, by any means, in what has been called an abolition sense, or in a sense in any way radical, having nothing of the kind about me; but as a NECESSITY, and a clear utility-even rescuing the whole South itself from ruin, and giving to them security and unthought-of prosperity. These ideas, too, are due also to our glorious UNION, which must be PERPETUAL. It is also a NECESSARY course as it regards the States mentioned; for no man can believe that any less thorough track will ever put an entire end to the rebellion, and render those regions safe for anything in the shape of honest and harmless life.
We owe the grand result I have suggested to the gigantic efforts of our country and Government, and to the sufferings and griefs of our friends, and to the GRAVES of our dear and lamented soldiery:
“Oh! this is venerable earth,
Valor’s consecrated bed;
Hail! the memory of the brave!
Hail! the spirits of the dead!
Time their triumphs shall proclaim,
And their rich reward be this:
Immortality of fame-
Immortality of bliss!”
BELARIUS.
Washington City, July 15, 1862.
SPEECH OF JUDGE HORTON.
We make the following extract from Judge HORTON’S speech at Troy, on the Fourth. He portrays, in vivid colors, the evils of slavery, and his views must meet with the entire approbation of all loyal citizens:-
“It was slavery that placed James Buchanan in the Presidential Chair. It was to the influence of slavery that the traitors Floyd, Cobb and Thompson held seats in the Cabinet of the nation. It is slavery that marshals the rebel hosts, and breathes into their embattled ranks its own barbarous fire. It is slavery that stamps its character alike upon officers and men. It is slavery that inspires all, from the General to the teamster. It is slavery which gives the word of command, and which sounds in the morning drum-beat. It is slavery which digs and builds hostile forts. It is slavery which pitches its white tents and stations its sentinels against the national capital. It is slavery which sharpens the bayonet and casts the bullet, which points the cannon and scatters the shell, blazing and bursting with death. It is slavery which raises the pirate’s flag upon the ocean, and murders our prisoners of war. It is slavery which wantonly burns the cotton, destroys the sugar, and violates all the ordinary usages of war. It is slavery which desolated and devastated Missouri and other Southern States of this Union. It is slavery that has hung Union men in East Tennessee, and assassinated them in New Orleans, and offered rewards for the heads of Butler and Johnson. Wherever this rebellion shows itself, whatever form it takes, whatever thing it does, whatever it meditates, it is moved by slavery; nay, it is slavery itself, incarnate, living, acting, raging, robbing, murdering, according to the essential law of its being. More:-as slavery is the cause, the origin of this war, with out slavery it would have ceased long ago, without slavery it would cease to-day. The slaves toil at home while the masters work at the rebellion. The enslaved race is actually engaged in feeding, supporting, succoring and assisting those who are fighting for their enslavement and the perpetuation of slavery.
“Slavery has been our curse in the past. Slavery is our curse to-day, and will be our curse in the future, unless a patriotic President shall, with the mark of his pen, sweep it from the continent. If slavery is the cause, why not extinguish it? While I believe this war may be and perhaps will be closed without the abolishment of the “sum of all villanies,” still I believe sure, certain and lasting peace can only be had, when throughout our Republic not a chain shall clank upon or bind the limbs of man. As the distinguished Senator of Kansas, Gen. James H. Lane, said in my hearing in New York last month, so I say now, where our army marches, there freedom should abide; where our flag waves in victory, there should the fetter fall from the slave; and where the Union is restored, consecrated by the vows of undaunted freemen, sacred with the graves of immortal spirits, let it be re-united in the faith that all men are created equal, and then, indeed, will our land appear to humanity bright, beautiful and effulgent, as was our planet when, in the morning of creation, it was swung by the hand of Omnipotence into ethereal space.”

THE PRESIDENT’S VIEWS.
Col. John W. Forney, Secretary of the United States Senate, in addressing the People’s State Convention at Harrisburg, recently, is thus reported:-
“He announced that President Lincoln had told him, before leaving Washington, that henceforth his policy should be as stringent as the most enthusiastic could desire. (Loud applause.) That hereafter there will be no restriction in the employment of all men to put down the rebellion. (Long and loud applause.) No more doubting about the confiscation of rebel property. (Applause.) No longer need the Northern people be frightened with the cry of negro equality and emancipation. (Applause.)
“He thought it proper to put arms into their hands to save the lives of the whites. (Applause.) He thought we might as well terminate the war to-day
<c02>
if it was not to be fought with the aid of the colored men of the South. (Applause.) Gen. Washington, in the Revolutionary war, used them, and at the battle of Red Bank, 1777, near Philadelphia, a Rhode Island regiment of blacks turned the fortunes of the day.”
We trust this is all true, and we especially pray that whatever the President may think best to do, shall be done frankly, boldly, defiantly. This nation is not to be saved by ambiguities, by equivocations, but by striking out straight from the shoulder. No sheepish, shame-faced, double-tongued policy will possibly answer. To say that we will use slave labor in our camps, yet give the slaves no valid reason for coming to and working for us, is to trifle with National ruin. If we are to have them help us, we must openly invite them to do so, and give them the best possible reason for coming. Let every one who has the National safety in charge heed the monition of our great poet to
“go not like the galley-slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust.”
New York Tribune.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 1, 1862.
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST.
The Anniversary of British West India Emancipation will be celebrated in the usual manner at ISLAND GROVE, ABINGTON, on FRIDAY, August 1st, in MASS MEETING, under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
Among the speakers looked for and confidently expected on the occasion are the following:-
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, H. C. WREIGHT, WM. WELLS BROWN, JOHN S. ROCK, ANDREW T. FOSS, Rev. DANIEL FOSTER, Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, Rev. MONCURE D. CONWAY, and others.
An Excursion Train on the Old Colony Railroad will leave Boston at 9 o’clock, A. M. Leave Plymouth 9.20, A. M., stopping at usual way stations.
RETURNING, leave the Grove at 5 1-4 P. M.
The Old Colony Railroad Company will convey passengers, on that day, to and from the Abington Grove, at the following rates, being the same as upon former years:-
Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Neponset, Quincy, and Braintree,-to the Grove and back,,-for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
Plymouth, and all way stations not already mentioned,-to the Grove and back, half the usual rates.
Excursion tickets good on other trains.
Should the day prove stormy, the meeting will be held in the Town Hall, adjacent to the Grove, so that there will be no interruption of the proceedings. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON,
SAMUEL MAY, JR.,
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE,
BRIGGS ARNOLD,
SAMUEL DYER,
THE NEW YORK JOURNAL OF COMMERCE.
There are still many base-minded, unprincipled, pro-slavery journals at the North, notwithstanding the hideous revelations of its true character which slavery has made for many years past, and especially within the last eighteen months. A few of these are conducted with an ability which indicates no lack of intelligence,-only extreme depravity. Foremost among this small number is the New York Journal of Commerce. Its former editor, GERARD HALLOCK, for a quarter of a century, availed himself of all possible opportunities (and where none existed, he created them) to ridicule the efforts and blacken the character of Abolitionists, to shield the slave system from danger, to heap contempt and obloquy upon the unfortunate colored race, to strengthen the hands of the brokers in human blood, to stimulate mobocratic violence against free speech, and to corrupt and deceive the people. Hundreds of his articles are on record in the columns of the Liberator-all proving the malignity of his spirit and the baseness of his efforts. In the service of the devil, the prince of slaveholders, never was greater zeal or more assiduity shown by any one than by himself. The mischief he set on foot, the evil he consummated, the brutality he roused to action, the minds he led astray, the misrepresentations and falsehoods he put in circulation, to put down the abolition movement, admit of no measurement. Had he been the owner of every slave in the land, and educated under the most depraving Southern influences from childhood, he could not have labored more untiringly in behalf of “the sum of all villanies,” and to transform the glorious “self-evident truths” of the Declaration of Independence into “glittering generalities” and empty “rhetorical flourishes” And all this, too, in an evangelical garb, and in reputable connection with an evangelical church-making loud out-cries, all the while, about “Abolition infidelity,” and affecting superior sanctity, in the most approved pharisaical manner! At times, he attempted to plate his iniquity with gold, by ostentatiously cribbing for the ransom of a slave-man or slave-woman endeavoring to procure the needed amount; taking good care to chronicle his “charitable” (?) donation in his own columns, and sometimes improving the occasion to make a malicious fling at the Abolitionists, as much more ready to talk against slavery than to redeem any one out of it by furnishing the means.
Of course, his journal was applauded throughout the man-imbruting South, and liberally patronized in that direction. Constantly stimulating the satanic pride and ambition of the slave oligarchy, defending them against every assault, and upholding every scheme of theirs, however villanous, he left nothing undone to bring about the present awful state of things in the country. Such was his open complicity with the Southern traitors, at the time of the capture of Fort Sumter, that he was compelled by an indignant and formidable public manifestation to retire from the editorial charge of the Journal of Commerce, in order to save the necessity of its suppression. We know of no one whose memory will deserve to be execrated more intensely by the colored population of this country, bond and free, than his own.
For a very short time, the tone of the paper was slightly modified, though still perverse and malignant. Gradually, it ventured to speak out in a bolder strain, till now its articles are as venomous and as treasonable in spirit as ever-all designed to paralyze efficient measures for the suppression of the rebellion, to give “aid and comfort” to the rebels, to prolong the war indefinitely, in order to bring the Administration into popular disfavor, and thereby ensure its ultimate overthrow, or else compel the Federal Government to recognize the independence of the Rebel Confederacy. If any paper ever deserved to be summarily suppressed by martial law, it is the Journal of Commerce.
Hallock having been compelled to retire, of course it became necessary to employ “a new hand at the bellows.” The present editor is said to be one PRIME, a brother of one of the editors of the New York Observer, and of the same stripe. His articles are all surcharged with misrepresentation, calumny, abuse, bluster, and pro-slavery scoundrelism, in reference to the friends of impartial freedom, and fiercely deprecatory of any proposition or effort to deprive the rebels of the right arm of their murderous strength by confiscating their slave property. He knows that the entire slave population is actively wielded, in every possible manner, to crown the rebellion with success, and, up to this hour, with tremendous and irresistible effect; that the slaves are kept diligently at work, digging trenches and rifle-pits, building fortifications, carrying supplies, raising food to keep the rebel forces from starvation, doing every sort of laborious and menial work, to ensure final victory to the Confederate States. This is precisely as he would have it. What does he care for the cause of freedom, or the safety of free institutions? Rather than see the Union pre-
<c03>
served through the abolition of slavery, he would gladly have it broken in pieces” like a potter’s vessel” What does he care for the health, safety, lives of Northern soldiers? The “masterly strategy” which buried them by thousands in the Chickahominy swamps, (1) and caused the army of the Potomac to be reduced, by capture, sickness and death, at least sixty thousand men in a few months, is what he specially admires. He would prefer to see the entire army crushed out of existence, rather than to have slavery in any way interfered with by it. 
Yet this editorial dissembler pretends to superlative loyalty! With consummate audacity, he raises the outcry that “the Abolitionists are discouraging enlistments, and throwing every obstacle in the way of filling up the army” He complains that “they refuse to enlist themselves,” and asserts that “there is not a prominent Abolitionist in the army to-day,” Model patriot! Foaming at the mouth if it is even suggested that the army might be immediately and most powerfully strengthened, by inviting to its standard the hundreds of thousands of expectant loyal blacks at the South; and yet pretended shocked at the lack of patriotism evinced by those whom he habitually holds up to public scorn as “disorganizers,” “madmen,” and “fanatics!” As a matter of consistency, why should he expect any thing more of them? 
Now, to this impeachment of the Abolitionists, we reply-that the difference between them and their calumniator is, that, while he is for having the government pursue a do-nothing policy, like that of McClellan, (who ought to have been stripped of his command long ago for utter incompetency, or else unwillingness to advance,) and wants the war so conducted as to make it utterly impossible to subdue the rebels, the Abolitionists are for a decisive, energetic, uncompromising course of policy to be adopted, whereby speedy victory will surely be attained. Even this libeller will not have the effrontery to accuse them of having the remotest sympathy with the South in this struggle. Whoever else may be disposed to deal gingerly with her, or to so speak and act as to play into her hands, they are not. For thirty years there has been an impassable gulph between her and them. They have branded her secession as clearly treasonable and for the most revolting purposes; and they have defended the government as wholly in the right as against her accusations and assaults. But, in common with hundreds of thousands of loyal men at the North, who have never had any connection with or sympathy for the Anti-Slavery movement, they perceive no possible chance for the rebellion to be put down, and the unity of the republic preserved, but by a proclamation of universal emancipation; hence their disgust, indignation and astonishment to see such blindness and weakness on the part of the government, and such in competency or treachery on the part of the leading generals in the army, in dealing with her. Their sharpest criticisms, their severest censures, their strongest admonitions, are not for the purpose of weakening but strengthening the arm of government, and leading it to see that the sober, intelligent, thinking men of the North are not to be expected any longer to fill the decimated ranks of the army “with alacrity,” until they see good reason to believe that their lives will not be jeopardy or sacrificed as abortively as the hecatombs which have already been slain on Southern soil.
(1) Read what the Richmond Examiner says of the spot selected by “masterly strategy” for our army:
“ Ten days ago, when McClellan beleaguered Richmond, with the exception of about five miles of the Chickahommy low ground, he occupied the most barren, and at the same time the worst watered and most unhealthy region of Eastern Virginia. Agues, hoop-poles and whortleberries have been always the only sure crops of the country. With a radius of ten miles about the Seven Pines, taking that point as a centre, and but two living streams cross the Nine Mile or Williamsburg road. Between Richmond and Bottom Bridge, on these two roads, with the Seven Pines as their headquarters, the very pink and flower of the Northern army was concentrated, and here for weeks their vigor, and numbers melted away under the influence of the miasma, bad water and a Southern sun.”

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
“America before Europe. Principles and Interests. By Count Agenor de Gasparin. Translated from advance sheets, by Mary L. Booth. New York: Charles Scribner, 124 Grand St., 1862.”-p. 419. For sale in Boston by Crosby and Nichols, 117 
Washington St.
This interesting and valuable book is a sequel to “The Uprising of a Great People,” published by Count Gasparin rather more than a year ago. Proposing to examine the crisis through which this country is passing from the European point of view, its author takes the part of a true friend to our nation, not only by clearing up various errors in regard to us which still prevail in Europe, but by offering such counsel as his wisdom dictates for our present and future guidance. Seeing that it is while the issue of the conflict is still uncertain that it is important to set forth the principles which it involves, he has spoken promptly, once and again, endeavoring to commend those principles to the attention of both his and our countrymen. Every page shows the diligence of the author in penetrating the complications of our condition, and preparing himself, by a careful study of facts and documents, to understand it; and it cannot be but that his intelligence, his earnestness and his prudence will give help, on both sides of the water, towards the successful solution of our great problem. 
The six parts into which this book is divided examine successively-the general aspect, to Europe, of the American Crisis-the attitude of England, or rather of two diverse classes which constitute that nation, towards this country-the Errors credited in Europe—the Interests of Europe in Amnesiac-America—the claim which Freedom makes upon Americans and the claim which Religion makes upon American and English Christians. An appendix quotes certain State papers of our Government, by way of documentary evidence. 
With comparatively few errors, either of fact or of speculation, in regard to us, this work has many and great merits. Instead of merely calculating probabilities in regard to our destiny, it seeks to fix attention on the question-Which course is right? It recognizes obedience to duty as the highway of ultimate success, and points out that sound principle is the best guardian of our interests. Recognizing the fact that such great, and wide-spreading, and deep-rooted causes of disturbance as here prevail, are not to be speedily calmed into quietness, it counsels patience and prudence. Recognizing also that the faults of the past and present are the dangers of the future, it urges immediate and progressive reform. 
It is true that the reform inculcated by Count Gasparin is not precisely of our sort. He prefers gradual to immediate abolition. But every page of his book shows that this is through no lack of zeal for the ultimate result, but only from full recognition of the existing obstacles. The Abolitionists have so often heard gradualism deceitfully urged, on this side the water, for the purpose of postponing prompter and stronger action, that they have learned to look with suspicion upon the motives of him who advises it. But no such suspicion can touch the author of this book. Even the mistakes concerning radical men and measures into which calumnious rumor has led him do not for a moment disguise the fact that he is at heart with us. And he gives the strongest proof of this substantial unity with the Abolitionists by rebuking, precisely as Garrison, and Phillips, and Parker have rebuked, the Northern sin, of prejudice against color, and warning the Northern people that this vice must be discarded before either Christianity or Democracy can have free course among them. 
It is, of course, advantageous for Americans to read both the counsels and the rebukes of a friend so intelgent and so earnest. And this view of America in the presence of Europe can hardly fail to exercise a favorable influence in regard to us both in France and England. 
A book treating of affairs so various and compli-
<c04>
cated, occurring in a country which the author has never visited, will inevitably contain errors. Some of the greatest of these are found in Count Gasparin's chapter entitled “Attitude of Christians in America.” By “Christians” he means members of churches called “Evangelical” Here, evidently, the intensity of his wish that the American churches might do their duty upon the great subject of slavery has had a very powerful influence upon his estimate of the scanty facts bearing in that direction. In his statement respecting the present attitude of the Northern churches towards slavery, the wish (unconsciously to himself, of course,) has been father to the thought; for not only does his specification of evidence fail to establish his point, but no one item of that evidence even tends to establish it. Here is a specimen of two enormous errors condensed into one sentence:-
“The remarkable revival which agitated the whole North, and which, save at a point in Baltimore, stopped short at the frontiers of the South, has been the great providential means against slavery.”-p. 391.
If the reports of the religious papers, North and South, made at the time of the last great revival, are to be believed, that influence prevailed throughout the South, equally as throughout the North, and with the same utter absence of result, in both regions, upon the institution of slavery. I carefully examined these reports while the events were passing. No mention of slavery was permitted in the revival meetings of either section. I saw no evidence that, in the South, any slave was manumitted in consequence of the “conversion” of his master, or that, in the North, a single person became, through “conversion,” an opposer of slavery. 
The American translation of Count Gasparin's book is carelessly printed, and contains many errors. For instance:-On p. 159, we have “England” printed, instead of America. At the top of p. 189, we have “the first corner,” instead of the first comer. At the top of p. 386, the language represents as male instead of female that slave who was burned alive by members of one of the American Board's mission churches among the Cherokees, in 1859.-C. K. W. 
“God Timing all National Changes in the Interests of his Christ. A Discourse before the American Baptist Home Mission Society, at its Annual Meeting in the City of Providence, R. I., on Thursday evening, May 29th, 1862. By William R. Williams. New York: Sheldon and Company, 335 Broadway. Boston: Gould and Lincoln. 1862.”-pp. 56.
It was not at all strange that, when the whole Northern people arose in their might to declare that the nation should remain one, and that the Government should be sustained in its struggle with Rebellion, the clergy should have joined their voices to the general cry. They had always preached, and practised, allegiance to the Government. The coming out of a crop of patriotic sermons, in this exigency, was a matter of course. There has been no change in the sentiment of patriotism, on the part of either people or pastors; only an occasion for the active manifestation of it. 
In another particular, however, a great change has been going on. As the progress of the rebellion, and of the war, exposed to the people, and particularly to the army, more and more of the atrocious character of slavery, and of the depravation wrought by it in the manners and morals of slaveholders, more and more of the Northern people have been awakened to the necessity of exterminating slavery. And, closely following these, a similar proportion of the clergy have vigorously inculcated the duty of using the existing struggle for this purpose. Whether Mr. Williams be one of that honored minority of the clergy who spoke plainly against slavery before this necessity was laid open them, I know not. But in this discourse, treating of the “opportunities and hopes of the times, in their bearing on the Home Mission work of the Churches of Christ,” he pleads energetically for an application of the rule of righteousness to our great national sin. 
He tells us that the late action of the slaveholders has, happily, swung the whole question out of its old moorings, making it possible for the nation, and the Government, to act against slavery in a way, and with an effectiveness, formerly prohibited. He welcomes the opening for mortal combat against this giant iniquity. Rather than give it, by new compromises, a fresh lease of life, he would accept perpetual war, and leave it in charge to his children after him to reconquer the whole land for freedom. 
He declares that the negro, being Christ's kinsman, is our kinsman also; and that, as we now injure or benefit him, it will speedily be said to us-Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto Me. 
Showing that the operation of our present struggle, whether longer or shorter, must be to release the black man from bondage, he declares that, when this struggle shall cease, it will be infamous to reenslave him, and alike foolish and wicked to banish him. And he forcibly asks whether it be either policy or piety, in an age when British and American Christians have just been fighting the good fight of the abolition of caste in the East-Indian mission churches, to exasperate the law of caste on these shores, and convert our dusky tillers and toilers into the coolies of a cruel, enforced expatriation. 
A large responsibility for the continuance and growth of slavery rests on the Baptist denomination in this country, both South and North. The Southern Baptists cannot at present be reached by Christian missionaries. But if so sound and able a laborer as Mr. Williams can be obtained for the purpose, I suggest to the American Baptist Home Mission Society the advantage of immediately sending him to evangelize the Reverend Dr. Baron Stow, and the Rowe street church and congregation, in this city. No Southern heathen are more in need of such labor. -C. K. W. 

ENFORCING SLAVE LAWS. 
The Boston Post states that Gen. Butler has ordered that every negro found after dark about the streets of New Orleans, without a pass from his master, should be treated according to the laws of Louisiana, namely, with whipping, and imprisonment on bread and water. Of course, every free negro found in the streets after dark is liable to be thus treated.
It should not be forgotten that Abraham Lincoln is morally responsible for this, and for every other outrage against the colored people which Gen. Butler may perpetrate in New Orleans. 
Gen. Butler, perceiving the injury to the public service resulting from the diversity of action between two high officers in the same department, namely, himself, a pro-slavery Democrat, and Gen. Phelps, an Abolitionist, very properly asked of the President, a short time ago, instructions specifying which policy should be pursued by both, and declaring his own willingness to obey orders in either direction. Mr. Lincoln evaded the point in question, and returned an unmanly and non-committal answer. If he had cared for a policy favoring freedom in general for the colored people, or for justice and fair play towards those in Louisiana, either or both these objects might have been accomplished by a single word from him. He has shrunk from this duty, as from so many others. And he, in my judgment, should be held responsible for the meanness, cruelty, and wickedness of the order above referred to.-C. K. W. 
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY-Devoted to Literature and National Policy-for August, 1862.
Contents.-Among the Pines, (concluded;) Southern Rights; Maccaroni and Canvas; Glances from the Senate-Gallery; The Last Ditch, Rewarding the Army; John McDonough, the Millionaire; Helter-Skelter Papers; Sketch of the Orient; Witches, Elves, and Goblins; A True Romance; Huguenots of New York City; The Bane of our Country; The Molly O'Molly Papers; Wounded; Astor and the Capitalists of New York; Thunder all Round; Was he Successful? A Merchant's Story; Corn is King; Literary Notices; Editor's Table.
<c05>
THE CAUSE.
MR. EDITOR,-It was said by one of the speakers at the great meeting on the Common, Saturday afternoon, “We are not here to consider the cause of our country's present condition, but to devise some means for suppressing this terrible rebellion.” Now, it is not difficult for us to see why such men as the author of this utterance are so unwilling to say any thing about the “cause” of our present troubles. We suppose if a company of incendiaries had fired a large building, for purposes of plunder, and, having been badly burned in the scrape, should call the people together to consider the best means for extinguishing the fire, or staying the progress of the flames, they would be quite likely to say, as did the speaker referred to, “We are not here to consider the cause of this conflagration, but to consider how we shall best put this terrible fire out.” 
It requires more grace than our modern conservative politicians happen to be possessed of to make them magnanimous enough to confess, frankly, that they have caused the terrible conflagration which is now devastating our country, and threatening to leave it an uninhabitable and desolate waste. Having been in complicity with the rebels ever since the government was formed, and aided them in robbing God's poor, now that the traitors are seeking to rob and enslave them, they find it very convenient to raise the cry, “Thief!” that they may secure a reputation for honesty to which they have never been entitled. We thank God that there are some men in the community-and women, too-who can see into the hearts of these men, and who know that they have no love for liberty per se, but desire freedom for the white man only. 
Talk about the impropriety of considering the “cause” of this rebellion! Men do not thus reason or act in relation to other and even minor evils which exist in the community. If a ship springs a leak at sea, one of the first things to be done is to search for the “cause.” How absurd it would be, under such circumstances, for the captain to call the ship's company upon deck, and say to them, in the language of one of the Boston Common orators, “We are not here to consider the cause of this sad disaster, but to see how we shall save the ship from sinking, and ourselves from a watery grave.” Our impression is that such a commander would be speedily introduced by his auditors to old Neptune, to die 
“Unwept, unhonored and unsung.”
When business is depressed, and financial ruin stares us in the face, men seek for the cause, and labor hard to remove it. When the potato becomes infected with disease, so that we are in danger of losing that valuable esculent, the whole community is astir to ascertain the cause, elaborate essays are written by our most learned men, and spread before the people, suggesting a remedy. When pleuro-pnenmonia breaks out among our cattle, threatening to decimate and destroy the herds of our farmers, the whole State is aroused, the Legislature is convened, the people are addressed upon the subject by His Excellency, a large committee of our greatest wiseacres in such matters is elected, and thousands of dollars are expended to ascertain the cause and suggest a remedy. But when a disease is raging far more fatal to our peace and prosperity as a nation than any of these, or all of them combined, filling the land with mourning and unutterable woe, and the people with terror and alarm, having its origin in the moral delinquencies of those who have assumed to command our “ship of State,” we are to be told, are we, that it is not proper to consider the cause of this terrible state of things, but we must seek to prevent the consequences! Let those who will follow such teachers remember the declaration of the Savior-“If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.” 
When God put down the great rebellion instituted in Eden, and expelled the traitors there from, he clearly showed them the cause of it, and why he so summarily dealt with them as its authors. Had He been permitted to take some lessons in the school of modern conservative politicians, He would, probably, have put down the terrible rebellion, as they propose to suppress the more terrible one now existing in the United States, (?) without saying any thing about the “cause” He has, since that period, made a good many similar blunders. For instance, when He visited Pharaoh and his people with such terrible plagues, He told him the cause why He thus dealt with him, viz., he “would not let His people go, that they might serve Him.” He speaks to us, providentially, in similar language to-day, and will continue to “plague” us, as a nation, as He did Egypt, unless we will “let His people go” out from their bondage, that they may serve Him. 
Again, when Joshua was repulsed by the people of Ai, (see Joshua 7:5,) God showed him the cause, and instructed him how to prevent a repetition of the disaster. (Let those who would overtook the cause of our national troubles read carefully the first twelve chapters of Joshua, and, if they are sensible men and women, they will no more ignore the cause of the uncivil and terrible war which is convulsing our government, and filling its supporters with the most fearful apprehensions.) 
When God was about to suppress the great rebellion in the time of Noah, He made known to him the cause. He said, “The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them: and behold, I will destroy them with the earth.” See Genesis 6:13. (Is not the same true of “our own dear native land?” and have we not reason to fear that a similar doom awaits it?)
When, at a later period, God was about to destroy the Jewish polity and nation, He told them-by his Son-the cause. The, Savior “beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong to thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another: BECAUSE thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.” See Luke 19:41-44. Again, in Luke 13: 34, 35, hear him saying, “O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that were sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not! Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.” Is not the “cause” of Jerusalem's overthrow here clearly stated? And is not a similar cause working our ruin to-day? Have we not killed the prophets who have predicted our overthrew, if we would not let God's people go out from under the yoke of bondage? Does not the blood of a Lovejoy, of a Torrey, of a John Brown, and others, cry to God from our soil, and has not the cry entered into the ear of Him “to whom vengeance belongeth, and who will repay?” Have we not stoned those whom God has sent unto us, to admonish us that, “though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished"? See Proverbs 11: 21. Have we not "sown the wind, and are we not reaping the whirlwind?” See Hoses 8: 7. The days when mobs ruled the people, and broke up the meetings of their truest friends, who sought to warn them against the approach of the terrible foe who is now devastating the land, and when the rulers joined in the mad cry, “Crucify them” “Crucify them!” have come up in remembrance before God, who is nobly vindicating them against the aspersions of their enemies, who are “like the troubled sea, whose waters cannot rest,” “whose hearts are failing them for fear, and for looking after the things that are coming upon the land.” See Luke 21:26. 
Those ropes which have been put about the necks of those who have pleaded for the poor and the oppressed; those prison walls within which they have been incarcerated for uttering the truth; those stones and eggs which have been defiantly hurled at these men and women, whose only offence was that they believed and taught what the Bible asserts, that “God made
<c06>
of one blood ALL NATIONS of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth,” (see Acts 17: 26,) and insisted that “whatsoever we would that men should do unto us, we should do even so unto them,” are now recoiling, in terrible retribution, upon the necks, heads and bodies of those who thus used them. So true is it that “what a man (or a nation) soweth, that shall he reap.” “If he soweth to the flesh, he shall of the flesh reap corruption” and DEATH. 
If we do not misinterpret God's dealings with us, He is saying to us, as a nation, as He did to the Jews by the prophet, “Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and Sabbaths I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting. Your new moons and your appointed fasts my soul hateth; they are a trouble unto me, I am weary to bear them. And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you; yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear you: your hands are full of blood.” See Isaich1: 13-15. Again” “Your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have had his face from you, that he will not hear. For you hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue hath muttered perverseness. None calleth for justice, nor any pleadeth for truth; they trust in vanity, and speak lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.” See Isaiah 59: 2-4.
With such examples before us, while we deplore the condition of our country, let us not ignore the cause of these terrible calamities, but search for it diligently, and put it away, lest God,” “in his displeasure, shall take us away with his stroke; then a great ransom cannot deliver us.” See Job 36:18.
Boston, July 23, 1862. 
JUSTITIA.
MR. PILLSBURY AT MILFORD.
DEAR GARRISON, We anticipated a most excellence and impressive meeting last Sunday, and truly we were not disappointed. Seldom, if ever, have the people been more deeply impressed with the peril of the hour, than by the weighty words of Mr. Pillsbury. A large and attentive audience, filling Lyceum Hall, gave evidence that all is not stony ground. The echoing words of Jeremiah and Isaiah were sounded in solemn tones, and God's eternal law in the martial and moral world was made the basis of a searching analysis of the present trial-hour to our gustly nation. Oh, if the Government and Church would listen, and put away their infidelity; if, neglecting the tempest and whirlwind, they would hear the <illegible>“still, small voice, peradventure we might hope! But alas! is not the hour at hand when we must receive “double for our sins”? What shall save us from fiery judgment and God's scathing justice? Is there hope in such an hour, when “None calleth for justice-no, not one”? 
Any attempt to put on record the rebuke and warming of our veteran brother, who, “careworn and weary,” cries for the dumb in this hour of madness would be fruitless. His words are still ringing in the ear. God grant they may lodge in the heart! What is to be done? Ah, this is the question; and what shall be our answer? May we have grace to say, even in the face of martyrdom With Napoleon’s Old Guard, “We will die, but never surrender.” And blessed be God,
“Tis not all of life to live,
Nor all of death to die.” 
What is to be done? Thus, at the close of the evening lecture, answered Mr. Pillsbury:-“Hasten back to a recognition of your own manhood-of your divine origin and destiny. Believe yourselves to sacred to be shot down like dogs by Jeff. Davis and his myrmidons, and all in the cause of slavery! Die, rather, at home, in the arms of loving mothers and affectionate sisters. Nay, be shot down, if you m at home, and die like a Christian, and have a decernt burial, rather than go and die in the cause of a Union and Government based on slavery, which should never have been formed, and which are blistered all over with the curses of God for the wrongs, outrages and cruelties it has inflicted on millions of his poor children. Speak in tones of thunder to the Government, until it hear, and declares a policy and purpose of such a character as that, if you must die in battle it shall at least be in the cause of justice and liberty. 
How heaven-wide the difference here, contrasted with the following call-the latest types of Republican justice, even in theory, for a meeting to arouse the people to fill the decimated ranks!
“LOYAL MEN OF THE NORTH, AROUSE!” 
“The Union-loving men of Milford, who love the old Constitution bequeathed to us by the patriots of the Revolution, who love the old flag which was consecrated by the blood of our fathers, and who wish to hand down to posterity that Constitution inviolate and that flag unstained, are requested to meet at the Town Hall, Monday evening, July 14, at 8 o’ clock, to take such measures as are necessary to encourage the enlistment of men in defence of that Constitution and that flag.” 
What infatuation! How false even to our dead fathers, who in their day saw the evil, and desired to be delivered from it! Recreant sons! the bones of Jefferson and Washington, if they were not already decomposed, would rattle against their coffins in rebuke of such misguided and perfidious twaddle. A consecrated Constitution, which hurls into a hell of bondage the panting fugitive, and eternizes the, same! An unstained flag, that still waves in mockery over millions of bondmen! No; let us, if it be possible, redeem the Constitution and flag, and then we will make the welkin ring with our glad. Till then, no compromise, come life or death!
G. W. S.
Milford, (Mass.) July 14, 1862.
IS IT SO?
MR. GARRISON, Our local papers informed us, the other day, that among the speakers at a recent war meeting in Leicester was Rev. Mr. May; but as they did not inform us what he said, it was an open, and I think a fair supposition, that he, as an old and tried, Abolitionist, who had long labored under the standard of “No Union with Slaveholders,” “No support of or complicity with a pro-slavery Government,” spoke against any support of this Government, and to discourage enlistments. But I am grieved to learn from an authentic source, that he is actually using his influence to secure enlistments under the recent call of the President, affirming it to be the duty of every man who can to enlist, and that he would go himself, were he physically able. I am so astounded that I almost doubt whether this can be the same Samuel May, Jr., who has for so many years been the active and devoted General Agent of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies. The names and residences of the two are identical, but can it be possible that they are one and the same person! Can you, Mr. Garrison, tell me if it is so? I think that the members and friends of these Societies have a right and ought to be informed as to this position of their General Agent, if it is him. 
I know that we must take into consideration the fact, that the official representatives of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies did, for a year or more after the breaking out of the war, appear to give an unconditional support to the Government and I recollect that Mr. Edmund Quincy announced, at our meeting at Framingham a year ago last Fourth of July, that the Commander-in-Chief of the United States army had become the General Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society; but as this announcement of Mr. Quincy was supposed to be a facetious one, and as we were semi-officially informed by Mr. C. K Whipple in an important article in the Liberator of July 11 that our proved leaders had found their experimental support of the Government a failure, and abortive of any good results to the slave or the anti-slavery cause, and that therefore they must stop, I had supposed that they and their agents would now leave the active service of the Government, and return to the cause of the slave, which I think they had as 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
unwisely though unintentionally deserted. I am sorry that Mr. May has not returned.
Mr. May is said to wish the rebellion crushed, and that it can only be done by force. Alas! how deluded and mistaken! The North may take Richmond and Charleston, as it has New Orleans and Norfolk; it may possess the whole South land with its armies, and still leave the life of the rebellion untouched. Brute force may crush the rebels without establishing righteousness. In crushing wicked men, it may not harm wickedness. The North may, by brute force, utterly crush the South, and yet be nearer its own destruction than ever before., Taking Richmond is not the needful thing. Brute force does not do the work. RIGHTEOUSNESS alone can save us, if indeed it is not too late for any thing to do it. Let JUSTICE be done by the Government, and it does not need to take Richmond, it does not need its million of armed men; it can be saved by it, without them, if it can be saved at all. And if Mr. May could induce the Government to do the great justice that God and Suffering man demand of it, he might thenceforth forego his labors at recruiting men to die like dogs in the swamps and trenches, or by the shot of the South, in the unhallowed service of a President who but recently, with indecent haste reenslaved a million of General Hunter's freed men.
The Lord God of Hosts has a controversy with this nation. He is now punishing it for its sins; and shall we attempt to avert His just judgments, or raise men to defend it against the wrath of His avenging hand? Shall Mr. May, or you, or I, or any of us, who have for years pronounced the woes of God against this nation for its wickedness, now that they are being poured out on its unrepentant head, seek to raise our hands in a vain struggle against the march of God's eternal justice? Let us, repenting of our sins, lest we also perish in the great destruction, call on the nation to arise to RIGHTEOUSNESS and JUSTICEJ, lest haply it may not be too late for God to stay his stretched-out arm.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND.
Worcester, July 27, 1862.

IMPORTANT MEETING OF THE COLORED PEOPLE OF BOSTON.
Mr. George T. Downing being in Boston on Sunday, July 20th and having in possession some facts important to be communicated at once to the colored citizens, Rev. L. A. Grimes, on being apprised of the same, waived his usual evening service, and tendered the use of his pulpit, which arrangement was opportune, and seemed very satisfactory to the audience.
Dr. Rock being called upon by Mr. Downing, stated that during his recent visit to Washington, he had an interview with Hon. George W. Julian, who imparted to him the fact that certain influential colored men, connected with the Liberia Commission, had been of late quite active in endeavoring to impress members of Congress and others with the idea that the colored citizens of the United States have become favorably disposed towards Liberia colonization.
He (Dr. Rock) offset the assertion by numerous facts from his range of experience and observation, but wishing to have the statement in a form to be used, he subsequently obtained from Mr. Julian the following letter:—
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
WASHINGTON CITY, July l, 1862.
DEAR SIR—:-I have yours of 28th of June. In conversation with me, Mr. Johnson spoke first of the Contrabands turned adrift by the war, and said they should be sent out of the country, whether they are willing to go or not. He said they were mere children in capacity, and needed the control of the superior race, and ought to have it, whether they desired it or not.
I asked him if he would apply this policy to all the colored race of the country, North and South, bond and free. He said he would; that the race was inferior, incapable of taking care of itself, and that if they could not be persuaded to accept colonization, he would compel them to accept it. He said much more, but this is the substance of what he said.
Very truly, yours,
GEORGE W.JULIAN
Dr. Rock
The reading of this letter created quite a sensation, and the interest was increased by the address of Mr. Downing, which was a review of certain documents recently emanating from members of the Liberia Commission. It abounded with facts and arguments, ably and earnestly presented, and so impressed the meeting, that a unanimous vote of thanks was tendered the speaker, and a copy of his address solicited for publication, that the public might know the real state of feeling among the colored people in view of this new phase of Liberia Colonization.
The following were appointed a committee on publication: George T. Downing, Wm. Wells Brown, John S. Rock, Wm. C. Nell, Rev. Leonard L. Grimes.
As it was deemed necessary that this much of the proceedings should be immediately published, it is herewith respectfully submitted to the Liberator.
Boston, July 21, 1862. W. C. N.
ONE STEP FURTHER.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
 I admire the resolutions adopted in New York city by committees representing the Chamber of Commerce, Union Defence Committee, the Common Council, and other bodies, and also the article from the New York Commercial Advertiser, headed “The Rebellion and Slavery,” published in last Saturday’s Transcript. I like the resolutions, so far as they go, and hope those high-minded, patriotic and influential gentlemen will again exercise their combined influence in calling upon the President to proclaim the emancipation, not only of the slaves of rebels, but the immediate, unconditional and universal emancipation (under the war power) of all who are held as slaves throughout the length and breadth of this great Republic, which, had it not been for the blighting curse of slavery, might have flourished, and become the greatest, the wisest, and the happiest nation on the globe. This I would have them ask the President to do, as a matter of justice in the sight of God, both toward the slaves and their masters, even though it might, as a matter of expediency, not of justice, be thought best hereafter to compensate all loyal masters. The Commercial Advertiser says:—
"There would have been, there could have been, no rebellion had there been no slavery. It is the bane of our existence as a nation. It is the upas tree which, at the South, has almost killed democracy and love of free institutions, and whose shadow has fallen banefully upon the North also. It is our enemies’ strength and our weakness; and self-defence, the very life of our cherished government, demands that the blow be struck at the thing itself, as well as at those who have fostered it.”
The above quotation seems to imply the necessity of the total abolition of slavery in this country; and yet the writer seems to be strangely inconsistent, for he says, “We believe, in sadness, but in all earnestness, that the success of our war for the Union depends upon the President’s issuing a proclamation of emancipation to every slave who will leave the rebels, and come within our lines.” If “the success of our war” thus depends upon emancipation, why not proclaim universal emancipation, and thus secure justice to the slave, obedience to God, and salvation to our country? W.
Boston, July 29, 1862.

BROWNLOW'S UNIONISM.”
In the book of the pro-slavery “Unionist,” parson Brownlow, we find that, after all, the Unionism of that person “hung by a slender thread.” On the 69th page of “Brownlow’s Experiences among the Rebels,” he states his position as follows:—
"Should Lincoln be elected, and should he, for instance, recommend the abolition of the slave trade between the States, and Congress and the Supreme Court sustain him therein, I would take the ground, The time of revolution had come, AND I WOULD GO WITH THEM.”
What confidence or reliance can be placed on such Unionism as that?
Boston, July 25, 1862. G. W. S.
<c02>
PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT.
WASHINGTON, July 26. The President has issued the following Proclamation:
In pursuance of the 6th section of the act of Congress, entitled an act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, and to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes, approved July 17th, 1862, and which act and the joint resolution explanatory thereof are herewith published,
I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim and warn all persons within the contemplation of said 6th section to cease participating in aiding, countenancing or abetting the existing rebellion against the Government of the United States, and to return to their proper allegiance to the United States, on pain of the forfeitures and seizures as within and by said 6th section provided.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of July, in the year of our Lord 1862, and of the independence of the United States the 87th.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
WM. H. SEWARD, Sec. of State.
The importance of the President’s Proclamation will be seen by a brief reference to the act under which the manifesto is issued:-
Sec. 1 enacts that every person who shall hereafter commit the crime of treason against the United States, and shall be adjudged guilty thereof, shall suffer death, and all his slaves, if any, shall be declared and made free; or he shall be imprisoned for not less than five years and fined not less than $10,000, and all his slaves, if any, shall be declared and made free; said fine shall be levied and collected on any or all of the property, real and personal, excluding slaves, of which the said person so convicted was the owner at the time of committing the said crime, any sale or conveyance to the contrary notwithstanding.
Sec. 2 refers to persons instigating rebellion hereafter.
Sec. 3 disqualifies rebels from hereafter holding office in the United States.
Sec. 4 alludes to individuals charged with treason before the act.
Sec. 5 makes it the duty of the President to seize all the estates and property of persons holding certain specified offices in the Confederate States.
Sec. 6 And be it further enacted, That if any person within any State or Territory of the United States, other than those named as aforesaid, after the passage of this act, being engaged in armed rebellion against the Government of the United States, or aiding or abetting such rebellion, shall not, within sixty days after public warning and proclamation duly given and made by the President of the United States, cease to aid, countenance and abet such rebellion, and return to his allegiance to the United States, all the estate and property, moneys, stocks and credits of such persons shall be liable to seizure as aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the President to seize and use them as aforesaid, or the proceeds thereof. And all sales, transfers or conveyances of any such property after the expiration of said sixty days from the date of such warning and proclamation shall be null and void: and it shall be a sufficient bar to any suit brought by such person for the possession of the use of such property, or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one of the persons described in this section.

THE REBELLION AND SLAVERY.
The New York Commercial Advertiser advocates the following described method of dealing with the Southern conspiracy to destroy the nation:—
"In other words, the origin, intent and animus of this rebellion proclaim unmistakably that the slaveholders have reached a point of apostacy from the principles of democracy which is radical in its character; that slavery and its essentially despotic and anti-democratic influences have so far undermined the Union, and do of necessity so corrode and destroy its foundations, that the only safety of the Union lies in the utter eradication of the thing itself. There would have been, there could have been, no rebellion had there been no slavery. This may not be a war for the extension of slavery, but it is a war for the exaltation of slavery over popular liberty, and for the establishment on this continent of that form of class government and aristocratic despotism which are the legitimate and inevitable fruits of the existence of slavery. It is, therefore, while a war of classes, also a war of classes for a cardinal principle—on the part of the rebels, for a mode of government more congenial to their institutions and tastes, and on our part, for the maintenance of a form of government unqualifiedly democratic and free; on their part, to wrest from the Union as much territory and other property as shall give them territorial status among nations, and on our part, to maintain the integrity of that territory.
"The course of events during the war must satisfy any man that this institution of slavery, has been for years so nursed at the South as to become really an element of strength in this rebellion against free institutions. It supplies these aristocratic insurgents with labor in the trenches and on the plantations, by which it directly ministers to the strength of the foul revolt, and it has to an alarming extent weakened the courage and perplexed the purposes of the Federal Government. It is the bane of our existence as a nation. It is the upas tree which at the South has almost killed democracy and love for free institutions, and whose shadow has fallen banefully upon the North also. It is our enemies’ strength and our weakness; and self-defence, the very life of our cherished government, demands that a blow be struck at the thing itself as well as those who have fostered it. We believe, in sadness but in all earnestness, that the success of our war for the Union depends upon the President's issuing a proclamation of emancipation to every slave who will leave the rebels, and come within our lines. We shall continue to fight against fearful odds until this is done. Congress has seen the necessity for and has urged such a measure, and the country will be sadly disappointed and sorely discourged if the President lacks the courage to take this absolutely necessary step.
"There are those who will raise the cry of abolition over such declarations. That matters little. Our platform is Emancipation before Disunion, and any man who cannot stand thereon must at heart be a sympathizer with rebellion and secession. Events, though it may not be generally known, say clearly that this issue is at hand, and we unhesitatingly put ourselves on the side of emancipation. What honest and true patriot would do otherwise? We trust that the President will not unnecessarily lose a day in hurling this weapon at the rebels.”
RESOLUTIONS OF THE NEW YORK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, &c.
 The resolutions recently adopted by the combined committees of New York citizens, on the subject of the prosecution of the war, are of remarkable significance at the present time. They are the deliberate utterance of men hitherto connected with all political parties, and now representing five different associations. We copy all but the first two resolutions, as follows:—
"Resolved, That the time has fully come when we must strike for our national life, using every weapon God has given us, and calling to our aid every person who can be drawn from the rebels or added to our cause. That a proclamation of the Commander-in-Chief, declaring the provisions of the recent law of Congress to be the sentiments of the Government, and that they will be enforced, would secure to the Union cause thousands of laborers, thousands of fighting men, and millions of cooperating well-wishers. That the welfare of our country, the lives of loyal soldiers, and the happiness of loyal families all over the free States, demand the proclamation.
Resolved, That every day's delay complicates our relations, both foreign and domestic, gives the rebels strength, and is wasting hundreds of good and true men; and it is far better that every rebel should perish than that one more loyal soldier should die.
And therefore it is that we, with entire unanimity, most respectfully and most earnestly call upon the President to act in his capacity as Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy of the United States, and Immediately issue the order which will take from the rebels their great source of strength, while it will diminish their army by calling to the defence of their homes large numbers of rebel officers and men. And we assure the President that in this, as in every act of his administration, the people of the free States will sustain the policy, while the whole civilized world will applaud the proclamation of emancipation.”
The sentiments thus put forth come from such men as Mayor Opdyke, Hamilton Fish, A. T. Stewart, John A. Stevens, P. M. Wetmore, Robert B. Minturn, Jonathan Sturges, G. W. Blunt, Simeon Draper, Moses H. Grinnell, Robert H. McCurdy, William Curtis Noyes, William Orton, James W. White, Francis Lieber, David Dudley Field, William F. Havemeyer, R. M. Blatchford, and other representatives of the wealth, enterprise, intellect and virtue of the city of New York. It is certainly an important demonstration, and is entitled to the profoundest consideration of the Government and of the loyal community at large.—Boston Journal.

HANGING UNION MEN IN GALVESTON. The Charleston Courier states that an order has been promulgated in Galveston, Texas, ordering everv family to leave the city, as it was to be defended to the last. Several families not having complied with the order, their homes were searched, and the Stars and Stripes discovered; it having been intended to hang them out in case of the capture of the city. The Courier says:—” All those guilty of this treason were taken out, and immediately hung.”
<c03>
A REBEL PROCLAMATION.
The rebel Johnson has issued a proclamation from Henderson, on the Kentucky side of the river, where his headquarters were, and from whence his men went round in small squads plundering and stealing all they could lay their hands upon. The following is a copy of this characteristic document:—
"Citizens of Kentucky: It has gone forth to the world that you are a subjugated people—that the iron heel of despotism has destroyed all spirit of resistance, and crushed out the last spark of patriotism. This idea has gone through the North, and they look upon you with contempt, and send their hirelings to rule over you. It has crossed the Atlantic, and the eyes of Europe have been looking at the position of Kentucky with wonder and astonishment. Down in the sunny South, among those who ought to be your brothers, you have become a byeword and a scoff. The Kentucky army have turned their anxious eyes to their native State, and at each new outrage would listen for the tocsin of war; but they have listened and hoped against hope until the last ray has expired. 
The Confederate Cabinet and Congress have looked for some movement indicating a desire for freedom; but they have looked in vain, and think Kentucky lost.
But there is one man who has never despaired. That man is John C. Breckinridge, the hero, the statesman, and the patriot. With the same never-despairing love that a mother bears to her offspring, does he regard Kentucky-with the same anxious care has he watched her. He has asked his government and the world to suspend public opinion until his State should have one more opportunity to redeem her character; and now, citizens of Kentucky, this opportunity has presented itself, and for the sake of your former fame and glory-for your country-for your liberties, which ought to be dearer to you than life itself-come to the field. Rally to your country’s call. Rise in your majesty, and drive from your midst this monster of oppression.
Then prepare now to meet the enemy; send the young men to the field; let them retrieve the character of this once proud and noble State. Circulate through the country that the Confederate government does not war against the citizens of the country. Can you, with the example set by the people of the South, tamely submit? They have, with heroic devotion, applied the torch to their property, and, with unparalleled unanimity, have they battled for their country. Will you not risk as much as they to achieve your freedom and independence? “
APPEAL FROM THE REBEL MORGAN.
John Morgan, the guerilla leader, who is now making a foray in Kentucky, has issued the following proclamation:—
"GLASGOW, July 10,1862.
"Kentuckians: I am once more among you. Confiding in your patriotism and strong attachment to our Southern cause, I have at the head of my gallant band raised once more our Confederate flag, so long trampled upon by the Northern tyrants, but never yet disgraced. Let every true patriot respond to ray appeal.
Rise and arm! Fight against the despoiler! Fight for your families! your homes! for those you love best! for your conscience! and for the free exercise of your political rights, never again to be placed in jeopardy by the Hessian invader. Let the stirring scene of the late Richmond fight be constantly before you. Our brave army there and everywhere is victorious. McClellan and his foreign hordes are grovelling in the dust.
Our independence is an achieved fact. We have bought it with privation and suffering, and sealed the compact with the seal of blood. Be not timorous, but rise, one and all, for the good cause, to clear our dear Kentucky's soil of its detested invaders.
Kentuckians! fellow-countrymen! you know you can rely upon me. 
JOHN MORGAN,
Acting Brigadier General C. S. A.”
SECESSIONISTS IN CHICAGO.
The Chicago Tribune declares that secessionists are abundant in that city. It says:—
"There are secessionists in our schools, in our churches, in almost every civic organization of Chicago. There is scarcely a hotel in the city which does not contain them. You will find them in every drinking saloon, and in some of these latter holes it is fairly unsafe to proclaim yourself an unconditional Union man. You can find them upon street corners. It was not an insignificant boast, nor an unfrequent one, made yesterday at the corner of Clark and Randolph streets, that ‘By -, Jeff. Davis will be up here pretty soon, and he will fix things all right.’
It is not unknown to everybody that a law office in this city is in the confidence of the Confederate government, and that it received funds to pay out to Confederate surgeons at camp Douglas. It may be a matter of news to many, but not to all, that regular meetings of secessionists are held in this city, at which most treasonable sentiments are uttered, and at their festive orgies health to Jefferson Davis and his crew are drunk, sometimes with so much enthusiasm as to be audible to parties in the street.”

IMPORTANT ORDER OF GENERAL POPE.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF VIRGINIA, HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF VIRGINIA, 
Washington, July 25.
Order No. 13.
Hereafter, no guards will be placed over private houses or private property of any description whatever. Commanding officers are responsible for the conduct of the troops under their command, and the articles of war and the regulations of the army provide ample means for restraining them to the full extent required for discipline and efficiency. Soldiers were called into the field to do battle against the enemy, and it is not expected that their force and energy shall be wasted in protecting the private property of those most hostile to the Government. No soldier serving in this army shall be hereafter employed in such service.
By command of Major General Pope,
GEORGE D. RUSSELL, Chief of Staff.
GENERAL PHELPS. There appears to be a prospect of our losing General Phelps from this Department. The General was ordered down here at the express request of General Butler, and I learn from good authority that through the same influence he will probably be ordered back.
The General is the finest soldier in this Division, understands his duty and does it, and requires all under him to do theirs, and he is beloved by all, officers and men. Unfortunately, the views he acquired at home in Vermont of the "peculiar" are not such as are adapted to this climate, for down here we all believe in the inalienable right of every white man to do as he pleases, and of every nigger to do as he is told. It is evident, therefore, that he has no business here; for a man like him, who has been known to furnish shelter and protection to a hunted and shivering fugitive even, cannot be expected to exercise that soothing influence over our misguided Southern friends as can one who comes here determined to please at all hazards.
Indeed, the effect is pernicious, for it goes far to neutralize the efforts of those differently and more agreeably disposed, and to mar the beautiful harmony of those relations which have been attained only at such an expense of comfort and backbone. Let his fate be a warning to all other brigadiers. Remember, if you would win credit at home and glory abroad, the good old scriptural maxim, "Love your enemies,” and do as they would have you!-New Orleans correspondent Boston Traveller.

RECRUITING IN KANSAS. The Washington correspondent of the New York World says a most important commission has been entrusted to Senator Lane:
"Senator Lane, of Kansas, has received a most important commission, viz.: to go to Kansas and recruit troops under laws just passed. He will leave on Saturday for that purpose. His instructions from the President and Secretary of War enable him to receive all men into the service who are loyal, without reference to color, and he will widely proclaim that fact in his order. He anticipates raising one or two regiments of blacks, and one of white men in two weeks after reaching home. Special authority has been given him to draw on the quartermasters and commissaries for arms, clothing and subsistence, and while he will not accept a generalship from the President because of its interference with his senatorial seat, he may accept a commission from the Governor of Kansas, and promptly enter the field at the head of his brigade. The orders of the President and Secretary of War are explicit as to the facts I have stated, and for the latter there is no question of authority.”

BLOODHOUNDS IN THE REBEL SERVICE. The "Chivalry " have discovered a new method of war-fare, which we commend to the “treat-them-tenderly” patriots, who are afraid that our armies will aggravate the people of the South to the extent, possibly, of making them mad. We refer to the use of bloodhounds for chasing down loyal soldiers. An instance of the employment of these animals, for the purpose named, is related in an extract of a letter in the Bloomington, (III.) Pantagraph. We can imagine the savage glee with which the rebel cavalry-brave and chivalrous sons of the South-looked on and saw our boys (who were attacked while in a railroad car, and getting out, fled before superior numbers) torn by the four-legged brutes which went baying on their track. —Chicago Tribune.
NASHVILLE, July 17. Lebanon, Tenn., is in possession of the rebels. A force of rebels 800 strong are at Hartsville. Dr. Rice, Benj. Daniels and John Barnes, respectable citizens, were hung last night at Tennessee Ridge, 28 miles from Nashville, for entertaining men employed in reconstructing the telegraph lines.
<c04>
THE GOLDEN HOUR. By Moncure D. Conway, author of “The Rejected Stone.” "Impera parendo.” Boston: Ticknor & Fields.
No American writer has discussed the present aspect of the great political questions upon which hinge the present rebellion with so much eloquence, vigor and brilliancy as the author of this volume. He is thoroughly radical in his ideas. Slavery to him is solely responsible for the war, and our only way out of it consists in striking slavery dead. The Golden Hour is the present one, and if we decline to avail ourselves of it now, by freeing every bondman, we bring upon ourselves the wrath of God, and hazard the ruin of the nation.
So much for the idea of the book. Its execution is surpassingly brilliant. It is eloquent as few books ever are. There is wonderful vigor and beauty in its style. In felicity of illustration and suggestion, in power to send home the idea to be enforced, it is unrivalled. The author goes to the heart of his subject with an energy which is electric, and a vigor which amounts almost to an inspiration. We do not mean by this that he always commands assent to his positions. Many loyal men will be slow to acquiesce in these. They are radical and bold beyond what the public are now prepared to accept. But the germ of truth is in them all, and we are day by day becoming educated up to their acceptance. As stated by Mr. Conway, no one will deny that they are much easier dissented from than answered.-Roxbury Journal.
A correspondent of the Cincinnati Commercial, writing from Washington, under date of July 17, says:—" Rev. M. D. Conway, of Cincinnati, is here, providing for the welfare of his father’s slaves, 29 in number, who, by the fortunes of war, have escaped from Fredericksburg, and are among the contrabands in charge of the Government. He designs removing them to a country town in Ohio, where they may have a chance to improve their condition and take care of themselves. Mr. Conway, senior, is a leading rebel of Fredericksburg. This is one of the multitude of curious incidents which the war constantly brings to light.”
Mr. Van Buren, eighth President of the United States, died on the 24th ult. Had he lived to Dec. 5, he would have completed his 80th year. He had held the offices of New York State Senator, Attorney-General, U. S. Senator, Governor of New York, U. S. Secretary of State, Minister to England, Vice President, and President. He had much to do with bringing the civil war upon the country which now afflicts it; for he was one of the most subservient of men to the slaveholders, and when they would not help him further, he turned Free-Soiler, and made as much mischief as he could in the other direction. To prevent any one from supposing that he was honest in joining the Free-Soilers, he returned to his proslavery place as soon as he had succeeded in bringing about the defeat of General Cass, in 1848. His position as a national statesman was made for him by the folly of the opposition Senators in 1832, who procured his rejection when he was nominated Minister to England. Had he been allowed to fill that office, he would have faded away, as have a dozen other men who have filled it, and who were as able as he was; but persecution made him, first Vice President, and then President of the United States.-Boston Traveller.
According to the rebel paper published at Wilmington, N. C., the rebels had 152 regiments engaged in the late series of battles near Richmond. Estimating each regiment at 500,-some probably had more than that number, and others less,-the total of their force was 76,000 men, or say 80,000. Supposing them to have had 40,000 men in reserve, they had an army 120,000 in hand. If we suppose their numbers engaged to have been 90,000, still they were not superior to the federal army, which ought to have been 98,000 strong, after allowing 60,000 men lost by death, desertion, wounds, sickness, and furloughs-say 20,000 for the last named cause of decline. The more we hear of the details of the Richmond battles, the less satisfactory does the generalship of the federal commander appear.-Ibid.
The President says that he can’t tell what has become of many of the men who composed the army of the Potomac. Only half of them are now in condition to be accounted for, while in the armies of Buell, Burnside, Mitchell, and other Generals, every man is accounted for. They appear to be gone, but whither, "no one knows, nor can tell.” Has the army of the Potomac really become an army of ghosts, of shadows, of shades?-Ibid.
The black regiment at Port Royal is very highly spoken of by those who have witnessed its drill. If we had a hundred such regiments, the enemy would be in a worse way than they are, or are likely soon to be.-Ibid.

ASSASSINATION OF UNION MEN IN VIRGINIA. A correspondent mentions in a letter to a New York paper, seven cases of the murder of Union men in the vicinity of Front Royal, Virginia. John F. Haynes, aged 62, and a Mr. Bealer, Union residents of Page county, were assassinated the present month by rebel guerillas, for no crime save their loyalty. Their bodies were left unburied for a week. Absalom Clem, a Union farmer near the Luray Valley, was killed on his own property by a company of rebel troops. His remains, pierced with six bullets, were found soon after. An individual named Ridenour was murdered for going to Woodstock to buy salt, the rebels accusing him of communicating with the Yankees, and dragging him to the place of execution from the bosom of his family. In one county seven such cases of the murder of non-combatants have been noted during the month of July.

THE CONFISCATION BILL IMPERFECT. It is stated here, on good authority, that an important mistake has been committed by the persons who drew up the Confiscation and Emancipation bill, inasmuch as it contains no section providing for the due enforcement of the provisions relating to emancipation. In general terms, the slaves of rebel masters are declared free, but it does not authorize any one to decide upon the question, except in cases where an attempt is made to recover the slave in the courts. But the black man in the neighborhood of slaveholders and plantations needs something to show that he is entitled to his freedom.-Washington cor. N. Y. Post.
THE LATE ANTI-NEGRO RIOTS IN THE WEST. The Cincinnati Times says the late negro riots in that city are supposed to have been part of a concerted plan to bring about excitement for political effect, and that there are men who allege that they were a part of the secret programme of the great "conservative" movement inaugurated recently in New York. The outbreak had all the appearance of having been produced by outside influences. The Toledo Commercial also says the same, declaring that there are positive evidences that the riots there were the result of concerted movements, originating in New York, and incited by emissaries dispatched simultaneously to the different cities. It is understood that of a party of four which left New York for this purpose, one remained in Toledo, another went to Cincinnati by the Dayton and Michigan road, and another proceeded to Chicago. This will account for the order and time in which the riots in the several cities occurred.
The New York Times thinks the campaign is going ahead; that McClellan is in all respects the master of the situation. He will move shortly, and move surely; so shortly and surely that it need be no matter of surprise if the anniversary of Bull Run find our army in the rebel capital.
Will there never be an end of this preliminary puffing and bragging? Certainly, if ever a people had lessons of caution and self-restraint in this respect, it is the American people with reference to this very matter of the capture of Richmond. If Richmond could have been destroyed by a constant stream of brags and threats, as Jericho was by the blowing of ram's horns, we should have had possession of it long ago. Let us try the novelty next time of taking it first, and bragging afterwards.—Salem Mercury.

THE CAPTURE OF CYNTHIANA, KY. The Cincinnati Times has a detailed account of the capture of Cynthiana, Ky., by Morgan and his band of guerillas. The place was held by 800 soldiers, composed of home guards belonging in Cynthiana and neighboring towns, under command of Lieut. Col. Landman. Morgan attacked the place with 1200 men, and after a desperate fight of two hours, the Union troops were obliged to run, having sustained a loss of 60 to 70 killed and wounded. The rebel loss is estimated at 90.
After gaining possession of the place, the rebels behaved in the usual manner, seizing every article they needed belonging to Union men. Houses were entered, stables were robbed, bureau drawers were opened, and for two hours the city was filled with robbers. The next day the railroad depot was burned, and also several bridges.
EVACUATION OF EDISTO ISLAND. A letter from a missionary at Port Royal, S. C., says:—
"It has been decided to abandon Edisto Island. Consequently, the negroes have been humanely removed to St. Helena Island, where they will be protected from the incursions of the rebels. They were removed en masse. Nearly one thousand came here at one time on one of our smaller steamboats. The scene was heart-rending. They were literally stowed on the deck and between decks. It was a shadow of the middle passage. And yet how far short of the reality! Several births occurred during the trip. We trust the little strangers were 'free born.’“
<c05>
From the Richmond Examiner, 21st ult.
THE DYING MONSTER.
Our foe is more than ever embarrassed by the magnitude of the attempt to crush the rebellion. He is in a cul de sac-a blind alley, and cannot see his way out. Our recognition by Europe will no doubt come to increase his confusion and his difficulties. Coerced recruits may fill skeleton regiments-Lincoln may boast and bluster, and Seward lie and spin his artful webs-the satraps who emulate Butler and Slack may essay to crush the spirit of a few communities by cruelty and brutality, but it will be all in vain. These things cannot mend the dislocated vertebrae of the most hideous monster that ever shocked mankind. It is for us, by our energy and bravery, by our constancy and vigilance, to complete his destruction now so plainly foreshadowed in the signs of the times. A consummation so glorious, so beneficial to humanity, is worth our most powerful exertions. Government nor people should pause, rest or sleep, until this great work is done.

REBEL RAID AT FLORENCE, ALA.-Cairo, Ill., July 26th. The steamer Evansville, from the Tennessee river, brings the news of a rebel raid at Florence, Alabama, on Tuesday last. They entered the city, and burned all the warehouses used for commissary and quartermasters’ stores, and all the cotton in the vicinity. They also seized the U. S. steamer Coloma, used for carrying army supplies over the shoals. They took all the money belonging to the boat and passengers, and then burnt her. The property destroyed is reported to be of great value. A small detachment of Gen. Mitchell’s army was captured. The rebels then proceeded down the Tennessee river to Chickasaw, Waterloo, and the vicinity of Eastport, and burned all the warehouses which contained cotton.
Another band of forty rebels attacked a wagon train near Pittsburg Landing, and captured sixty wagons conveying commissary and quartermasters’ stores.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., July 27. The 10th Ohio regiment, guarding the Memphis and Charleston Railroad between Decatur and Cortland, were attacked yesterday by a large force of guerillas under Stearns and Howard. Thirty or forty of the regiment are said to have been killed. The road was considerably damaged, but not so much so as to cut off communication.
Advices from Tuscumbia state that 6000 bales of cotton have been burnt by guerillas in that neighborhood within ten days.
It is further stated that the rebels in the cotton-burning districts first sell, and get gold from Union men and their agents, and then destroy the property thus paid for.
Last Friday night, a party of rebels made a dash across the James, just above Harrison’s Landing, burnt a schooner, captured the captain, and drove off 500 beef cattle belonging to the army of the Potomac. Somebody on our side must have been very sleepy that night.
A special despatch to the Chicago Times from Cairo, dated July 28, says that the rebels have taken possession of Humboldt, and now hold the Mobile and Ohio Railroad there. They have torn up the track for five miles.
How the Government protects loyal men is aptly illustrated by advices from Fortress Monroe, which say that on Thursday night a company of Rebel cavalry came down on Gloucester Point, opposite Yorktown, carried off a lot of contrabands, and forced into the Rebel army all the inhabitants found there capable of bearing arms. They then set fire to a lot of ship-timber, and, with their trophies, took their departure.
We hear from various sections that men would willingly enlist to fight, if they could be assured against "ditching” in the service. They should have that assurance, with ample security, for Gen. McClellan told the army of the Potomac, after a curiosity hunter from Massachusetts had taken Manassas, that he would lead them to "the decisive battlefield,” which he didn’t.-Boston Herald.
NEWS WANTED FOR EUROPE. A reader of the Independent, who has just set sail for Europe, sends us a note concerning his paper, and adds:—"Forward me speedy news, as follows: 
Richmond-ours.
The Rebellion—the Devil’s.
The Country-the Lord’s.
Slavery-nowhere!”
We lay upon Gen. McClellan the first; the second, upon President Lincoln; the third, upon the Christian church and all holy ministers; and the last upon President, generals, ministers, and all citizens together.-N. Y. Independent.
The rebel officers talk as if an aggressive policy is meant by their "Government.” One of them hinted at the destruction of Washington as one of their chief purposes, remarking, "The Northerners do not know what war is. You have not had any cities destroyed, but in a little while there will be one of your cities burned up.”
A letter from an officer of the army in Tennessee relates an anecdote of a woman who is carrying on a plantation, in the absence of her husbands and brothers in the Confederate army. She drove our men out of her yard with a broomstick, because they wanted to purchase milk; said she <illegible> she was a man, she would be in the army, too; she would sell or give any thing for the South, but would not sell a thing to the Yankees, who had no business there.
We have heard much of the "loyalty“ of North Carolinians, yet there were thirty-eight regiments of these same loyalists in the Confederate army that fought the late battles near Richmond,-say 19,000 men. How many North Carolinians are there in the Federal service? We only know of Gov. Stanley, and much good he has done us!-Traveller.
Gen. Pope seems to give the rebels great distress of mind, which finds relief in blackguarding and ridiculing the General and his orders. They denounce him as worse than a savage because he will not allow a horde of treacherous neutrals, who are in almost every instance spies for Jeff. Davis, to remain within his lines.
A correspondent of the New York Express, at Norfolk, thus describes the “situation” with regard to slavery in that vicinity:—
"Slavery is abolishing itself. The negroes are coming in-sometimes fifty a day-leaving the crops ungathered. General Viele is run down with women pleading for their runaway negroes. One delicate lady showed him her hands, burnt with work, to which they were unaccustomed, as all the negroes had left her, with no other resource. He kindly and courteously tells them that the South has abrogated the civil laws, and military laws know no difference of color. This settles the question. It is the simplest solution I have yet seen. Jeff. Davis is responsible for the consequences to them, as individuals.”
Steps are being taken to bring loyal blacks by the hundred from the Valley of the Shenandoah within the lines of Gen. Sigel. To what military purposes they are to be devoted is not known.
The Nashville Union thus speaks of the Vallandigham Democratic Address:—
"The Union men of the South regard it as the production of a pack of traitors. They detest both the Address and its author.”
Yet there are Locofocos at the North, stoutly professing to be Union men, who endorse that Address.
A number of the Oberlin students who were members of the 7th Ohio regiment, and were taken prisoners at Cross Lanes last summer, have been released, and have arrived home. They were taken to Richmond, and were treated in the most brutal and inhuman manner.
A New Orleans correspondent of the New York Times states that the engineer of the "cut off,” by which Vicksburg was to have been made an inland city, told him that the negroes employed in the work mostly belonged to Jeff. Davis, his brother and a Dr. Metcalf.
CAPTURE OF ANOTHER SLAVER. A letter from the coast of Africa states that an English cruiser lately captured there a slaver, with five hundred slaves on board. Her nationality is unknown.
ARRIVAL OF A COLONY OF CONTRABANDS IN HAYTI. Letters from Cayes, Hayti, received in this city, announce the arrival there of a colony of contrabands from Washington. The Acting American Consul writes that the contrabands were in good health and excellent spirits; that they had been already located, and, as far as he could learn, the emigrants and the parties with whom they are located, are perfectly satisfied with each other. Boston Traveller.
CALAIS, (Me.) July 29.-The office of the St Croix Herald, in St. Stephens, N. B., was again visited by a mob last night. The work of destruction this time is nearly complete. Most of the type is pied, the press injured, and much of the material scattered outside of the building and thrown into the river. The causes are doubtless the same as induced the former outrage. The publication of the paper is unavoldaby delayed for several weeks. The Herald is a strong Union paper, perhaps the only one in New Brunswick. Its opposition to secessionism has brought the wrath of the Provincials down upon it
 HORRIBLE. An insane mother in the upper part of Canada lately murdered her seven children in their beds.
<c06>
For the Liberator.
A NEW ARMY.
“Men! men! men! they cry;
"Men, more men! they shout o'er the land;
"Come, nor linger to ask us why;
Come, for we falter; come, for we die;
Come with your life in your hand!”
Ah, how blind! they starve at the feast,
They freeze in the sunshine, they thirst by the brook;
They turn to the North, they turn to the East,
They turn again to the distant West;
They know not where to look!
I know a man, and his arm is strong,
His blood is red, though his face is black;
He is flesh has quivered beneath the thong,
His soul has sunk ’neath a crushing wrong;
He waits to give it back!
I know a man, and his heart is true,
His sinews are steel, though dark is his skin;
His wife was killed by a dastard crew,
His brother lies dead with his heart shot through:
He says, "Shall I begin?”
"Men! men! men!" do you cry?
"Men! more men!" Look down from your seat!
See millions of loyal hearts ready to fly
To the front of your army to conquer or die!
Scorn them, and merit defeat!
POWDER MILL EXPLOSION.
Our citizens were somewhat startled, on Wednesday afternoon, by three distinct discharges, as if caused by the firing of a heavy piece of ordnance, the cause being, the blowing up of five buildings,-partly composing Hazard's powder works, at Hazardville, Ct. There were eight lives lost, and their remains were so mutilated that their families could not recognisethem, except one, who was bathing in the basement. He was found dead, though apparently uninjured. The first explosion occurred in a press building; and the cause of it will never be known, as all the men in it were instantly killed. The second explosion was of another press building; the third, fourth and fifth explosions were in cracker the or corning mills, and came so near together as to sound like one report. The loss in property is not very serious, the cartridge works being left uninjured. The company has some seventy-five buildings left, including duplicates of all those destroyed.
One human foot, blown a quarter of a mile, was all that could be found of the six men in the press building where the first explosion occurred. All the dead men save one leave dependent families. It is said that ten tons of powder, worth $3000, exploded in all the mills. The cartridge factory was about a mile from the exploding buildings, but the side was blown off, the roof lifted and displaced, and the inmates badly frightened. The windows in the Hazardville church are ruined. Nearly every house in the village has some token of the dreadful disaster; some have the sides torn down, others have lost portions of the roof, scarcely a whole window pane is to be seen, and a majority of the chimneys are prostrate. Trees were torn off near the ground, or stripped of their limbs, fences swept away, and acres of "mowing” land looked as if heavy rollers had passed over the grass. -Northampton Free Press.
ARE YOU INSURED? Scarcely a day passes in which the pertinence of this question is not impressed upon us, and it is a source of gratification that we can point to so many excellent and time-honored companies either established in this city or represented here. We desire to call particular attention to the excellent agency of Messrs. Dobson & Jordan, 46 State street. To all about effecting either life, fire or marine insurance, this firm offers peculiar facilities from the fact that they represent only companies accepted as first class in every respect, and whose reputations for prompt payments and fair dealing are proverbial. Of the Life Companies, the Mutual Benefit of Newark, N. J., claims a high stand, and shows a record of marked prosperity. The advice which Messrs D. & J. are enabled to give to all concerned by means of their experience and extended business connections is inestimable, while their perfect system enables them to assume the insurance of millions of property in different offices with comparatively little trouble to the party interested. To all about about effecting insurance on buildings, ships,-and in effecting marine insurance this firm has special advantages,-or life, a consultation at their office must result in a better understanding of their plan of business, which is all the inducement that need be offered to those desiring insurance of any kind-Boston Daily Advertiser.
NEW BEDFORD.-WM. WELLS BROWN will deliver an address at the Salem Church, New Bedford, on Sunday evening, August 3.
Subject-Emancipation the only hope of saving the Republic.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will lecture upon Slavery, the War, and Emancipation, at Stoneham, Sunday, Aug. 3.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at East Princeton, Sunday, Aug. 3d, at 10 1-2, A. M., and 1, P. M.
ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION FOR WORCESTER COUNTY.-There will be a Mase Convention of the friends of Freedom, to consider the momentous issues of the present hour, in Leominster, on Sunday, the l0th of August, to continue through the day and evening. Further particulars next week.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
MARY WATERS (formerly a slave) is well recommended as being capable, intelligent and deserving. She desires employment in washing and ironing, house-cleaning, &c., and does other housework, satisfactorily. Any who will give her work will be conferring a kindness, as her regular employers are out of town, and she is very destitute, being left with four small children. she resides at 29 Anderson Street, formerly West Centre, Boston.
MARRIED-In this city, July 29, at the Joy Street Church, by, Rev. J. Sella Martin, Mr. THOMASTHOMAS M. WATERMAN TO MISS EVELYN E. WRIGHT.
WATERMAN TO MISS EVELYN E. WRIGHT.
DIED-In this city, July 15, Mr. THOMAS H. SMITH, aged 53.
Bristol Boarding-School 
FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located in the borough of Bristol, Pa., on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia.
While the situation is pleasant and healthful, it is unsurpassed in convenience of access, having frequent communication with Philadelphia by steamboat, and with that city and New York by railroad, which passes through the town.
The Course of Instruction comprises the usual branches of a good English Education, including History, Natural Philosophy, Physiology, Botany, Algebra, &c. &c.
The School Year is divided into two Sessions of five months each, commencing the first Second-day of the Ninth, and the first Second-day of the Second month. The School is vacated during the "Christmas Holidays.”
TERMS:
For Tuition, Board and Washing, per Session, $75.
French, 10.
Drawing, 6.
Tuition of Day Scholars, 15.
Payments one-half at the commencement, and the remainder at the middle of the Session.
For Circulars, and further information, apply to RUTH ANNA PEIRCE, PRINCIPAL. Bristol, (Pa.) August 1, 1862.
Representative Women.
Lucretia Mott. Maria Weston Chapman,
Abby Kelley Foster, Lydia Maria Child,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Lucy Stone, 
Antoinette L. Brown.
THOSE friends who have so long been <illegible> copies of the above group,-executed in Groseler's best style,-can now be supplied, by sending their orders, enclosing one dollar for each copy, which will ensure their being promptly mailed, and in perfect condition.
An early application is necessary, as the edition is very limited.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A few copies of the original Groselier lithograph of William Lloyd Garrison. Price, including mailing $1.
WILLIAM C. NELL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St., Boston. June 6.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
poetry.
AMERICAN SLAVERY-THE PROPHECY
BY MRS. HENRIETTA WELLINGTONE BOATE.
You tell me of a bright land far over the sea,*
But ah! can you call it the land of the free?
Where the image of God, for a handful of gold,
Like a beast of the field, in the marketris sold—
Where the child from the mother’s fond bosom is torn—
Where the father is chained, leaving orphans forlorn—
Where the maiden is bartered like merchandise ware,
Then doomed to the lash and the groan of despair!
Woe! woe to thee, fair land, far over the main!
For the canker of death—dark Slavery's stain—
Shall gnaw to thy vitals, while every sigh,
From the victims who writhe, mounts for justice on high.
And He, the great lord of the universe wide,
Shall smite thee to earth in thy strength and thy pride;
For vengeance must fall for foul cruelties done
On the beings redeemed by His own beloved Son!
The sound of the war-drum shall thrill thee at night,
As thy sons and thy brothers are borne to the fight;
The slave and the cotton shall stab thee with pain,
And the North and the South be divided in twain—
And brother against brother shall strike in the fight,
And battles be fought in the dead of the night,
And the white maid and widow in sorrow shall mourn,
And the flag of thy freedom in tatters be torn.

The North in her might like a whirlwind shall rise,
And the notes of the cannon be borne to the skies;
And though the warm blood of her heroes be shed,
The light of her Freedom shall never be dead;
The Stars and the Stripes an Excelsior shall be,
Proud Liberty’s banner by land and by sea;
And the Union, though spurned by the slaveholders’ scorn,
Shall be guarded by Northmen for ages unborn.
*These lines were written in Europe, several years ago, in answer to a slave-owner’s family, who invited the authoress to travel in the Southern States of America.
From The Pacific.
THE LITTLE CONTRABANDS.
God guide the little “Contrabands,"
From Slavery’s chains set free!
Oh, let their simple hearts pour forth
In grateful strains to Thee!
Surround them with Thy mighty arms;
Protect them every hour,
Alike from heartless freeman’s grasp
And savage master’s power.
God guide the little “Contrabands”!
What precious chattels they,
With hearts of feeling like our own,
With souls to save or slay;
For them hath Freedom, sword in hand,
Her banner proud unfurled,
And in God’s name the trembling ones
Led forth before the world.
God guide the little “Contrabands”!
Oh, what a fearful thought,
That by the blood of noble men
Those little ones are bought!
Oh yes! to give them sacred homes,
To soothe their hapless fate,
Full many a once bright happy heart
Now trembles desolate.
Full many a grief-blanched lip breathes out:
Far better thus to be,
Than drag, on untried virgin soil,
The curse of Slavery!
God guide the little “Contrabands,”
Both soul and body save;
For them the great of heaven and earth
Their life-blood freely gave.
Teach them to own the blessed power
That first set bondsmen free;
Teach them to sing "We're twice redeemed—
Hail, glorious liberty!”
Father, ten thousand prayers arise
From out all Christian lands,
That Thou wilt shelter, bless, and guide
The little “Contrabands”!
A POEM FOR THE TIMES.
BY CAROLINE A. MASON.
No sword have I, no battle-blade,
Nor shining spear: how shall I aid
My country in her great crusade?
I cannot sow with gold the sod,
Like dragons’ teeth, and from the clod
See armed men rise, battle-shod.
I may not stand in mart or hall,
And shout aloud great Freedom’s call:
“Come to the rescue, one and all!”
I am a woman, weak and slight—
No voice to plead, no arm to fight—
Yet burning to support the Right.
How shall I aid my country's cause?
How help avenge her trampled laws?
Alas! my woman’s heart makes pause.
With oil and wine I may not go
Where wounded men toss to and fro,
Beneath th’ invader’s hand laid low.
My little child looks up to me,
And lisps a stronger, mightier plea;
God wills where be is I should be.
Ah! well, I am not needed. He
Who knows my heart, perchance, for me
Has other works than now I see.
“They also serve who stand and wait.”
Oh, golden words! and not too late:
My soul accepts her humble fate.
Content to serve in any way,—
Less than the least,—if so I may
But hail the dawning of that day
When my beloved land shall rise,
And shout as one man to the skies—
Lo! Freedom lives! and Slavery dies!
From the Atlantic Monthly.
RANCONIA FROM PEMIGEWASSET.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Once more, O Mountains of the North! unveil
Your brows, and lay your cloudy mantles by;
And once more, ere the eyes that seek thee fail,
Uplift against the blue walls of the sky
Your mighty shapes, and let the sunshine weave
Its golden net-work in your belting woods;
Smile down in rainbows from your falling floods,
And on your kingly brows, at morn and eve,
Set crowns of fire. So shall my soul receive,
Haply, the secret of your calm and strength;
Your unforgotten beauty interfuse
My common life; your glorious shapes and hues
And sun-dropped splendors at my bidding come,
Loom vast through dreams, and stretch in billowy length
From the sea-level of my lowland home.
They rise before me. Last night’s thunder-gust
Roared not in vain; for where its lightnings thrust
Their tongues of fire, the great peaks seem so near,
Burned clean of mist—so starkly bold and clear—
I almost pause, the wind in th’ pines to hear,
The loose rock’s fall, the steps of browsing deer.
The clouds that shattered on yon slide-worn walls,
And splintered on the rocks their spears of rain,
Have set in play a thousand waterfalls,
Making the dusk and silence of the woods
Glad with the laughter of the chasing floods,
And luminous with brown spray and silver gleams;
While, in the vales below, the dry-lipped streams
Sing to the freshened meadow-lands again.
So let me hope, the battle-storm that beats
The land with hail and fire may pass away,
With its spent thunders, at the break of day,
Like last night’s clouds, and leave, as it retreats,
A greener earth and fairer sky behind,
Blows crystal-clear by Freedom’s Northern wind.
<c02>
The liberator.
SPEECH OF GERRIT SMITH ON RELIGION,
Made in Music Hall, Boston, June 15, 1862.
I love this world—not only its lands which are near, but those which are far off—not only its waters which I have seen, but those which I have not seen. I love its white men, and also its red and black men. To me, the world is full of attractions and endearments. Moreover, I am unconscious of enmity or prejudice against nation or individual. Not strange is it, then, that I should be reluctant to leave the world. Nevertheless, I am more reluctant to leave it because of what is hateful than of what is lovely in it. I would linger in it longer and yet longer to exert more and more faithfully my infinitesimal share of influence against those gigantic forms of evil which my observations and reflections and corresponding efforts during many years have educated my soul to hate. It is because I must leave so much which is hateful in the world to war against so much in it which is lovely, that I feel unready to depart from it. If in all this I betray the littleness of my faith in God, and a foolish self-magnification also, so be it. I had better be frank than disguised.
I shall leave an afflicted and distressed world; for war will continue its wholesale slaughters; slavery, which is the worst type of war, will go on multiplying its agonized victims and matchless horrors; intemperance will not stop perpetrating its innumerable murders, which are the worst kind of murders; land monopoly will keep on robbing the poor of homes; woman will continue to be cruelly and shamefully oppressed; until, in the long distance, she shall become sufficiently developed to see that she is oppressed; civil government will continue its bad work, until, confined at last within its own narrow province, the beneficence of its future legitimate functions shall exceed the mischief of its former usurpations.
But there is another great evil which I shall leave in the world. It is far greater than any I have spoken of. It is the priesthood—the sacerdotal or clerical order of men. The priests, be it those of China, Hindostan, Arabia, Persia, Europe, America, or elsewhere, and be they however honest, are the worst enemies of mankind. They are preeminently responsible for all great evils; for it is they preeminently who keep mankind down in those false states, and upon those low planes, where ignorance and superstition nourish and give scope to all great evils.
Why is it that Spain is so far behind the other great European States in the march of civilization? Why is she still infested with innumerable hordes of robbers? Why is she still making so inconsiderable contributions to the stock of human knowledge and useful inventions? Why is that persecuting spirit, which, in times past, prompted her to shed the blood of scores of thousands, of conscientious and innocent worshippers, still rife within all her borders? Why does she still cling to slavery and the African slavetrade? It is all because her Government and people are still, as they have been for twelve hundred years, so thoroughly under the influence of the priests. It was nearly two centuries after Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood, before her physicians would believe in it. For nearly a century, her schools rejected Newton’s Astronomy, and clung to Aristotle’s Philosophy; and all this for the assigned reason that the one did not and the other did harmonize with” revealed religion.”
But the priesthood, say its advocates, is necessary to teach religion. I admit the necessity of religion. It is the one thing needful. Man is a religious being. He is made to appreciate the claims of God and man upon him, and to love his Great Father and equal brother. Had he but remained religious, this world, which is now so full of guilt and misery, would have been a paradise. But when he was in the infancy of his race, and was therefore ignorant, superstitions began to graft themselves upon his ignorance, and to mingle with and corrupt his religion. Ere long, they were piled up into those huge structures of theology, or rather demonology, which cast their black and baleful shadows over earth, and leave little room for the sunlight of truth to reach and feed and sustain the religion of truth. It was these superstitions which called for a priesthood; and to maintain and multiply them was, and still is, its one work. So far, therefore, from its being necessary to teach and promote religious truth, the office of the priesthood has ever been to put superstitions in the place of religion, and falsehoods in the place of truth. But I would not be so uncharitable and so unjust as to make wrong motives the spring of all its wrong deeds. In all ages, the priesthood has been deluded as well as deluding.
A priesthood is not necessary to teach religion. It is as unnecessary as would be a professorship to teach the necessity of breathing. It is not religion that calls for a priesthood. It is such cabalistic mysteries and silly superstitions as abound in the sacred books that call for it. And the priesthood calls for these. They live and grow of each other. The people who are most given to these mysteries and superstitions crave the most priests. Where Americans are content with one priest, Spaniards want half a dozen. The happy man whose reason and courage have at last worked him clear of priestly dominion has far more dread of a priest than of any other evil-doer. He may still go to hear a Frothingham in New York, a Furness in Philadelphia, and a Channing in Washington; but it is because they are simply preachers, instead of technical priests. He may still go to hear a Beecher and a Cheever; but it is because there is so much of the unpriestly, and so little of the priestly, in them.
Oh, no, religion needs not a priesthood! It is as simple and instinctive as is eating and drinking. It is as much born with us as is our foot or hand. From ancestral faults or other causes, our moral affections may be born imperfect; so, too, may our foot or hand be. But in neither case is our nature responsible for the imperfection. The circulation of the blood is not more a law of our nature than is loving all and being just to all. And religion is neither more nor less than loving all, and being just to all.
The priests tell us that religion is a system and a science; but it is neither. It is our hearts’ recognition of our relations and obligations. It is simply fidelity to our nature. Had we never deserted our nature, we should never have been irreligious; and all that religion now asks of us is but to return from that desertion. The religion of human nature is harmony, not only with human nature, but with all nature and with God; for every part of nature is harmonious with every other part of it; and all nature is in harmony with the Author of all nature.
The great Teacher of the duties of religion did not regard it as a system or a science when he asked of the unlearned people: “And why judge ye not even of yourselves what is right?” He did not so regard it when he said:” I thank thee, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that Thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.” The wise and prudent were busy with their bundles of superstitions and man-made religions. The God-made or true religion “babes” had—for they were born with it. All are born with it; and hence, when one loses this babe-religion, he must, in order to recover it, become a babe again.” Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.” Did the churches know Jesus and his religion, how quick would they cease from their jargon about Election, Atonement, Trinity, and all that, which not only” a little child,” but even a big man, cannot understand! And how quick would they set themselves to the cultivation of that babe-religion, which lies within the comprehension of all! What if miracles could be proved by themselves, or could be proved by aught else, or what if they could prove something else, or even much else than their own contradiction to all nature and all human experience? Nevertheless, they cannot be
<c03>
needed to prove religion; for that, being as self-evident as any other part of human nature, needs no proof. 
By what line of argument is it that I hold the priesthood to be so largely responsible for the wrongs I and wretchedness of the world? I answer, that these come chiefly of the lack of religion, and that this lack comes chiefly-of the priesthood. No men are so effective in shutting religion out of the world as they whose calling is to build up superstitions and false-hoods in the place of religion. In all countries, the priesthood wars upon nature, and insists that
“ Nature must count her gold but dross
If she would gain the heav’nly land.”
In all countries, the priesthood insists that human nature must be supplanted by another and antagonistic one; the real by the imaginary; the known by the unknown.
To get rid of the priesthood is the greatest need of the people. But neither soon nor easily will this be accomplished. They are suited to each other, and have a strong affinity for each other. The people will not get rid of the priesthood so long as they admit the authority and conclusiveness of the Bible, the Koran, and the other sacred books, to interpret and inculcate which is the office of the priesthood. And they will continue to admit this authority and conclusiveness so long as they believe in the miracles by which these books are authenticated. Faith in miracles is at the base of their unquestioning submission to the Church and her books; and only in proportion as this submission shall cease will the priesthood cease. Idle is it, then, to make direct war upon the priests; for the people will stand by them—and all the closer on account of such war. Idle, too, is it to make direct war upon the authority and infallibility of the sacred books; for so long as the people believe in the miracles bound up with these books, the books will be to them as the voice of God.
The only way to get rid of the priesthood is to educate the people to require evidence for what they believe, and to form habits of mind which shall make them as skeptical as they now are credulous. Skepticism is the first step in the world’s progress from a blind and false to an intelligent and true faith; and whenever this first step is taken, then the occupation of the priesthood is gone—gone forever—with all its cabalisms and mysteries, mummeries and magic. Happily, too, the acquiring of these habits will be attended by the acquisition of knowledge; and the one will work with the other to undermine and overthrow the priesthood. Fear and wonder are the chief elements of superstition. These are supplied by ignorance. Courage and composure come of knowledge, and grow with it. Let it not be supposed that I am here running counter to what I have before said, and that I am making an increase of knowledge essential to the understanding of what religion is. I am commending knowledge because it is essential to clear the way of religion of the superstitions and rubbish with which ignorance crowds it, and which it fatally confounds with religion. I admit that much knowledge is essential to the preservation of religion; and it is in the point of view just taken that it is so. The labors in India of Schwartz, the missionary, were wonderfully successful. Great numbers became truly and deeply religious. But in the next generation, the field of his labors showed scarce a trace of those labors. The old waves of ignorance and superstition had again rolled over it; for the oppressed people had not mind enough and knowledge enough to beat them back.
And happily, too, the kind of knowledge, in acquiring which we are most successful in creating these habits of exacting proofs, is the very kind most adapted to save religion from being confounded with superstitions, and overwhelmed by them. It is physical knowledge. Milton would have been as clear of superstitions, and of submission to authority religions as was Humboldt, had he acquired physical knowledge to the extent Humboldt did; and had he, moreover, lived in Humboldt’s instead of in a comparatively dark and superstitious age. The study of the natural sciences—including as it does the habit of requiring strict proof—constantly diminishes that credulity through which superstition enters, and on which it feeds. The great reason why both naturalists and lawyers are generally wanting in sympathy with the churches and their superstitions, and are, therefore, so generally called irreligious, is that they are habituated to require evidence for what they believe. For various reasons of convenience and advantage, many of them give their assent to the popular religion: but the indifference with which they do so shows how little faith they have in it. But are not clergymon also trained to exact evidence? How can it be said that they are, when they dispense with evidence in their premises, lay their foundations in assumptions, and make miracles their proofs? I add, that the ecclesiastical theories, being more than other false theories the product of a wild imagination, cannot fail to suffer peculiarly from the study of the natural sciences; for that study, exercising in so high a degree the reasoning and supreme faculties, must in a corresponding degree repress and chasten the imagination. And let me also say, in this connection, that while the mass of men construct their God out of their dreams and delusions, they who study the natural sciences are carried up through certainties to the certain God. The one imagine and the other prove the existence and character of God.
Natural science has already, done much to weaken and dispel superstition. It has put astronomy in the place of astrology, and made alchemy and the hunt for the Philosopher’s Stone and for the “Universal Solvent” give place to chemistry. It has liberated millions from their degrading bondage to the authority of sacred books, and left their reason as free to play upon the pages of the Bible as upon the pages of any other book. It has relieved great numbers of their faith in the Mosaic Cosmogony. To the progress of natural science do we owe it that the Church no longer punishes men for their discoveries in natural science. To this progress do we owe it that, in spite of Bible authority, there is no more hanging of witches. How sad to reflect that the great and good Matthew Hale administered the law of witchcraft! And how sad. to reflect that, even at this day, there are great and good men who, because the wild and guilty words are in the Bible, read with reverent submission, instead of indignation and pity,” Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live!” How strong must be that yoke of superstition which can humble and hold the necks of such men! Ages must pass away ere it will be broken to pieces. Scotland, dear Scotland! still superstitious, still believes in witches. And only one hundred and fifty years ago, women were hung in England as witches. How deplorably superstitious was the honest and able John Wesley! And how low must have been his view, of the moral grandeur and exalted and precious uses of the Bible! Else he would not have said:” The giving up of witchcraft is in effect giving up the Bible.” I add, that to this progress of natural science do we owe it that I can speak to you against the authority of the Bible, and you patiently hear me—and yet neither you nor I lose life or liberty for our presumption.
There may be many astrologists and geologists who from one consideration and another consent to go along with the churches. But probably there is not on the whole earth one eminent geologist or astronomer, who entertains an undoubting faith in miracles, or in anything which rests upon mere authority, and is unsusceptible of proof. To every profound natural philosopher, a prayer for wet weather or dry is, notwithstanding the conditions on which Solomon told God to give rain, and notwithstanding the recorded success of Elijah in opening and shutting heaven, an absurdity, and the offspring of superstition. Eclipses are no longer a terror to Christendom, and deprecations of them no longer a part of her prayers. But men instructed in natural science believe that meteorology is as much governed by unchangeable laws as are the motions of the planets. I cannot doubt that meteorology is yet to be so successfully studied that the coming weather will be calculated like the coming eclipse;-not, indeed, with as
<c04>
entire, but nevertheless with sufficient accuracy. And by the way, what an advance it will be in earthly comforts and blessings, and how far surpassing in usefulness any of the wonderful discoveries and inventions of this age, when the farmer, learning from the philosopher the character of the coming season, shall know what kind of seed he had best cast into the ground!—and when, too, the mariner shall, by the help of the philosopher, know with what weather to lay his account. We owe much to science; but our posterity will owe more.
I hope it is not inferred from what I have said that I do not believe in prayer. I must cease to believe in human nature ere I can cease to believe in prayer. There is not on earth a more unnatural man than the prayerless man. Want, fear and love urge men as naturally to the Heavenly Parent as they do children to the earthly parent Emphatically and beautifully natural was Cornelius, who” prayed to God always.” There is nothing, in the bringing about of which men have or can have an agency, for which they should not at all times be ready to pray. Prayer for the crop is rational; but prayer for or against rain is as irrational as would be prayer for or against an eclipse. Prayer for a safe voyage is rational. It is, among other things, a prayer for self-possession, wisdom, skill, on the part of the navigator. But prayer for this or that wind is irrational.
Let, then, all those who would help clear the way for the spread, or rather for the restoration of religion— whether to clear it of the priests and of their sort of churches, or of the preposterous and reason-insulting claims set up for the sacred books, or of any other obstructions—let them go to work to deepen the study and diffuse the knowledge of the natural sciences,. How soon would the priests disappear were there an adequate supply of able lecturers on natural philosophy, and a public ear educated to hear them! How soon then would the way be prepared for the preachers of the religion of nature and reason to take the place of the priests! Had we a thousand Agassizes and Mitchells to deliver the lectures, the empire of American superstition would soon totter to its fall. All natural philosophers should feel it to be their noblest mission and highest obligation to drive superstitions and faith in miracles and priestly preachings out of the world; and to drive them out chiefly to the end of getting them out of the way of religion. 
I would not have it inferred from my praises of natural science that I set the intellectual above the moral. I hold the moral to be supreme, and the intellectual to be but its servant. Buckle in his wondrously learned and grand writings on civilization, holds that “intellectual excellence” is more productive of “real good” than is “moral excellence”; and he holds this for the reason that while intellectual knowledge is ever increasing, the great moral truths, such as doing good to others, loving your neighbor as yourself, and forgiving your enemies, are not added to, and are the same that they always have been. I answer, that they need neither multiplication nor change. They but need to be more faithfully applied. And when, with the help of increased “intellectual excellence,” and the freedom from bigotry and superstition coming of it, they shall be applied a thousand fold more effectively, it will then be seen that “intellectual excellence” is not of more value than “moral excellence”; or, in other words, that the head is not more important than the heart. An old moral truth may have such great value that the more faithful and able enforcing of it shall make it worth more than numberless great intellectual discoveries. If Buckle means only, as perhaps he does, that hitherto “moral excellence” has done less than “intellectual excellence” for mankind, I am not disposed to dissent from him. But it must be understood that such “moral excellence” has been largely made up of superstitious trash, and that the “intellectual excellence” to make the discrimination has been lacking.
But I must pass on to notice some of the inquiries that will grow out of this Discourse.
Will there, when the priests are gone, be still a demand for preaching? Oh yes, greater than ever! Will they like the priests, spend the time in telling their hearers what religion is? O no; a minute in a month will suffice for that! In a dozen words they can say that loving God supremely, and our neighbor as ourself; or, more briefly, that being true to ourself; or, still more briefly, that being ourself, is religion. But the question remains, What will they preach? They will preach duties. They will tell their hearers what religion calls for in the heart and life. This is what men need to hear, instead of sermons to show that religion consists in this and that doctrine, and in this and that crotchet. Why do thousands flock to hear Henry Ward Beecher? It is not only nor mainly because he is so eloquent and so marvellously gifted. It is because he tells his hearers so much of what religion calls for, and consumes so little of their time with those fanciful and superstitious creeds which with most persons make up both warp and woof of religion. The men who most love to see the noble Cheever strike his gigantic blows for freedom give no credit for them to his ecclesiasticism; but they give it all to his religion, or, in other words, to his love of God and man.
And what shall we do for churches when the present ones shall have died out with the priests? We shall have infinitely better; for we shall then have churches in which reason will do as much to enlighten and elevate as superstition does in the present churches to darken and degrade.
And what will become of the Bible when men shall cease to take it as an authority, and to worship it as a fetish, and to possess and prize it as a charm or amulet? Rather ask what will become of it in the mean time and during the superstitious regard for it? For there is no little danger that an age of growing intelligence, disgusted with the exaggerated claims for the Bible, will reject it. But when this book shall, like any other book, be submitted to human judgment, and men shall feel at liberty to discriminate between the merits of its different parts—as, for instance, between the incredible story of Jonah and the whale, and the felt truth of the Sermon on the Mount—then will it be a new and an inestimable blessing. When they shall feel entirely free to accept one part of it and reject another, on the sole ground that they believe in the one part and not in the other, then will the Bible exert a power infinitely greater than before—and a power for good only, and not, as before, for evil also. When the matchless inspirations and sublimities of the Bible shall stand no longer in authority and superstition, but in reason and truth only, then they will no longer be made of but the same account with the false and foolish things mixed up in the same pages with them. And then the reader of the Bible will open his understanding and his heart to these inspirations and sublimities all the more freely and widely from being, no longer under the conscious obligation to accept along with them the silly story of the dry path through the Red Sea, and the revolting and disgusting stories of God’s approval of polygamy, and of the murder of innocent women and children. Now, good men feel that they would lose the Bible, were they to lose their confidence in the least part of it. But then they would feel that they still have the Bible, notwithstanding that here and there are passages unworthy a place in it.
Luther and his fellow-reformers nobly stood forth for the right of private judgment What a pity that they and their successors were not more consistently, comprehensively and perseveringly faithful to it! Then bad Protestantism been the blessing and glory of the whole earth. But, essentially, it soon sunk down to the low level of Roman Catholic superstitions—and there it still lies. With no more impunity can the American Protestant than the American Catholic dissent from the ecclesiastical standards. For such dissent the one is hurled out of the church as quickly as the other. The Protestant boast of the right of private judgment is utterly groundless. Every authority religion is necessarily Incompatible with such right It is owing to the progress of science and civilization—a progress continually resisted by ecclesiasticism—that either Protestantism or Catholicism is this day restrained from repeating its bloody and enormous crimes. The superstitious religionist—
<c05>
or, in other words, he who receives his religion upon authority—tolerates no dissent from his religion. If in the circumstances and under the influences that Calvin was, he will, like Calvin, consent to the burning of the dissenter. All this comes of the belief that his whole bundle of religious views and theories—every line and letter in it—is certainly true, because certainly attested by the miraculous interposition of Heaven. But how quickly this obstinate—obstinate because blind—confidence begins to relax when the rays of reason and knowledge fell upon his bundle! And this is not only because the rays reveal his errors, but because reason and knowledge are as modest and hesitating as superstition and ignorance are conceited and dogmatizing. Reason and knowledge are conscious of their fallible workings; and therefore do they tolerate differences of opinion. They inspire diffidence as much as ignorance does positiveness. As a general rule, men are confident in proportion to their ignorance and unreasonableness, and lose their confidence as they advance in knowledge and reasonableness. It is not because of his zeal that a good man sinks into a fanatic. Zeal in a good cause cannot be excessive. The opponent of slavery and intemperance cannot be too zealous. It is the combination of ignorance with zeal that makes the fanatic. Enlighten the ignorance, and the conceit and dogmatism, bigotry and intolerance, recklessness and destructiveness, of which fanaticism is compounded, all pass away.
I value the Bible above every other book; I would not exchange it for all other books; and yet I am free to say that a man had better throw away the Bible than retain it as an authority. A conventional and false morality is the product of authority books and authority religions. Hence it is that while the religion of nature and reason utterly and sternly forbids slavery and war, land monopoly and the drinking of intoxicating liquors, and the oppressions of woman, even very religious people (after the ecclesiastical type) can go for them all. Their morality is as unreasonable and unnatural as is their religion.
Finally, what will become of Jesus when the age of superstition shall be past, and the priesthood and the authority of the Bible shall be no more? I answer, that when men shall cease to degrade him by childishly thinking either the better or the worse of him for the miracles and superstitions connected with his name, then will Jesus have in their eyes a new preciousness and, a far higher glory. When their great use of him shall be to study him in the light of those wondrous words in which he spake as never man spake, then will this sublimest and veriest God-man be known in all the earth, and his name everywhere be full of power and blessedness and salvation. Oh, fear not that the interest in Jesus will decline as the religion of nature shall prevail! He who is the model and perfection of human nature cannot fail to become dearer to men as they become less superstitious and unnatural, more reasonable and natural.
I close with reaffirming the supreme importance of religion. I refer not to the next life; that is but the continuation of this; and we begin there just where we leave off here. If we are upon low planes here, we shall enter upon low planes there. If here we sustain high relations to wisdom and goodness, we shall there also. It is to the uses of religion for this life that I refer—for this life, in which we have seen and proved it to be the great balance-wheel, without which all falls into disorder, confusion and ruin; in which we have seen and proved it to be the strongest tie between human hearts, and the only tie between human hearts and God’s heart. Painful is it to reflect how religion has been hindered and held back by superstitions and its priesthoods. But joyful is it to see that knowledge, which is as fatal to superstition and its priesthoods as they are to religion, is at last beginning to spread in such forms of certainty and common sense and practical usefulness, as warrant the belief that it will surely, though it may be but slowly, cover and bless the whole earth.

DEFENDERS OF SLAVERY.
We remember only one really able defender of slavery in the abstract. Mr. Calhoun brought a gigantic intellect to the service of error, and did for a patent political mistake all that great intellectual powers and an iron will could do for it. But when he died, he left no successor. Puny public men babbled weak parodies of his reasoning, or more safely ensconced themselves behind his ipse dixit. We regard with what we believe to be just contempt, the lame and lamentable perversions of Scripture with which the pro-slavery Doctors of Divinity have benumbed the minds and hearts of their hearers; for the inexorable logic of facts has silenced their sanctified prattle forever. The men who now defend slavery are of quite another class—bloated brawlers of the bar-rooms, who blaspheme and quote the Bible in one drunken breath —half-witted whites, who if they could possibly have an opinion would sell it for a glass of grog and a pound of tobacco—lazy women who shrink from domestic toil as from a daily torture and degradation—bull-dog overseers bestialized to the low level of their vocation; wholesale and retail dealers in human flesh: these are the passionate, voluble, unreasoning and bigoted advocates of slavery, as of something in itself intrinsically beautiful. The day of their domineering and of their ascendancy in Southern society is passing away in storm and blood. They still crawl about in the slime and smear of their system, as hideous monsters crept to and fro over the earth half created. They have taken the sword, and when, in fulfilment of an eternal law, they have perished by the sword, there will be no new hybrids to fill their place in the regenerated republic. They will disappear, and with them that semi-barbarous system of espionage and intimidation which has too long made slavery a thing exempt from discussion and question. They have themselves taken off the taboo, and there will be none left weak, enough to do the discredited idol reverence.—N. Y.Tribune.

SACREDNESS OF SLAVERY.
If a crew mutiny and convert a merchant vessel into a pirate ship, does the owner who captures the ship, hangs the crew, and returns the vessel to the purposes of a lawful commerce, destroy or injure the vessel? So with the ship Constitution, Old Ironsides. The slaveholders have converted it into a slave pirate ship. All that we propose is to pull down their black and bloody flag, throw overboard their manacles and handcuffs, hoist the flag of Liberty, freight it with human rights, and return it to the pathway where the fathers launched it, to sail evermore on a voyage of Freedom. It is no sufficient reply to this, that there are vested rights which emancipation would interfere with, or destroy. Had not the people of Rome a right to drain the Pontine Marshes, whose malarious exhalation nightly rose and spread over the city, bearing sickness and death to its households, although it might interfere with the water-lots of frog-breeders and snake-fanciers? The health of the city was of more consequence than the vested rights of the reptile-mongers that lived on the margin of the immense bog. I beg to know just how sacred this right of enslaving men is. I desire to understand its height and depth, its length and breadth. At what graduated point on the scale of sacred and precious things does it stand? Is it as sacred as property? The people will have given a thousand millions of property before this struggle is over, a free will offering, to save the country. Business prostrated, the affluent reduced to beggary, bankruptcy which no skill could foresee and no sagacity avoid, submitted to, uncomplainingly, for the sake of the country. It can almost be said of the commercial community of our great cities, as it was of the early Christians—they took the spoiling of their goods joyfully—the one for Christ’s sake, and the other for their country’s sake.
And now, is this unholy thing, slavery, more sacred than all these? Shall property vanish, the dead be piled in hecatombs on the field of slaughter, parental hearts pierced with the arrows of anguish; wife, sister and betrothed stricken with grief; and yet the clutch of the enslaver remain unrelaxed, and the fell Destroyer who has caused all this waste of property and life, all this mental and heart suffering, be left unmolested! It cannot be. We are not thus bereft of reason. I have no patience with those who enshrine this stupendous crime, and surround it with the sanctity of an idol, and say. Let it alone—Great is Diana of the Ephesians! Great is American Slavery! OWEN LOVEJOY.
<c06>
ADAPTATION OF MEANS TO ENDS.
BY LIEUT. GENERAL T. PERRONET THOMPSON.
The pro-slavery reporters who write in America for the English market, say American officers would not like being employed to discipline black troops. If there are any such, they are scant furnished with the instincts of their calling, and had better put themselves apprentices to be drivers on a plantation. Let them be fully assured, nobody will miss them. A man with the spirit of an officer jumps at the new and untried, as what will give him opportunities for distinction; and if the question were asked to-morrow, two out of three below the rank of general officer would volunteer to teach dark limbs and muscle to do a day’s duty in the sun on outpost as well as in the cotton-field.
In fact, there are peculiar advantages for some descriptions of military necessities, in this disciplining of strong sinews and willing hearts, by leaders of greater acquaintance with the actual conduct of war. To pass over an infinity of other examples, it was particularly obvious in India, before the treacherous destruction of the Native army for ulterior purposes. The Sepoy might not be the instrument for heavy blows, or what militarists call the marteau (hammer) of war; but he did a great deal of the hard work in the sun, and so enabled others to act their parts. Having no high opinion of his own knowledge, his ideas were centred in submission to his white commander, and he was the type of ready obedience in all matters of detail. Such was the Sepoy, till European treachery laid hold of his dislike to pork to break up the Native army, and seize the land which was at the bottom of the move. In a considerable course of out-post duty with Native troops, the writer never met with but one instance, where a sentry in the field had left his post to look after his bloodless meal; and had, consequently to be given up to his Adjutant, with a recommendation to frighten him within an inch of his life, and then send him to his duty.
In these days of extended knowledge, it would imply an ignorance inexcusable of what is and has been, if any responsible statesman or general should engage in a campaign in what approaches to a tropical country, without employing a force raised from the habitual laborers on the soil. He might as well set the Members of Congress to hoe on a cotton plantation, and turn up his eyes in dismay when he found the concern was bankrupt; or a blacksmith to work at his anvil, without condescending to hold his iron with tongs. There is a way to do things, and a way not; and those who take the latter, must lay in a stock of philosophy to endure the consequences.
But a point not to be ignored is that, without unjust disparagement to anybody, the African blood stands high in the qualities that make a soldier. This is spoken from acquaintance with it in its own country, and out. An African regiment, well led, would have the same kind of qualities as a French:-great elan or spring, as the military phrase is, and a light-heartedness which, as the song says, would go through the world, either with or without the adjuncts in the way of apparel that were present to the poet’s eye. It does not require book-learning to make a grenadier. It is to be feared that the men of Arcola were sadly behindhand in their Sept Peches Mora. There is not a man who insults Heaven by a prayer for slavery, but knows an African can be both brave and faithful. In the engraving of Bunker’s Hill from an American artist, from which Englishmen take their ideas of American battles, an African showing fight for his fallen master, is evidence that in that hour his assistance was not despised. Is America vulgarized since, and does it take its cue from Southern slave-breeders and English amateurs?
More of the uncertainties of war—or, more properly, its certainties—for those who insist on tying up one arm. When the man has had enough of this, he will perhaps consent to use the arms which Heaven has given him.—Bradford (Eng.) Advertise
"WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHENTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTAINED
"NO OTHER WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE AND WORK OF REFERENCE.”
“IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE.”
THE
Rebellion Record,
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE
Is the only publication which gives the HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON.
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote as the HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this
GREAT REBELLION.
IT CONTAINS,—I.,
The Causes of the Great Struggle and the Great Issues before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
II 
A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dec. 17th, 1860—giving, in the form of a Diary, a concise, succinct, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc,
CONSISTING OF ALL THE
OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES,SKIRMISHES &C., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c.
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops, IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDINANCES, MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and Ballads. Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel of the 
NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLANS OF BATTLES.
The Rebellion Record
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with TWO FINE PORTRAITS, 50 cents each.
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volumes.
NOW READY,
VOLUMES ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3.75 each; sheep, $4.00; half mores or half calf antique, $5.00 each.
A NEW EDITION,
Sold EXCLUSIVELY by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel.
Agents wanted, to whom liberal commissions will be given.
Copies of the REBELLION RECORD, in Parts or in Volumes, will be sent, free of expense, on receipt of price. Sent in registered letters, the publisher will be responsible for all remittances.
Clubs will be supplied at the following rates:
FIVE COPIES of each volume, in semi-monthly Nos., or monthly Parts, to one address, or separately, $13.00
TEN COPIES, 22.50
Remittances must be sent in registered letters, otherwise the Publisher will not be responsible, and in current funds.
G. P. PUTNAM, Publisher,
532 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
C. T. EVANS, GEN. AGENT.

