THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILI.
ROBERT F WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL, PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON. Printers 
VOL. XXIX. NO. 2 BOSTOM, FRIDAY, JULY 1, 1859 WHOLE NUMBER, 1598.
SELECTIONS.
<c01>
THE DRED SCOTT DECISION. 
The following eloquent extract, from the Annual Report of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, deserves the widest circulation through the press:-
To Chief Justice Tancy belongs the bad eminence of having elaborately falsified history, misconstrued law, and outraged justice and humanity, through more than twenty pages of his extended opinion, in the vain attempt to prove that colored persons are not, never were, and never could be, citizens of the United States; that when the Union was formed, and for more than a century before,' they 'had been regarded as unfit to associate with the white race, either in social or political relations, and so far inferior, that they had no rights which the white man was bound to respect; that the negro might justly and lawfully be reduced to slavery for his benefit; that this opinion was, at that time, fixed and universal in the civilized portion of the white race, was regarded as an axiom in morals, as well as politics, which no one thought of disputing, or supposed to be open to dispute; and of course, that this inferior, degraded race were then left, and still continue, so far as the Federal Government is concerned, in the same rightless condition, incapable of asking of the Federal Courts redress for any wrong, and consequently destitute of the legal recognition of any right. Considering how feeble, helpless and already deeply injured are the objects of this assault, it is hard to say whether injustice, meanness or cruelty, unblushing falsehood, or sophistical misinterpretation of facts and law, is its most marked characteristic.
The judge does not pretend that any clause or word of the Constitution expressly debars black men from citizenship, or even hints at color or race as a test of civil rights; or that the States, before they entered the present Union, had generally set up, in terms, say such distinction as is contended for. The sum of his argument is, that 'the white race' cannot be supposed to have recognized as citizens a race which they so looked down upon. He cites freely from the early legislation of Congress and the States to prove the social degradation of the blacks, and thence infers their want of civil rights. But, unfortunately for his purpose, this inference is flatly contradicted by the well established fact, that the Federal Government has repeatedly naturalized colored aliens, and given passports to colored men, describing them as citizens of the United States; and, in one instance, if not more, has officially complained of an act of British aggression upon a colored American seaman, as having been committed upon a ' native citizen of the United States.' It is contradicted no less decisively by the fact referred to by Judge Curtis, in his dissenting opinion, that in several of the States, (he might have said all but two, if we mistake not,) before the adoption of the Constitution, colored men, 'descended from African slaves,' were citizens of those States, and had the elective franchise 'on equal terms with other citizens.' Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, says 'it is certain that the Constitution and Statute law of New York speak of men of color as being citizens;' and that 'if a slave be born in the United States, and lawfully discharged from bondage, or if a black man be born free in the United States, he becomes hence forward a citizen.' The Supreme Court of North Carolina has decided that slaves born in that State, and manumitted there, ‘are citizens of North Carolina, and all free persons born within the State are born citizens of the State;' and has declared it 'a matter of universal notoriety, ’that free men of color had and used the right of voting, under the old Constitution of that State. In Massachusetts and some other States, it is equally notorious, they have it still, and have never been without it; and in those where they have it not, the use of the word 'white,' in prescribing the qualifications of voters, was necessary to take it from them. That they were regarded as citizens in the old Confederation is proved conclusively by the fact, that a motion to limit the privileges of general citizenship to white persons was expressly voted down in the Congress, eight States opposing and only two supporting it, while the vote of one was divided.
There was no need of citing Statutes to prove that the colored people have all along been the objects of prejudice and contempt. Nobody denies it. But this, so far from disproving their citizenship, rather strengthens the direct proof in its favor, drawn from the facts above mentioned. For the more degraded and despised they were, the lees less likely is it that they were tolerated in any position to which they had no right and especially in one so important as that co–sovereigns of the Commonwealth: and consequently, the stronger is the evidence afforded by their voting, that they were recognized as citizens.
Judge Taney endeavors to evade the force of the proof of citizenship from the fact of voting, by saying that 'a person may be entitled to vote by the law of the State, who is not a citizen of the State itself; and instances 'foreigners not naturalized, 'as being ' allowed to vote in some of the States.' whether they are not, by such allowance, made citizens of those States, or whether admission to share in the sovereignty is not of course admission to citizenship, may perhaps be reasonably questioned; but conceding this point, for the sake of the argument, it must still be borne in mind that when if-persons not citizens' are allowed to vote, it is by some special provision of the law on their particular behalf; and as no such special provision existed in regard to the colored people, it follows that their voting was on the common ground of the general right of citizenship.
The judge, in his eagerness to make out a case, has grossly overstated the sentiment of the period in question, in regard to the colored people. The truth as to the general feeling towards them is had enough; but he goes very far beyond the truth, in affirming that the opinion was universal in the civilized portion of the white race,' and 'disputed by no one,' that the negro might be justly enslaved for the white man's benefit, and had no rights which the white man was bound to respect. If not guilty of wilful falsehood, he betrays an ignorance most astonishing in the chief judicial officer of the nation.
Did he really know nothing of the emphatic voice which literature, law, philanthropy and religion, among 'the civilized portion of the white race,' had started at and before the time referred to, in behalf of the black man's rights, and against his enslavement? Was he not aware that the practice which he says was then universally thought to be just, had been denounced within the time he specifies, by Cowper, as 'human nature's broadest, foulest blot; 'by Wesley, as’ Wesley, as ‘the sum of all villanies;' by Paley, as a ‘crime' and 'wickedness;' by the historian Robertson, as 'repugnant to the feelings of humanity,' and ‘to the principles of religion; 'by Bishop Warburton, as 'infamous,' and 'directly infringing both Divine and human law; ‘and by many other writers in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries-poets, moralists, and divines, political economists, jurists and others- as 'unjust, inhuman, inhuman, un–Christian–like; 'contrary to all the laws of humanity;’ a criminal and outrageous violation of the
<c02>
natural rights of mankind, this enormity this aggravated iniquity; ‘a practice which spurns at all the principles of both natural and revealed religion a horrid practice, an injustice and barbarity which, so sure as there is vengeance in Heaven for the worst of crimes, will sometime be the destruction of all who allow or encourage it; ‘and, in a word, as deserving only abhorrence and reprobation? -that it called forth Montesquieu’s often quoted sarcasm, 'We must not allow the negroes to be men, or it will begin to be believed that we ourselves are not Christians;’ and the Abbe Raynal’s declaration, that‘ he who supports the system of slavery is the enemy of the whole human race;’ and Baxter’s denunciation of slave-traders as ‘the worst of robbers,’ and of ‘those who buy and use the poor Africans as mere beasts for their own convenience, regardless of their spiritual welfare,’ as ’fitter to be called demons than Christians’?
Did he never hear of Clarkson and Wilberforce, and the ‘multitude of others,’ (to use Clarkson's own words,) who labored so zealously in the latter half of the eighteenth century for the abolition of the slave trade? or of the suggestion of the celebrated Necker, in 1784, that the nations of Europe should form a general compact to abolish that traffic? or of the persevering and successful exertions of Granville Sharp, from 1765 to 1772, to procure an authoritative exposition of British law against slavery on British soil? Had he never learned, in the course of his legal studies, that full sixteen years before the American Federal Constitution was adopted, a decision of the highest Law Court in Great Britain, pronounced by one of the ablest jurists of that age, and after thorough argument and long deliberation, declared slavery, whether of black men or of white, to be unlawful in that country, as a violation of natural right, contrary to common law principles, and so odious that nothing can be suffered to support it but positive law? or that a few years later, but still before the framing of the Constitution, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts applied to Negro Slaves the declaration in the State Bill of Rights, that ‘all men have an unalienable right to enjoy liberty,’ and thus abolished slavery in that State?
Did he not know that in nearly every State of the old Confederation, (and of the new Union, when it was formed,) were Societies for promoting the abolition of Slavery, and protecting the rights of the free colored people, and that among their members and officers were many of the best, and some of the most illustrious men of that day? that the judicial seat he occupies was first filled by the President of an Abolition Society, John Jay? that to the same Society the first Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, belonged? that Benjamin Franklin was President of an Abolition Society, incorporated by the Legislature of Pennsylvania, and that its Constitution called ‘all the children of men, members of the same family, however diversified by color, situation,’ or otherwise; and declared it ' more especially the duty of those who profess to maintain for themselves the rights of human nature, to use such means as are in their power to extend the blessings of freedom to every part of the human race’?
Had he never seen, among the proceedings of public bodies just before the Revolution, that the people, of Fairfax county, Virginia. George Washington presiding, pronounced the African Slave Trade ‘wicked, cruel and unnatural’? that the Freeholders of Hanover County, Virginia, called it ’most dangerous to virtue and the welfare of this country’? that the Virginia Convention in 1774 complained of, the King for using his negative to defeat the attempts of the Colony to stop that trade, and for 'preferring the advantages of a few African corsairs to the rights of human nature, deeply wounded by this infamous practice’? that an agreement was formed by that Convention, by the North Carolina Convention, by the Continental Congress, and by I the Georgia Provincial Congress, not to import slaves, or buy those imported by others? that the Committee representing the people of Darien, Georgia, claiming to be ‘influenced by a general philanthropy for all mankind, of whatever climate, language or complexton, ’expressed their ‘abhorrence of the unnatural practice of slavery in America, a practice founded in injustice and cruelty, debasing part of our fellow creatures below men, and corrupting the virtue and morals of the rest’? or any of the numerous similar testimonies of that period, and especially that introduced by Jefferson into the original draft of the Declaration of Independence, calling the slave-trade an ‘execrable commerce,’ and denouncing the King of Great Britain as having, by his course in regard to it, ‘waged cruel war against human nature itself, violating its most sacred rights in the persons of a distant people, carrying them into slavery in another hemisphere’?
Could he be ignorant that in the very Convention which framed the Constitution he professes to expound, Negro Slavery and the African Slave Trade were denounced in the strongest terms by distinguished men, Northern and Southern; that Governeur Morris said ‘ domestic slavery is a nefarious; institution;’ that Madison called it ’ the most oppressive dominion ever exercised by man over man,’ and thought it’ wrong to admit in the Constitution the idea that there could be property in men;’ that Mason, of Virginia, styled the Slave Trade 'nefarious ‘ and ‘infernal,’ and ‘ held it essential, in every point of view, that the General Government should have power to prevent the increase of slavery;’ that Roger Sherman was against acknowledging men to be property,’ and  regarded the slave-trade as iniquitous;’ that Luther Martin, of Maryland, considered it unjustifiable in its nature, and contrary to the rights of mankind,’ and justly exposing us to the vengeance of Him who is equally Lord of’ all, and who views with equal eye the poor African slave and his American master;'’ that in the Conventions, North and South, which ratified the Constitution, the slave-trade was condemned with equal emphasis, being characterized by prominent speakers in the Virginia Convention as ‘detestable' and nefarious;' and in that of North Carolina, as ‘ abominable,’ ‘inhuman,’ utterly inconsistent with the rights of humanity,’ and ‘ probably reprobated by all the members’ of the Federal Convention; while, in that of South Carolina, General Pinckney, who had been a member of the Federal Convention, testified that, on the slave question, the South Carolina delegates there ' had to contend with the religious and political prejudices of the Eastern and Middle States,’ whose people ' reprobate as an unpardonable moral and political evil, the dominion they (of the South) hold over a part of the human race'?
Judge Taney has the effrontary to site even the Declaration of Independence in support of his atrocious argument. He admits, indeed, that its language ‘ would seem to embrace the whole human family, and, if used in a similar instrument at this day, would be so understood;’ but denies that it was then understood to include ' the enslaved African race, because, if it bad been,’ the conduct of the distinguished men who framed the Declaration would have been flagrantly inconsistent with the , principles they , asserted,’-a thing he assumes to be clearly impossible; for they were incapable of ascertaining principles inconsistent with those on which they were acting.’ Indeed! Let us hear a little of their own testimony about that.
<c03>
To what does the Judge think Jefferson alluded, the very man who drafted the Declaration, and put into it originally that denunciation of the slave trade which we have just quoted,-when he exclaimed at the incomprehensibility of man, who can endure so much for his own liberty, ‘and the next moment, deaf to all those motives whose power supported him through his trial, inflict on his fellow-men a bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he rose in rebellion to oppose’? Luther Martin says it was urged in the Federal Convention, against the concessions made to slavery in the Constitution, ‘that our opposition to Great Britain was grounded upon the reservation of rights to which God and nature entitled us, not in particular, but in common with all the rest of mankind.’ Patrick Henry, writing in 1779, confesses that, in holding slaves, his ‘ conduct was inconsistent with the principles ‘ he ‘ asserted,’ and adds,‘ I will not, cannot justify it. I will so far pay my devoir to Virtue, as to own the rectitude of her precepts, and lament my want of conformity to them.’ William Pinckney, in 1788, pronounces slavery ‘oppressive, unjust, and inconsistent with the great groundwork of the late Revolution.’ The Legislature of Pennsylvania, in 1780, in the Act abolishing slavery in that State, speaks of ‘ negro slaves ‘ as ‘ deprived of the common blessings that they were by nature entitled to;’ and avows among the reasons for the Act, that’ we conceive ourselves at this particular period extraordinarily called upon, by the blessings we have received, to manifest the sincerity of our professions;’ and then proceeds, ‘in justice to persons so unhappily circumstanced, and in grateful commemoration of our own happy deliverance‘ from British tyranny, to enact the gradual abolition of slavery in Pennsylvania. In 1788, in a Report on a petition ‘in favor of the distressed Africans and their descendants,’ a Legislative Committee in the same State quoted from the Declaration of Independence the affirmation of the inalienable rights of all men, adding that’ if it is founded in truth, the petitioners speak but the Divine Will in requesting that this evil (slavery) be done away from the land. Many pages might be filled with similar testimonies, showing that the Declaration was understood, in that day, to assert the rights of the ‘ whole human family,’ without distinction of race or color, and that the ‘ flagrant inconsistency’ therewith of holding slaves and supporting slavery was then also seen and acknowledged. Indeed, it was the very time of the framing of the Constitution, which William Pinckney called‘ this enlightened period ‘ at which ‘we need not labor to prove ‘ slavery disgraceful,’ and a scandal to human nature.’
Thus it is abundantly evident, not only that Judge Taney’s conclusion is unwarranted by his premises, but that his promises are gross exaggerations or utter falsehoods, and consequently that his attempt to prove colored men incapable of citizenship is a complete failure.
From the New York Tribune
FAIR PLAY IN THE SCHOOL-HOUSE!
There is not an entire unanimity among the American public as to the character and quality of what the Anti-Slavery people have been doing for the last thirty years. Patriarchal politico-economists at the South assure us that that pestilent generation has only made the condition of the slaves worse-the pious owner, it is to be supposed, visiting upon their vicarious shoulders the stripes due to their officious advocates-hitting then again because they have friends. This doctrine is repeated and enforced at the North by many godly divines, bearing the image and superscription of the American Tract Society, and patriotic journalists not a few, who seem to believe that the only reason why the masters and slaves are not at this moment dancing round a liberty-pole together, in celebration of the voluntary emancipation of the one by the other, is the damning fact that certain persons at the North have said that in their opinion it were a right and good thing to do. These theories, at once so creditable to the humanity and to the common sense and intelligence of our Northern instructors, as well clerical as laic, we have no intention of controverting on the present occasion.
But whatever diversities of opinion philosophers and philanthropists may entertain as to the influence the Anti-Slavery movement has exerted on the condition of the black men of the South, it will hardly be denied, by any persons acquainted with the facts, that it has been productive of very positive improvement in that of the black men of the North. Thirty years ago, a slave could be seized in any Northern city, and taken back under the law of 1793 with no more ado than if he had been an escaped felon. Much within that time, if the meeting house were the gate of heaven, it was not one by which colored Christians could enter into the kingdom on equal terms with the whites, but they were obliged to sneak in through a back door called the Negro Pew. On all the railways there were negro-pens provided, called Jim Crow Cars, in which men and women of good character and manners and respectable appearance were herded like beasts, because the sun had looked upon them, and they were black. So of all the steamboats and omnibuses; colored persons were either not permitted to use them at all, or on inconvenient and degrading conditions. And at the very outset of life, the white and black children were made to feel the unjust distinction made between their races by the segregation of the latter from the former in separate and inferior schools.
Now it is undeniable that a great change has taken place in all these particulars. A slave cannot now be reclaimed without an excitement that shakes the city where it is attempted like an earthquake, felt even to the ends of the country. In the New England States, and very generally at the West, if not universally, the Negro Pew. is as obsolete a barbarism as the stocks and the pillory. To the same territorial extent, we believe, a black man’s money boys as much and as convenient transportation as a white man’s. The color of his money," and not that of his face, is all that is looked at in the premises. We are well aware that we are not writing the eulogy of our own city in this particular; but of the New England States, at least. We are confident our statement holds generally good. So as to the separate or caste schools. In Massachusetts, at all events, after a long and persistent agitation of the subject, such schools were forbidden by law, and for several years the colored children, have attended the school of the district in which they live, just as the white children. The opposition in that State came chiefly from Boston, and perhaps two or three other large towns, where the larger proportion of colored persons resided. It was finally overcome, and we believe there has never been the least disposition to return to the old system of proscription. No evil whatever has followed from this simple act of justice, according to the emphatic testimony of the Superintendent of Public Schools in Boston; of members of the School Committee; teachers in the schools after the mixture had taken place, and other competent authorities. The Batten Courier, certainly a competent authority on this side of the question, says of the change: ‘We contemplate it with unmingled satisfaction. We rejoice that colored men are not set apart in our churches from their white brethren, and that the children, of the
<c04>
two races sit side by side on the same benches. ’And again: ‘The anxiety of the colored people to have their children educated shows that they were entirely worthy of the boon bestowed upon them, of having their children educated at the same schools with the whites.’
This is certainly strong testimony, and from a most unexceptionable quarter; but it was not a 'boon’ that was bestowed on the colored people in this legislation, but a recognition of their just rights. It was never asked as a favor, but demanded as an act of simple justice, that all classes of the community should be treated alike in the matter of public education. And as such it was conceded. It is on this ground that the same action is asked of the Legislature, of Rhode Island this year, and we are happy to believe with a fair prospect of success. There certainly should be no doubt of it, inasmuch as there are but three towns which still maintain the invidious distinction soon to be abolished-Providence, Newport and Bristol-and there would be none were it not that these are the three largest and richest, and therefore most weighty municipalities in the State. But the clear justice of the case is so plain that it would be to reflect on the good sense and fair-mindedness of the Legislature to doubt that it will follow the example of Massachusetts. The schools are supported by the taxes of the colored people in the same proportion according to their property as by those of the whites; and it needs no argument to show that they are entitled to the same advantages and conveniences of education as any of the tax-payers. This they clearly do not enjoy as long as they are compelled to resort to schools of an inferior description, or which, if equally good, ‘are branded with a mark of degradation, and which, at any rate, must be less easy of access to the children of many of them than the district school proper. This latter is an inconvenience which, in a certain proportion of cases, amounts to a denial of public education.
This is, perhaps, the impregnable argument which should convince every citizen, and especially every legislator, of the simple right which lies at the bottom of this question. It is merely this: Is or is not a citizen entitled to his fair share of a public advantage of the expense of which he is obliged to pay his fair proportion? a proposition which admits of but one answer. It can only be sophistically evaded by the assumption, that the claim of the colored taxpayer is satisfied by the erection of colored schools. But this is met by the undeniable fact, that the very best colored schools do not replace the Latin and High Schools which are shut in the faces of colored children where the separation exists, even if the schools furnished them be equal to the average of the lower district schools, which, we imagine, is very far from being the case. But, aside from the pure right of the matter, there is a question of fair play involved in it, which should enlist the sympathies of every generous mind in behalf of the weaker party in the controversy. The colored people of the Free States have fairly lived down the slanders which have been heaped upon them by slaveholders, and their abettors, as to their capacity for taking care of themselves. They contribute, according to their means and opportunities, their full proportion to the comfort and wealth of the community. Their fathers fought, alongside of ours, the battles of the Revolution. They support them–selves; they acquire property; they show an honorable desire to improve their condition, and that of their children. We have been assured that, in Philadelphia, and we know the same to be true of this city, their proportion of the taxes for schools and the poor considerably exceeds the amount paid for colored schools and paupers, so that they actually contribute, of their moderate means, to educate the children and support the poor of the white race! The prejudice against them, which is but the lingering shadow of our departed Slavery, has denied them chances enough, and for long enough. Let them have a fair opportunity at last to show what they can do under more favorable surroundings.
The testimony which the teachers of the colored schools bear as to the progress of their scholars is a touching evidence of the mischiefs attending them. They have uniformly found that while the younger children, who had not learned the existence of the prejudice which is the budge of their tribe, made fully as rapid progress as white children of the same age, their zeal and interest in their studies invariably slackened as they grew older. The growing sense of the crushing disabilities under which they labor, organized, as it were, into the very school house in which they sit, robs them of all heart and hope. But where an equality of privileges is enjoyed, this mournful circumstance disappears. Mr. John F. Emerson, who has been for a quarter of a century the Principal of the High School of New Bedford, a man standing in the very foremost rank of his profession, bears this testimony: ‘My pupils are from all classes of the community. Many of them from families of the very highest respectability. I have had no instance of any difficulty arising from the admission of colored children. I have noticed no difference in the aptitude to learn between them and the whites.’ And this testimony is capable of ample confirmation from other sources. How cruel, as well as unjust, then, is it thus to blight the souls of innocent children in the very dew and tender blossom of their youth! Away with such relics of slaveholding barbarism from the soil of the Free States! They are a stench in the nostrils of civilization.
We have been led into this train of remarks by reading the pamphlets addressed to the people and to the General Assembly of Rhode Island on this subject, by the colored inhabitants of that State. They are temperate, well reasoned and unanswerable. We trust, and cannot doubt, that the General Assembly, at the session soon to convene, will pass the Act which failed last winter by only four votes, and was referred, if we mistake not, to this coming session. This is a case in which a delay of justice is almost equivalent to a denial of it. Every year it is postponed, causes serious injury to the children who suffer under this proscription, not to mention the expense of time and money, and vexation of soul, it costs to those struggling for their rights. They have showed so much discretion and good sense, as well as spirit, in their way of laying their wrongs before the Legislature, that they deserve success. Their documents, though calculated for the meridian of Rhode Island, will do for this State, or any other where the same mischiefs exist, which we hope to see soon expunged from the statute book of every; Free State. It is but a scanty measure of reparation, at the best, that any State can render its inhabitants of African descent for the inveterate wrongs done to them by law and custom; surely, the least it can do, which is all they ask, is to stand from between them and the light.
REJUSTICE TO TAKE THE OATH.-In the case of Isaac and <illegible> the two slaves charged with murder in Memphis, when the jury were directed to take the required oath, a member, Mr. W. W. Ritchie, refused to be qualified, on the ground that he was <illegible> opposed to, capital punishment. The Court insisted, and the juryman positively refused to take the oath, whereupon he was committed to prison for thirty days for contempt.
<c05>
WOLVES IN SHEEP'SIV SHEEP’S CLOTHING. 
Probably there never has been a period in the history of the Christian Church when the caution given by Christ to his.' disciples was not needed-‘Beware of false prophets, which coma come to you in sheep's clothing, but: inwardly they are ravening wolves.'’ The test of discipleship is as much needed in our own day as it was when first given in the Sermon on the Mount-'Ye—' Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grape3grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
We are loud in our Anti-Slavery professions in this country. We have bought Undo Tom's Cabin'‘ Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ by the tens of thousands, and we have been touched to the quick by its harrowing recitals; and yet those who have examined into the foundations of slavery know that it is materially based upon the pro-slavery action, at least in its reflex influence, of the churches of this country. The test of fellow–ship with American churches has never gone beyond the external wool of the animal with us. We have been utterly careless, provided that it had the orthodox appearances, whether we introduced into our fold a sheep of Christ’s flock, or a wolf of Satan’s breed. We have as practically bowed to the in–fallibility of verbal orthodoxy as Romanists have, passively submitted to the written degree of popish infallibility. The persistent sinning against light and knowledge by our religious denominations, in the matter of American slavery, has bean been enough to plunge the whole land into infidelity to Christianity. Reed and Matheson, from the Congregationalists; Cox and Hoby, from the Baptists; Cunningham and Lewis, from the Free Church of Scotland; and others who have crossed the Atlantic, have sat down at the table of the Lord with slaveholders, and thereby rivetted yet tighter the previously-loosening fetters of the slave. But deputations, in courtesy, must be mutual; and accordingly the Americans, very naturally, taking the Anglo-American–Australian delegates as fair exponents of British sentiment, were not particular in sending over men whose hands were clean in the matter of slavery. In 1849, the admirable scheme theoretically of the <illegible>umanical Alliance brought over from the United States a shoal of Biblical defenders of slavery, and at least one slave–holder. The attempt to graft them permanently upon the Evangelical churches of this country was defeated by William Lloyd Garrison, George Thompson, Frederick Douglass and others, who lifted up the skin, and discovered to the Christian public of this country the wild–beast character of the men it concealed. The Alliance, the most must powerful ecclesiastical organization ever convened in England, was compelled-we use the term advisedly-in deference to the awakened British sentiment, to rescind its own resolution, which virtually admitted slaveholders to Christian fellowship with our churches. That which so signally failed in the corporation has subsequently been sought to be accomplished in the individual. A specimen of the attempt to smuggle the excommunicated into the church over the wall, instead of by the open door, has recently been made by two of our leading religious, organizations -organizations—the Congregational Union and the London Missionary Society-in the person of the Rev. Dr. Pomroy, Secretary of the American Board of Com–missioners of Foreign Missions. The chairman of the first named organization not only gave to the rev. gentleman '‘the right hand of fellowship,'’ but extended to him a cordial greeting.'’ To whom was this act of Christian fellowship accorded? To a recreant Anti–Slavery man; once a member of the American Anti-Slavery Society, but who, under the influence of the Annus and Caiphas of the United States, betrayed Christ in the person of the poor slave for whose salvation ho he died. Such is the man; and what is the body whom he be represents? An organization lending its powerful influence to the perpetuation of American slavery; an association whose pro–slavery action has brought upon it the withering denunciations of Mrs. Stowe and Dr. Cheever. Mr. Wilson Armistead, of Leeds, preferred an indictment against Dr. Pomroy and his clients on this head. By his silence he pleaded guily to a charge which was as patent to the world as the sun at noonday.
What is the action as regards slavery of this American Board of Commissioners, in ' ‘regular standing' and intimate union with nearly the whole of the American churches? By its Christian fellowship, it sanctions the acts of the worst slaveholders in the United States. Among its members, for ex–ample, are ore the Old School Presbyterians, who deny to their slaves that which God hath appointed for all men—marriage. One of its own members, Dr. Breckenridge, bears the following testimony to the religion practised by that body:-'The system of slavery denies to a whole class of human beings the sacredness of marriage and of home, compelling them to live in a state of concubinage; for, in the eye of the law, no colored slave man is the husband of any; wife in particular; no slave man is the father of any child in particular; and no slave child is the child of any parent in particular.'’ Mr. Stuart, of Illinois, thus reprobates the sin of the body: this church a man may take a free-born child, force it away from its parents, to whom God gave it in charge, saying,' ‘Bring it up for me,'’ and sell it as a beast, or hold it in. perpetual bondage, and not only escape corporeal punishment, but really be esteemed an excellent Christian. Nay, even ministers I of the Gospel and Doctors of Divinity may engage in this unholy traffic, and yet sustain their high and holy calling.'’ What is the action of this Society abroad? It has missions among the Choctaw and Cherokee Indians, the church members of which hold slaves. Complaints were received of their robbing parents of their children, and sending them where they are never beheld by them again. The matter was complained of to the Board; the Board referred the complaint to the missionaries; the missionaries coolly replied, in true American spirit, that the separation of parents and children is not forbidden by the express injunction of Scripture. There the matter was allowed* “by the Board "to rest. Polygamy is known to exist in the mission churches; the Board tolerates a crime for which its churches at home would visit with excision any one of its members. Thus stands Dr. Pomroy; with one hand, grasping that of the slaveholder, the child-stealer,–stunter the polygamist, and the compeller of the sin of, concubinage, and with the other reciprocating the warm embrace of Christian fellowship of the Congregational Union and the. London Missionary Society. Dr. Pomroy virtually indorses the blasphemies uttered; by American divines, that slavery was instituted by God, and was sanctioned by Christ and his apostles; the Congregational Union and the London Missionary Society tacitly give their assent to the doctrine, by openly endorsing the Christianity of Dr. .Pomroy, Had it been a mere more temporal matter, the world would have no difficulty in coming c to the conclusion respecting the doctor as the middle –man of the two classes, of whom he was the bond of union-'—<illegible> ’ As the link in the chain connecting the two, it certainly would not be unfair to exclaim of both Arcade ambo. 'Arcades onto.’<illegible>
We ask the Directors of the London Missionary, Ministering Society to ponder over, and to controvert, if they can, the statement made by Mrs. Stowe, as to the influence endorsed upon the minds of the heathen, by
<c06>
<illegible> sentative of whom they have so <illigeble> <illigeble> We have warmly enhanced:' We have sent our missionaries to all quarters of the globe; but how shall they tell their heathen converts the things that are done is Christianized America? How shall our missionaries in Mahometan countries hold up their heads, and proclaim the superiority of our religion, when we tolerate bar–baritics which they have repudiated? A missionary among the Karens, in Asia, writes back that his course in is much embarrassed by a suspicion that is afloat among them, time that the Americans intend to steal and sell them. He says, 'I dread the time when these Karens will be able to read our books, and get a full knowledge of all that is going on in our country. Many of them are very inquisitive now, and often ask one questions that I find it very difficult to answer.' It is evident that in <illegible> fraternizing with this pro-slavery slavery representative, the English organizations have had respect to nothing but the wool, without caring aught about the real nature of the animal by which it is assumed. Albert Barnes departed from Presbyterian orthodoxy in his views of the federal headship of Adam, and of the propriety of imputing hid fun his sin to all his posterity. The church hurled its fiercest denunciations against the arch-heresiarch, as it did also against Dr. Lyman Beecher. Well might his daughter my, say. 'The Bible declares of all such'-of Christ's body, of his flesh and bones. 'Is not the doctrine that men may Lawfully sell the members of Christ, his body, his flesh and bones, for the purpose of gain, as really an heresy as the denial of the divinity of Christ? and is it not a dishonor to Him who is over all, God blessed for ever, to tolerate this dreadful opinion, with its more dreadful consequences, while the smallest heresies concerning the imputation of Adam's sin are pursued with eager vehemence?" Certainly not, in the opinion of the Congregational Union, and the London Missionary Society, who must have come to the conclusion practically arrived at by the American churches-—For a man to teach that there are not three Persons in the Trinity is heresy. For a man to teach that all these three Persons authories a system which even Mahometan princes have abolished from mere natural shame and conscience, is no heresy.'
We regret that a press of engagements prevented the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society from admitting the topic of American slavery either is in their resolutions upon the <illegible> or the other road platform, on in the report read on Saturday last. We rejoice, on the other hand, in the establishment of the London <illegible> Emancipation Committee, which has undertaken to attempt the work which the Broad –street Society has not time to attend to properly–of warning the public against wolves in sheep's clothing.
LONDON EMANCIPATION COMMITTEE. 
On Saturday last, an influential meeting of friends of the Anti-Slavery cause was held at the residence of Mr. F. W. Chesson, 19, Harpur street, Blooms–bury, for the purpose of considering the propriety of forming an Anti–Slavery Committee. George Thompson, Esq., formerly M. P. for the Tower Hamlets, was unanimously called upon to preside.
Mr. CHESSON opened the proceedings by stating the reason why the meeting was called together. He said that several friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, with himself, had long felt the need of some properly constituted–body in London which should diffuse information on the slavery question, more especially in its American aspects. No existing organization in this part of the country supplied that want; and in proof of that statement he need only refer to the anti-slavery meeting held at the London Tavern that day, at which only very slight reference was made to the subject of slavery in the United States. There were important questions, such as the agitation in favor of the Personal Liberty Bill, and the noble stand taken by Dr. Cheever against the pro–slavery churches of America, which it was especially desirable should be brought before the English public at the present time. (Hear, hear.) He did not suggest that they should constitute themselves into a society; they were not in a position to undertake such a responsibility, nor did they wish to come into collision with any existing association. He thought that they might advantageously form themselves in–to a committee; and if they did no more than to hold a public meeting on the 1st of August in every year, with a view to commemorate West India emancipation, emancipation, and to place fairly before the public the American slavery question, they would not labor in vain. (Hear.)
THE CHAIRMAN said he had little to add to the very clear statement which Mr. <illegible> bad Chairman had made of the reasons which led to the holding of that meeting. He (Mr. T.) had for many years seen and felt the necessity for the existence of an Independent Committee in London, for the especial purpose of co-–operating with the friends of abolition in too abolition in the United States of America. He did not wish to stand in an and attitude of hostility or antagonism towards any organization of an anti-slavery–slavery character which might be at present prosecuting its own peculiar objects; but be he did most earnestly desire to be associated with a Committee, no matter bow flow its number or how humble their position, who, like himself, deeply sympathized with the unfaltering and uncompromising abolitionists of America, and desired, as they had ability, to co-operate with them in their humane and noble efforts. It was a fact first, however discreditable it might be to the great grant city of London, that a delegate from the American Anti–Slavery Society, whilst secure of a cordial and hospitable reception in Warrington, Leeds, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin, and Cork, as well as in other parts of the United Kingdom–and might calculate with confidence upon efficient co–operation in the prosecution of an anti-slavery mission there-could find no body, however small, in the metropolis of the British Empire, to extend such a welcome, or to proffer such assistance. From that day forth, he trusted, that reproach would no longer be belong as lie disserved, and would no more be incurred. He (Mr. Thompson) by no means undervalued the importance of undervalued the important of a society directing its attention to the workings of emancipation in the colonies, to the question of emancipation is the colonics, to the quantities of immigration, and to the manner in which foreign nations observed existing treating on the subject of the slave trade. Such a society might effect match good, by well–timed deputation to the Prime Martin–tar or the Colonial Secretary, wife manner in white foreign nations observed existing treaties on the subject of the slave trade. Such a society might effect much good, by well-timed deputations to the Prime Minister or the Colonial Secretary, with memorial pointing wife naturalized prime–minister out existing evils, and suggesting <illegible>magnetic inhibits which the British Government might adopt under and apply. Such a Society, too, might originate <illegible>slight and debates apply. Such a Society, too, might righted <illegible> debuts in the two house of <illegible> <illegible>Parliament established to awaken and inform the legislature of the country, and through that medium the minds of the public parity's at large. The question of American Slavery, however over, was not one which could be treated in that thought be way. It was not set by international diplomacy or by International displaying as he Parliamentary <illegible>discussion that they could aid, except incidentally and be percept incidentally said upon particular points particularly pull the great Christ sought by the united <illegible>efforts of the American abolitionists. The British people, nevertheless, had nevertheless, had it in their power to reader <illegible> <illegible>render effectual service to the friends of the slave on the opposite <illegible> of the shores of the Atlantic; but the influence to be <illegible>exerted was
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution in a convenient with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States are the guardians and convential supports of slavery, We are the Billions and constables of the institution. These is shame execute for communities. when, under a generous impulse they aspouse the cause of the oppressed in the Stator, and by force restore their rights; but they are entitled excuse us siding other States in binding on she us unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRANING, THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVER FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for hearing at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolutions. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking of our fellow–creatures; nor ought this bend to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that is can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' —WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
that exclusively of a moral and religious character, The American abolitionist, when he came to this country, sought neither their silver or gold. He asked for the direct interference on the part of the Government, or of the mere politicians of this country, he sought only their sympathy, and the expression of that sympathy through the medium of resolutions at public meetings of articles in the periodical press, and of action on the part of religious bodies in relation to corresponding organizations in America. The work he had to do was simple and plain-to give facts illustrative of the present actual condition of slavery in his own land:-to tell who amongst those who promised and anti-slavery sentiments, were most efficiently promoting the cause, and were most entitled to recognition and confidence;-to tell them who, amongst those who come into this country from America, deputed to its conference, associations, and assemblies, and were invited to speak at the annual and other public meetings, were worthy to be trusted and believed as genuine abolitionist; and who, amongst them should be suspected, opposed, or denounced, either as slaveholders, the defenders of slavery, the apologists of slavery, or as men in their own country justifying or excusing the connection of the Churches of America with the system of slavery. The Committee he hoped to see formed might be able to render to such anti-slavery missionaries very valuable assistance in the way of originating meeting in London; of giving them introductions to various parts of the kingdom; of making known to them the state of anti-slavery feeling at the time, and of the matters most requiring attention and elucidation; and of securing to them such conveniences and facilities as a stranger necessarily required. Mr. Thompson concluded by saying that, should a committee be formed, he would, if a member of it, do all in his power, both in London and the provinces, to advance its objects; and be knew it would gladden the hearts of his endeared friends, Mr. Garrison and his noble coadjutors, to learn that at length the principles and spirit of the American Anti-Slavery Society had found a local habitation and a name in the city of London.
The Rev. W.H. BONNER, minister of Trinity Chapel, Southwark, made come interesting statements with a view to show the need of an active anti-slavery movement in this country. During his residence at Birkenhead, he had been surprised at the apathy, and even the hostility, of the people both there and at Liverpool, with regard to the anti-slavery movement. His surprise considerably diminished when he found that, not only was there an intimate business connection between Southern planters and Liverpool cotton-brokers, but that the latter in many cases made advances before the crops were ripe, or even planted, and held mortgages upon slave property as security for their money. He had been greatly disappointed with the anti-slavery meeting held that day. But slight allusion had been made to the slavery question in America, and not one word had been said about Dr. Pomeroy, the agent of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions-a notoriously pro-slavery institution. He would most cordially take part in the proposed committee, and lend it his best assistance. (Hear, hear.)
The BARON DE PRADINE, the Haytian Minister, while fully recognizing the importance of the West India labor question, urged the still greater importance of the slavery question in America. There the battle had still to be fought, whereas in the British West Indies it had been both fought and won.
After some further discussion.
The Rev. W.H. BONNER proposed that the ladies and gentlemen present do hereby constitute them-slaves into a committee, to be called 'The London Emancipation Committee,' with power to add to their number.
The BARON DE PRADINE seconded the resolution, which was unanimously adopted.
M.LESPINASSE, Secretary of the Haytian Legation, moved resolutions which were seconded by Professor Allen, of Dublin, and passed unanimously.
Mr. W. FARMER moved the next resolution:-
That this committee tenders its warmest congratulations to the Baron de Pradine, upon his appointment as Haytian Charge d'Affaires to the Court of St. James's and would express its fervent wishes for the stability and permanent prosperity of the free colored Republic which he represents, and its satisfaction in the knowledge that the recent revolution was characterized by the most praiseworthy forbearance on the part of those who effected it; and without the effusion, in the hour of struggle and ultimate triumph, of the smallest amount of human blood, or any other act of deliberate vengeance.
The LLANDDROST ROCHUSSEN, of Surinam, seconded the resolution, and spoke in terms of admiration of the progress which the Haytian people had mad under circumstances of great difficulty. 
The resolution was unanimously carried.
THE BARON DE PRADINE, in returning thanks, said that he had found much ignorance in this country respecting the progress which Hayti had made in morals and education during the last five-and-twenty years. In proof of its rapid improvement, he might state that whereas in 1827 there were only 20 marriages annually in the capital of the island, Port-au-Prince, in 1846 there were 995 in that one year; and while the schools were in 1813 only 11, and 1 college, there were, in 1844, 63 schools and 6500 pupils. It would delight his countrymen to know that such kind wishes had been expressed towards them, and so just a view taken of the recent revolution. (Hear, hear.)
The Rev. W. H. BONNER moved the following resolution, which was seconded by Mr. F. W Chesson, and carried unanimously:-
That this committee having received through Miss Johnstone, and from other sources, information relating to the present position of the Rev. George B. Cheever. D. D., and the Church of the Puritans in New York, of which he is pastor, arising out of the fidelity and intrepidity with which Dr. Cheever had rebuked the pro-slavery tendencies of the American Churches, and being desirous of promoting the object for which Miss Johnstone is now on a mission to this country, resolves to adopt measures to convene, at an early day, a public meeting, at which the claims of Dr. Cheever and his Church to the sympathy and aid of British Christians may be stated, and means be adopted to convey the expression of that sympathy to the United States.
Mr. CHESSON moved, and Mr. WILLIAM CRAFT, formerly of the United States, seconded the following resolution, which, after some highly complimentary remarks on the part of the Chairman, was unanimously adopted:-
That the committee would embrace this its first opportunity to express to Miss Sarah P. Remond, now present, its congratulations on her arrival in this country, and on the success which has attended her labors in England and Ireland during the lest five months. The committee would also assure her of their earnest sympathy with her in her anti-slavery efforts, and would be speak for her the confidence and co-operation of the friends of the slave in every place she may hereafter visit during her stay in this country.
Miss REMOND said-it may not be inappropriate on my part, as the representative of three millions and a half of slaves in the United States, who cannot speak for themselves, to say-I thank you.
Mr. George Thompson, 1. Fentiman's-road, South Lambeth, was then elected Chairman of the Committee: Mr. Dennis McDonnell, 65, Pentonville-road, Treasurer; and Mr. F.W Chesson, 19, Harpur street, Bloomsbury, Hon. Sec.
The meeting then adjourned.

From the London Anti-slavery Advocate for June.
DEATH OF MR. JOSEPH STURGE.
The principal British newspapers have noticed with expressions of more than ordinary regret and respect the death of this gentleman, who expired suddenly in his house at Edgebaston, near Birmingham, as the morning of May the 14th, it in supposed from disease of the heart. He has been for the last twenty-five years one of the most conspicuous and munificent of British Philanthropists. On the abolition of British West Indian slavery, and the substitution of a system of apprenticeship her a period of seven years, it was soon found that this project was likely to prove a failure as it admitted of much of the tyranny of slavery, unrestrained by the motive of self-interest which frequently prevents the slaveholder form the injuring his property. Indeed as much gross injection and cruelty immediately resulted, that the interference of British abolitionists, who watched with deep interest and solicitude the great experiment of emancipation, was soon loudly called for and promply afforded. Mr. Sturge visited the West Indies himself, for the purpose of personally investigating the real state of affairs, and on his return home he took an active part in the agitation which resulted in the total abolition of the apprenticeship system, and which was greatly promoted by his counsels and his purse. His activity as a member of the Peace Society, of which he was President at the time of his decease, his efforts to promote the
<c02>
reformation of juvenile criminals, his great personal and pecuniary labors to alleviate the sufferings caused by the wanton and cruel ravages of the British cruisers on the coast of Finland during the hostilities with Russia, and his ready munificence on behalf of any scheme for the good of mankind which met with his approval, are so generally known, that no addition to what has been already said respecting him in so many quarters is required from us. But as editor of a paper devoted to the abolition of American slavery, and as being from profound conviction in full unity with the principles and made of action of the American Anti-Slavery Society, we feel bound to say that the powerful social influence of Mr. Sturge has for nearly twenty years been opposed to the uphill efforts of one of the noblest associations for the benefit of mankind which has ever existed, and that to his hostility may be attributed much of the apathy and ignorance respecting the American Anti-Slavery Society which unfortunately prevail on this side of the Atlantic. 
When Mr. Garrison first visited England, in the year 1833, be found in Mr. Sturge a warm friend and active fellow-laborer in his endeavors to attract the attention of the British people to the subject of American slavery, and more especially to the necessity of distinguishing between boss fide efforts for its overthrow, and the hypocritical pretences of the American Colonization Society, which, under a show of promoting the interests of the colored race and the good of Africa, had engaged in a Quixotic scheme for clearing the United States of its free colored inhabitants, and thus at one stroke freeing the slaveholders from their hated presence, and furnishing Africa with missionaries of Christianity and civilization. When Mr. Garrison first commenced his single-handed labors at home, and raised his uncompromising standard of emancipation, his watchword being ' SLAVERY IS A SIN, AND AS SUCH SHOULD BE IMMEDIATELY ABANDONED,' he labored under the delusion that this self-evident truth had only to be forcibly presented to all Cristians, and especially to all Christian ministers, in order to secure universal acceptance. But he was speedily undeceived. Single-minded and uncompromising himself, he had not reckoned on the powerful influence of those maxims of ambition, expediency, and self-interest by which sects, like all other human institutions, are controlled. The result was, that as he had resolved that he 'would not equivocate,' that he 'would not retreat a single inch,' and that he 'would be heard,' he persevered in his agitation, and in his incessant calls upon sects and parties to square their practice with their principles, and was speedily regarded with general execration by clergy and politicians as an infidel, a traitor, and a disorganizer, who, for the sake of pursuing an unattainable phantom, was willing to discredit religion, and throw the policy of his country into confusion. It was only the other day that Miss Sarah P. Remond was in like manner denounced as an infidel by some Methodists in Water-ford, because she stated well-known facts respecting the pro-slavery course of the American Methodists; and the Leeds Young Men's Anti-Slavery Society were reported as a handful of infidels by Bishop Simpson and Rev. Dr. McClintock on their return to America, because they had ventured to expose the pro-slavery position of those Rev. gentlemen at home, while they were travelling in England under false colors as abolitionists-as nearly all the American clergy who travel in England do. This evil reputation of infidelity has adhered to the most eminent and the most persevering of the abolitionists ever since. Continually obliged to expose the mean, shuffling, and criminal course of the American churches and clergy in reference to slavery, the retort is always ready that the abolitionists' are infidels and enemies to religion. Such a charge is far more easily made than answered to the satisfaction of that large and shallow class, who regard sectarian and clerical corporations as identical with religion-and who cannot perceive the noblest and most effective manifestations of true piety in lives of practical, self-denying devotion to a God-like, however unpopular, enterprise for the best interests of the human race. If purity of life, unstained by the imputation of immorality or meanness, joined with a determined assertion of the right to think for themselves on religious subjects-freely conceding that same liberty to others-do not recommend the abolitionists to the respect of those whose respect is worth having, where shall we go for people to esteem? However, this is exactly the position of the abolitionists-and it is one which Mr. Sturge was unable to appreciate. When Mr. Garrison with several of his friends and coadjutors visited England a second time in 1840, as delegates to the World's Anti-Slavery Convention, which was held in London in that year, Mrs. Lucretia Mutt and some other female delegates from the American Anti-Slavery Society, were refused admission on the pretence that the presence of women on equal terms in such an assembly was contrary to British usage. Mr. Garrison and others declined to enter the Convention from which some of his ablest and bravest coadjutors were excluded, and shortly after some American delegates, who have been hardly heard of in their own country as abolitionists ever since, travelled through England under the patronage of Mr. Sturge, in company with Mr. Scoble, at that time Secretary of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, and who has also long since ceased to be known in connexion with the anti-slavery cause. Their tour was professedly for the purpose of promoting the abolition of American slavery, but was to a great extent employed to spread untrue and malicious insinuations, injurious to the reputation of Mr. Garrison and the usefulness of the American Anti-Slavery Society. The results of this circumstance have been the deadness, indifference, and ignorance, respecting the whole subject of American slavery and the efforts for its abolition, which are so remarkably prevalent in England, and no where more so than amongst the members of the associations auxiliary to the ' British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society ' which keeps an office and maintains a staff at 27, New Broad-street, London.
During all these years which have intervened between the 'World's Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840, and this present year 1859, the American Anti-Slavery Society has steadily held upon its course, notwithstanding an amount of disheartening apathy, misrepresentation, and opposition, such as few if any philanthropic efforts have had to encounter for an equal space of time. In their attempts to touch the public conscience, they have had to show forth the hollowness of sects and parties, and to withstand the terrific force of a hostile public opinion which no where prevails with such unrestrained power as in the United States. None but remarkably vigorous minds, or those in whom intense conviction supplies the place of natural vigor, would have sustained such a straggle. It was not the least painful part of their experience to find that men who had attained a high place in the public estimation in England-such as Joseph Sturge-were unable to see through the mists raised against them by bigotry and popular prejudice. The result was inevitable, that their efforts against the giant evil of their country have been so much the more difficult under the united opposition of the professors of religion and patriotism in America, and of many of the most eminent leaders of Exeter Hall in England. However, although in England they have had to rely chiefly upon the aid of a few men and women but little known to the public, their claims to sympathy and assistance are increasingly recognized, and the names of the leading American abolitionists are rapidly becoming household words in the popular ear.
 It is remarkable that all the modes of operation of the American Anti-Slavery Society are purely educational and moral. They object to the formation of a political anti-slavery party, so long as all the national standards of political action are founded upon a Constitution which recognizes slavery, and until the public sentiment of the Free States at least is so far changed that it shall be opposed to slavery, and not favorable to its continuance on the plea of keeping good faith and unity with the slaveholders. The abolitionists are opposed to violence in the promotion of their object. They are eminently peace men. Many of them are even non-resistants, founding their principles on the precepts of the Sermon on the Mount. Yet it is very remarkable that they have met with some of their greatest discouragements in England from the members of a sect-the Society of Friends-which at its commencement was ever where misrepresented, hated, and bitterly persecutered as anarchical, fanatical, and heretical, and of which the founders only succeeded in conquering the public, obloquy and dislike by purity of, life, and an obstinate adherence to their own standards of right in faith and practice. All that is stated in the foregoing article is true, and justice to all parties requires the record to be made. Joseph Sturge, with all his many sterling qualities and large-hearted philanthropy, was strangely one-sided and prevents towards its American Anti-Slavery Society, and did much, directly and by connivance, to render it odious England.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON. JULY 1. 1859.
Turning away in disgust and shame from the profligate and hypocritical celebration of the FORUM OF JULY, which generally characterises the day, let the real friends of freedom, as far as practicable, on Monday next, rally at Framingham.
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBBATION OF INDEPENDENCE DAY. 
The friends of impartial liberty and universal emancipation are invited to attend a MASS MEETING at the commodious and beautiful Grove in FRAMINGHAM, on MONDAY. July 4th, (under the direction of the Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.) to consecrate the day to the work of breaking the fetters of the millions who are yet, in this false-hearted and hypocritical nation, groaning in the bondage of chattelism, whose unutterable wrongs are still crying unto Heaven for redress, whose claims on the sympathy and justice of all are constantly increasing in solemnity, and without whose liberation and rescue there is no possibility of the freedom and perpetuity of the American republic.
An arrangement hat been made with the Boston and Worcester Railroad Corporation to convey persons to and from the Grove, on the direct line and the various branches connecting therewith, at about half the usual price. 
Eloquent Addresses, from distinguished speakers, with Songs, and such Recreation on land and water as the place abundantly affords, will occupy the day. Among the speakers expected ore WM. LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, THOS. W. HIGGINSON, EDMUND QUINCY, CHAS. L. REMOND, A. T. Foss, WM. WELLS BROWN, E.H. HEYWOOD, Rev. U. M. FISK, of Taunton, and others.
Special trains of cars, for the Grove, will be run from Boston, Worcester, Millbury, Milford, and Northboro'. 
Leave Boston and Worcester at 9.15 o'clock, A. M. stopping at Way Stations. Leave Millbury at 8.30. Leave Milford at 9.45; and Northboro' at 9.40. 
Fares as follows:-
Boston, to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults, 35 cts. for children.
Worcester, to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults, 35 cts. for children.
Millbury to the Grove and back, 70 cts. for adults, 35 cts. for children.
Milford and Milford Branch, Northboro' and Marlboro', Natick, Needham, Ashland, Cordaville, South-boro' and Westboro', to the Grove and back, 50 cts. for adults, 25 cts. for children.
Grafton, to the Grove and back, 60 cts. for adults, 30 cts. for children.
Returning, leave the Grove at 5.45 o'clock, P. M.
The House at the Grove will be open for Refreshments.
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in Waverley Hall, opposite the Rail Road Depot, at South Framingham. 
FRANCIS JACKSON. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., HENRY O. STONE, CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements.

LONDON EMANCIPATION COMMITTEE.
No sooner than he is restored, from a long and very dangerous illness, to a state of convalescence, does our long-tried and unwavering coadjutor, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq. of England, again enter into the arena of Reform at home and the field of Philanthropy abroad-bearing a faithful testimony and diligently laboring in behalf of the oppressed and disfranchised working classes in England, and the enslaved millions in the United States-acting upon the principle of universal brotherhood, and in the spirit of disinterested benevolence. May his days be long in the land! 
It will be seen, by referring to our first page, that an influential meeting of friends of the Anti-Slavery cause was recently held in London, the result of which was the formation of the 'LONDON EMANCIPATION COMMITTEE,' auxiliary to the American Anti-Slavery Society-Mr. THOMPSON being elected Chairman of it. 
Amongst the objects to which the Committee will direct its attention, are the following-namely,
I. To guard the public of this country against the unwarranted assumption of an Anti-Slavery character by men of Pro-Slavery tendencies and connections who may visit Great Britain, whether in a delegated or other capacity, and who may seek to exercise an injurious influence upon the popular sentiment. 
II. To protest against the union of the Religious Bodies of this country with the Pro-Slavery Churches of America; to recognize and fellowship which churches is to disfellowship those who deem it their first duty to separate from them on the ground of their practically anti-Christian character. 
III. To collect and diffuse authentic information upon the character and extent of slavery generally, but with especial reference to its existence and aspects at the present time in the United States. 
IV. To render, according to their ability, assistance to deserving fugitives slaves, who, duly recommended, may visit this country as the representatives of their oppressed race. 
V. To correspond and cooperate with kindred Anti-slavery Committees and Societies throughout the United Kingdom, and also with the American Anti-Slavery Society, and such other bodies abroad as may have the same objects in view.
VI. To extend a welcome to all Visitors to this country accredited by or belonging to the American Anti-Slavery Society or its auxiliaries, and to afford them all the aid in its power for the prosecution of their labors in behalf of the slave. 
VII. That this Committee shall hold on each returning Anniversary of the Abolition of British Colonial Slavery, a Public Meeting in this metropolis, for the purpose of celebrating that great event, and of adopting such measures as may appear at the time expedient and necessary for the promotion of the cause of Negro Emancipation, more especially in the United States of America; such Meeting to be held on the first of August.
We are rejoiced and strengthened to know that (in the language of Mr. THOMPSON ) 'the principles and spirit of the American Anti-Slavery Society have found a local habitation and a name in the city of London.' Many numerous friends and supporters rally around the ' Emancipation Committee'!
LIKENESS OF DR. GAMALIEL BAILEY. By a singular coincidence, a very finely executed likeness of Dr BAILEY, (for the particulars of whose death, see another column.) drawn by F. D' Avignon, has just been published by C. H.BRAINARD, 7 Tremont Row, Boston, which is pronounced an admirable portraiture by those most familiar with Dr. B. 's features. It ought to find many purchasers among the numerous friends and patrons of the deceased. It is the same size as that of Seward, Sumner, Hale, and Giddings.
'LONG ARTICLES,' THAT WILL REPAY A THOROUGH PERUSAL. The Liberator, this week, has a number of long articles, and therefore less variety than usual; but they are all deserving the closest attention. The eloquent commentary upon the Dred Scott Decision-' Fair Play in the School-House'-ï¿½ Wolves in Sheep's! Clothing '-the Proceedings of the London Emancipation Committee-the article upon the late Joseph Sturge, of England-and the extracts from an article on the condition of Woman, in the Edinburgh Review for April-are all pregnant with interest and vital force. The way to appreciate a paper is to read it methodically, and not to bestow upon its contents. a few hasty glances.
THR MEETINGS AT WORCESTRK have, we under stand, been continued through five Sundays to the present time. Charles L. Remond has attended them the last two Sundays, and done good service to the cause by his ability and eloquence. Next Sunday, July 3d, A. T. Foss will be in attendance with S. S. Foster and Joseph A, Howland. The meetings are held at Brinley Hall, in the afternoon and evening.
<c04>
SPASMODIC LEGISLATION. 
On Thursday of last week, the New Hampshire House of Representatives voted to adopt a Personal Liberty Bill-134 to 101-making It unlawful to arrest, imprison, or carry out of the State any fugitive slaves-the penalty for the first offence being imprisonment in the State Prison not less than five years, and for the second during life. The next day, the House backed down ' from its 'higher law' position in the following cowardly and disgraceful manner.
The bill for the protection of Personal Liberty earns up to its passage to a third reading. 
Mr. BRYANT, of Concord, (the Speaker.) I move that this bill be indefinitely postponed. It may seam singular, Mr. Speaker, and gentlemen, in this stage, that I should make the motion I do, since the circumstances under which this bill has been brought before the House are not perfectly known to me. But, Mr. Speaker, I feel that it is a duty which I own to my own self-respect to oppose, by all means, and with whatever influenced I have, or may have, the passage of this bill. I entertain so high a respect for the Committee from whom it emanates, that I cannot doubt she parity or the patriotism by which they have been influenced in bringing it before the House, but I have an intimation, from one or more members of that Committee, which convinces me that their judgments have not been the judgments of the majority, or that Committee could never have subscribed to the policy, the justice, or the right of that bill. It introduces a doctrine and sets up a policy which I think most dangerous to be introduced into any State of this confederacy. 
I am one of those who do not believe that it is the! right of the Legislature of any single State to pass ultimately and finally upon the constitutionality of a law of Congress. I believe the wisdom of the framers of this government has provided a tribunal for the proper adjudication of such questions, and that that is the tribunal of last resort. There is no safety for us as a State, or as a government, if we allow ourselves to tread upon the dangerous ground of nullification. I never did lend myself to such a doctrine when it was promulgated from the South, and I never will when it comes from the North. I know there is a law today upon the national statute book directly in conflict with this bill, and all its provisions. It is not for me to say whether that law is constitutional or not, and whether I, as a citizen of New Hampshire, will render obedience to it or not, because every citizen may choose for himself whether he will obey any law, or disobey it, and suffer the prescribed penalty; and many of us here, in New Hampshire, would not hesitate one moment to choose, were the alternative presented to us. But we should do the one or the other without complaining, or at least without raising a hand in rebellion against the laws of the United States. Whenever this subject can be reached in a proper form, and at a proper time, I should be willing to express my opinions upon the merits of the fugitive slave law, but most certainly I think that New Hampshire has never yet taken a final step in this direction. New Hampshire may well pause upon the threshold of that door through which she is solicited to pass. I do not believe the sober second thought of the Legislature will approve of this bill. The only apology for it upon-earth is, that it may be regarded as an expression of the indignation with which the people of New Hampshire look upon the fugitive slave law. That the fugitive slave law can ever have any force in New Hampshire is an idle dream, which no intelligent man can for a moment, entertain. The Constitution of the United States, and the laws passed in pursuance thereof which are judged constitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States, are, I understand, the supreme laws of this land, any enactment of a State to the contrary notwithstanding. Therefore, if we should attempt to enforce such a law as is here proposed, we should be placing ourselves in direct antagonism with the general government. I see no wisdom in this law, I see in it nothing but mischief, nothing but the worst policy which could be adopted by the State. The people of this State are not prepared for, and do not believe in revolution. They believe in obedience to the government and the laws, and in that sober second thought of the people which corrects all errors. They believe in the enlightened, civilized sentiment of the people, in that moral sentiment which is rolling in here in New Hampshire, in the Northwest, and on the fertile and flowery prairies of the distant West, and all over every part of our country, which is righting the public sentiment of the nation, and will, but a few years hence, place all legislation at the Capitol of the land on the ground of moral sentiment and moral right. That is what the people of New Hampshire believe in; not in resisting by the bayonet what they deem to be an unconstitutional law, or any unwise act of Congress; or I do not read aright the popular sentiment of this State. For one, I say, I believe in nothing like these violent measures, and cannot suffer this bill to pass without my solemn protest against it. In all its length and breadth, in every provision, line and syllable, I dissent from it, believing that it is impolitic, unwise, and unconstitutional. 
Mr. FITCH, of Manchester, desired to offer an amendment, but it was not in order, pending the motion to postpone. 
Mr. SHIRLEY, of Andover, said he fully concurred in the remarks of the gentleman who had preceded him. The subject was brought before the Committee on petitions, numerously signed, and among those who appeared before the Committee to urge the matter were Parker Pillsbury, Isaac Case and Andrew Foss. Two of these men at least admitted that the bill was in direct violation of the Constitution of the United States, which this House had sworn to support; but they contended that, believing the Constitution of the United States to be wrong, they were justified in trampling it under foot. They said the Constitution of the United States would do well enough in little matters of interest among us, but ought not to be observed at all when great questions of right are in issue-that the higher law, so high as to be above oaths and above honor, ought to be observed rather than the lower law of the Constitution, and laws of the land. He washed the hands of every Democrat in the House of this measure. He understood that even the Republicans on the Committee doubted the propriety of bringing the bill here, and why it was reported he did not know. He trusted the New Hampshire Legislature was not yet so steeped in madness and fanaticism as to take the ground of these gentlemen, and with the oath of God upon them to commit perjury. Even fanatical Massachusetts, which went down to the depths of 'isms,' and stood side by side with South Carolina in repudiating her obligations to the federal government-even Massachusetts refused last session to perjure herself with this bill. It was too black for Massachusetts; they should not stain the reputation of New Hampshire with it. It was midnight treason, and the blackest perjury. 
Mr. MASON, of Moultonboro', proceeded in a written speech to oppose the bill.
 Mr. CRAGIN, of Lebanon-Mr. Speaker, if this motion to indefinitely postpone the bill had been urged upon grounds that I could have endorsed, I should not have risen in my place to make any remarks on this occasion. If the argument used had been that we were so near the close of the session, that we could not properly, consider this subject-or I might say any subject-and that in our little State of New Hampshire, there is no pressing occasion for any bill of this kind, I should have quietly voted for the postponement; but, sir, when reasons are given which my vote might seem to endorse, I cannot remain silent. The doctrine advanced this forenoon, that the Supreme Court is, to all intents and purposes, beyond all question, either of the State authorities or the people, It repudiate and deny. I hold that the Fugitive Slave Law is unconstitutional, and I take occasion have to-day to say it boldly. I claim that the Republican party, as a party, considers that law unconstitutional,
<c05>
And, for myself, I will be no more bound by the decision of the Supreme Court, than I would by the opinion of an equal number of men, equally well qualified to judge in matters of that kind.
I say I may be Sound in my action, but I will not be bound to maintain silence; I will not be bound not o enter my protest against such doctrines. Gentlemen earn in haste-some of them seem in haste-to announce their opposition to this measure, and sentiments have been uttered here so utterly repugnant to my feelings of humanity and brotherly love, that feel compelled to repudiate them. I deny that the Supreme Court is the sale judge of Constitutional questions. Congress has as much power to determine the constitutionality of its own acts as the Supreme Court, Thomas Jefferson and Gen. Andrew Jackson held the same doctrine. Jefferson maintained that the Supreme Court was the most dangerous of our Government-that it was a corps of sapper and miners, working by day and by night to undermine the principles upon which the government is founded-and up a the day of his death, he warned his country against the encroachments of that Court.
While I could not vote for the bill in its present shape, I do believe some legislation might he had upon the subject which would be proper, legal and constitutional. I acknowledge allegiance to the Constitution of the United States, and that I am bound by it, and the laws of the United States; but, at the same time, I claim that the States of this Union have some rights, as well as the federal government. I look with alarm upon the encroachments of the central power off this government, and the tendencies of the times to steal power from the many, to deposit with the few. I see power slipping away from the people gradually, and centering in the Supreme Court of the United States. 
I believe that the States of this Union have a right to protect their own citizens against any law that may be enacted to deprive them of their civil rights. I shall probably vote for the motion to postpone indefinitely, but I shall do so distinctly repudiating the idea that we have no right to question any decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, or law of the federal government. I say again, I deny the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law, and attach no more importance to a decision of that Court than I would to an opinion of an equal number of men equally well qualified to judge on a matter of this kind. I had hoped that the matter might have been postponed quietly at least till the next session, and that we might not raise this exciting topic of debate at this time, when other matters are waiting our consideration.
Mr. BRYANT, of Concord, (the Speaker,)-I am glad, Mr. Chairman, that we do not differ as to the impolicy of forcing such a bill through the House. I do not understand that I have taken the position, or that any other gentleman has taken a position of denying our right to question, or to entertain opinions upon the correctness of decisions of any court or tribunal in the land. But when the gentleman goes further, and says he places no more reliance upon the decisions of the Supreme Court than on the opinions of other men, if he means that no more vitality and force attach to these decisions, then I differ with him in toto, beginning, middle and end. I do not endorse any such doctrine here or elsewhere: I never did, and I never shall. I utterly deny that Thomas Jefferson or Andrew Jackson, or either of them, ever endorsed it at any time or place. 
They both stood upon the impregnable ground which I stand upon to-day, of asserting the right of every co-ordinate branch of government to construe the Constitution, equally with the Supreme Court. And when nullification reared its hydra-head in South Carolina, Andrew Jackson took the ground that the decisions of the Supreme Court, and the laws of Congress, were binding upon the sovereign States, upon the legislatures, and upon the people. If this be not the true doctrine, upon what an uncertain sea are we drifting! We are drifting at large upon an unknown sea, with a lee-shore of rocks at hand. I believe in no such doctrine. So long as the Fugitive Slave Law remains unrepealed, having the sanction of the Supreme Court, although it does not bind Congress or the Executive, which are co-ordinate branches, it does bind individuals and State legislation. Therefore, while I am glad the gentleman from Lebanon agrees in the propriety of postponement, I repudiate his doctrine as fully as he does mine.
Mr. SMITH, of Manchester, said he did not want his motives misconstrued. He was willing to have this matter postponed. He introduced the first petition for this bill as he would for a dissolution of the Union, for he believed in the sacred right of petition. He denied that the petitioners had said this bill was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. The bill was not before the Committee until after the hearing. He was inclined to think the bill is not in all respects conformable to the Constitution; but if there had been time, it might have been properly amended. This debate would have the effect of showing that the Republican party was the true Union party. His friend from Andover had stigmatized the 'Kingdom of South Carolina' as a disunion State, yet his party voted with that State for President. The South disregarded the federal laws against the slave-trade, and some of the recently kidnapped Africans might find their way into this State. This proposed law would, if passed, be a protection to them. He referred to the divisions of the Democratic party on the subject of slavery in the Territories. If the States were chargeable with nullifying the laws of the general government, was not the government equally chargeable with nullifying the laws of the States? But he rejoiced that the States had the remedy in their own hands.
Mr. GREENLEAY, of Portsmouth, was hardly willing to consider this subject in a serious light, and doubted whether the Committee was in earnest in reporting the bill. He spoke of the legislation of other States on this subject, and reminded the Republicans that New Hampshire had once passed a personal liberty bill, and afterwards repealed it on the ground that it was unconstitutional. He proceeded to argue that this bill is unconstitutional, quoting various legal decisions in celebrated fugitive slave cases.
Mr. SHIRLEY, of Andover, said he only desired to correct the statements of Mr. Smith. The petitioners at the hearing referred to this bill distinctly when they admitted that it was contrary to the Constitution of the United States. He was not going to advocate or defend the re-opening of the slave-trade, but thought the Republicans would do well to abandon Eli Thayer, and go in for wiping out slavery in blood. 
Mr. PILLSBURY, of Henniker, referred to, the repeal of the old personal liberty hill, which he held was done by order of the South, because it was being need there to the damage of Gen. Pierce. Judge Morton, of Georgia, came on to see it done, and sat in the gallery, and overlooked the calling of the roll by which the offensive statute was wiped out. He went, like Gen. Jackson, ' for the Constitution as I understand it.'
Mr. FETCH, of Manchester, said his amendment was simply to repeal the Constitution of the United States, and annul alt the Acts of Congress inconsistent with this act. He felt like protesting against the Republicans turning the cold shoulder in this way on their old friend Foes. This was, in his opinion, the most infamous bill ever introduced, but he would not say so, because he would not transgress the rules of propriety. He hoped Democrats would let the Happy family' settle it themselves. 
Mr. WADLRIRGM, of Milford, was not satisfied with this bill-it was too broad in its provisions-but he could not assent to all that had been said against it even by Republican members. He believed that the fugitive Slave law of unconstitutional, and the most atrocious enactment that ever disgraced a nation. He man in this house would undertake to carry out its inhuman provisions. The Supreme Court could not
<c06>
bind his opinion of the Constitution; and he asked his Democratic friends, if they intended to be always bound by the decisions of the Supreme Court, what was to become of their platform of popular sovereignty? They had made squatter sovereignty speeches, while out on the stump, which were as full of treasons and nullification as any speeches in favor of this bill. The Supreme Court will soon declare that Congress must support slavery in the Territories. Would the Democrats of New Hampshire be bound by such a decision? In conclusion, he moved that the bill be laid on the table. Lost.
Mr. CRAGIN, of Lebanon, said he thought the bill was unconstitutional, but it was not treason to question the constitutionality of the Supreme Court.
The vote was taken on postponing the bill indefinitely, and declared to be carried in the affirmative.
Mr. PARKER, of Wolfborough, demanded the years and nays, and the roll of the House was called, resulting: Yeas, 277; nays 18. So the bill was indefinitely postponed.

LETTER FROM A.J. GROVER.
EARLVILLE, La Salle County, III.
MY DEAR MR. MAY:-
It has been a long time, since I have communicated or co-operated to any worthy extent, with the friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society in the great and good work which they are so energetically and faithfully carrying forward. I regret very much that this should have been the case, on account of the good which I have lost, as well as the good I might have done, however small in amount; for I shall ever regard the time in which I was associated, in a humble way, with the Anti-Slavery friends, as the most profitable period of my life.
But I hope, if you have not forgotten me altogether, that you have not entertained, for have been picked up by some piratical craft of Church or State, and had forgotten my old friends, and the cause which I so ardently espoused in my boyhood. For, not with standing this long silence, isolation from the abolitionists, and inactivity on my part, it has been a period of recuperative experience and anti-slavery growth to me; and, though living in one of the most pro-slavery communities in northern Illinois, I have endeavored to exert, upon all occasions, in season and out of season, by word and deed, a positive anti-slavery influence. I have for five years kept constantly upon my table, in my office, in a conspicuous place, a pile of Anti-Slavery Tracts, such as you have been distributing gratuitously.
When I first came to live in this town, five years ago, I came very near 'getting thrashed' by a good democratic friend for making an anti-slavery speech. At that time there was not, to my knowledge, a single abolitionist besides myself in town. A miserable, pro-slavery, whiskey democracy was the best and only type of politics, and a single old School Presbyterian Church, of the most hunkerish character, had change of the spiritual and religious interest of the people. Now we have a large Republican majority in politics, a free church where anti-slavery is preached and prayed every Sunday, and which was occupied by Mr. Foss last winter, and which can be used at my time for anti-slavery lectures; and, what is best of all, we have five subscribers to the Liberator, who are the subscribers to its principles.
We were very glad that the Executive Committee were able to send Mr. Foss to Illinois last winter. Although the condition of the roads was such, most of the time, as to prevent as good attendance upon his meetings as would otherwise have been came, yet his labors must have a marked influence in preparing the way for the organization of a State Society,<illegible> to the American Anti-Slavery Society, which we hope will not be delayed longer than the coming fall or winter. Too much attention cannot be given, in my opinion, by your agents, to the organization of auxiliary Anti-Slavery Societies to the Americans. If our organizations were complete in every State, and every county of the Free States, we should be able to secure and concentrate a greater amount of support. Pecuniary and otherwise, which is now comparatively unfelt, or wasted upon Republican campaigns, for the lack of a more worthy object. A great deal is left by not being at hand to receive when there is a readiness to give.
The $350.000 annually paid into the American Tract Society shows the importance and utility of complete and universal organizations, of being ready to take what there my be a willingness to give. I am well aware of the first requisite, to have the anti-slavery sentiments to organize; but, in a practical point of view, it is no less important to have an organization to put abolitionists into, as fast as they are converted; for they generally come out of some pro-slavery organization, and there is great danger of their going back, if their is no better to receive them.
I really long, when I read the notices of your Conventions, to be with you at those gatherings, to see and hear the noble men and women, who, with incessant labor and great sacrifice, are spending their lives in the cause of truth and human freedom. I venerate and almost worship them; and when I remember that I may not be permitted to see them again on earth, and that others, perhaps again 'the manliest of ye all.' may be called soon to follow our lamented friends Ellis Gray Loring, Arnold Buffum, and Charles E. Hovey, to that mysterious life beyond the grave, my hope well nigh fails me; for who-ah! who can make good their places?
But I must close. Enclosed please find twenty dollars, the amount of my pledge to the American Anti-Slavery Society.
Yours truly,
A. J. GROVER.

TWO PHASES OF SPIRITUALISM.
The following paragraph appeared, editorially, in the last number of the 'Burner of Light,' ( a paper mainly devoted to Spiritualism.) which, from its commencement till now, has made 'light' of the wrongs and sufferings of those who are groaning in the Southern house of bondage:-
Frederick Douglas, publisher of a reform weekly newspaper in Rochester, N.Y., is rather severe in his last issue, on Spiritualists, because they do and plunge head and shoulders into his favorite reform rabid Anti-Slavery. The Anti-Slavery movement in a 'militant' attitude, aims a blow only at one branch of error; while Spiritualism, in an anti-militant attitude, aims a blow at all error.
This is the very cant of those clerical trimmers who oppose and decry every specific reform upon the plea that 'the gospel' is the grand instrumentality for the redemption of the world.
Very different in spirit in the following extract of a letter from MARY. F. DAVIS, wife of ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS, dated Waukegan, Ill., June 9, and published in the last number of the Spiritual Telegraph:-
We regretted not having been in New York to attend the May anniversaries. These especially which represent the Anti-Slavery and Women's Rights societies claim, and meet ever claim, our sincerest interest, and, as far as possible. our hearty co-operations. Surely, while there are four millions of African slaves and thirteen millions of American slave in this blood-bought Republic-this 'New Atlantis,' which by all that is God-like in man and woman should be, but is not 'the lead of the free and the home of the brave'-while human souls, environed with flesh and blood, and troubling with tender human sympathies, are thrust like cattle upon the auction-black at the, South, and human souls, hearing the should be form of wife and mother, are crush under the heavy hand of legal and domestic despotism in the North-how should the heart of every SPIRITUALITY respond to glad and grateful sympathy to the brave efforts of the noble vanguard in behalf of these oppressed millions! Let us rejoice in the names and deeds of such as Parker, and Garrison, and Phillips, and Lucy State. How earnestly have they wrought, they and their coadjutors, for the freedom and welfare of humanity! In the silent deep of all great souls, and in the future of our redeemed nation, their memory shall glow like the clear light of stars. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE LOST DIAMOND.
BY MRS F. D. GAGE
'Do you not suppose that many of the slaves, whom you say are so well treated, in the main oftentimes meet with great cruelty and wrong?'
'Oh yes,' answered my fair-haired friend; 'of course they do, and so do your poor laboring classes in the North. I have known some very cruel things in my day.'
'Very likely; but suppose you tax your memory a little, and see if you can find in all your experience in New England, which you say lasted twenty-five years, any thing that will match the first scene of outrage that you remember as having happened during the last for years in which you have sojourned at the South'.
The pleasant lady hesitated; a cloud passed over her fair smooth brow. Evidently, a painful thought was tugging at her heart. She bit her beautiful lip, and twirled the crimson tassel of her double gown round her fore finger 
'Come,' said I' tell me what it is. You have asserted that I do not understand the people of the South; that they are misrepresented and belied; that the slaves fare well and are happy. Now, there is a powerful memory asking for utterance, and-'
'Your question has put me to thinking,' she exclaimed, as she drew her delicately slippered feet up on the sofa, and clasped her arms about her knees, in an attitude of easy confidence. 'I was born and brought up in Vermont. At fifteen years of age, I grew dissatisfied with what seemed the dull routine of housework, and went to Lowell, and entered a factory. Being a quick, ingenious hand, I made good wages, and at eighteen had laid up enough on interest to help me to go to Mount Holyoke to school. Father was not rich, but he did what he could for me, and at twenty-two I left the institution with a good name and a pretty good education. I soon got a situation as teacher in my native State, taught two years, and then went to Brattleboro' to spend a vocation. There I met Mr. Warder, who was you may guess, captivated. I became his wife, and have spent four years in the South, enjoying every luxury that wealth can procure, and the highest degree of happiness that the most devoted affection can bestow.
'My husband is kind to his slaves to a fault; but he says he cannot bear to deprive them any thing that they wish, because he feels that all they demand is not an equivalent for other labor. Still, he does not see how he can better their condition, and I try to think they are better off then if free. You see how it is; we don't se how we can help ourselves. But all this is irrelevant to the question under discussion.
'Your question sent me back into the past, and I do not remember any thing worse that ever happened in the neighborhood where I lived than the severe whipping of a hired girl. My father was Justice of the Peace, and the women who committed this offence against the peace and majesty of the good state of Vermont was brought before him, and I was present at the examination. The little sufferer's dress was removed, and, though but one night had passed, only a few red marks were found upon the little body. The child was taken from the inhuman wretch, and a fine imposed which was heavy to bear, for the woman was poor. I do not recollect now that a single person in the town took sides with the woman; even her own brothers censured her severely, and said no child ought to be bound to her, for it was sure to come out bad.
'Now,' said she, 'let me tell you a tale of horror. Hannah, put down those curtains, and shut out this beautiful spring sunlight. I feel as though I could not talk with the glare of light in my face, when such black deeds are to be told.
Just after I came South-(you may go to the kitchen, Hannah)-one of the daughters of Col. Stross, who lived in a splendid mansion just outside of our city, and was counted the richest man in town, lost a diamond ring. The ring was of great value, and of course its loss created great excitement in the household. Miss Julia remembered distinctly having laid it in her casket on a certain evening, after a ball, and no one knew where she kept those things but her mother and sisters, and her maid Myra, a pretty mulatto girl of about sixteen. Myra was very fond of dress, and had often spoken her praises, in most lavish terms of the sparkling gem on Miss Julia's finger.
After all due search had been made, she was called up and questioned, but denied any knowledge of the affair. Col. Stross, who was called a hard master, told her, in the most peremptory manner, that if she did not find it, she should be punished for her carelessness in allowing her mistress's things to be stolen, as she had nothing else to do but take care of them. This so frightened the poor girl, and her language was to incoherent, that the conviction at once settled on their minds that the with the culprit, and she was immediately ordered to the yard, to be whipped till she acknowledged her guilt. The overseer of the plantation, which lies some three miles from the house, was a brutal man, (my husband says they all are, that no man but a brute will take such an office,) so the poor girl was tied to the post and whipped till she fainted.'
'Oh! my God, what wretchedness!' I exclaimed.
'They brought her to and asked her to tell what she had done with the diamond, but she still denied any knowledge of the matter; and she was locked up and starved till the next day. And when brought out again and questioned, she denied having touched Miss Julia's diamond. Another whipping more severe than the first followed, and when they took her from the post, she was one gore of blood, from her neck to her heels Hannah's husband was one of Colonel Stross's men. Then my husband bought him to please Hannah, and he told us all about it. She was carried to her Mother when in this state, and the old woman in her indignation gave the overseer a piece of her mind for which she got a slashing' as they call it, scarcely less service.
'But to make a long story short,’ said the speaker, with a husky voice, and her hands twitching nervously 'Myra, after a week of delirium and fever, died, and the old women hung herself with the end of the clothes line, in her own cabin, by the side of her dead child.'
The fair browed lady had a heart, for she laid her head in her hands, and wept convulsively. I did not weep. I had heard too many such tales of sorrow; but I sad silent, with an aching at my heart-strings, that tears would have relieved.
When the burst of feeling had subsided, she raised
'Was nothing ever heard of the diamond', asked I.
'Yes nearly a year went by and Miss Julia had to, wear the same rich blue velvet dress, that had been admiration off all company at the aforementioned ball, when putting her hand in the pocket, lo! the diamond ring!’
Now she remembered distinctly, that her ring was too large for her finger, and not wishing to pull her glove over it, she had slipped it into her pocket. Weary with the fatigue of the evening, and crazed with the flatteries of the hour, she had forgotten the circumstance, and only remembered having put it into casket on the evening before'.
'What was done about it?'
'Nothing of course; very few heard of the matter, for no one had seen Myra whipped that had a white face. Col. Storss swore the diamond had cost him three time its value, and threatened to turn off the overseer, but did not. Miss Julia felt pretly bad, for she thought a good deal of her maid; but she soon flourished her diamonds as gaily as ever.'
'And yet you say they are kindly treated, and better off then if free.'
'What else can I say? God help me-I have not strength enough to say aught else.'
[Extract from Notes of Travel.]
<c02>
AN ANTI-SLAVERY CHURCH.
WORCESTER, June 24, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I make haste to inform yon that we have at last an anti-slavery church; thoroughly and consistently so too, as far as its resolutions are concerned. The following resolutions were presented by Homer B. Sprague, the accomplished Principal of our High School, at the annual meeting of our Salem Street Church in this city, and discussed at that and two succeeding meetings had by adjournment for that purpose; when they were, last evening, after the fullest discussion and explanation, unanimously adopted:
Whereas, American slavery is the 'sum of all villanies'; therefore.
Resolved, That we renounce all church association, connection and fellowship with slaveholders, and with all who in any manner knowingly and persistently uphold or countenance slavery.
Resolved, That all laws for the support of slavery are iniquitous, and therefore not morally binding.
Resolved, That our prayers and sympathies are with those Christians now imprisoned at Cleveland, Ohio, for their noble conduct in rescuing a fugitive slave from the man-stealers; and that we honor them for their fidelity to God and man.
Resolved, That so long as Jesus Christ, in the person of the slave, is forced to perform unpaid labor upon Southern plantations,-is sold upon the auction-block to the highest bidder,-is scourged for righteousness sake,-is pursued with chains, pistols and bloodhounds, is escaping to a free country,-so long it is the duty of his processed followers to raise their voice, and yield all their influence to destroy the abomination; and the individual or the church that intentionally fails to do this must be treated by us as none of His.
These resolutions are clear, explicit and sweeping against the sinners, and, if actually put in force, will show one church to be, in so much, a Christian body, worthy of the name, which is an anomaly among the churches of this land. 
Some opposition was made to them, and substitutes were proposed that condemned the sin, while they let the sinner stand as a Christian. These failing to be received, the opposition tried to amend them by striking out of the first the words 'association' and 'connection,' but this failed also.
The opposition was led openly and boldly by Charles White, (State Auditor,) on the ground that the resolutions were impracticable and impossible, as if carried out, they would cut off every other church in the city and in the State, if not in the denomination; and this church could not maintain its existence on such a basis. He was willing to denounce the sin, in the severest terms, but when he came to deal with the sinner, he desired to deal cautiously and gently; and it would not do to try to separate from all 'connection' with them; it would be impracticable and disastrous.
The pastor of the church, Merrill Richardson, who has heretofore preached and talked strong anti-slavery during the year and a half that he has been settled over this church, seemed a little taken aback to find that any of his members should think of making practical application of his teachings; it was apparently rather more than he had bargained for; and he cautioned them against too rashly making specific application of general principles-it was difficult, and needed great caution, prudence, and abundance of Christian charity; we could not withdraw from all connection with sinners without taking ourselves out of the world, and we must not try to do too much. 
The resolutions were ably, boldly and clearly sustained by the mover, Mr. Sprague, by S. R. Heywood, and W. Allen, with some others. It was really refreshing to hear the clear and bold argumentation of the strongest anti-slavery sentiments and action by these young men, and to see how nobly they stood every test and met every point, utterly refusing any compromise, or toning down, affirming their desire and determination to know the right, and then to do it, regardless of consequences; to make clear their separation from slaveholders and their abettors, if it took them from the communion of every other church, or from this church itself; and, if need be, to discipline any member of this church who should sustain the American Board of Missions, the Bible Society, the Tract Society, or any other organization that should be shown to sustain slavery; to disfellowship all such preachers as Dr. Adams and Dr. Lord, and all such as should recognize them as Christians.
When they came to vote for the resolutions, seriatim, fifteen of the forty members present, (in a church of two hundred members,) voted for them, and as none dared to vote nay, it was called, of course, a unanimous vote.
Mr. Richardson, seeing that the resolutions were sure to pass, cautiously said, that of course they could bind no one's conscience by adopting the resolutions, neither could they have any ex post facto effect, as the church could adopt no new rule that could bind the action of present members, who had joined under the old rules, and on the past basis.
If this construction prevails, these resolutions are of course of small worth, and had better not been passed. But we shall see.
Charles White, seeing their passage to be inevitable, consoled the opposition by saying that the resolutions could do no harm, at nothing could or would be done with them; they would not affect their relations with other churches at all, and six months hence it would hardly be known. J. A. H.
P. S. June 27.-The intention of Mr. Richardson to respect the resolutions of this church is exemplified by the fact that he yesterday put Rev. Mr. Post, the pastor of a church of slaveholders in St. Louis, into his pulpit!! J. A. H. 

AFRICA.
A New exploration to be made in Yoruba and Nussa has just been commenced by two colored men of the United States. Mr. Robert Campbell and Dr. Martin R. Delany. It was at first proposed to have this company consist of five persons, but, after months of effort, the means obtained were found inadequate, and only two have gone.
Mr. Campbell left the United States in April, via England, and is to meet Dr. Delany,-who sailed from New York in the bark Mendi,-in Liberia, or at Lagos on the Coast of Africa.
Dr. Delany leaves with the purpose of learning and reporting the real facts as they exist in Africa, and with the hope of hereafter aiding the African Colonization Society to found a new nation near the river Niger.
The bark Mendi was not chartered by the Colonization Society, but by a firm of colored men, long resident in New York, Messrs. John D. Johnson, Joseph H. Turpin, and Charles H. Dunbar, who have formed a copartnership for African trade, and taken out a large cargo.
The Maryland Colonization Journal for May, from which the above extracts are gleaned, makes the following mention of Edmund Garrison Draper, who died at Cape Palmas last December:-
‘We have known Mr. Draper from early childhood. His father, Mr. Garrison Draper of Forrest street, Old Town, well known as and honest man and thriving shopkeeper, early destined his son for Liberia, and educated him accordingly. After obtaining a preparatory education in Pennsylvania, he entered Dartmouth College, in Hanover, N. H., and passed through his collegiate course with credit. On consultation with his friends, he decided upon the profession o law. Charles Gilman, Esq., one of the Board of Managers, and a retired member of the Baltimore Bar, very kindly tendered him the use of his library, and consented to give him private instruction. Not having advantages of attending the courts in this city, (Baltimore,) he spent the last few months of his study in the office of Charles Story, Esq., in Boston, and through his kindness enjoyed all the advantages of students of his profession in that city.
Previous to his embarkation, Judge Lee, of the Superior Court, after an examination, gave him a certificate to the effect that his legal acquirements were very respectable, and, were it not for his color, would entitle him to admission to the Baltimore Bar. He was of an amiable disposition, very modest and retiring-a good student, possessing a sound and discriminating mind.
The great Marble Palace Hotel, on Fifth Avenue, opposite Madison Square, New York, is nearly done, at a cost $1,144,000! and will be opened Aug. 1 
<c03>
From the National Intelligencer.
DEATH OF GAMALLEL BAILEY, ESQ.
Amongst the items of the Persia's news, a large portion of the American people will have observed with regret the announcement of the death of Mr. Gamaliel Bailey, the proprietor and editor of the National Era, of this city. About a dozen years ago, Mr. Bailey, who was a native of Mount Holly, N. J., conceived and executed the bold idea of establishing a newspaper in Washington, devoted mainly to the anti-slavery cause. The Era being a literary as well as a political journal, achieved much celebrity from the publication of Mrs. Stowe's 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' which first appeared in the columns, and which at once give it a lane circulation.
Mr. Bailey, who was personally a most amiable and talented gentleman, has always maintained his paper at a very high standard of literary excellence, and has asserted his political opinions with a courteous and dignified boldness and independence that have won for him the respect of all who knew him. Seeking relief from a wasting disease in a foreign clime, he died before reaching land, on board the Arago, on the 5th instant. There are very few men, we believe, who have ever succeeded as he has in conducting through a long period of years a partisan newspaper, and gone to their graves with as unsullied a character for uprightness, honesty, and high-toned independence.
Mr. Bailey was accompanied on his intended tour, thus early terminated in death, by the eldest son, Mr. Marcellus Bailey, from whom intelligence has been received, stating that he took his father's remains to Havre, in order to bring them home in the next steamer for the United States, which is the Vanderbilt. This ship, according to the published programme, was to have left Havre on Wednesday last, and may be expected at New York about the 3d of July. 
The death of Dr. Bailey, the editor of the National Era, will be deeply regretted by a large circle of friends, including a host whose only acquaintance with him was through the columns of the paper which he conducted with such distinguished ability and regard for the rights of man. It is not a little singular that there should be any doubt about the name of one who has been so long before the public In his paper he was styled simply 'G. Bailey.' The telegraph and many papers announced him as ‘George' Bailey; some of his correspondents and friends named him ‘Gamaliel'; and the New American Cyclopedia calls calls him Gideon.'
Be this as it may, we learn from the last source that Dr. Bailey was born at Mount Holley, N. J., Dec. 3, 1807. At nine years of age, he removed with his parents to Philadelphia, where he studied medicine, and received his medical degree in 1828. After making a brief visit to China, in the capacity of physician to a ship, he began his career as an editor, in Baltimore, in conducting the Methodist Protestant. In 1831, he removed to Cincinnati, and was there appointed physician to the cholera hospital during the raging of the pestilence. The expulsion of some of the students from Lane Seminary, on account of their anti-slavery sentiments and efforts, first prompted him to reflections on slavery, and to political action against it. In 1836, he joined James G. Birney in conducting the first anti-slavers newspaper in the West, the Cincinnati Philanthropist. During thin year, their printing establishment was twice, once at midnight and once in midday, assailed by a mob, the press thrown into the Ohio river, and the books and papers made a bonfire of. Alter the withdrawal of Mr. Birney, he became the sole editor, and the mob which then assailed his establishment was dispersed only at the point of the bayonet. On the establishment of an anti-slavery paper at the seat of government in 1847, he was selected by the projectors of the scheme to be its editor, and went to Washington to enter upon his new duties. At the paper did not pay its expenses during the first year, the society which supplied its funds determined to stop it. Dr. Bailey, however, purchased it, and has since conducted it with great success. In 1848, he had his last conflict with popular violence, when a mob for three days besieged hit office.
The Era had a high literary character, and many literary works have been published from its columns. The most remarkable of them is Mrs. Stowe's famous Uncle Tom's Cabin, which began to appear in the Era in June, 1851.
Dr. Bailey left New York on the 28th of last month, in the steamship Arago, intending to make a tour in Europe for the benefit of his health, and he died, it appears, on the 5th inst., in mid ocean. Lieut. Gov. Raymond, of the N. Y. Times, who was a fellow passenger with him, writes that he did not consider himself to be seriously ill,-at least, that his lungs were not affected-but that a long continued dyspepsia, and the nervous excitement which his labors had induced, had combined to bring about the weakness under which he suffered. For the first two or three days he was upon deck for the greater part of the time. The weather was fresh, though not unpleasantly cold, and the sea not rough enough to occasion any considerable discomfort. The motion, however, affected him disagreeably. He slept badly, had no appetite, and could relish nothing but a little fruit now and then. His eldest son was with him, and attended upon him with all a son's fond solicitude, but he probably had no other acquaintance on board with the exception of Mr. Raymond. He was cheerful, social, and talked with interest of every thing connected with public affairs at home and abroad. He suffered some inconvenience by being obliged to descend two pairs of stairs to his room. Occasionally a couch of cushions was made for him upon deck when he became fatigued,-but this made him too conspicuous for his taste, and he seemed uneasily fearful of attracting attention to himself as an invalid. His strength continued to fail, and on Thursday, 2d inst., from stopping too long upon deck, he took cold, which kept him to his room the next day. Otherwise he seemed about as usual through that day and Saturday, and on Sunday morning seemed even better-saying that he had slept unusually well, and felt strengthened and refreshed. He took some slight nourishment, and attempted to get up from his berth without assistance; the effort was too much for him, however, and his son, who had left the room at his request, but stood at the door, saw him fall as he attempted to stand. He at once went in, raised his father, and laid him upon the couch. Seeing that he was greatly distressed in breathing, he went immediately for Dr. Smith, the surgeon of the ship. Mr. Raymond met the son on deck, and, hearing of his father's condition, went at once to his room, and found him wholly unconscious, breathing with difficulty, but perfectly quiet and seemingly asleep.-Drs. Beaale and Dubois were present, and had endeavored to give him a stimulant,-but he was unable to swallow, and it was evident that he was dying. He continued in this state for about half an hour,-his breathing became slower and slower, until finally it ceased altogether, and that was all. Not a movement of a muscle,-not a spasm or a tremor of any kind,-betrayed the moment when his spirit took its departure. An infant, wearied with play on a Summer's eve, could not have fallen asleep more gently. His remains were placed in ice, and taken to Havre, from which they will be returned to New York by the Vanderbilt, which left on the 18th. He leaves a wife and six children. 
The Transcript remarks that Dr. Bailey was no leas remarkable for his amiable temper and generosity of heart, than for his commanding talents and rare devotion to humanity. On taking up his abode in Washington, he found that the friends of the cause he was advocating were almost entirely excluded from fashionable society, and therefore threw open his house on Saturday evenings for their entertainment. Although these social reunions were at first exclusively attended by members of Congress who sympathized with him in opinion, and other temporary residents of Washington, they finally became so popular, and so noted for the amount of talent attracted to them, that liberal men and women of all parties-literary persons, artists and distinguished foreigners-were in the habit of attending them. 

PERSECUTION OF THE METHODISTS IN TEXAS.
Our readers have been duly and fully advised of the alarming state of things on our Southeastern border. The terrible storm has been brewing for several months. The Central Advocate has often been arrested and suppressed by officious postmasters, and other hirelings of oppression. Our ministers and members have been narrowly watched by Vigilance Committees and proslavery spies in general. At the late session of the Arkansas Conference, held in Texas, a mob was gathered, and set upon Bishop Janes and the worshiping congregation on the Sabbath day. Of this shameful affair, and those who figured prominently in it, a full account is in our paper. Since the adjournment, the storm-cloud has thickened. The most violent measures are being adopted against our preachers and people, in conformity with the advice of the Texas Advocate, for their extirpation from the State. Our poor brethren are hunted down like beasts of the forest. They are threatened with death if they dare to preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ under the auspices of the Methodist Episcopal Church. A number of our preachers have been compelled to flee for their lives. Others remain, endeavoring to keep the little flock together, but go on with their very lives in their hands. 
The Rev. Wm. Butt, presiding, elder of Texas District, is en route for his field of labor, but a terrible reception seems to await him. A friend, writing us says: Father Rewley has gone to his circuit but it is doubtful whether he ever returns to his family 
<c04>
again; for as the bloodhounds howl for the blood of the fugitive slave, even so do these fends of oppression thirst for his blood!' What a spectacle is here. An aged minister of our Lord Jesus Christ, of unblamable life, who has served for a number of years as presiding elder in Missouri. Arkansas and Texas, who served as representative in the last General Conference, and who, for many years, has proclaimed the unsearchable riches of Christ upon the frontier, that he is to be hunted down and murdered without the slightest provocation, except that of being a minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church on slave territory.-Central (St. Louis) Christian Advocate. 
It was our privilege to spend the last Sunday at the pleasant home of our friend Aaron M. Powell, in Ghent, Columbia Co. He lives under the same roof with his parents, a sister and younger brother. Upon a part of the home farm he has entered quite extensively into the business of fruit-growing. He will this year pick a fine crop of Antwerp Blackberries, while his Grape-vines, Lawton Blackberry shoots and Apple and Pear trees give promise of extensive harvests at an early day, In the out-door occupation which this business affords, Mr. Powell has found a delightful remedy for the bodily weaknesses which impelled him to relinquish the work of an anti-slavery lecturer, in which, for some years past, he has rendered valuable service to the cause. Though no longer able to do the work of a ‘field hand’ in that cause, he will serve it actively in the vicinity of his residence, where he is very highly esteemed, and by occasional lectures in more distant places. Even now he is engaged, by correspondence and otherwise, in an effort to flood the next Legislature of the Empire State with petitions for the enactment of a law for the protection of the fugitive slave. In this work, moreover, he has the active sympathy and aid of his sister, a graduate of the State Normal School, an excellent teacher and a warm-hearted abolitionist. There is no more beautiful region in the whole Empire State than that in which they live. The Cattskill mountains present, from this point, one of the grandest natural pictures we have ever teen.-Anti-Slavery Standard. 
ACQUISITION OF CUBA. Says the Notional Intelligencer,-'Recent intimations have reached us from many quarters, both public and private, to the effect that our late Minister to the Spanish Court, Mr. Dodge, on his recent return to this country, has very unequivocally avowed the opinion that any attempts to induce the Government of Spain to alienate this valuable dependency for a pecuniary consideration, however great, are destined to prove abortive under the present temper and disposition of the Spanish Court. This intelligence, we may add, but confirms the sober judgment of all who have been in a position to acquire correct information on this point; and coinciding, as it does, with what might have been antecedently inferred from those motives of pride and interest which prevail in Spain no less than among ourselves, we should think that it deserves to receive some little consideration at the hands of those who, after persuading themselves, that Cuba is desirable, have rather prematurely jumped to the conclusion that it is equally attainable.' 
TWO DAYS' WORK AT MAGENTA. The two days’ battle of Magenta swept from existence and placed hors du combat more than twice the standing army of the United States. The whole regular army of the Union numbered, on the 1st of last January, 12,943 men, of all ranks, from general officers down to privates. Making every allowance for exaggeration, the losses on both sides must have been between twenty-five and thirty thousand.
The cost of maintaining the armies on both sides must now be immense. One writer says that the French army alone consumes $600,000 a day.
The French Government has already sent 10,000,000 cartridges to Italy, so that this one article alone has given work to 3,000 horses. Such an enormous mass of ammunition for the rifles now in use will give a terrible idea of the power of destruction possessed by the French troops.
Among the commanders in the Austrian army is Count Nieperg, the son of Marie Louise. A rencontre between him and the Emperor of the French would be singular enough.
Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte distinguished himself in the recent battle of Montebello. He has been placed in a post of danger since the occupation of Italy by the French, intentionally, as is supposed, since he is not regarded with favor by the Emperor. He is the grandson of old Prince Jerome by his American marriage with Miss Patterson, and his mother was Miss Williams, of Baltimore.
Kossuth, it will be seen by the Anglo Saxon's news, left England for Italy on the 7th, after having had an interview with the French Ambassador in London. Time works wonders. It is but a few years ago that the French Government would not so much as permit the great Magyar to set his foot on its soil! Now he may not only go to France, but before he goes, he is the recipient of diplomatic courtesies extended to him by a French Minister.
TEMPERANCE. The friends of temperance in Jefferson, Ohio, lately held a meeting to consider what should be done to stop the sale of intoxicating drinks in that place. A committee of gentlemen and ladies was appointed, with the venerable Joshua R. Giddings at its head, to wait on all those engaged in the traffic, and to endeavor to persuade them to comply with the law. The effort of the committee proved successful; the dealers surrendered their stock of liquors on being paid therefor, at the same time agreeing to sell no more, and the fiery liquids were spilled in the street. 
Somebody asks the editor of the Hyannis Messenger if the clergy of Hyannis and Cape Cod, generally, have ‘spoken out’ on the kidnapping case. He intimates that he has not heard any thunder of that sort. We do not think it belongs to the clergy this way to say much about the matter; but how the Hyannis pulpits can be silent, when the Saviour whom they adore is crucified afresh in the person of black Columbus, under their very noses, passes our comprehension, on any other hypothesis than that they preach mainly for-salaries.-Provincetown Banner.
The Barnstable Organ of Oppression takes the ministers under its protection, and tells them not to preach against kidnapping on the Cape. When the ministers really want the approval of that tool of the slave-power, it will be time indeed, for all of us to gel down on our marrow-bones, and shout, 'To your tents! O, Israel!'-Ibid.
A terrible accident occurred Monday night on the Michigan Southern Railroad. Thirty lives were lost, and fifty or sixty are reported wounded. The accident was caused by the washing away of a culvert, and the consequent throwing of the train from the track. The scene is spoken of as intensely horrible. Among the names reported, we find of New England people the name of Charles Scherman, of Boston, wounded; E. A. Gurley of Addison, Vt., not injured. We notice only these two names from New England.
Hon. George Hood, of Lynn, died of apoplexy in Worcester, Monday evening last. He was a Democrat, and was once run as candidate for Lieutenant Governor. He was for several years a member of the House of Representatives, and of the Senate from Essex county. After the establishment of Lynn as a city, he was elected Mayor, but has of late entirely withdrawn from political life.
DEATH OF PETER YORK, THE STATE PRISON CONVICT. The notorious Peter York, confined in the State Prison on a life sentence, for the murder of James Norton at the corner of Richmond and North (then Ann) streets, Boston, was found dead in hi cell in the old prison on Saturday morning. His feet were crossed, and his hands lay on his breast; his countenance was strangely life-like, and everything about the whole body indicated a transition from life to death without a struggle. York was sent to the State Prison, March 13, 1845.
Ex-Senator James of Rhode Island has gone to St. Petersburg, to exhibit a patent gun, the destructive capabilities of which he desires the Russian government to have the benefit of, without unnecessary delay!
Jenny Lind recently gave a charity concert in London, which was not advertised, and only the aristocracy were admitted by special invitation. The receipts were $6,000. She was in full health, and sang with all her old power.
Nathaniel Ray Greene, the last surviving son of Major General Greene, of the revolution, died at his residence in Middletown, Conn., last Saturday, aged 79 years.
The Philadelphia Inquirer says:-‘Rembrandt Peale and Thomas Sully, the eminent Philadelphia artists, are engaged in painting each other's portrait Mr. Joseph Harrison, a wealthy and liberal gentleman of this city, originated this enterprise, and has commissioned each of the venerable artists to do this service for the other. Mr. Peale has recently entered upon his 82d year, and this mouth Mr. Sully will be 76.'
The Mobile Tribune confirms the report that a cargo of slaves were recently landed on the Florida coast and says that some of the barbarians an not now far from Mobile.
<c05>
Among the many restoratives which nature has supplied to relieve the afflictions of humanity, there is no more favorite one for a certain class of diseases than the ‘medical gum’ of the Wild Cherry Tree; but however valuable it is, its power to heal, to soothe, to relieve, and to cure, is enhanced ten fold by scientific and judicious combination with other Ingredients, in themselves of equal worth. This happy mingling exists in that
‘Combination and a form indeed’
Of medicine knows as
Dr. Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry,
Whose value in curing Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Asthma, Pulmonary Affliction, and Incipient Consumption, is inestimable.
HOME TESTIMONY.
BOSTON, April IS, 1852.
No. 48, Union St.
MR. SETH W. FOWLE:-Dear Sir:-Your invaluable medicine, I can truly say, has literally snatched me from the grave. Last July I was attacked with a sudden Cold, which resulted in a very severe Cough, with violent Pains in the Side and Chest. I became so much reduced, that my friends frankly told me that I must die. At this crisis, I heard of Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry, and immediately sent for a bottle. The effect produced was indeed wonderful. My physician, one of the most respectable in Boston. who had previously told me that a cure was hopeless, came in, and I informed him what I had taken. He examined the Balsam, and advised me to continue the use of it, since which time I have continued to improve daily; and the same physician who had given me up, told me, a few days since, that I might yet live many years.
Respectfully. MARY ROWE.
We can cheerfully testify to the truth of the above statement, Mrs. Rowe having been an inmate of our family. WILLIAM DENNETT,
MARTHA DENNETT.
None genuine unless signed I. BUTTS, on the wrapper.
Prepared by S. W. Fowle & Co., Boston, and for sale by dealers in medicine in nearly every town in the United States and Canadas.

TREASURER'S REPORT
Of Receipts, from April 1 to June 10, 1859.
[Omitted on account of sickness.]
Rec'd by hand of S. May, Jr.-
From Mrs. A. Bontwell, Plymouth, $1; B.
F. Burgess, Hanover. 1; R. W. Hen-
shaw, Boston, 5; John Warren, do.
7 50; Mrs. R. Williamson, to redeem
pledge, 1; A. Stan wood. New Bedford,
to redeem pledge. 10; R. I. Hinton, Kan-
as, 2, $27 50
Also, from A. H. Buck, Roxbury, to redeem
pledge, 4; D. B. M., towards new sign-
board, 50c; from Atlas and Bee, 4 87;
for overcharge, 37c. From Treasurer of
National A. S. Subscription Anniversary,
for donations from friends in England
and America, 5,795 00
By hand of S. May, Jr.-
From J. Flood, Florence, 50c, David Hinckley,
Barnstable, 5; Mary G. Chapman,
to redeem pledge, 20; C. B. M'Intire,
Reading, 3; Alden Sampson, Charles-
town, 5, 33 50
From Mrs. H. B. Draper, Hopedale, balance
of pledge, 50
By hand of S. May, Jr.-
From Edwin Thompson, to redeem pledge,
5, Mrs. E. H. Porter, Treasurer Reading
A. S. Society, 12 31; Jacob Leonard.
East Bridgewater, to redeem pledge, 5;
N. Allen, Shirley Village 1, 23 31
By hand of S. May, Jr.-
For collections and donations at New England
A. S. Convention, 590 31
By hand of Sallie Holly for collections-
In Worcester, $ 18 38; Cherry Valley, 3 73; Charlton, 6: Davenport, 8 21; Manchesster, 6; Woonsocket, 11; Portsmouth, 35 60; S. Newmarket, 4 07; Dover,
14 65; Rochester, 4 38; Great Falls, 18 66; Bradford, 1 63; South Reading, 3 43; Ashaway, 6 73; Westerly, 5 12; Mystic Bridge, 9 50; Providence, 11 68; Newport, 13 24, 182 01 
Rec'd from H. Abbot, Amherst, to redeem pledge. 5; D. B. Morey, Malden, 10; J. B. McRea, Boston, 2 12; Susan Allen, Stoneham, 2; Rev. H. Bleby, Barbadoes, 10; Timothy Davies, Framingham, to redeem pledge, 20; Mrs. A. Libbey, Chelsea, 3, 52 12 
SAMUEL PHILBRICK,
Treas. Mass. A. S. Society.
Brookline, June 20, 1859.

CIRCULAR.
It is proposed to establish a HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN, in the city of Boston, in connection with the New England Medical College. The objects aimed at are three, viz:
1. To afford to Women, during sickness and childbirth, a comfortable home, with medical attendance by their own sex, and, to out-door patients, dispensary treatment. Children of both sexes will be received.
2. To provide for Female Medical Students the advantages of clinical instruction. 
3. To give to those entering on the profession of Nurses an opportunity of education for their important duties. 
The Hospital will be under the care of Dr. MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA,-formerly of the Royal Hospital in Berlin, late Resident Physician of the New York Infirmary for Women and Children,-who is eminently qualified for the position. It will be opened in June, in the House on Springfield Street, built by the Lying-in-Hospital corporation, and rooms will be furnished for the use of patients, as fast as the funds contributed will permit. Free beds will be established for those who are unable to pay. Good accommodations, at a very moderate price, will be provided for others. Private apartments for those who desire.
The subject of Medical Education for Women has been so long before the community, that it seems not necessary, now, to argue its importance, but merely to present its claims. The expenses of a Hospital are necessarily very great; and, in order that the experiment may have a fair trial, all persons interested must feel it their work to aid promptly; and we trust that ample means will be placed in our hands. 
Sewing Societies are invited to assist in furnishing rooms. Donations of articles, such as cloth, bedding, furniture, clothing, fuel, groceries, old linen, or any thing which will be useful in the establishment, may be sent directly to the Hospital, in Springfield street. Books for Patients' Library will be extremely welcome. 
Subscriptions and donations in money may be sent to the Treasurer of the Executive Commutes,-Mrs. C. M.SEVERANCE, care of the Atlantic Bank, Boston,-or to either of the Managers.
By order of the Executive Committee,
ABBY W. MAY, Secretary.
MANAGERS.
Mrs. DANIEL SAFFORD, Boston.
Mrs. E. D. CHENEY, Boston.
Mrs. DANIEL C. EDDY, Boston,
Mrs. OTIS EVERETT, Boston.
Mrs. ABBY W. MAY, Hollis street, Boston.
Mrs. JEROME MERRTTT, Boston.
Mrs. A. A. MINER, Boston.
Miss M. J. PAKKMAN, Boston.
Mrs. FREDERICK TUDOR, Boston.
Mrs. GEO. W. BOND, Jamaica Plains.
Mrs. GEO. R. RUSSELL,
Mrs. T. C. DELANO, New Bedford.
Mrs. F. B. DURFEE, Fall River.
Mrs. J. K.PALMER, Cambridge.
Miss LUCY GODDARD, Roxbury.
Mrs. C. M. SEVERANCE,
Mrs. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE, Andover.
Mrs. T. C UPHAM, Brunswick, Me.
Mrs. JOEL W. WHITE, Norwich, Ct.
Resident Physician, M. E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, June, 1859. 
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
Worcester, Sunday, July 3.
ESSEEX COUNTY.-The annual meeting of the Essex county Anti-Slavery Society will be held at Danvers Port, Sunday, July 10. C L. REMOND and A. T. Foss will be present as speakers. Whosoever will, let him come.
CHARLES L. REMOND, President.
MOSES WRIGHT, SECRETARY.
All communications for the undersigned should be sent to Leicester, Mass.
SAMUEL, MAY, Jt.
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford as effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who surfer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted follow-citizens How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment cm many of the wont cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCORFULA AND SCOROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISESSES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIES AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MANCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUS, DEBILITY, DYSPEPESIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a gnat promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped is the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bunting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleaning the cleansing blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparation of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle, Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.

Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO.,
BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every were. 6m May 7

NEW AND USEFUL BOOKS.
MESSRS. FOWLER & WELLS,
308 BROADWAY, NEW YORK,
Have recently Published,
HINTS TOWARDS PHYSICAL PERFECTION, Illustrated, $1.
NEW RURAL HAND-BOOKS, embracing The House, The Garden, the Farm, and Domestic Animals-in one illustrated volume. $1 50.
HAND BOOKS FOR HOME IMPROVEMENTS;
How to Write-How to talk-How to Behave, and how to Do Business, One vol. $1 50.
THE NEW ILLUSTRATED HYDROPATHIC ENCYCLOPAEDIA-the most complete work on the subject. $3 00.
THE ILLUSTRATED FAMILY GYMNASIUM-Applied to the development of Body and Mind. &1.25.
Messrs. FOWLER & WELLS have all works on Physiology, Phrenology, Hydropathy, and the Natural Sciences generally, For sale in Boston by D. P. BUTLER, 142 Washington street.
June 24. 4w

THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL
FOR MAY
CONTAINS portraits of Fr. W. A. Alcott, D. B. Simmons, M. D., and Robert Allyn; Letter to a Dyspeptic; Organization, Life, and Mind; Remarkable Retribution; Self Esteem: Practical Phrenology; Self-Reliance; Longevity among English Quakers; Importance of Sleep; Formation of Opinions; Woman.
Young men, and others, who would 'Rise in the World.' and make the most of themselves, should read this Journal. Only $1 a year. Address FOWLER & WELLS, No. 308 Broadway, New York, or 42 Washington street, Boston.
J. R. ANDREWS,
Gilder, and Picture Frame
MANUFACTORY,
No. 31/2 BEACH STREET,
(Near Washington Street,) BOSTON.
PICTURE FRAMES made of every variety, plain and ornamental, for Oil Paintings, Engravings and Photographs.
Gilding, in all its branches, executed with neatness and despatch.
Oil Paintings cleaned and varnished.
Old Frames handsomely re-gilt. A28 6w

WORCESTER WATER-CURE.
DR. SETH ROGERS, being about to return from Paris, where he has spent several months in medical observations, will resume, after July 1, 1859, the medical superintendence of this Institution.
May 27. 3m
WILL BE PUBLISHED.
On Saturday, June 18th,
A FULL Report of the Woman's Rights Meeting at Mercantile Hall. For sale at URBINO'S, 19 Winter street, Boston.
Booksellers and others are requested to supply themselves from him.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 

For the Liberator.
AN APPEAL TO AMERICAN FREEMEN.
Fourth of July, 1859.
AIR—America,
I.
Sons of the boasted free, 
Who prise your liberty 
'Bove Southern trade;
Look to your fathers' graves,
Filled by your country's braves:—
Be rated no more by knaves,
You've masters made. 
II.
Light up again the fires
Ones kindled by your sires
In Freedom's cause;
Where has that spirit fled
Which moved those heroes dead,
Before which tyrants sped,
'Mid loud huzzas?
III.
Let all who would be men, 
By deed, end tongue, and pen,
Join hand in hand; 
Swear that on Pilgrim soil,
Where hardy freemen toil, 
The tyrant's power to spoil, 
They'll firmly band. 
IV.
Let all who join in the prayer—
Here, Lord, a place prepare
For Freedom's home:
Where sleep our honored dead,
Ne'er may a despot tread.
No traitor lift his head—
The good time come! 
Boston, June 21, 1859. JUSTITIA.

For the Liberator.
TO THE LATE CHARLES V. HOVEY. 
We mourn thy absence, yet believe 
That somewhere thou are blest;
If there are human hearts that grieve, 
Thou'rt airing opprest. 
I know that perfect harmony 
Pervades wise Nature's plan, 
Therefore thy rounded soul e'en now 
Must work for fallen man. 
Thou wore, on earth, a brighter crown 
Than ever kings had known; 
The gems were each a noble deed. 
And, O! how bright they shone! 
If goodness fills the soul with joy, 
Thou must be happy now, 
As Peace, with white, pore wing of love, 
Is folded on thy brow. 
So let me live, that when friends bear 
This body to the grave, 
My deeds have blest my fellow-men— 
'Tis all I ask or crave. 
Richfield, N. Y. DANIEL HITCHINGS. 
From the Painesville Telegraph. 
LINES
Presented with a Contribution of One Cent, for the Fourth of July Celebration in Painesville.
BY DR. DANIEL MANN. 
Here, take my penny—thus I pay 
My scot for Independence Day. 
This paltry coin of metal base 
My just proportion overpays. 
For all the glory of our 'Fourth' 
To me is less than nothing worth. 
But since your cause I thus befriend. 
Let me advise how yon shall spend— 
Long since I learn'd this rule by heart, 
‘Fools and their money quickly part.'
Therefore, your folly to prevent, 
I give my counsel with my cent. 
First, sort and reckon up your cash, 
Rejecting buttons and such trash. 
Your doubtful bills and pewter dimes 
May come in play some future times; 
So, keep them in your private purse— 
I've known as honest men do worse. 
Next, in three parts divide the sum, 
To purchase powder, herrings, rum; 
In thirst and drunkenness and noise, 
Each patriot well the day employs; 
A hundred fools will point the spot 
Where powder may be cheaply got; 
A hundred drunkards all around 
Will show the shops where rum is found; 
Or, if the drunkards should be mum, 
'Follow your nose,' you'll find the rum. 
If music, dinner, and oration 
Are wanted for the celebration. 
Drums, fifes and orators you'll find 
Dirt cheap, or gratis, to your mind; 
For dinner, let all jovial souls, 
With weighty purse, repair to Cowles, 
And those who empty wallets bear, 
Dine at their homes, on humbler fare. 
For orator, be not too nice, 
A third-rate lawyer will suffice. 
With limber tongue and little sense, 
To honor, not the least pretence; 
Prompt with his pettifogging aid 
Where basest service beat is paid— 
The vile rumsellers’ cunning tool,
But for all nobler arts a fool; 
Base, crawling vermin of the bar, 
Such you may find, nor travel far. 
A chaplain, too, will be of use, 
Sleek, soft and smooth, ' sound on the goose'— 
A compound strange—saint, knave and fool— 
If you can find no such in town, 
To Cleveland send for parson Brown. 
Then, while the noblest of your race 
In prison pine with felons base,
And you yourselves, if you but dare 
To act like men, their doom may share; 
While loader than your loudest cheers 
The slave-whip whines round your ears; 
Bach breeze that bids your banners wave 
Bears sighings of the tortured slave; 
And o'er each hill, and plain and flood, 
Stained with the firing bondman's blood, 
Comes woman's shrieks, and childhood's wail, 
While baring bloodhound scent the trail.
While all this baseness, sin and shame 
Pollutes your land, and stains your name, 
Drink, shout and renal as you may, 
And boast your 'Independence Day.' 
Disgrace defiles your daintiest fare; 
Dishonor taints your vital air; 
Shame grins and mocks you as you dine;
Scorn flushes in your sparkling wine;
And ghostly aim of honest fame 
Look on their sordid sons with shame.
With such vile terms I'm net content—
Oh! blessed things are children! 
The gifts of heavenly love;
They stand betwixt our worldly hearts
And better things above.
They link us with the spirit-world
By purity and truth,
And keep our hearts still fresh and young, 
With the presence of their youth.
<C02>
The Liberator.
WATERLOO YEARLY MEETING.
ROCHNSTER, (N. Y.) June 19, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I have waited thus long since the Waterloo Yearly Meeting of 'Friends of Human Progress,' hoping that; some other pen than mine would send to the Liberator a report of its proceedings. Fearing that others are waiting for a similar reason, and considering the meeting a great success,—one, the influence of which must be strongly felt,—I have concluded to give you a brief synopsis, rather than a report, so that your readers may at least know that such a meeting has been held. 
The good that shall come to as from these meetings of Progressionists, it seems to me, can hardly be computed. The broadness of that platform, admitting all questions of human interest, is a feature of great merit, and one which I hope will be always prominent. Though I feel and know that the 'Anti-Slavery reform,' in the words of one of the resolutions offered at Waterloo, is ' first and preeminent,' I also know that there are many other reforms of great magnitude, and that they should not be forgotten.
The 'Waterloo Meeting' convened on Friday morning, the 3d of June, at 10 o'clock, and continued in session three days. The attendance was at first large, and greatly increased in size every succeeding session, until on the last day the meeting-house was literally crammed, and very many were obliged to accommodate themselves outside the house, as near the doors and windows as possible. Philip D. Moore, of New York, N. J., was chosen Chairman; H. L. Green, of Courtland, and Amy Post, of Rochester, N. Y., Secretaries. The Business Committee were Lucy N. Colman and Frederick Douglass, of Rochester, Mrs.—Halstead, of—, and Jedediah Irish, of Skaneateles. A Committee of Correspondence was also appointed, of which George W. Taylor was chairman.
The Chairman opened the meeting by stating in a clear and concise manner its objects, welcoming to its platform all of every variety of sentiment, without regard to sex or complexion. This session of the meeting was informal to its dose. Many persons spoke 'as the Spirit gave them utterance,' and great good-will and earnestness prevailed. George W. Clark, of Rochester, sang several songs, the sentiments of which were grateful to our hearts.
At 12 o'clock, the meeting took a recess of one hour. The hospitality of the good people of Junius and Waterloo was most ample, and all were welcomed to an excellent feast, spread in 'picnic' style, in a corner of nature's great dining-room.
When the hour arrived for re-assembling, Mr. Clark again favored the meeting with a song; some communications were read, among which were excellent letters from James Truman, Gerrit Smith, Giles B. Stebbins, and from several similar Yearly Meetings. The Business Committee, through their chairman, Mrs. Colman, presented the following resolution:
'Resolved, That first among the prevailing evils of our country and the world, against which this Meeting would register its earnest and solemn protest, is the malign and selfish spirit at the bottom of our religious organizations, by which a peculiar type of religious opinion is made to blot out and override the great principles of human brotherhood, making opinion superior to real excellence, and offering a bounty upon hypocrisy and a bribe to conformity.' 
An animated and interesting discussion upon this resolution then followed, in which Rev. William H. Hoisington, Frederick Douglass, Philip D. Moore, Lucy N. Colman, George W. Taylor, George W. Clark, and others engaged. The session was full of interest up to the hour of adjournment. 
Saturday morning, at 10 o'clock, the meeting again assembled. The Business Committee reported a series of resolutions upon Slavery, the first of which, (a very important one, in my estimation,) making the Anti-Slavery reform ' first and preeminent,' overriding all others, I am not able at this moment to obtain.
The following, I believe, are in their order:—
Resolved, That the fact that the American slave system has existed more than two hundred years, in the presence of American Christianity, and on terms of concord with it, demonstrates very clearly that such Christianity has its basis in the pride and avarice of the American people, rather than in the authoritative expression of the eternal will of God.
Resolved, That any religion, theology, or God, which approves and sanctions the wild and guilty fantasy, that man can innocently hold property in man, is a religion, theology, or God, derived from all the baser elements of human nature, and should be scouted as the blackest atheism. 
Resolved, That it is blasphemous to suppose that an All-wise Creator would place in this world, with common affections and mental and moral endowments, beings doomed to separation and isolation by a natural law of mutual and irrepressible antagonisms.
Resolved, That what is popularly called prejudice against color has its complete explanation and solution in the wrong and oppression which the white race have heaped upon the black, and not in any mere difference of color, and that prejudice will cease from the hearts when injustice and wrong shall depart from the practices of the American people towards the colored inhabitants of America and the world. 
A very important resolution, condemning the American Tract Society, and one sympathizing with the persons suffering imprisonment in Ohio for obeying ' the higher law,' were presented, a copy of which I have not. 
The following resolution upon the rights of woman was also presented by that committee:— 
Resolved, That the rights of woman have their origin, definition and limitation, in her constitution and powers as woman; that these rights are co-extensive with her being, and are bounded only by her capacity; and that the free and full exercise of her rights as thus defined, is essential to her growth and development, and to the progress and perfection of human society. 
The resolutions upon temperance, the use of tobacco, and perhaps some others, are not within our reach.
The already brilliant array of speakers was at this time increased by the arrival of Charles D. Mills, of Syracuse, Eliza Clark, of Auburn, Dr. Wellington, of Jamestown, and Ira Hitchcock, of Oneida. The speeches made on Saturday by Messrs. Mills, Douglass and Huntington were of surpassing excellence, enthusiasm was at its highest pitch. Dr. Wellington and Mr. Clark objected to the resolution, in which American Christianity is condemned, desiring that the words, 'so called,' be substituted for America, or prefixed to America. This brought out an exposition of the character of American Christianity, scorching indeed, but truthful, I am sure, to the letter. 
The afternoon of Saturday, by consent of the meeting, was given to the subject of Education, that Dr. Wellington (' who was obliged to leave in the evening ') might have an opportunity to present his system as practised at the Jamestown school. Many good suggestions were made by him, but I could no feel that I could trust my little ones under that kind of discipline. 
The last day of the meeting, each speaker spoke upon whatever subject he pleased, confining himself to resolutions already offered, or offering others the seemed to him more important. Philip D. Moon made an excellent speech, taking as his theme the text, 'I have married a wife, and cannot come.' Mr. Mills, who is one of the finest speakers to whom have ever listened, spoke upon the 'Practical a growing out of the True Ideal.' Mr. Hoisington with great brilliancy, gave the philosophy, and assured us of the certainty of Progression. Mr. Hitch cock spoke at some length an ' Modern Spiritualism Mr. Douglass, more versatile than all others in talent gave as power, eloquence, pathos and humor, in speech, upon a Practical Religious life, making the true test of such life the treatment of the down-trodden and enslaved. Mrs. Colman and Mrs. Clark also spoke with clearness and beauty upon name of this subjects before the meeting. Mrs. Chocks, of Auburn,
<C03>
introduced the subject of physical hearth, and insisted upon a simpler and purer diet. 
Nothing occurred throughout the entire meeting to mar its harmony, and when it was adjourned on Sunday, at 5 o'clock, P. M., it was evident that all, or a very large majority, had received of spiritual food all they had hoped for. And thus ended one of, the most interesting meetings I have ever attended. May such be multiplied throughout the land!
Z. T. W.

OBITUARY.
Translated to the Spirit-Land, from Newbury, (0.) on the morning of the 5th of June,—the fourth anniversary of her bridal morn,—LINA S. H. OBER, daughter of Des. Collins Hurd, of Lempster, N. H., and wife of Luke C. Ober, formerly of Boston, late of Kansas.
As the fierce winds shake the petals from the fruit- flower, leaving still the germ to develop and mature, so to the hardships of pioneer life, together with the duties of maternity, were too severe for her physical , constitution to withstand. The petals have fallen at the age of 26, but the spirit still lives to progress and mature. 
To her, ' death had no sting,' the grave "no victory.' Calmly as the setting of a summer's sun war the spirit released to roam untrammelled over the fields of space, and become a ministering angel to those whom she loved while in the body, feeling that she ' should be able to do more for friends than ever before.' She was an earnest advocate of all the great reforms of the day, believing that the only service acceptable to God was that which served to bless and ennoble man. 
At her request, Henry C. Wright preached the funeral sermon, of which we send an abstract:—
I am here to speak, on this occasion, in compliance with the last request of Mrs. OBER. We are met, today, to lay her body in the earth, to mingle with its kindred dust. I will make a few remarks, taking the following as my motto:—
'Blessed are they that do his commandments.'
Where shall we find those commandments of God, obedience to which is life, and disobedience is death? They are engraven on the body and soul of each man and woman, and no where else. Each one brings into being, with him or her, a code of laws as a birthright inheritance; compliance with which is heaven— non-compliance, hell. Man will experience no other, heaven, no other hell, in the body or out of it, except that which consists in compliance or non-compliance with these fixed laws or conditions of life and health to body and soul.
All pain, all suffering, all disease, all premature dissolution between body and soul, result from violated laws of life and health. The body of our friend, Mrs. OBER, ought not to be dead; it ought to be alive, healthful, active, beside her husband, to aid him in life's battle, to sustain and care for her babe. It is all unnatural, all a violation of the just laws and commands of God that that body lies there. 
When all the demands in our bodies and souls are fully and healthfully met, then, and only then, do we comply with the commands of God, and the conditions of life and health under which we exist. Through ignorance in herself, in her husband, in her parents, her teachers, her friends, or through ignorance in them all, she did not comply with those conditions of life; the result is death to her body.
Let no one attribute this result to God. It is solely the work of human agency. Let no one seek to comfort the bereaved husband by telling him it is God's work, and he must submit to his will. We have no I right to submit to sickness and death when they are produced, and can be removed, by human agency. As well exhort the slave to submit to the lash, by telling him it is God that whips him; or a man to submit to the assassin's dagger, because it is God that thrusts it into his heart. 
Reverence for dead bodies! Contempt for living bodies! How absurd—how monstrous—and yet how universal! When the body of the wife is dead, and can no more suffer, how tender of it is the husband! How reverential towards it! How careful to do it no injury! But white life is in it, while it is the habitation of a living soul, and delicately sensitive to the slightest injury, how indifferent, how reckless of its health and life! Often inflicting upon it the greatest possible wrongs and sufferings, without compunction! But the moment that body is dead, instantly it becomes sacred! So of a child's' body: while it is alive, and capable of suffering, see how parents whip and knock it about! But the moment it is dead, it; becomes sacred! So while life is in them, the bodies of men and women ore stabbed, shot, hung, hunted, and torn with bloodhounds; bought and sold, and; exposed to every possible indignity and outrage; but the moment they are dead, they become objects of, tender reverence and solicitude.
You lay the dead body of our friend in yonder grave; at the midnight hour, I dig it up, and sell it to the surgeon. In one week, you consign me to a dungeon, as unfit to live in society. But I steal a thousand living bodies of men and women, and send them into the hell of American slavery, or tear ten thousand bodies of innocent men, women and children to pieces with cannon balls and bombshells, and you make a President of me! What a fiendish morality is taught and practised by the churches and government of these United States! 
The body of our friend lies there lifeless, and wholly insensible to pain; but where is the woman, the wife, the mother? Not in that coffin; nor will she be in yonder grave when the body is laid there. She lives, she loves, she thinks, and is here alive in our midst, seeing what we see, hearing what we hear, knowing what we do, and sympathizing in our joys and sorrows, and wondering that her husband and friends should feel sad and sorrowful that she is released from that incurably diseased and suffering body. She is an inhabitant of this earth, as are all the men and women who were once embodied in the dead past. She will stand by her husband, and be the guardian angel of her babe. That babe is not motherless. Its mother lives, and lives to guard and guide its steps with maternal love. 
Though she rejected the popular religion, as to its views of another life, and its conditions of salvation, she calmly, without a fear, met the change, and slept her last sleep gently, as the innocent child sinks to rest in the fond mother's arms. 

THE CONDITION OF MAN. 
From the Edinburgh Review for April.
ART. 1.—1. The Results of the Census of Gnat Britain in 1851. By EDWARD CHESHIRE. London: 1853.
2. Report of Assistant Poor-law Commissioners on the Employment of Women and Children in Agriculture. 1843.
3. Minutes of the Committee of Council of Education. 1855-6.
4. Reports of the Governesses' Benevolent Institution.
5. The Industrial and Social Position of Women in the Middle and Lower Ranks. London: 1857.
6. Women and Works By B. L. SMITH (MRS. BODICHON). London: 1857.
7. Two Letters on Girls' Schools, and on the Training of Working Women. By MRS. AUSTIN, 1857.
8. Experience of Factory-Life. By M. M. 1857.
9. The Lowell Offering. Lowell, Massachusetts, United States. 
10. The Laws of Life, with Special Reference to the Physical Education of Girls. By ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, M. D. New York: 1858. 
There was a time when continental visitors called England ' the bell of hones, the purgatory of servants, said the paradise of woman, iron the two former having everything to do, and the fetter nothing. The lapse of centuries has materially altered this aspect of affairs. The railways have annihilated
<C04>
the hardest-work class of horses; improvements in the arts of life have relieved our servants of a great amount of toil, while on the whole elevating a their condition; the women of the United kingdom have been led forth from their paradise into a life of labor and care, more strongly resembling that of men than either the men or women of old times could have anticipated. Wearied as some of as are with the incessant repetition of the dreary story of spirit-broken governesses and starving needle-women, we rarely obtain a glimpse of the full breadth of the area of female labor in Great Britain; and it requires the publication of the 'Results of the Census,' or some such exhibition of hard facts, to make us understand and feel that the conditions of female life have sustained as much alteration as the fortunes of other classes by the progress of civilization. Sooner or later it must become known, in a more practical way than by the figures of the census returns, that a very large proportion of the women of England earn their own bread; and there is no saying how much good may be done, and how much misery may be saved, by a timely recognition of this simple , truth.
In those days, therefore, the supposition was true which has now become false, and ought to be practically admitted to be false—that every woman is; supported (as the law supposes her to be represented) by her father, her brother, or her husband. In those days, unmarried women were rare; and convents were the refuge of celibacy. It was not only in royal families that children were betrothed in their cradles. In all ranks, parents made matches for their children at any age that suited the family convenience: and the hubbub that ensued, when a daughter refused to marry at her parents' bidding, shows what a disaster it was considered to have a woman in the house who would neither marry nor become a nun. There was, in such a state of society, no call for female industry, except within the establishment,—whether it were the mansion, the farm, the merchant's dwelling, or the cottage. From that time (the uprising of a middle class) to this, the need and support of female industry have gone on increasing, and latterly at an unparalleled rate, while our ideas, our language, and our arrangements have not altered in any corresponding degree. We go on talking as if it were still true that every woman is, or ought to be, supported by father, brother, or husband: we are only beginning to think of the claim of all workers.—that their work should be paid for by its quality, and its place in the market, irrespective of the status of the worker:—we are only beginning to see that the time must come when such artificial depreciation must cease, under the great natural laws of society. We are (probably to a man) unaware of the amount of the business of life in England done by women; and if we do not attend to the fact in time, the knowledge will be forced upon us in some disadvantageous or disagreeable way. A social organization framed for a community of which half staid at home, while the other half went out to work, cannot answer the purposes of a society, of which a quarter remains at home while three-quarters go out to work. This seems to be clear enough. It does not follow that extensive changes in the law are needed; or that anybody is called upon to revolutionize his thoughts or proceedings. The natural laws of society will do whatever has to be done, when once recognized and allowed to act. They will settle all considerable social points,—all the controversies of the labor market, and the strifes about consideration and honor. All that we centend for at this moment is, that the case should be examined and admitted. Under a system like ours, in which the middle class of society constitutes the main strength of the whole organization, women having become industrial in the sense of being the supporters of themselves and of a large proportion of households; and their industrial production is rapidly on the increase. The census of 1851 affords some idea of how the matter stands. 'While the female population has increased (between 1841 and 1851) in the ratio of 7 to 8, the number of women returned as engaged in independent industry has increased in the far greater ratio of 3 to 4.' (Industrial and Social Position of Women, p. 219.) We are not very far from another census, which will afford the means of learning what that progress will have been in ten years. Meantime, we can hardly do better than prepare ourselves to estimate the next disclosure, by looking at the case as it stands to-day. 
The first head of industry is always Agriculture. The Americans pride themselves on employing no women in agriculture, and are exceedingly scandalized at the sight of the peasantry in continental countries tilling their ground in family concert—the women and girls working there with their husbands and brothers. It may be questioned whether the yeoman's wife in New England, and the back settler's daughters, have an easier life of it than the German peasant-woman, or the Devonshire laborers wife, or Highland lassies at a shearing. Considering the maple-sugar making, the soap-boiling, the corn-husking, &c, we should doubt whether any women work harder than some who would on no account be permitted to handle a hoe or a rake. However that may be, there seems to be no doubt of agricultural labor being relished by English women, and of its being, on the whole, favorable to health and morality. Health is morality, to begin with; and, if the woman's labor improves the family diet, and subscribes to the clothing club, while bacon and new shirts would be out of the question from the husband's labor alone, the fact may be less deplorable than a well-to-do young republic may consider it. If the children are not at school, they are with their mother in the field; and this is better than the fate of the town child, whoso mother is out at work. It is not, then, to be regretted that the proportion of women employed in agriculture seems increasing in England.
According to the census of 1841, there were then 66,329 women, above twenty years of age, employed in agriculture, without reckoning the widow-farmers (who are not few), or the farmers' wives. The late census gives 128,418 as the number so occupied, exclusive of the 'farmers' wives' and ' farmers' daughters,' who are specially, but perhaps not completely, returned as being 289,793. Of the independent female agricultural laborers, about one-half, or above 64,000, are dairy women. Neither in America, nor anywhere else, would dairy work be objected to as a feminine employment, conducted within doors, as it is, and requiring feminine qualities for its management; yet it is harder work, and more injurious to health than hoeing turnips or digging potatoes. 'No end of work' is the complaint; and it is not an unreasonable one. On a dairy-farm, the whole set of labors has to be gone through twice a day, nearly the whole year round; and any one of our readers who has seen a Cheshire farm, the width of the tubs, the capacity of the ladles, the strength of the presses, and the size of the cheeses, will feel no surprise at hearing from the doctors that dairy-women constitute a special class of patients, for maladies arising from over-fatigue and insufficient rest. There is some difference between this mode of life and the common notion of the ease and charm of the dairymaid's existence, as it is seen in a corner of a Duchess's park, or on a little farm of three fields and a paddock. The professional dairy woman can usually do nothing else. She has been about the cows since she was tall enough to learn to milk, and her days are so filled up, that it is all she can do to keep her clothes in decent order. She drops asleep over the hut stage of her work; and grows up ignorant of all other knowledge, and unskilled in all other arts. Such work as this ought at least to be paid as well as the equivalent work of men; indeed, m the dairy-farms of the West of England the same labor of milking the kine is now very generally performed by men, and the Dorset milkmaid, tripping along with her pail, is, we fear, becoming a myth. Bat even in Cheshire the dairymaids receive, it appears, only from 8l. to 10l. a year, with board and lodging. The superintendent of a large dairy is a salaried personage of some dignity, with two rooms, partial or entire diet, coal and candle, and wherewithal to keep a servant—50l. a year or more. But of the 64,000 dairy women of Great Britain, scarcely any can secure a provision for the time when they can no longer lean over the cheese tub, or chum or carry heavy weights.
In connection with agricultural labor, we should consider the rearers of poultry, pigs and lambs; the makers of cider and perry; and the bee-mistresses, who gain a living by their honey in many rural districts. The enormous importation of eggs from the continent, and especially from France, shows that there is more Work for women yet in this direction; but the reigning passion far poultry-yards most remit in a great diffusion of the knowledge and skill which the upper classes are cultivating so diligently. In addition to the twenty thousand female farmers and land-owners of England, and the half-million and more of ' farmers' wives and daughters,' a separate class of poultry women will soon be able to make a good subsistence out of eggs and chickens. Then there are the market-gardeners,—thousands of 
<C05>
women, most admirably employed. There are the florists and nursery gardeners,—not infrequently Quakers. It is a pretty sight,—a good nursery ground and set of conservatories, under the charge of a sensible Quakers, whose shrewdness penetrates the whole management. There are the flax producers too —not a small number, if we include the care of the crop, the pulling, steeping, beetling and dressing, and bringing to market; and, as 60,000 acres of Irish land are annually under flax, and as 500,000 acres would yield no more than is wanted; and as millions of pounds sterling (2,000,000l. in ten years) have been wasted in buying an impure seed from abroad when it might easily be obtained at home, we may conclude that flax producing is, or might easily be obtained at home, we may conclude that flax producing is, or might be, an extending branch of female industry. We may add that the demand for labor will increase, instead of diminishing, when the farmer consigns the preparation of the flax to establishments organized or the purpose, instead of insisting on doing it at home, and sinking in the market. At present, the women are in one place, poking ha the ditch or and at borne amidst an insufferable stench, and waiting on the weather for days or weeks; and then beetling with the old-fashioned instrument; while in another place they are about the same work in scutching-mills, to far greater advantage. The steeping, done without the stench of decay, and in a few hours or days in vats; and the dressing by patent machinery, are proper work for women, and will, no doubt," employ more and more of them,—especially as a great deal of seed is saved by the process.
It is worth while to spend 170l. in labor to save 1,200l. in seed; and, as we spend 300,000l. is importing seed, the prospect of labor in the flax-producing department are well worthy of notice. When we have mentioned the itinerant classes of female agricultural laborers,—the hay-makers, reapers and binders, and the hop-pickers, we have reviewed, in a cursory way, the whole of that division of female industry.
On the whole, its prospects are good. The introduction of agricultural machinery does not at first please the Irish bay-maker, the Scotch reaper, the Berkshire bean-setter, or the Norfolk turnip-hoer; but neither did their grandfathers like the threshing-machines in the days of Farmer George. Time and patience show that the results of that particular change are two, among others,—an increased demand for labor, and an elevation of the character of the employment,—two very good things in view for the scores of thousands of our country-women who are engaged in agricultural processes of one kind or another.
Next to those who draw commodities from the surface of the land should come those who draw commodities from its depths,—the women engaged in mining processes. We are happily spared the dismal chapter of coal-pit life which we most have presented a few years ago. It is true, the desire for an independent maintenance,—the popular craving for wages—causes a good deal of evasion of the law; and women do get down into the pits in disguise, or by connivance; hut the employment of women in coal-pits is no longer a recognized branch of industry among us. Who then are the 7000 women returned in the census under the head of Mines?
They are, no doubt, for the most part, the dressers of the ores in the Cornish and Welsh mines. The work is dirty, but not too laborious;—less laborious than the work which may perhaps be included under the same head,—the supplying porcelain clay from the same regions of the country. Travellers in Devonshire and Cornwall are familiar with the ugly scenery of hillsides where the turf is broken up, and the series of day-pits is overflowing, and the plastered women are stirring the mess, or sifting or straining, or drying and moulding the fine clay. The mineral interest is, however, one of the smallest in the schedule of female industry; and it is likely to contract rather than expand,—except the labor of sorting the ores.
In looking over the census returns, the occupations mark out the classes of women employed, the widows, wives, and maidens. The shop-keepers, like the formers, are almost always the widows, who, as wives, assisted their husbands, and who now endeavor to keep up the business for the sake of the children. The same is the case with the 10,000 beershop keepers and victuallers, and the 9000 inn-keepers, and the 14,000 butchers and milk-merchants, and the 8000 wagon or back-carriage proprietors. Considerable as them numbers are, they would range higher if women were taught book keeping in a proper style. So many are seen to decline in fortune, or to marry again, or in other ways to hand over the business to men, while in France, and in the United States, the same class prosper at least as well as men, that inquiry is provoked into the cause of the English failure: and it is usually found that the weakness lies in the financial ignorance of the women. The weak point is in the multiplication table;—in plain old English, they are had at ciphering. This leads us to consider the wives. The 'Shoemakers' wives ' alone are nearly 94,000, their business being both shopkeeping and manufacturing. They serve ladies and children, and sell across the counter, and in the intervals do the lighter part of the shoemaking. Some other denominations are returned separately, as the 27,000 victuallers' wives, and the 26,000 butcheresses; but it is enough to say here that the industrial wives, specially so returned, amounted in 1851 to nearly half a million. It would be a prodigious benefit to their households if they were qualified to manage the accounts. That there is no good reason why they are not is proved by the recent rise of a class of female; accountants in London, as well as by the instances in many of our large towns of the counting-house; desk behind the shop, or in the manufactory, being; occupied by women. We have never heard a doubt suggested as to the capacity of women for arithmetic; on the contrary, the girls in the Irish National Schools equal or excel the boys in mental arithmetic; and in every good girls' school of the middle class, there are some children who had rather cover their slates with sums for play than go for a walk. Elderly people remember, too, the old-fashioned sight, in unregenerate shops, of the wife or daughter, well-shawled, and in gloves with the finger-ends cut off, sitting from breakfast time till dinner, and from dinner till dusk, with the great books before her, and the pen always in hand; the light of a candle being observed till kite on Saturday evenings, when the accounts of the week were posted up. Daring the first period of the new style of shop-keeping, the desk class of women seemed to disappear; but they are evidently coming back again. And this fact leads us on to the employment of the single women.
The shopwomen (distinguished from shopkeepers) are surprisingly few. The figures seem scarcely credible. The shopkeepers being nearly 29,000, the shopwomen are only 1742. This fact will remind many people of the controversy about the dignity of shopmen, during and since the late war, when not , only newspapers but a quarterly review attacked ' the men milliners who smirk behind the counters of our shops,' and bade them be off to the army, and leave women's work to women. Our impression, on the whole, was that the shopmen exhibited a much better case than could have been anticipated by careless observers, though we are far from denying that, as a class, they are jealous of the competition of women, and act in the spirit of that jealousy One or two of the facts of the case ought to be remembered: as, for instance, that the light business of 'dangling tapes and ribbons,' and exhibiting ornaments, &c., is usually coupled with work requiring bodily strength. In the shop where ribbons are sold, silk and velvet dresses are sold also; and it is more than most women can do to ' dandle' rollers of silk and whole pieces of velvet, at intervals for twelve hours per day. Where tapes are sold, there is demand for those very ponderous articles,—sheetings and shirting, and table linen. In jewellery shops men must attend, and a sufficiency of them, to deter thieves before whom such temptations are spread. Again, it seems to be proved, unexpected as is the fact, that our wives discourage the employment of women behind the counter. It is not very long since we met with the following illustration in the columns of a newspaper:—
'A large, well-attended draper's and mercer's shop, in a good situation, became, by a sort of accident, the property of a benevolent and sensible person, who saw in the accident the means of employing female labor in a suitable department. He had always cried shame on the exclusion of women from the counter, where they could surely measure ribbons and cambrics as well as men. The well-stocked shop was served by women, picked for their aptitude and experience, as well as their respectability. The old custom fell off, and the proprietor was assured that it was because there were only women behind the counter. It became necessary to introduce some shopmen, to re-assure the Indian who could not trust the ability of their own sex. Two shopmen were introduced. It would not do. They were worked off their feet, while the shopwomen stood idle; for the ladies had no faith in female ability, even behind the counter.' 
Such incidents as this disclose the true reason of the shopwomen of Great Britain being (apart from 
<C06>
the shopkeepers) only 1742. Now that girls, however few, are trained with a view to their becoming accountants, either as a separate profession, or as managers of the family business, we may expect to see the difference, from one ten years to another, is the census returns. The growing contrast between the recent and the coming time, is exhibited in certain anecdotes now before us; one in 'Women and Work,' and the other in a Scotch newspaper. Mrs. Bodichon says:—
'There are now many trades open to women with good training in book-keeping and knowledge of some special branch of business, not difficult to acquire, if fathers would help their daughters as they help their sons. Two or three young women together might enter upon most shop-keeping businesses. But very few young women know enough arithmetic to keep accounts correctly.
'We remember seeing two young woken who kept a shop in a county village, slaving to answer the tinkle-tinkle of the shop-bell, dealing out half-penny worths of goodies, bacon, or candles, who, when asked how much they were paid yearly for the hard work of attending the shop hardly understood the question, and only knew that generally they did not have to pay more for their goods than they sold them for, and got their food into the bargain, week by week. 'But letting lodgings,' said they.'—Women and Work, p. 15.
'In taking a ticket the other day at the Edinburgh station of the Edinburgh, Perth, and Dundee Railway, we were pleasantly surprised on being waited on by a blooming and bonnie lassie, who, along with an activity quite equal to, exhibited a politeness very rare in railway clerks of the literally ruder sex. We observed that the department was entirely occupied by women, there being another giving out tickets, and a third telegraphing. This innovation thus far north is rather startling; but, instead of objecting to it, we think it highly commendable, and hope to see the employment of women in light occupations rapidly extended.'—Scottish Press, December, 1858.
The mention of telegraphing in this passage reminds us of another example. The 'Times' gives the following account of the way in which it was enabled to supply London breakfast-tables with the speeches of Mr. Bright and others, in occasion of the Gibson and Bright festival at Manchester last December:
'It is only an act of justice to the Electric and International Telegraph Company, to mention the celerity and accuracy wit which our report of the proceedings at Manchester on Friday night was transmitted to the "Times" office. The first portion of the report was received at the telegraph office at Manchester at 10.55 on Friday night, and the last at 1.25 on Saturday morning. It may be added that the whole report, occupying nearly six columns, was in type at a quarter to three o'clock on Saturday morning, every word having been transmitted through the wire a distance of nearly 200 miles. Some of our readers may be surprised to hear that this report was transmitted entirely by young girls. An average speed of twenty-nine words per minute was obtained, principally on the printing instruments. The highest speed on the needle was thirty-nine words per minute. Four printing instruments and one needle were engaged, with one receiving clerk each, and two writers taking alternate sheets. Although young girls in general do not understand much of politics, there was hardly an error in the whole report.'
In the United States, the telegraphing is largely consigned to women; and with it the kind<illegible> art of the compositor. From what we have heard in various directions within a few years, we believe that the manipulation of type by women is found to be such an advantage here that a great deal of our printing is likely to be done by them henceforth. Much was said beforehand about the impossibility of enduring the smells of the office but the same thing used to be said of oil-painting; and in both cases it is a mistake. If printing is on the increase among women, much more so is painting in oils and on glass. Printing reminds us of book-binding, which affords an admirable occupation to women. One well-known firm was, some few years since, employing 200 young women, under careful arrangements for their moral welfare, technical improvement, and daily comfort. Such means of instruction were provided as prevented their domestic qualities from being spoiled by their regular business. For the sake of quiet and respectability, little was said where so much was done; but the few who saw the work-rooms, and followed the processes, from the folding of the sheets to the highest ornamentation of cheerful and prosperous industry.
(To be concluded.)

LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass, and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and <illegible>age, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchases. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere ct buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education—will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E. D. DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.
HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper’s new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success.—Practical Christian.

IMPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CANTHAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 320 Washington st., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves. October 5.
