THE LIBERATOR- 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of, the paper, vis:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY,EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind,
J.B. YERRINTON & Printer.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.4. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1864. WHOLE NO.1720.
<c01>.
The Liberator.
THIRD DECADE OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
SPEECH OF OLIVER JOHNSON. 
OLIVER JOHNSON said: Looking back upon more than thirty years of personal identification with the anti-slavery movement, there is much that I could say if I felt at liberty to occupy these precious moments. But I know there are many around me, who are anxious to address you, and therefore I will be brief.
Since I came to this meeting, one thought has possessed me-one thought, hour by hour, and almost moment by moment; and it is the thought of what I, as an Abolitionist, owe to the anti-slavery cause. Something has been said here of sacrifices made for that cause. Sacrifices have indeed been made and sufferings endured by many true-hearted and noble friends-sacrifices and sufferings of which it does not become me to speak lightly; but I appeal to you all, even to those who have suffered and endured most, to say if the personal benefits derived from the advocacy of the slave's cause do not outweigh, a thousand fold, all the trials which you have been called to endure on its account? Nay, if those trials themselves have not, through the overruling interposition of God, been turned into blessings? Such at least is my own experience; and I am here to-day, with no memory of sacrifices made, but with a heart penetrated by a sense of gratitude for benefits received. The cause owes me nothing, but I am indebted to it beyond all power of payment or even of computation. It has enhanced for me every joy of life, transmuted pain to pleasure, brought light out of darkness, and crowned me with blessings indescribable and inestimable. There are no delights to be compared with those which we may earn by an unselfish devotion to a great and noble cause. My heart swells with thankfulness to God that he called me early to this work; that while I was but a boy, on my native hills in Vermont, I heard and heeded the trumpet-call of Garrison., and, through sympathy with his spirit, learned to love him before I ever looked into his face. How vividly do I remember now the days of his imprisonment at Baltimore, and how my heart was thrilled in reading the noble lines which he inscribed on the walls of his cell, showing how, “in innocence, he was great and strong "! How did I exult when he was released; with what interest did I watch his progress Northward; and when at length he arrived in Boston, with what eagerness did I embrace the first opportunity to take his hand, and hear him plead the cause of the oppressed! From that moment I was an Abolitionist; and I look back now upon more than thirty years of earnest labor in the cause, regretting only that I have not been more entirely devoted to it, and have done so little in its behalf. It is little indeed that any of us have done for it, compared with what it has done for us. In laboring to break the chains of the slave, we have found deliverance from the fetters of superstition and priest– craft, and felt our minds and hearts expanding in the sunlight of God's highest truths. Reproached as infidels by a pro-slavery Church, we have found by experience that those who devote themselves to the cause of humanity "walk with God” and in the fellowship of his saints.
I entreat the young men and the young women here assembled, if they would enrich and ennoble their lives by the acquisition of whatever is most worthy of their ambition, to give themselves unreservedly to the work of reform-to take the side of the oppressed and the wronged, to cast their influence on the side of truth, however unpopular, and to allow no temptation of wealth or fame to swerve them by so much as a hair's breadth from the principles of justice and righteousness. The final triumph of the anti-slavery cause is, we hope, near at hand; but much remains to be done before we can lay off our armor. And when slavery has been abolished, other moral issues will be presented, other reforms arise, to test the courage and devotion of the new generation. The men and the women who have conducted the anti-slavery movement from its small beginning almost to the day of its triumph, will soon pass away; but the principles they have advocated will not perish, but live to inspire the devotion of succeeding generations to the end of time.
I listen always with satisfaction to those who exhort us to fidelity, to those who set before us work to be done, and exhort us to faithfulness in its performance. In all that our friend Foster has said here today upon that point, I have sympathized with him. But let me say, in all frankness, that there is one particular in which I cannot agree with him. Through his whole speech ran the assumption, as it seemed to me, that his fellow-laborers here are ready to lay off their armor, regarding their work as done. Has anything been said here to justify such an assumption? I think not. Has he proposed any work, for the performance of which we are not, one and all, ready to strike hands with him? We are girding ourselves a new for the work before us, and we will not throw down our weapons till the last slave is free. (Applause.) But I, for one, find Hope the best stimulus to labor. I shrink instinctively from the dark shadow which some of our friends would throw over us, when they affirm that, notwithstanding all that we have done for thirty years, the country is in a worse condition, in regard to the principles of universal liberty, than it was at the close of the Revolutionary war. If I believed that, I should utterly despair of the cause. 
"We are saved by hope," says an Apostle, and I believe it. The cheering signs which greet us on every hand, betokening the speedy triumph of our cause, fill me with hopefulness, augmenting my power to work and my joy therein.
Have we indeed done nothing in these thirty years? Are we no nearer the end than we were at the beginning? Is this nation to-day in no better position than it was thirty years ago, when this Society was formed? How can anybody think so, in view of the facts by which we are surrounded? Take the press of this city for illustration. Thirty years ago, the men who formed this Society assembled in this city almost by stealth, and held their meetings in the day-time, warned by the Police that they could not be protected at night. There was not a newspaper here that would report their proceedings -not one that did not denounce them as "fanatics" and "amalgamationists," as men who were bent on the destruction of their country. How is it to-day? Every press in the city sends its reporters to our platform, and our proceedings are reported fairly and honorably. In this circumstance alone, we have an indication of a wonderful improvement in the public sentiment.
It is said that, after all, the people are selfish-that they have not relinquished their hostility to the anti-slavery cause from pure love of principle, but for their own interest. But is it not a sign of progress when men, who have long resisted our movement, have at last discovered that its claims are coincident with their worldly interest? Saints-perfect people-do not travel in regiments; and if I thought
<C02>
the slaves could not be emancipated before the mass of the people are brought up to the standard of absolute justice and righteousness, I should expect them to grind in the prison-house for centuries. No good cause has ever triumphed, except through influences and motives as various and mixed as those now operating in our country for the overthrow of slavery. If men preach the gospel of freedom, even though it be for strife and contention, shall we not rejoice? If they have formed a purpose to abolish slavery rather from a regard to their own interest than from love for the slave, shall we not thank God and take courage?
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH.—What does it indicate in regard to the position of our cause, that selfishness should incline any man to seem to favor it? Is it not a sign of progress and triumph?
SPEECH OF JAMES N. BUFFUM.
JAMES N. BUFFUM said: You assigned me the duty of collecting the money, instead of speaking, but I am inclined to endorse the last speech, and to say Amen to brother Johnson. Perhaps my experience as a business man is worth something. You know, sir, that I have been deeply interested in this cause for the last 32 years. Although it was not my privilege to sign the Declaration, I have often wished it had been. I was only prevented by illness. I glory in the fact that I was an Abolitionist before the signing of that Declaration; and I would give the best hundred dollars that I possess if my name was there. As I go about among business men who formerly hated me, I find them cordial, and expressing their approbation of my sentiments, and avowing themselves Abolitionists. I feel encouraged, and it is a marvel to me to see the change.
While our friend Abby Kelley Foster was speaking this morning, there were a thousand facts rushing into my mind showing progress. One I may mention, of an individual who, about two years ago, stood upon a platform of a John Brown meeting with a pistol in his hand, threatening death to the Abolitionists. A few days ago, he came out in a letter, in which he gloried in this war because, first, it was going to end in a higher civilization; and above all, he gloried that the African was now able to vindicate his freedom in arms.
I met a venerable man, a short time ago, one of our wealthiest citizens, who always contended against the principles which I entertain, and he said to me, Mr. Buffum, are you aware that everybody is coming up to your platform?" “No, I was not aware of that; but I know they will do it." “ Well, it is a fact, and the nation has got to carry out your principles, and there is no other salvation for it." I was equally astonished the other day, in going down State street in Boston, to meet a gentleman who, a short time ago, as he confessed, was in favor of putting down the Abolitionists, and he said, " Did you know that there was a great anti-slavery meeting held at the Merchants' Exchange'? “No." "Well now, the Merchants' Exchange is the headquarters of all the wealthy merchants of Boston, and there they are holding anti-slavery meetings, and they have turned the place into an anti-slavery lecture room." Frederick Douglass was delivering one of his strongest anti-slavery lectures, and this man was among the audience listening.
I say it is marvellous how this anti-slavery cause is going on. I look at it, and thank God and take courage.
THE PRESIDENT—Those who think we have not made much progress remind me of the story of the man in the Deluge, who, after everything had been submerged, as the ark came floating by, came splurging up in the midst of the waters, and tried to get in. Failing in this, he said with disgust, "Go to thunder with your old ark! it is not much of a shower after all.' For now, when the fountains of the great deep are broken up, and slavery is going under, and the Ark of Liberty is floating triumphantly, we are soon to have the dove go forth, and the ark shall rest on Mount Ararat, and those who have kept the covenant shall come forth, and the land shall be redeemed forever.
SPEECH OF LUCY STONE
LUCY STONE said: It is because there is anti-slavery work left to be done that any of us should be speaking here to-day, or asking for help in the work. I believe that those who have spoken upon the two sides, that much is to be done, and that much has been done, are both equally right. It cannot be that those who have toiled thirty years in such a work as this, who have stood on this platform until they have grown old and gray, and especially in the midst of a strife where our fathers and brothers, husbands and sons, are being slaughtered by thousands, will cease to labor while that strife goes on, though it may not seem to require much labor on our part to make the last death-rattle of slavery sound in its throat. When I sat here yesterday, and heard the speakers giving an account of the first meeting of the Society, and heard one speaker say of James Mott that in that early day his hair was untouched by the gray, I thought I have only known him since his head was covered with white, but thank God I have known him so long! And Mr. Garrison's hair was not then thinned, making him to look like the prophet Elisha. But these men were all young and earnest when they pledged themselves to go on with this work, and never to cease. I thank God for them; and I concur in the ground that they take, that much remains to be done. Prejudice against the negro is to be overcome; for slavery is let down deeper in the hearts of the people of this country than they themselves know. We see a great deal of opposition to slavery, and it is wonderful to see the change. But it is very much like the water in Niagara river, which goes along because it cannot help it, and not because it wants to. It may be because I live in New Jersey, in the midst of a nest of Copperheads, where my next door neighbor believes that men ought to be bought and sold, and tells me frankly to my face that he believes it; but I cannot help feeling that there is a great deal of pro-slavery sentiment yet to be rooted out. We all need to work for it.
And when we see what our friends Susan B. Anthony and Mrs. Stanton are doing in New York, almost without aid; seeing that there is need of a law to abolish slavery, lest there should be any misunderstanding; seeing that the Constitution, rightly interpreted, meant anti-slavery, while the Supreme Court said there was no anti-slavery about it—asking for a law so plain that it cannot be mistaken; to say that there shall be no slavery nor involuntary servitude anywhere in all these United States; when we see our friends trying to obtain a million of names to a petition for such a law, is there nothing to be done on the part of woman? Men may vote; but I shall never forget, unless it ceases to be a fact, that women have no such possibility of expression. We are not allowed to vote; but we may petition, and by and by they will hear. Send these petitions by hundreds and thousands into your villages and hamlets, and let the returns be as numerous as they ought to be; for I know there are a great many young girls who may not have an opportunity to work in other ways, and boys not old enough to vote, who will be
<C03>
glad to have the opportunity to do something, and they can circulate these petitions. I remember that an old man told me once that if I came to him again with such a petition—it was for a law allowing colored people and whites to intermarry—he would ride me on a rail. I went every year, was never carried on a rail, and his wife always signed the petition. By and by we can put all these petitions together, when we have got all the names we can, and carry them in a large roll to Congress; and there will be men there brave enough and true enough to be willing to present them. And if what we do shall bring about the result we seek, in aid of the President's proclamation, and there shall be a law passed, that there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any part of the United States, how thankful we shall be! The youngest boy and the youngest girl, as well as the eldest man and woman, may thank God and rejoice that they have assisted in making this a free country.
SPEECH OF STEPHEN S. FOSTER.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER said: If I have not made a good speech myself, I have at least been the occasion of half a dozen good speeches. Last evening a professed phrenologist came to me, and asked the privilege of putting his hands for a few moments on my head. He wanted to ascertain the cerebral developments of such a peculiar man. I assented, and when I reached my quarters he was waiting for me. After feeling of my head a while in silence, he said: “Mr. Foster, I am very much surprised. I expected to find Combativeness and Destructiveness very large in your head. On the contrary, I find them exceedingly small." Now, I think that gentleman was not the only one mistaken in this Convention. You have represented me to this audience as living in a cloud. That is news to me. It is news, I am sure, to my wife, who thinks I shall upset everything, I have so little caution. I always look at things from the brightest side, and I supposed I always lived in the sunlight. Our friend Foss stands here to-day in the sunshine of hope. I never saw a day in which I did not believe I should live to see slavery dead, and buried out of sight; because I meant to take care of my physical constitution that I should outlive this monster. I calculate upon attending the funeral of slavery, and will preach the sermon, if some of my associates do not live to do it. I expect to pronounce my malediction there with a full and overflowing heart.
There is a principle always guiding me to be with the minority. I have always felt that my place is with the minority, defending the weak point. When you were desponding, I preached hope to such an extent that I was called a hair-brained enthusiast. How many times have my friends cautioned me upon this platform against such excessive hope! And why? Because nobody else was hopeful. But now, when you are all overflowing with hope, in Heaven's name, was there any harm that one man should look around to see if there are any breakers ahead, and to warn you that it is not yet time to lay off your armor? Suppose there are no breakers ahead; will it do you any harm to be watchful and vigilant? Does my preaching lull you to inactivity? But in the hurry this morning, crowding into fifteen minutes a speech of two hours and a half, I inadvertently said that if any of you were disposed to retire from the conflict, I was not; and that by implication was regarded as a censure. In the first place, I did not intend it as a censure. If you can serve the anti-slavery cause better off the platform, then go, and my heart goes with you. But, for one, I have confidence in the instrumentalities we have used these thirty years, and my motto is still, " No union with slaveholders." No union with the United States government, so long as a slave treads the American soil. That is my position. If you do not like this kind of armor, lay it off and go somewhere else, and my heart and hand shall go with you. If you are battling with slavery upon the field of blood, you are not on my platform. That was an aggressive weapon, that we repudiated at the outset; and we pledged ourselves never to use it. I cast, therefore, no reflections upon those who have left our platform, or who resort to this mode of warfare; but, for one, I will continue as I ever have done. I do not censure any one who works not upon our platform; but it ought to be known to us—it was not known to our friend May, or he would not have said there was not a member of the Executive Committee or prominent member of the Society that was disposed to retire from this warfare—that there are members of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society who are decidedly opposed to carrying on this warfare any longer as we have done, and think that our sending forth anti-slavery agents would do more harm than good. I do not question the anti-slavery integrity of those friends. They have my fullest confidence, so far as their moral and anti-slavery worth is concerned. I only say that they differ from me as to instrumentalities. I think that if we are the "sacramental host of God's elect," we should stand together on this platform; but while I prefer to labor here, I will give my heart and hand to any friend that will labor anywhere else in our cause.
THOMAS WHITSON said: This has been an interesting meeting to me; and the reason you have not heard from me has been that all I wanted to say has been so much better said by others.
SPEECH OF MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
Mrs. GAGE said: Ladies and Gentlemen: On my lone little isle of the sea, (Paris Island, S. C.,) I have hardly had the opportunity of reading newspapers, or knowing what course the current of events at the North was taking; and I confess that I have listened to the remarks here, yesterday and to-day, with some surprise. I did not suppose there was any one interested in anti-slavery at the North, that had not faith enough to see through all that is going on to-day, and to believe that slavery is coming to an end. Why, old Sophy, at her cabin door, would teach you better faith than I have heard here from some to-day. She came to see me after the battle of Fredericksburg, where some of my kindred fell, and found me weeping. " Missis, what makes you cry, honey? This isn't a nigger war; it isn't a secesh war; it is God's war; it will all come out right." And old Sophy and the great hearts of the race have taught us faith, until it is now unwavering. We need not listen for the words of Mr. Seward, or to learn what the men at Washington are doing. We can learn a better wisdom while they are thinking of it; and when we speak our hearts strongly enough, they will respond. Let us be like the Western boys on the Lookout Mountain; our commander at Washington tells us to take the rifle pits at the bottom of the mountain, and we have taken them. Let us, with enthusiasm, with our knapsacks on our backs, move onward and upward until we take the batteries at the top, without waiting to talk about having nothing to do. We have a grand work to do. If, as some of our friends say, Mr. Seward makes a better speech after the election than before it, let us compel him to continue to make better speeches until he makes them right. (Applause.)
I have seen better evidence than anything here,
<c04>
that slavery is coming to an end. I have stood surrounded by black men and women, not picked men, but black men crushed down as low as South Carolina could crush them, and that is saying as much as any one can say; I have seen them self-sustaining, putting money in their banks, to supply their own needs. And I have seen the women staying behind to till the cotton and the corn, and sending their husbands and sons to the battle-field to fight for liberty. And do you think this great hope is ready to roll back? As well attempt to put the oak back into the acorn, or turn Niagara back upon its fountains. I tell you nay. Whatever the politicians may do, if the people are faithful, the end must come, and that end shall be universal freedom.
And now, with regard to those petitions that have been presented to you to-day, sign them and circulate them with a hearty good-will. If you can do nothing else in your neighborhood, you can circulate these petitions. And when the women of this country shall give expression to their private home feelings through these petitions, there is no power at Washington strong enough to resist the influence. A million of women, asking for the emancipation of all the slaves of this Union, will be a larger power than this country has been in the habit of thinking women possessed. Work faithfully, earnestly, unfalteringly, and the end will come, and we shall sing hallelujahs over a country redeemed, where no slave sighs in bondage, and no mother gives birth to a slave.
THE PRESIDENT read a letter from John Jolliffe, Esq., formerly of Cincinnati, now of Washington, written in the expectation that he might not be able to attend the meeting. Having read the letter, the President continued: The name of Mr. Jolliffe must be very familiar to a large number in this audience. He has been a distinguished lawyer of Cincinnati, and for a good many years he has interposed at all times, whenever needed, in behalf of the fugitive slave. His life has been imperilled; he has been hunted by the bloodhounds of slavery; and he has won for himself the esteem and love of the friends of freedom everywhere. Yesterday I was told that he would not probably be with us, but I am happy to-day to be able to introduce him to you.
SPEECH OF JOHN JOLLIFFE, ESQ.
JOHN JOLLIFFE, ESQ., said: I did not come here with any expectation of speaking, but to have my heart cheered by what I should hear. I am glad, however, to have an opportunity of standing here to speak to this audience. 
If every slave were to be emancipated to-morrow, we should have enough to do to keep us busy for a hundred years. The effects of slavery will remain long after every slave has been emancipated. This people have all to be educated up to the standard God intended they should occupy in his creation. This is our hardest work. It is missionary work, as much so as that of any foreign missionary enterprise ever conducted in this country. I have no faith, as a general rule, in politicians. They are only the exponents of the public will. This little band of twenty or thirty men have done this mighty work. Abraham Lincoln's proclamation was not one that came, as I believe, from his heart. It was one that he was impelled to issue by the force of public opinion behind him. And if we want other proclamations of freedom, or other great enterprises successively, we must labor with renewed diligence, and they will be accomplished. If so much has been done by thirty or forty people in Massachusetts, and scattered in different parts of the United States, how much more can be done when we have a hundred thousand Abolitionists to aid in the work! The whole army of the North-west are Abolitionists, and they speak against slavery in words so harsh that Mr. Garrison would never utter them.
Mr. GARRISON.—I was told that, last evening, one man, who had always been very conservative, left the meeting in consequence of the tameness of my remarks. He could not stand it! (Laughter.)
J. MILLER MCKIM, from the Business Committee, reported the following resolution and memorial, which were adopted by a unanimous vote; the memorial to be signed by the President and other officers of the Society, and forwarded to the bodies to which it is addressed.
Resolved, That as the voice of the people is heard through petitions to Congress, this Convention earnestly recommend that this voice be raised in petitions for an amendment of the Constitution, forever prohibiting slavery within the limits of the United States.
MEMORIAL
To the Senate and House of Representatives, in Congress assembled.
The American Anti-Slavery Society, assembled in its Third Decade Meeting, in the city of Philadelphia, respectfully petitions your honorable body so to amend the Constitution that slavery shall be forever prohibited within the limits of the United States.
SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL J. MAY.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY said: I occupied the time yesterday with reminiscences; not that I am disposed to look back, in the great work upon which we are now engaged, for I see how much remains to be done. My eyes are intently fixed forward; and so far from putting off the anti-slavery armor, I feel that we should buckle it closer to our bodies, our hearts, and our souls, and resolve that we will not give over the work we have commenced until not only slavery is abolished, but until all that can be done to repair the damages caused by slavery to the population of our country, black and white, shall be done. That is the work to which we were called. I think there has been discouragement in some minds, because they have not fully appreciated what has been done, and have not been earnest enough in behalf of what yet remains to be done. Of course, I have not been satisfied with all that the President of the United States has done. But I consider what he was at the commencement of his administration, and believe he was honest. He was on a very low plane on this subject; but he has risen, and recently faster than the people. I believe he is ready and willing and rejoiced to rise even to the very summit of this great work. Has he not said, “I am the servant of the people? If the people want emancipation, why do they not demand it?" Who for a moment believes that our President, notwithstanding the incubus that I think hangs on him in the person of the Secretary of State, will lift a finger to hinder the progress of this cause? He must, however, in all good conscience, do only what, at the moment that he does it, seems to him to be right and proper. I have watched his course; and though I have been impatient with him, yet have I never seen anything which has impaired my confidence in his intentions. I believe that he desires and intends to do right. Let us then go on in the work which we commenced thirty years ago, educating the people, and the officials of the people—the President himself, if he needs instruction—until he shall be brought to see the truth, the great truth that was radiated upon this nation at its birth, and which our fathers de-
<c05>
clared to be self-evident, but which has been so obscured that some of the prominent men in the country have dared to pronounce that part of the Declaration of Independence a "glittering generality;" and the people were not horrified at the utterance, as they should have been, rising with one accord to denounce him. 
We have had a great work to do; and although much remains to be done, God be praised that we have done something! And although we did not succeed, as we verily thought we should succeed, in averting what we clearly saw to be inevitable, if we could not accomplish what we undertook, a civil and a servile war; although we have not been so successful in our labors as to avert that horrible calamity, may we not rejoice that God, in his long-suffering and tender mercy, is with us as a nation—a nation guilty beyond all other nations that ever lived, because our opportunities, our privileges, and our light have all been greater than have been afforded to any other people? Have we not reason to be grateful that God, after his long-suffering and tender mercy, has at last come down in his just judgment, and taken this work into his own hands? There is no part of the historyof our race, in all time past, that seems to me to indicate the hand of the Almighty more distinctly than we see it in his dealings with our nation to-day. For nothing do I ever give thanks to Almighty God more heartily than for this, that he will not permit the children of men to sin with impunity. Never have I offered a prayer, since I entered the pulpit, that the consequences of our sin might be averted from us. I have only asked that we might be relieved from our sins. If we throw them not off ourselves, then will I thank God for the chastisements by which he removes them from us. So that now, while I am filled with grief, and my heart is harrowed continually at the reports which come to us of the sufferings of our fellow-men who have been sent into the battlefield, yet, nevertheless, I give thanks that, having sinned as we have done, beyond the day of grace, he is now in the day of visitation and of judgment, and that this great work, which we in such earnestness of heart commenced thirty years ago, will be accomplished by his almighty aid. Without more delay it shall be done, and done thoroughly.
Let us, then, come up by hundreds, and thousands, and tens of thousands, and petition the Congress of the United States, and demand the abolition of slavery throughout the country. Now is the day, and now is the hour. Necessity knows no law, no constitution. Necessity will impel us, not merely to give liberty to those who have been the subjects of rebels, but to give liberty to all, knowing as we do by such bitter experience that slavery, tolerated any where in the country, must be a root of bitterness that shall ere long spring up, and produce evils certainly not less than those which we now witness. Let us go, then, to the government of our country, and assure them that never while we live, or while those live whom we have inspired with a feeling like ours, shall the anti-slavery agitation of our country cease, so long as there is slavery in the land. I would not say this as a mere threat, but as our conviction of a solemn duty. We did not espouse this cause as a mere matter of preference or choice. We were impelled to it by a solemn sense of obligation; and that obligation will not cease until the unparalleled iniquity of American slavery is forever and entirely abolished in every part of our land.
ORSON S. MURRAY expressed his belief that Mr. and Mrs. Foster had been misapprehended by those who had spoken in reply to them. A great work was to be done to build up a correct public sentiment at the North; and while we turn our attention so much to what has already been accomplished, there is danger of overlooking the great work yet to be done.
SPEECH OF ANDREW T. FOSS.
ANDREW T. FOSS: I feel very unwilling to ask you, after listening so long to excellent speeches, to hear what I have to say; and yet I want to say a few words. If there is anything in this world I am covetous of, it is anti-slavery fame. I do not care about any other, but I want that. I want my fame to stand connected with the anti-slavery movement, as far as possible. If I have no other legacy to leave the only child that is spared me, I want to leave an anti-slavery reputation. I was not a signer of the Declaration of Sentiments made in this place thirty years ago; but I can say, with friend Buffum, that I wish I had been. He thinks he would be willing to pay a hundred dollars. I would give ten years of my life, and that is about all I have to hope for, if I had been a signer of that Declaration. But although I was not a signer of that Declaration, I was in the field before it was issued.
The first thing I ever heard of anti-slavery was Mr. Garrison's pamphlet, 
" Thoughts on Colonization." I had at that time a colonization agent in my house, whom I was expecting to preach for me the next Sunday; but I was compelled to say to him, What shall I do? I agree entirely with the views of this pamphlet. But I told him, " I will let you preach for me on one condition; and that is, that you will let me reply to you. On no other condition will I consent, for from this time henceforth I am an immediate, unconditional Abolitionist." I believe that I was born so; for I have no knowledge of any conviction or of any conversion. The moment I heard this gospel of truth, I accepted it. But I did not feel like entering directly upon this as the great work of my life. That was the ministry, to which I had been ordained; but I intended to preach the everlasting gospel, and as much anti-slavery as the gospel would afford. So I wrote me an anti-slavery sermon, I believe the first ever delivered in New Hanpshire, and delivered it with the hope that it would be popular. I prepared the sermon with more interest than I had ever felt in writing a sermon before; and I waited the next Sunday morning with the utmost impatience for the bell to ring, and when it rung, it seemed to me it would ring forever. The words of the Lord were shut up like fire in my bones, and I wanted to give them utterance. I went into my pulpit, and had a crowded audience. I expected to get a hearty response from them. I had a Judge of the Supreme Court of the State sitting in the broad aisle, and I thought when I got along a little way, I should look down and see the Judge nodding his head, and looking smilingly upon me. But in about fifteen minutes I looked down, and the Judge, instead of smiling approbation, looked as if he was about to pass sentence of death upon me. I was disappointed. But I said, I have put my hand to the plow, and I will plow this furrow out at any rate. And so, from that day to this, I have been trying to do what I could for anti-slavery. For twenty years I tried to bring the Baptist Church, its Bible Societies, Missionary Societies, and Tract Societies, upon the true ground upon the anti-slavery question, until I gained the reputation of being a disturber of Zion. But at last I came to the conclusion that I could free the Baptist Church, and all other Churches, faster outside of them than I could in them. It seemed as if I could get a better hold of them outside; and so,
<C06>
for the last ten years, I have been outside of the Church. And if the Church stands higher to-day than she did thirty years ago, I lay the unction to my soul that I have lifted some ounces towards getting her up. I am full of hope and expectation. I may be disappointed, as I have been two or three times in my life.	 But I have never been disappointed when I have placed my faith in Almighty God, and I shall not be now. We are to see slavery end at some time, and the only question is how soon, and by what instrumentality? I believe it will end by the hand of this war. I believe that when the last rebel is either dead or subdued—God grant that one or the other may take place soon—there will not be a slave clanking his chain in all this land. It may be assumption for me to say that all this is as clear to me as the sunlight; but if I cannot give any better reason for it, I will give that of Milly, in Mrs. Stowe's Dred, that " I feel it in my bones." I know there is a great work to be done. I feel that I am doing it, and I mean keep doing until the last labor is accomplished. But I must have this encouragement to bear me up, as I move around the work, to believe that every blow is effectual, and counts for the truth at last. We are getting near the end, and I expect to live to see slavery abolished. I mean to be at the great jubilee, wherever it is holden; and I suppose that will be all over the land, everywhere. I said, a little while ago, that I was about ready to die; but a friend says there are a hundred years work to do, and so I think I will live on and labor on until the last effort that human nature is capable of putting forth shall be finished. Then will be the right time to die; and I promise you that I will die when my time comes. Now I bid you farewell, and invite you all to be present with me at the jubilee, which is near at our doors. 
FRIDAY EVENING.
The Society assembled at 7 o'clock, the Hall being crowded to its utmost capacity.
ROBERT PURVIS, on rising to speak, was received with marked enthusiasm, He delivered an impassioned address, dwelling mainly upon the proscriptive spirit of caste, which, in defiance of the fundamental principles of the American government, deprives the colored man of his political, educational and social rights, and often exposes him to insult and outrage. We regret that we have no report of his speech, having been disappointed in the expectation that he would himself write it out for publication in this place.
Mr. Purvis, before commencing his address, read the following memoir of one of the earliest friends of the anti-slavery cause in this country:—
MEMOIR OF ARNOLD BUFFUM.
ARNOLD BUFFUM, first President of the New England Anti-Slavery Society, son of William and Lydia Buffum, was born at Smithfield, R. I., 1782.
In the house of his father, who was a member of the old Abolition Society, Arnold, when a child, often listened to the stories of an old colored man who had once been a slave. After telling of the cruelties and degradations of his slave life, he would proudly say of his youngest son, " Pero loves Cuffee more dan all his children, 'cause he free-born."
From his earliest youth, Arnold Buffum maintained a faithful testimony against slavery, though his true, loving heart was often deeply wounded by the coldness and enmity of those who had once been his friends. For, at the time when great fortunes were first made by cotton manufacturers in New England, they believed that cotton could only be furnished at profitable rates by slave labor, and they disliked, and sought to silence, all expression against it. Great was his joy to meet William Lloyd Garrison, and the glorious company who formed the first Anti-Slavery Society!
In 1825 Arnold Buffum visited England, and there enjoyed the society and friendship of Elizabeth Fry, Amelia Opie, Thomas Clark son, Joseph Sturge, Richard Webb, and others, who heartily sympathized with him in his love of liberty. 
After a life spent in earnest work to promote Education, Temperance, and Emancipation, he departed March 13th, 1859, at the age of seventy-seven years, having earned the title, FRIEND OF MAN, and his end was peace.
THE PRESIDENT.—There are on the table a considerable number of letters addressed to the meeting by friends of the cause who could not be with us in person. Interesting as they are, and much as we esteem the writers, we are constrained for want of time to forbear reading them. They will be published, however, with our proceedings.
SPEECH OF THEODORE TILTON.
MR. TILTON, on rising, was saluted with applause, and spoke as follows:
GOOD FRIENDS: I thank you for this courtesy, and wish I could say something worthy of your goodwill. But when the Committee asked me to speak, I pleaded that I might sit dumb; because this is a meeting for retrospect—for old men's tongues and young men's ears. Sitting for two days on this platform, I have not been able to realize, even yet, that this is a public meeting. I know the doors stand open to all comers, and many strangers are here; yet, looking over this multitude, I see such a host of my own dear and personal friends—men and women whose names I could name—whose hands I have often clasped in fellowship—at whose board I have partaken hospitality—from whose lips I have had many pleasant words of good cheer—that now as I look upon you all, gathered here from many different towns, and cities, and States—brought together after many miles of journeying—it seems to me that this meeting is mainly and chiefly a family re-union of fathers and children—and that I am one of the children. And now, though I am summoned to my feet to speak, my mind keeps wandering away from all the intellectual activities that have marked the three preceding sessions of this Convention, and I am thinking at this moment, not of any of the great questions that have been discussed—not of any keen encounter of debate—nor, indeed, of any cunning argument with which to-night I might hope to win you to new allegiance to the good cause—but rather of the devout gratitude to God that fills my heart because of His giving to me—the latest and least man among you—one born out of due time- a share, however humble and small, in that sublime work upon which you now have set the crown of thirty victorious years! My heart rises to my lips, and makes me say, May grace and mercy and peace from God our Father abide upon us all to-night!
Sir, I know these people! And I speak the truth when I say that here before us sit many humble men and women of whom the world is not worthy. And here behind us on this platform are whitened heads in whose presence I stand reverent and abashed. Who am I that should stand up among such as these? Shall a pupil discourse to his teachers? Thirty years! Sir, I know not so many. This Society is two years older than I. Before my cradle was rocked, you were already in the world, able to walk alone. (Laughter.) 
As you all have been talking personalities, you must let me do the same. On my way to this convention, I received a curious letter., It was concerning my genealogy. Now I never was greatly inter-
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTLAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." -J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
14
ested in genealogies, and never took any pains to trace my lineage backward into the past-always feeling that I should never be very proud of it. I find now that I am directly descended from the English nobility nothing to be proud of certainly! (Laughter.) Yet there is a redeeming feature in the history. The ancestral nobleman was Sir John Tilton who spent his fortune on the Gunpowder Plot, and got hung for it (Laughter.) I knew before that a later ancestor was Peter Tilton who hid the Regicides at Hadley, Massachusetts. Later than this, I was born in the very year and month when Mr. Garrison was mobbed in Boston! Now these three facts, taken together, give me, I think, a valid title to my agitating tendencies! (Laughter.)
It was a beautiful picture, that drawn by Whittier in his letter of yesterday morning, of the small upper room in a black man’s house in this city, where, thirty years ago, the architects of this Society went up one after another, and signed their names to their solemn covenant against American slavery. I could draw a picture not so quiet and pleasant, of the place where I made my own covenant—not with any man, but with God—to spend my life in the same cause. 
It was in the city of Richmond This auction-block standing here adds double vividness to my recollection of the scene. Under the red flag of a slave auctioneer, I walked into a slave market, and heard a voice crying. “This woman's name is Mary—how much am I bid for her?”-and there, before my eyes, standing on such a block as this, was a woman holding a babe at her breast, a boy standing at one side, and a girl at the other! Shall I tell you what became of them? The mother and her babe were sold to North Carolina—the boy to Georgia, and the girl to Missouri. My soul flushed into my face like fire, and then and there, in that slave-pen, I said to myself, By the grace of God, as Hannibal swore eternal hostility to Rome, I swear eternal hostility to American slavery! (Applause.) This was my first sight of that great conspiracy against human nature, which, breaking out afterwards into an armed rebellion against the Republic, has crowned -that capital city with a crown of crime. This, sir, is my reminiscence to add to yours.
Now, after thirty years, what hath God wrought The other day I was reading a little memorial of Mr. Garrison's early labors in establishing The Liberator, when the profits of the paper were so small that the editor and his printer lived chiefly on bread and water; "but" said the printer, “when we sold more copies than usual, we bought each a cup of milk.” That, sir, was the milk-and-water period of the anti-slavery enterprise! (Laughter.) To-day the good cause feeds on strong meat! My friend the Rev. Mr. Sloane, of New York, told me that when he was a boy in Ohio, where his father's house stood always open for hospitality to all anti-slavery itinerant, a lecturer came there one day, whose coat showed that it had been kissed by an egg, and one that had a bad breath. “Let me wipe off the stain,” said young Sloane. "Never mind, my lad," said the hero, “for if you rub it off, I shall only catch another at the next town.” (Laughter.) But now-a-days, an anti-slavery lecturer may go to the next town, and the next, and the next, and keep a clean coat clean all the way! And now how sublimely has God evolved out of the small beginnings of this enterprise of thirty years ago, the grand results which all men's eyes see to-day! For though the cause is yet in its struggle, it cannot suffer defeat. Its beginners are likely to live to see its glorious end. “Behold how great a matter a little fire kinaleth!” Behold how much has been accomplished by the patient labors of a few brave souls, who finally have set all the world to work with them in the same great cause! How few were the originators of this enterprise! They were only a handful! Yes, Jupiter's thunderbolts were only a handful, but they shook the whole world! (Applause.) I think often of that saying of Annie of Austria, "God does not pay at the end of every week, but he pays at last." Now at the end of a generation, for all the struggle, for all the toil, for all the obstacles and perils, for all the burdens borne in the beat of the day—what a rich reward falls to these early laborers, young then. but now gray!—what retrospect and prospect!—what memories of the past and hopes of the future! In the beginning, the whole power of the government—its laws, its policies, its bayonets—bore against the slave: now all these, like sharpened arrows, are barbed against the slave's master. The great slave-mongers of History have been Commerce and War. But now Commerce has set her hand and seal to a treaty against the slave trade; and War, no longer an enslaver, has become an emancipator. (Applause.) Mr. Purvis gave a fit and beautiful designation to the great decree of the President, which crowned that new year with a new policy. What is the significance of that act? A Lombard king who marched through the length of Italy, coming to the south shore, rode on horseback into the water up to the saddlegirth, when, rising in the stirrups, he took a javelin, and hurling it far forward, exclaimed, as it fell into the sea, "Thus far do I extend the boundary of the Lombard power." So Abraham Lincoln, drawing from the War Power the beneficent weapon of Emancipation, has hurled it over nine rebellious States, saying, "Thus far do I extend the boundary of Human Freedom!" ( Applause.) 
But by whom was this weapon put into the President's hands? I will tell you. De Tocqueville, who wrote of this country as it was thirty years ago, said that such were then the prevailing views of Federal rights and State rights, that if a conflict should arise between the government at Washington and the government at any State capital, the State would be strong enough to pluck the victory, and the Federal centre would be too weak to do anything but yield. Now what if this rebellion, instead of breaking out in 1860 had broken out in 1830? It would then have conquered the government! Nothing could have saved the Union from the disintegrating blow. Now what, during these last thirty years, has so strengthened the government that it is now able to conquer, not one, but a dozen rebellious States? It is that change in the moral convictions of a free people, which, more and more unifying Northern opinions and interests against the South, now at last knits and binds all the loyal States into a steadfast allegiance to the Federal government, and gives to the Executive every weapon needed to crush the rebellion and to preserve the republic. The conspiracy, we are told, began about thirty years ago; its antidote began about the same time. While our enemy was secretly fashioning his spear, God inspired a company of good men to set to work immediately to make the shield. It was thus that the anti-slavery agitation arose—the mass of the people not knowing why, and clamoring against it as the disturber of their peace, little dreaming that this very agitation was to-create their future safeguard against an approaching conspiracy. I declare, what history will prove, that the unity of the North to-day, in its conflict with the South, is a legitimate result of that moral awakening whose first trumpet-call this Society sounded into the startled ears of the nation thirty years ago! (Applause.) The anti-slavery agitation, and this alone, to-day makes it possible far Abraham Lincoln to stand victor over the slaveholders' rebellion! (Applause.) All honor, therefore, to the early pioneers of the anti-slavery movement! The nation owes to these men its present safety; and when it has time to stop and think, it will give them, as the reward due to their labors, the gratitude of the present and of future generations! (Applause.)
The same Divine providence—for it has not been the work of man—the same providence that began this sublime work will carry it victoriously to its consummation. I never reflect without pity upon the long unhappy condition of that dusky race of four million of human souls, who, under a free government and in a Christian age, have been chained down to the basest servitude ever known in the world. The strong may take care of themselves, but the weak ought to be helped. That is man's duty and God's example. The heavenly Father cares for all, but mostly for those who need most care. The Scriptures take no pains to say that He cares for such sparrows as are strong of wing, but tenderly mention that he cares for such as fall to the ground. If men therefore are of more value than many sparrows, will he not lift up that lowly multitude that so long have been bowed down to the ground? One day, while sitting in my office, I received from Mr. Greeley a hurried notes somewhat as follows: "My friend, read the enclosed, and if you can do anything for the poor man, I know you will." The enclosed was a little bit of blue paper, sweat-stained, written upon in a scrawling, straggling hand, misspelled, and ran in this wise: “I am a fugitive slave in Canada. I came from Maryland five years ago, leaving my father behind me, an old man, of whom I cannot hear whether he is alive or dead. I have written many letters, but get no answers. What shall I do?" This was the substance. After reading the note, I dropped it on my desk, saying, it is a hopeless case. In a few minutes somebody knocked at my door, and in came an old, weather-beaten black man, white haired and venerable. He was on his way from Maryland
<c02>
Northward—for I never yet found any of that class of people on their way Southward. His name was Samuel Green. The name in the letter was Henry Green. “ Did you ever know a man by the name of Henry Green? “I asked. "I had a son," said he "by that name. He ran out of slavery five years ago, and I have never heard from him since.” "Now listen,” said I, and I read the letter to him, and watched his face. “It is my son,” said he, “my son Henry!” And that same evening the railroad train bore him Northward, and on the second day afterward he kissed his son's cheek!—a reunion as of two persons rising to meet each other from the grave, after five years of death! Now, my friends, the same Divine Hand that brought together so strangely those two sundered hearts, is stretched out of the heavens for the help of all the sorrowing four million, and will, sooner or later, lead them every one into the "light and liberty of the sons of God." (Applause.) For God and all good angels are working together for the eradication of slavery from this land. And we are near the day of victory. I am informed that an old man in this State, lying on his death-bed at the beginning of the year, was told by his family that the President had decreed liberty to the slaves. "Read me the Proclamation," said he, and after it was read, he folded his hands, saying, "Now, Lord, lattest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have beheld the salvation of my country." Shortly afterward he died-leaving the nation to a new and nobler life. But we must not flatter ourselves that the work is already done, or will be done to-morrow or next day. It may be that the shadow of war on the land has not yet grown as dark as God means it. It may be that we have not yet suffered enough for purification—for we are refined by fire, and disciplined by sorrow. But even though it be by the path of blood and tears, let us thank God that, by any path, he is leading the nation forward to liberty.
This convention has been one of good cheer. It has ministered refreshment to my soul. There has been an Indian Summer in its atmosphere which has warmed my blood, and quickened my pulse. But I have been so over-filled with a strong sympathy, that my mind has been robbed and dispossessed of all the thoughts that a better fortune might have thrown into my remarks. I know it is said, "Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh,” yet one might make another proverb and say, Out of the over-abundance of the heart the mouth would bold its peace. And now, my friends, while we are having the baptism of fire and blood in the land, let us have the baptism of the Holy Ghost in our souls. O, sir, when one looks at the magnitude of the cause, of its moral grandeur, of its infinite importance for humanity, and then looks at his own weakness in its advocacy, what can a man do but cry out, “Who is sufficient for these things?” What manner of man ought one to be who takes upon himself the championship of liberty! How ought one to purge himself of all that is base and mean! How clean and pure of soul ought to be the man who dares to rebuke a nation for its sin! Let us look up into the heavens for the benediction of God upon us and upon our work.
"Anoint and cheer our soiled face
With the abundance of thy grace."
Time flies! Clarkson and Wilberforce are in their graves, but their names are precious. The venerable men on this platform shall sooner or later follow—leaving behind them like precious names. For there are some within the sound of my voice whose names shall be as enduring as American history. Yet it makes very little difference who shall be remembered or who forgotten; for when these present storms shall give way to blue skies—when the fields now red with blood shall be green with peace—when every chain shall be broken and every slave shall offer thanksgiving—all true souls, forgetting the mere human instruments of the Divine will, will cry out, "Not unto us, but unto thy name be the victory, O Lord God of Hosts!" (Applause.) 
THE PRESIDENT.—For one, I am always rejoiced to hear of the success of any candidate, in any part of the country, who represents the idea of liberty. Whatever may be said with regard to their merely echoing public sentiment, one thing I know, that a man sometimes comes into office without losing his manhood, and keeping his integrity. We have such a man with us here to-night, in the person of Senator Wilson. He did not wait till the public sentiment was created, whereby he could safely aspire to public office; but, long before he ever dreamed of office, as early as 1836, his interest in the struggle for the abolition of slavery began, and has continued from that hour to this. If he has been Representative and Senator in Massachusetts, Senator in the United States Congress representing Massachusetts, and is there still, it is not because he has played the part of a demagogue, but because he has dared to speak the words of freedom, and to maintain the cause of the slave. (Applause.) [The speech of Mr. Wilson has already appeared in the Liberator.]

The Liberator. 
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1864. 
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-8LAVERY SOCIETY. 
The THIRTY-FIRST ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, at the TREMONT TEMPLE, on Thursday, Jan. 28th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Let the members and friends of the Society assemble at the approaching annual meeting in even unusual numbers, and, bating no jot of heart or hope, address themselves to the COMPLETION of the work to which they have been so long consecrated. Come one, come all. Let not Massachusetts alone, but all parts of the land be represented.
As hitherto, an additional attraction will be presented in the holding of. the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION FESTIVAL, at the Music HALL, on the evening (Wednesday, January 27th,) preceding the opening session of the Society.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., and others are expected to speak at the Thursday morning's meeting, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Recording Secretary.

THE SUBSCRIPTIOH-ANNIVERSARY.
We take it for granted that those who have so long and so faithfully united their hearts, hands and means, under the banner of IMMEDIATE AND UNIVERSAL EM ANCIPATION, will need no other incentive than THE CAUSE itself presents to give their personal attendance, as far as lies in their power, at the Annual Subscription-Anniversary to be held in Music HALL, on WEDNESDAY EVENING next, January 27th-bringing with them such new converts and awakened friends as are within the reach of their influence, and all remembering to take with them the most generous donations they can afford to make; the OBJECT being, not mere personal enjoyment, but to furnish the pecuniary aid so essential to carrying on the moral struggle against slavery until its total extinction in our land. Let the AGGREGATE be worthy of the occasion and the crisis. It is equally cheering and noticeable, that at the late Decade Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society in Philadelphia, such men as Judge Conway, (by letter,) Senator Wilson and Colonel Wagner in their speeches on the occasion, united in deprecating any cessation of effort on the part of the Society, and urging it to fresh efforts to finish the glorious work so suspiciously begun.
The hall will be opened at half past 6 o'clock, and the evening chiefly devoted social promenading and intercourse. At 8 o'clock, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq. will address the assembly. Gillmore's Band will enliven the occasioc with suitable pieces. Tables will be distributed through the hall, at which ladies will be found ready to receive all that may be proffered in the way of pecuniary assistance. May they be kept busily employed!
Tickets of admission may be obtained at the AntiSlavery Office, <illegible> Washington street, without charge.
<c03>
DECADE MEETING REMINISCENCES,
BRANTFORD, (Canada West,) Jan. 4,1864. 
MR. GARRISON: 
DEAR FRIEND—Was It well that Orson S. Murray should have been hindered from saying his say at the late Decade Meeting? Mr. Murray's letters in the Liberator are always worth reading, and it is probable that his speech of thirty minutes might have been worth hearing. What he did say, too, might likely have been made more interesting to the audience, had he not felt the need of hurrying, from the impression, just or unjust, that he was hardly a welcome occupant of the time. Only once before have I seen Mr. Murray In a public meeting, and then, too, he had the same fortune of not getting a hearing, though the meeting was called for the especial purpose of expressing free thought. Bristling all over with fight, it may be Mr. Murray's misfortune to make himself somewhat repulsive to some who look not beyond the surface of character. Yet the like of him will not unfrequently be found to be among the largest hearted; and the most gentle and genial, too, when by any rare chance they meet with the appreciation of justice. Yet I do not think it was Mr. Murray's heresy that prevented his having a hearing, but certain mistaken notions about order, and as to what constitutes the interest and value of such meetings.
Liberty of speech may be abused, and often is. If caucus and platform management secured the exclusion of irrelevancy and inanity, more might be said for it. I doubt whether the Anti-Slavery cause owes a particle of its success to fifteen-minute limited, or any sort of limited speeches. Its key-note was and is, "I will be heard!" "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me to preach deliverance to the captives." For those who have nothing to say, fifteen minutes is too long, while to others it might be very inadequate. At these Decade meetings, it was very good to be there. It was good to be in fellowship with the spirit that pervaded those large assemblages of living, and loving, and liberty-loving souls. If less attention had been paid to the letter and form of Anti-Slavery, and more to the spirit, I think it would have been still better. But true Anti-Slavery has a vitality which formalism cannot kill.
The Saturday’s long discussion about Mr. McKim's resignation of his agency somewhat indicated the old mischievous idolatry of sect, so formidable an enemy to Anti-Slavery from the beginning: as if Mr. McKim's change was any thing else but a continuance of his work for the slave! You and your co-workers will be remembered for the work you have done; are now appreciated both by the friends and enemies of liberty, irrespective of any office held in an organization. 
When the death-warrant of slavery is signed, and the executioner has done his work, Mr. McKim's suggestion for the formal dissolution of the Anti-Slavery Society has the respectable precedent of the Anti-Corn-Law League. The formal dissolution of that formidable organization was no dissolution of the spirit of Free Trade, as Lord Derby and D'Israeli were made to know, when soon after they presumed to intimate a desire to restore the wick impost. Spontaneous Lancashire and other meetings, with promises of thousands upon thousands of pounds to renew the agitation, settled the matter. Organizations apart, "those who went forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless return again, rejoicing, bringing their sheaves with them." "Harvest Home" and "Thanks giving" are fitting in their season; and the season approaches, and will come all the sooner for the jealous vigilance of such men as O.S. Murray and S. S. Foster, whose ungracious office seems to be, to be continually warning of danger and finding fault.
Mr. Murray got some hisses for the expression of his estimate of Abraham Lincoln. Mr. Douglass eulogized the President; and with such an endorsement of the President’s "honesty," perhaps one ought to be satisfied. Yet when I remember Mr. Lincoln's infamous proposition to banish the freed blacks from the country, a proposition without the poor excuse of constitutional obligation, but obtrusively volunteered in the service of the malignant spirit of slavery, it has seemed to me that nothing less than an originally mean soul, schooled by a long life of habitual disregard of God's suffering poor, could have fitted Abraham Lincoln to have made such a proposition, to such a people, and under such circumstances of his country. The deputation of ex-slaves, to whom were vouchsafed the gracious overtures, must have had great self-control, or great insensibility to insult, not to have spit in his face.
Yet, considering what sort of material is alone available for making Presidents of, it is fortunate that a worse man is not in Abraham Lincoln's place. The highest merit of which rulers seem to be capable is to discern the signs of the times, and to act accordingly. And this merit must be conceded to the President. Nay, it is hoped that the humane elements of his character are in the ascendant, and that the diabolical will be kept in abeyance. 
But, in view of the slipperiness, the facing-both-ways, the untrustworthiness of the whole tribe of politicians, what a relief it is to remember that there are those in the land who fear and serve the Lord! men and women, not without their human frailties, but who have not bowed their knees to Baal, and who will not; whose names are "programmes of principles," and symbols of incorruptibleness. At those Decade meetings it was indeed good to be there, to take such by the hand, and to look into their faces, and to be baptized into that spirit which has been their inspiration, their support, and their reward.
Yours, very truly, GEO. SUNTER. 
REMARKS. We fully appreciate the kind spirit evinced by our friend GEORGE SUNTER; but when he asks, "Was it well that Orson S. Murray should have been hindered from saying his say at the late Decade Meeting? "we can only reply that no real or intentional injustice was done to Mr. Murray; that no speaker, except himself, complained of the fifteen-minute rule; that, as it was not a meeting for free discussion or ethical controversy, but commemorative and congratulatory, and as there were many persons present who were desirous to participate in the proceedings, that rule, (which was unanimously adopted by the assembly,) instead of proving a barrier to free utterance, enabled an unusual number of speakers to be heard; and that the President, at the expiration of the time in Mr. Murray's case, gave him the opportunity to ask of the meeting a further hearing, if he desired it, but he declined making the request. It was unfortunate that he did not make a speech, instead of attempting to read a series of more than forty resolutions; it was equally unfortunate that his voice was so weak, and his articulation so indistinct, that comparatively few in that large audience were able to hear him connectedly; yet he was listened to with patience and courtesy, though not generally understood.
Our friend Sunter alludes to "the Saturday's long discussion about Mr. McKim's resignation of his agency;" but that discussion was at the meeting of the 
Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, and had no connection with the Decade commemoration.
Seeing that President Lincoln has wholly abandoned his absurd notion of colonizing our colored population abroad-that he has emancipated more than three million of slaves by his proclamation of January 1,1863-and that he is in favor of their enlistment as soldiers—we think that he should be charitably treated as to his trying position.
We have received Part XXXIX. of that most valuable historical work, entitled "THE REBELLION RECORD; A Diary of American Events, 1860-'64." Edited by Frank Moore, Author of "Diary of the American Revolution," and published by G. P. Putnam, 441 Broadway, New York. It contains portraits of Gen. Quincy A. Gillmore and Gen. Samuel R. Zook. 
The letter of our esteemed friend ALFRED H. LOVE, of Philadelphia, is on file for insertion as soon as practicable.
<c04>
LATEST FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LONDON, NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1864.
MY DEAR GARRISON:—I send you the salutations of the season, with the expression of my sincere and earnest wish that this may prove to you and yours a year of health, peace, prosperity and happiness: that it may also prove to your country the year of jubilee—the first of a long succession of years of freedom, growth and glory!
I have just read, with intense interest, the account in the Anti-Slavery Standard of December 19th, of the third Decade Meeting in Philadelphia. I deem my loss very great in being absent from a meeting so full of thrilling associations. How well I remember the conversations I held with you, respecting the projected formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society! How often have I read to English audiences the noble and immortal Declaration of Sentiments adopted at the organization of that Society! If not a signer of that Declaration, I was amongst the first in this country to endorse it, and, as you know, became an agent in 1834 of the Executive Committee appointed to carry out its objects. From that time to the present, I have felt myself the representative and servant of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and have, I think, never wavered in my allegiance to it. I might therefore have laid some claim to a seat amongst you in your late gathering.
I have, for several weeks, been absent from London, paying farewell visits, and have several more to make; yet shall be obliged to leave without personally bidding good-bye to many who have signified their desire to hold converse with me before I sail. Providence permitting, I shall take my passage by the steamer of the 23d, direct to Boston, where I trust you will be at the time of my arrival, for I shall be impatient to grasp your hand, after an interval of thirteen years.
Yours, till February, and ever after.
GEO. THOMPSON.
LETTER FROM JOHN G. WHITTIER, ESQ. 
AMESBURY, 1 mo. 17,1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON:— 
I notice in the last Liberator a line from my old and highly esteemed friend, A. W. Thayer, Esq., in relation to a letter received by me from Henry Clay, I had written him, [H. C.] urging him to use his influence to effect thy liberation from prison in Baltimore. His answer I cannot now lay hand on, but I think it is somewhere among my papers. Friend Thayer's recollection of it coincides in the main with mine. H. C. stated that he had written to a friend in Baltimore to inquire into the matter, and give such aid, in his name, as might be practicable in procuring thy release; but that he had just learned from his Baltimore correspondent, that he had been anticipated by a gentleman in New York. 
It gives me real pleasure to refer to this characteristic and generous letter from a man who, slaveholder as he was, had he lived to our day, would, I am sure, have been found on the side of Union, and therefore of Liberty. 
Very truly thy friend,
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
P. S. If I find the letter in question, I will send thee a copy. I do not think the language of it was as definite as friend Thayer's version as to the payment of fine and costs. It was simply a prompt and generous effort on the writer's part to aid thee.

THIRD DECADE PAMPHLET. 
At the recent Third Decade Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY in Philadelphia, a Committee was appointed to superintend the publication of the Proceedings of that Meeting, with any other interesting matter appertaining thereto, in a pamphlet form. That Committee would now state that the funds raised at said meeting, after defraying the local expenses and the cost of reporting, afford but a trifling balance towards the pamphlet. It is accordingly necessary to request the members and friends of the Society, and all persons interested in the publication of the pamphlet, to inform the Committee the number of copies they will individually subscribe for. This will enable the Committee to decide whether or not to proceed with the pamphlet-edition. Subscriptions may be sent to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston; and it is earnestly requested that early responses may be made. The exact price per copy cannot now be fixed, but subscribers will have their copies at actual cost.

TO THE WOMEN OF THE REPUBLIC. 
Think not, in circulating the Petition, that your work will soon be forgotten. The hundreds of names gathered by you in wandering weary miles, are not to be thrown away with waste paper—laid on the table, or under the table—but all are to be preserved in the national archives as a part of our history.
The names of the members of the "Women's Loyal National League," the sums of money expended, the extensive correspondence with the women of the nation, will all be bound up in book form. Every one of the thousands of letters from loyal women, demanding freedom to all, will be preserved for the admiration of our children's children. 
This is not a movement for a day or an hour, to end with the circulation of the petition; but the inauguration of the moral power of woman to be recognized in the politics of the nation. Our influence must be felt in the next Presidential campaign, in the re-construction of the new government. Remember, the right of petition is the only political right we have under the Constitution. By our zeal and earnestness in the use of that in this crisis of our destiny, let us prove ourselves worthy of more enlarged privileges and immunities in the new republic.
One hundred thousand names are already registered in our office, Room 20 Cooper Institute, New York. It takes nine hundred thousand more to complete the million. So work on, and thus secure for yourselves a glorious immortality.
E. CADY STANTON, 
President Women's Loyal National League.
IMP0RTANT PETITION TO CONGRESS.
The following is the form of a Petition adopted in compliance with a vote of the late Thirtieth Anniversary Meeting at Philadelphia, and which has been approved by leading anti-slavery persons of various parties and denominations. The subject is one of vital moment; and the exigencies of the time point to this action as absolutely necessary to a speedy, honorable, and safe conclusion of the war. We ask our friends and readers, one and all, to interest themselves and those around them in the immediate and extensive circulation of this Petition. It is so brief that it may readily be copied at the head of a letter sheet, or printed copies may be obtained by applying to either of the anti-slavery offices in Philadelphia, (106 North Tenth street,) New York, (48 Beekman street,) or Boston, (221 Washington street.) Let the action be prompt and vigorous. Those who have already signed the Loyal Women's Petition need not hesitate to sign this also, is the two, though in harmony, are not identical. Friends! let the word be Immediate! Not an hour is to be lost.
When the signing is completed, let the Petition be forwarded at once to some reliable member of Congress, or, if preferred, to one of the abovenamed offices, where it will receive prompt attention. 
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled: 
The undersigned, citizens of————, believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country. 
MEN WOMEN.
<c05>
LETTER FROM OAPT. DANIEL FOSTER.
NORFOLK, (Va.) Jan. 4., 1864.
DEAR GARRISON,-In publishing my letter of Dec. 29th, you have made one mistake which I wish to have corrected. You make me say that there are 150,000 colored soldiers now in the field. It should read 50,000, which is the number now officially reported as enlisted, and sent into the field. I wish it was true that we had 150,000 of these true men and brave soldiers in the field from the South. I hope soon to see the colored soldier put on the same footing as to pay and the chance of promotion as the white soldiers. The ignorance of the slaves, enforced by the heathenish laws and the harbarous public opinion of the South, stands seriously in the way of their advancement to official positions in the army—more so, even, than in civil life. Still, the motive should be urged upon them to strive, in every possible way, to improve, by the assurance that, when they have fairly won promotion, they shall have it. There is no reason why Robert Small should not be rewarded for his eminent services to the country, by conferring on him rank as an officer in our glorious navy. Such an act would honor and help the country and the navy quite as much as it would the brave and capable recipient of these deserved honors and emoluments.
I have had a soldier under my command, in my late expeditions, who was, till recently, a slave in North Carolina, who would make a very superior officer–a man of great character, capacity and courage. I hope soon to see the door to promotion opened to such men from the ranks of the colored soldiery.
On Wednesday of last week, Gen. Wild directed me to take a party of colored soldiers, and proceed to the house of a Mr. White, who resides beyond Deep Creek, in Norfolk county, and assist a mother to get her daughter and her effects, which were kept from her by said White. After the war broke out, the mother made an effort to escape, for which offence she was punished by being forced to wear a ball and chain upon her ankles. In spite of all, however, she escaped, but could not get her child. I found Mr. White at home when I reached his house, just at the close of the day—told him my errand, and set the boys to helping the colored woman get her few things together. Mr. White and his wife were excited to a white heat by the spectacle of this woman, who had been their slave, talking to them and collecting her things as a free woman who had not the fear of the Dred Scott decision before her face. In an unguarded moment, he raised his flat, called the woman "a d—d nigger," and threatened to strike her down; for which characteristic display of Southern valor and Southern chivalry, I ordered four of the boys to fix bayonets, and put him in arrest. So I brought the truculent slave-driver along with his whilom slaves back to Deep Creek, where I encamped for the night, putting my men, the woman and child, myself and my prisoner, into a house where we could have good warm fires. One of the gentlemen residing at Deep Creek furnished, on my requisition, quarters, fuel and food. After supper, Mr. White expressed himself as very penitent for what he had done, and humbly sued for pardon. I gave him a good sound abolition discourse, and dismissed him with a copy of the Liberator containing Wendell Phillips's Copper Institute speech; and with a very manifest leaning to the Millerite doctrine, that the world is indeed near its end! 
The next day I returned to Norfolk, and on Friday started with another party and ten women who wanted help to get their children and effects. On this expedition I' was gone four days, and brought back from slavery into freedom some thirty persons. One of these women had been tied up with a strong rope, at night, for a long time, to prevent her escape. But she got away at last, came to Norfolk, and, strange to say, wanted her little girl; and with the help of my party, she got possession of her own child.
I fear the Copperheads will despair of "the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is," when they learn that such things are matters of daily occurrence since Gen. Butler took command of this department, and that he sustains Gen. Wild in all his measures for helping the slaves to their freedom, and bettering their condition by putting them upon the farms which the secessionists have forfeited by joining the rebel army But so it is; and the poor Copperheads have nothing left but the old privilege of Babylon, to bewail their fallen condition.
Aunt Sally—another of the women who accompanied me—had escaped from Caleb Etheridge, her master. Her five children had been sent to Richmond, and sold, by way of illustrating the beauties of the patriarchal institution, when conducted on Christian principles. She wanted to get her things away, and so went along. When we reached the house, Mr. Etheridge was not at home. I presume he had seen us coming, and thought he had better retire. Aunt Sally talked to the mistress with indignant eloquence about her cruelty and wickedness, in sending her children and selling them down South, after she had slaved for her all her life. Mrs. Etheridge appealed to me to protect her, and make that "saucy nigger shut her mouth." I said to her, "Is it indeed so strange that a mother should call you to account for the damnable and most cruel crime of selling away from her sight and protection “her own children? Madam, you hear from her now the very accusation which will be hurled against you in the Judgment of eternity. I advise you to repent, and repair, as far as possible, the wrong you have done this poor brokenhearted mother, while you have the time and power to do it.”
In safety we went, and in safety we returned with some poor heavy hearts made glad by our work. 
I have now been with Gen. Wild just about two months. I should judge that not less than 3000 slaves have been released from bondage under his administration in that time, by the parties he has sent out, and through the expedition to Elizabeth city, which he commanded in person. From five large and populous counties, the guerrillas have been scattered and routed most effectually, during the same time, by his energy and repeated blows. Hundreds, if not thousands of stubborn secessionists have been so moved upon by Gen. Wild's colored soldiers, through these constantly repeated expeditions, that they have come forward, and taken the oath of allegiance; and daily they come in. Let our army everywhere work as vigorously and thoroughly against the rebels as Gen. Wild's command has done, and the rebellion would be short-lived indeed.
Gen. Butler's administration is, in all respects, most admirable and statesmanlike. His whole heart is in the work of crushing the rebellion, of destroying slavery, and elevating the colored man. He is proving himself the friend of the slave. He shows himself a statesman of the first order by his thorough comprehension of this great problem of lifting four millions of slaves to the condition of self-respect and prosperity of freedom. Thank God for such democracy as Gen. Butler now illustrates! Give us such men as Gen. Butler and Gen. Wild at the head of our armies, and all difficulties will vanish from the grand question of the hour, and our future will open upon us and our children glad with the brightest promise.
Yours for the Union as it is to be, and the Constitution applied, "to secure for us and our children the blessings of liberty,"
DANIEL FOSTER.

"PLANTATION PICTURES." Let none of our casual readers be deterred from giving a single chapter a careful perusal, because they may not have read the entire series, as they will find each "Picture" very complete and intelligible in itself. The one in the last Liberator was a comprehensive and graphic view of the despairing situation of "the poor whites" at the South, as they are affected by slavery; and that which occupies so large a portion of the last page of our present number, is full of absorbing interest is relating to the <illegible> Swamp and its fugitive inmates. The whole work, when completed, will make a volume of rare interest, and increase the reputation of its gifted author, who resided in Virginia several years.
<c06>
MAYOR WALLACH AND COLORED VOLUNTEERS.
MR. EDITOR,—The people of Washington have been favored (?) with a peculiar letter from their Mayor. In yesterday morning's edition of the Washington Chronicle his communication appears; wherein he feelingly implores the Hon. Secretary of War to stop the enlistment in this city of "white and black" persons, for the purpose of filling the quotes of other States.
If the Mayor's letter only includes those "white and black" persons who are enrolled and liable to draft here, it looks very like asking the Secretary of War to "intervene," by reenacting a law already enforced by the Provest Marshals in every loyal State. That forbids one State, or its agents, from enlisting persons enrolled and liable to draft outside of the State boundary. But if the Mayor does not desire to interfere with the rights of any parties beyond those liable to draft in this city, the recent proceedings of citizens, for whom he eloquently pleads, certainly furnish a more comprehensive or selfish application. For instance, a few days ago, Massachusetts agents in Washington and Georgetown were ordered to shut up shop and the negroes they had already enlisted were forced, from them, and turned over to the tender mercies of a District of Columbia recruiting officer.
The negro passes the lines of our armies, and particularly the limits of the District of Columbia, his heart bounding with joy, and his bosom swelling with emotions of manliness over the ideas of his being a free man in the land of freedom. He desires to leave, and go further North, or wherever he pleases, and so no one has a right to trouble him, so long as he behaves himself. But imagine his surprise when he finds that Washington and all its connections with other points are closely watched by officers, whose unenviable business it is, to arrest all negroes not liable to draft here, who are willing, and are on their way, to volunteer and fight in New England regiments. Such presumption as this is not to be winked at: it is an unpatriotic interference with the interests and rights of Massachusetts, and as such it will merit, and should be visited with, an indignant rebuke from Governor Andrew.
The negroes whom Northern recruiting officers come here after are the refugees from Virginia; and they have fled to Washington as the first and nearest place in which they could feel themselves safe from recapture, knowing, doubtless, that the members of Congress would be very sure to see that the rebels did not get here during the session, even if they took every other part of the Union.
Now, the claim of the Mayor, that the irrepressible negro who comes puffing and snorting across Long Bridge and into Washington,-where he has not tarried long enough to be enrolled,-if enlisted in the United States military service by agents of the States, shall be counted on the quota of the District of Columbia, is really the height of absurdity; and the holding of these negroes for no other purpose than to save many, who are his enemies, from the draft, is gross injustice and heartless selfishness.
The Mayor informs the Secretary of War that “it is prejudicial to the rights and interests of his fellow-citizens”-the recruiting of these free negroes. No doubt of it. It would be a very nice thing if the quasi loyal Mayor could prevent these colored men, in transit, from enlisting where they get the largest bounties, as in that case his "fellow-citizens," and thousands of clerks subsisting upon the liberal disbursements of the Government, would have their chances to be drawn out of the hat greatly increased. But it is manifestly prejudicial to the interests of the Government to have the negro prevented from entering the army, through any State, to fight, the rebels when he is not enrolled, and cannot be drafted for that purpose, in the District of Columbia; and it is obviously detrimental to the military success and prejudicial to the rights of every free State to prohibit the enlistment of negroes, not citizens liable to draft, wherever they may be found. If Mayor Wallach succeeds in getting Secretary Stanton to help him play dog in the manger, he will be smart. Does not every loyal State claim an interest and a right in the labor of every man in the District of Columbia, who has been lifted by the strong arm of the Federal Government from wicked and degrading slavery into free and honorable manhood? The negroes will not volunteer here; and if Mayor Wallach hinders them doing so elsewhere, he directly discourages enlistments. Let every man and corporation remember that 
"Our country's welfare is our first concern,
And who promotes that best, best proves his duty."
The District of Columbia gives the negro $30 to enter the army, while Rhode Island and other New England States give a bounty of $300 to aid the poor fugitive in support of his family or dependents, while he goes out to fight the traitors and bloodhounds that have just pursued him in his flight from slavery to freedom. Under all the circumstances, whose business,—except that of the State and the recruit,—is it, if the negro, free from bondage and free from the draft, declines $30, and accepts $300 as bounty! And are not the negro "freedmen" by virtue of the laws of Congress and the exigencies of the war! Are they not endowed by the President's proclamation with the rights of liberty and the pursuit of happiness? And are they not supposed to be capable of judging in which direction that happiness lies?
New York city, in recent cases growing out of the recruiting business, only claimed jurisdiction over its enrolled citizens; yet that city might, with the same propriety, claim all the immigrants landed, and temporarily domiciled in Castle Garden, as citizens of that State, as Washington all the negroes that have made this city a temporary asylum until they saw as opportunity to better their circumstances.
Mayor Wallach's communication to Secretary Stanton complaining of "gross imposture," bears no date as it appears in the Chronicle, but the unusual love which it exhibits for the contraband is really quite noticeable. However, it is quite safe and natural to presume it was penned since the time when Mayor Wallach and many of his "fellow-citizens" were exceedingly exercised about the idea of employing negroes as soldiers to assist in the suppression of the present unprovoked and unhallowed rebellion.
Washington, Jan. 6, 1864. C.V.S.
LETTER FROM ANDREW PATON, ESQ.
GLASGOW, Dec. 26, 1864.
WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., Boston, Mass:—
DEAR SIR,—I have the pleasure to enclose Union Bank of Scotland's draft, in your favor, for £26.
We deeply sympathize in the sore trials you are now passing through, and hope that soon the North may be enabled to terminate successfully this desolating war by the terminate successfully this desolating war by the subjugation of the South, and the complete abolition of slavery. Nearly all now recognize the present thorough abolition of slavery to be the only basis on which permanent peace for the United States can rest. Should slavery, in any form or modification, be allowed to remain amongst you, similar results will undoubtedly flow from it in the future as in the past.
President Lincoln's Proclamation of Jan. 1, 1863, giving pardon to the slave, in the rebel States, at once secured for the North the hearty sympathy and best wishes of the great majority in Britain. Since then, all the efforts of the London Times and the other pro-slavery and Southern newspapers here, have been quite ineffectual to obtain any sympathy or support for the South. I am glad to see from President Lincoln's message, that he still adheres to his Proclamation, but trust your Government will not assent to anything in the shape of a deferring or interposing an apprenticeship, previous to the final abolition, which one part of the message seems to me to hint at. I hope I am wrong.
Abolitionists could not have foreseen the flery ordeal by the which the extinction of slavery was to be effected, nor that, great as the sin was, the expiation was to be so heavy. Please remember me to Wm. Llyod Garrison; and with best wishes for all anti-slavery friends with you, 
Believe me to be, 
Yours, very truly, 
ANDREW PATON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A MESSAGE FOR ENGLAND.
ADDRESS BY REV. HENRY WARD BEECHER.
The closing lecture in the regular course delivered this season under the auspices of the Parker Fraternity, was given by Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, on Thursday evening last week, in the Music Hall, which was literally crammed. There did not appear to be a vacant seat, and hundreds availed themselves of standing room, while great numbers left the building unable to eater with convenience or comfort. For three-quarters, of an hour preceding the commencement of the address, Mr. B. J. Lang performed upon the great organ, playing in a skillful manner and to general acceptance, the overtures to “Egmont,” by Beethoven, and “Der Frieschutz,” by Weber; also Handel’s “Hallelujah Chorus,” and several other equally effective pieces. The appearance of Rev. Mr. Beecher upon the platform with the officers of the Fraternity caused great applause, which was increased materially on his rising to begin the discourse.
Mr. Beecher remarked that our rebellion and war may rationally be considered in three periods or aspects; and now that we are about to enter upon the last, it is eminently proper that we should turn round and address a few courteous remarks to those who have been our critics, if not our friends.
In the first place we recognize, in viewing our struggle, the period of outbreak-the most dangerous, full of vicious feelings, the South seeking to organize its own resources, and relying upon Northern treachery to assist them in becoming the masters of the continent; and though we did not then regard the time as portentous of danger, yet now that it is past, we see how near it came to proving our national ruin and annihilation, and we would none of us like to see it tried again; for while a government thrown down by outside violence may be put together again, one which is rent and destroyed by internal forces, which is undermined by burrowing from within itself, never was or can be restored for the good of mankind.
The second period in our war was that of conflict. In this we had seen the characteristics of the North and South developed fully in measures and men-and while the South has shown greater tact, the North has confronted her with superior power; while the spirit of the former is centripetal, that of the latter is centrifugal, With greater tendencies to concentration, the South undertook to bring into a permanent political scheme their aristocratic ideas. The North has of late been applying its democratic theories to meet the wants of the time, and the consequence has been that they have not only secured the approval of the world, but they have well nigh ended the rebellion. Jefferson Davis is the beau-ideal of aristocracy, as Abraham Lincoln is the exponent of democracy. The first shrewd, scheming, could have carried out the plan of the South if anybody could-the last of great practical wisdom, without cunning, possessing in a remarkable degree the homely qualities of the common people, and fitly representing them by whom he was clothed with power. All the world sees that this drama has thus far been played in a manner singularly characteristic of the parties engaged. The generalship of the two sides was equal, but in their resources they were greatly variant. Even now the South is growing perceptibly weak, and must soon die, while the North is actually growing strong. This point was elaborated in a further contrast of the ideas and interests of the Northern and Southern people.
The third period was that of re-adjustment, and the view of the speaker as to how the issue shall be determined would depend upon whether the period shall be one of statesmen or politicians. Standing on the eve of this period, we are prepared to speak a few words to Europe, and particularly to Great Britain. Mr.  Cobden’s handling of the London Times has worsted the most powerful exponent of public sentiment in the world. The questions discussed by him were those pertaining to Northern prosperity, popular liberties at the North, of land on its tenure-all home questions to us, and it is well, perhaps, that a calm testimony should go abroad from here relative to the same subjects, while we thank God that we have strength enough and courage enough remaining so that we may lift ourselves up and give the world our views on these topics.
The representations more generally accepted abroad, relative to the opinion entertained by Mr. Seward and other leading American minds, touching the existing prosperity at the North during the prevalence of this gigantic war, are in substance that Mr. Seward holds that war is the means of this prosperity. This, of course, is far from the truth. The North does not so think, and no such rumor should have obtained currency. For the most part, the way of prosperity is through the bright, golden doors of Liberty. It is best also, that men should, so long as they are to wear shackles, grow rapidly enough to require an enlargement of their letters at frequently recurring intervals, the old ones being outgrown. Europe must not, therefore, be deluded into belief that there is any connivance at this war on our part, because our idea is that education is better than a sword to slay tyrants. We are sorry that this war is waged. We did all we could to prevent and ward it off, and are now waging it with a full view our duty to the world, and with an adequate sense of its importance and solemnity. There has been $1,200,000,000 property sung, wasted, worn out, annihilated. To be sure, a little of it remains in forts, and ships, and other forms of property, but mainly it has been lost beyond recovery. This is a gigantic sum truly; but it is not to be said that the expenditure was other than rightful; for can this be too much to pay for purity, honor, liberty and happiness?  I, for one, say we have not paid dearly; and, when we gild our future heavens with radiant visions of peace, we all lose sight of the vastness of the price thereof.  Yankees have often been charged with all manner of faults and sins, but never with a lack of knowledge in financiering. Then, there is also to be remembered the loss of life North and South; of property, cattle, horses, goods, improvement and money; for we must consider the casualties of the South, in our estimate of the ravages of war, so long as there is but one race of Anglo Saxons in America. Fifty years will hardly restore the South, and perhaps nothing ever will but free labor.  The process of recuperation will be surpassingly quick. Cut a gash into an old tree which has just enough vitality in it to show leaves, and the consequence will be decay, and probably death; but a young and vigorous sapling heals its wounds, and outgrows the scars they make. But in this matter of loss, the missing men will be more deeply felt than the missing money. Undoubtedly, the rebels have lost three men to our one. There have probably been 20,000 men killed during the war, besides probably 120,000 made cripples, and others in a useless state, while human language fails to depict the moral and social losses of the war. But we are paying for the linked prosperity and injustice of the past. You would compel God to send forth his angel to say, “Let my people go,” and you are now washing away your sins in your own blood.
The average of slaves is worth $1500. It is probably a fair statement to say that a white man is worth $3000. Certainly, he earns the interest on that sum, easier, and with more certainty, than the black does usually on the sum set down against him, and it therefore must be taken as perfect folly to say that this war is waged by us for profit. The North has proved itself able to carry on the war, to furnish men enough to keep the army full, and at the same time keep society going at home; able to exemplify political economy, and carry on warlike and industrial processes. The South, in its desperation, is now compelling old age and almost infancy into their depleted ranks, to make one last struggle before their great downfall. The lecturer remarked that he passed about the streets of New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Brooklyn, and Providence, and was almost ashamed to see how many men were left at home. We say, then, that we are not growing rich on account of the war, but in spite of it; and our testimony, therefore, is that it is desirable always to educate people, and bring them under a system of government like our own. We keep our money at
<c02>
home, while the South sends her abroad; and since the war broke out, more work has been done here than ever before. It has been wrought out and developed in the most unexpected quarters, and there never was such activity as now with the workers of wood, metals, wool, cotton or silk. Goods are honestly produced and liberally paid for. We have, moreover, the tariff in our favor, and there appears to be no disposition to change this for the sake of Great Britain. She assisted in framing it, and we shall probably have it where it has been put by her machinations.
Again, the North has paid its debts, and the fulfillment of the scriptural injunction- “Owe no man anything”-seems likely to pass into Northern history. More church liabilities have been paid in three years than in any previous thirty. Debt is good ballast for a nation, but bad for the pocket, and hence this war taught men to introduce the cash system. England said that when the bubble of paper currency should presently burst, bankruptcy would be universal. But there can be no such thing as panic or bankruptcy so long as people pay their debts. Better than this, there is getting to be a more sound and wholesome religious sentiment pervading our churches. There may have been fewer revivals during the last year, and perhaps a less display of emotional religion; but remember that the whole year is God’s. He puts out blossoms in the spring, and picks apples in the fall. Conscience first, afterward fact. And there has been a perfect resurrection of conscience during the war. Some men have been awakened by its voice, and have been fain to ask, “Hast thou come to torment me before my time?”   Men have seen the need of grounding themselves on the cardinal principles of religion and inspired truth. We should not forget that swarms of young men from our colleges and seminaries came forth at the very first blast of war, and that they have fought and bled for their convictions. Nor should we cease to remember that when these have yielded their lives in the struggle, others have quickly supplied their places. The nations of the world are to know that we are strong in the field, in the warehouse, the school, the church, the shop, the farm, and everywhere-for even those who are feeding the finer appetites of the taste, the reason or the imagination, were never so fully employed as now. We say not these things boastfully, but because ruin has been predicted for us, and we are bound to give an account of ourselves, such as cannot be misunderstood. This much John Bright may say in his next address to the working-men of Manchester, and this is our first message to Great Britain.
The London Times, which is the common sewer of the British aristocracy, has said that the American government has maintained itself by sacrificing the rights of the people; and Englishmen come here, expecting to see a nation of men bereft of their liberties. But how much liberty have we lost? It is affirmed that we are invaded by taxation, by the suspension of the habeas corpus act, and by an abridgement of the freedom of speech. Now, there never was an administration which more exactly reflected the will of the people than the present; and if there has been an abrogation of popular privileges, it has come about because the people demanded it.  Mr. B. discussed with great cogency of reasoning the levying of taxes, the suspension of the habeas corpus, &c., saying that while the latter has frequently been resorted to in England they yet pretend not to see how our people can submit to it; and that it is those people who understand their place in society who are graceful, while those who do not, appear gawky. A farmer is a gentleman on his farm, and probably Lord Chesterfield would have cut a poor figure behind a scythe. Manners always conform to education; and nations who are sometimes free, and sometimes not, who are paltry, and timid occasionally, act in a similar way to the man who gets out of his place in society. Our people said to government: “Do something; you can have men and money enough, and what we ask and demand is, that you keep pace with us.” The only wonder is, that government did not do more in this direction; and so long ascertain nameless newspapers flourish in New York and Boston, then complaint need be uttered in reference to suppressing “freedom of speech.”
Mr. B. glanced at the freedom of speech which prevailed in revolutionary days, saying that it was when bastard ministers failed to enunciate the whole of God’s truth, and took to preaching idealities, that liberty began to droop; and that it was to the interference of the pulpit in politics that the transmission of liberty was first due; and that when ministers begin to be prudent with virtue, they commence negotiations with the devil. Out of such churches religion dies, as it does from colleges and Tract Societies, and every where else, except, perhaps, cabinets of rare curiosities.
But at the present time we have no notion of catering to Southern prejudice or Southern money, and some men are really getting extremely pleased at being able to say their souls are their own. There is now the incoming of a new light, a ray of religious culture, moral sense, learning, and insight into the world’s history; and let all thank God for the privilege of beholding it.
The address concluded with remarks upon our system of lands, contrasted with those of England and France, a warm invitation to Englishmen to come over and cast their lot in with us, there being land enough for all-negroes as well as whites-and a glowing picture of America redeemed and disenthralled, rivaling the nations of the old world in the progress of a peaceful civilization, and the advancement of justice, religion, and the universal rights of man.
The lecturer occupied about an hour and a half in delivery, and was very frequently applauded in a hearty manner. –[Reported for the Boston Journal.
ENROLMENT OF COLORED SOLDIERS. 

In the U.S. Senate, a few days since, the question of the draft and the enrolment of colored soldiers being under consideration—
Mr. Grimes did not desire that colored men should be entitled to fill the quota of a State. He would like the word “men” to be construed “white men.” The colored men were enlisted by the General Government, and colored men, unless the citizens of a State, should not take the place of white men.
Mr. Harlan thought that this was a tax on the money of the country, not upon the intellect. The people of Louisiana, Tennessee and Kentucky owe allegiance to the country, as well as those from Maine and Massachusetts. He never bad believed that colored soldiers could be employed with the same results as white men. The colored man should not be accepted as a substitute for his superior.
Mr. Davis said that a large portion of the labor of Kentucky was performed by slaves, and yet the Secretary of War would sooner enlist a slave than a white man in the border States, thus stripping those States of its laboring classes to serve as substitutes for Northern laboring men who were kept at home.
Mr. Wilson was glad that the Government was about establishing a policy in regard to slaves, which he (Wilson) had urged on them for four months past.
 Mr. Johnson said that the people of Maryland did not believe that colored troops could do the duty of white men. He then commented on the acts of military officers in reference to the recruiting of slaves, and upon occasions of elections on the eastern shore of the State.
If such proceedings had not been instituted, he did not believe the Representative in the other house (Mr. Harris) would now hold his seat, as he owed it alone to military interference in the elections. He (Johnson) believed, from representations of Northern journals, that there was as much disloyalty in the North as in Maryland.
Mr. Grimes would wish the word “white” inserted in the bill.
Mr. Grimes thought the negroes should be put under the protection of the National Government. His amendment was in tended to stimulate enlistments of negroes, so that there would be no occasion for another call on the States.
Mr. Grimes’s amendment was rejected-28 to 14.
Mr. Doolittle offered an amendment providing that veteran troops re-enlisting shall be credited to the quota of the district in which they originally enlisted.Adopted-27 to 11.
Another amendment was adopted, providing that commutation money paid by persons drafted shall be applied to the procurement of substitutes for the Congressional district where the draft takes place, and that colored troops shall be credited to the State from which they have enlisted.
<c03>
TERRIBLE EFFECTS OF THE FROST.
[From the Chicago Tribune, Jan. 4.]
By a passenger who arrived here on the Central Railroad last night from the West, we learn of one of the most fearful and heart-rending affairs that have ever occurred in this section of the country-namely: that a family of seven persons were frozen to death during the cold weather on Friday last. About thirty miles from the boundary line between Michigan and Indiana, in the latter State, about midway between Centreville and Crown Point, lived a German, with his wife and five children, named Krutzeer. The oldest was a boy of seven years of age, the next a boy of five, and three girls-all of less age than the boys-the youngest but an infant.
The country where the family resided is very rolling, and the snow had drifted into the hollows, making, the roads almost, if not wholly, impassable for pedestrians.
The driver of the stage-coach coming from Crown Point to Lake, via Centreville, found that Krutzer’s dwelling had been burned to the ground, it is supposed the night previously, but none of the family were to be seen. About a mile further on, however, he was horrified to find the father and two boys frozen to death. The boys were in the father’s arms, and it is supposed that he bad fallen with them after having been so far affected with the frost as not to be able to proceed. The three corpses were placed in the stage, but before it had proceeded more than a quarter of a mile on its destination, the body of the oldest girl was found in a snow-drift, with a shawl wrapped closely around it, where it had doubtless been deposited by its weary mother while yet alive, in the hope that some chance traveler might rescue it from an impending fate. This corpse, too, was placed in the coach, and again it started on its way, only to find, after traveling a short distance, the lifeless remains of the mother, with the two youngest children. The body of the mother was standing erect in a snow-drift with the children in her arms, the youngest one being at the breast.
The seven lifeless bodies were conveyed to Centreville by the driver of the stage, at which place they were decently interred by the inhabitants.
A dispatch to the Chicago Tribune from St. Louis states that on the North Missouri Railroad, 10,000 hogs have frozen to death, and an immense number of cattle have frozen along all the railroads. In the city, several persons- have died from a similar cause, and the sufferings of the poor reported to the authorities surpass belief. In Wisconsin, trains were hedged in by snow-drifts and remained for hours, unable to move. At Madison, on the 2d, the mercury was 39 degrees below 0. At Camp Randall the supply of wood became exhausted, and a large number of soldiers were badly frozen. At Oshkosh the mercury fell 38 below, one woman was frozen to death, and frozen hands and feet were numerous. At Milwaukee the thermometer ranged from 30 to 35 degrees below zero, with a driving wind most terrible to encounter. Frozen ears, noses and feet are innumerable, and many persons were picked up insensible on the streets. Ears and feet were frozen while going but a few blocks. Many employees of the railroads were badly frozen and crippled for life, and railroad travel was entirely suspended.

THE SHEET PICTURES OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The public will perhaps remember that a picture of the Proclamation of Emancipation was presented to the President, Abraham Lincoln, last February, which was noticed by the press at the time as “splendidly executed,” and “a finer display or more tasteful skill in the execution we have never witnessed.” It is but justice to say that the engraving of this splendid picture is now completed, and ready for distribution.
No public document-not even the Declaration of Independence-has been executed with even an approach to the style in which this picture of the proclamation is gotten up. It comprises displayed letter headings, perfecting the “whereas” and “proclamation” with a splendid display of flourishing around the same; then follows, in beautiful engraved hands, the proclamation, with the emphatic words lettered in a variety of styles.
The crowning glory of the picture, forming a centre-piece, is an accurate and faithful portrait of Abraham Lincoln, the author of the proclamation. There are besides four other appropriate figures.
We propose to make it an object for our gallant soldiers in the service, or whose time has expired, and widows of those who have fallen, to give this picture a wide circulation. The price of the picture will be one dollar, but to such as become agents it will be fifty cents per copy. 
To newspapers inserting this notice, and forwarding a paper containing the same to my address, immediately upon receiving it I will forward the picture free charge. A. KIDDER,
86 Dearborn street, Chicago, I11.
P. O. Box 754.

COLONEL ROBERT GOULD SHAW.
To the Editor of the London Daily News-SIR:- The interest with which the account of the death of Colonel Shaw at the head of his negro troops was read in the papers of the day, must have been vastly quickened by Mrs. Gaskell's narrative in the last number of the Macmillan.
Whatever verdict posterity may pass on Stonewall Jackson, Robert Gould Shaw will be a hero in all time.
If the admirers of Southern gallantry could raise a memorial to the one—could not the friends of the North and of Freedom contribute a memorial to the other? Such a memorial would be a graceful tribute of sympathy at the present day, and in the days to come a record that there were at least some Englishmen whose hearts beat for freedom in that great struggle; and no nobler epitaph were needed than the reply of his enemies to the request for his body: “We have buried him with his niggers.”
I think it only wants a beginning, and I for one would be glad of the privilege of contributing. I am,, & c., G.

PETER SINCLAIR BEFORE THE UNION CLUB. Mr. Peter Sinclair, the great Temperance advocate, who is now in this country to make arrangements to foster emigration of the mechanics of the manufacturing towns of England to this country, addressed the Union. Club, in Boston, Saturday evening. He said the working people of England were almost unanimously in favor of the North, and now the government would do us justice.
He spoke of the sufferings of the workmen employed in the mills, and said that thousands desired to have money advanced to pay their passage to this country, promising to pay it from the first they may earn after reaching here.
Mr. Sinclair was also present, last week, at a meeting of the Union Club in New York. The Evening Post says:-
“At the close of the regular proceeding the members adjourned to the supper-room, where a fine entertainment had been prepared. Mr. Godwin, in the midst of the active operations at the table, asked the attention of the company while he made a few brief remarks. Late as it was in the evening, he, nevertheless, felt assured that they would hear with the greatest pleasure, the announcement that a friend of John Bright, Richard Cobden, John Stuart Mill, and of all our other friends in England, was then present. He would introduce to them Mr. Peter Sinclair, the Secretary of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Socities, who had done us incalculable service in the old country by his energy, activity and zeal.
Mr. Sinclair was welcomed with the most earnest and long-continued applause. He then spoke for nearly an hour in a strain of fervid and charming eloquence. When be desired to conclude, his audience insisted that he should continue, and finally a vote was passed by the club, on the motion of Charles Butler, seconded by Wm. E. Dodge, Jr., that Mr. Sinclair be requested to repeat his eloquent remarks in public to a larger audience.”

PRESIDENTIAL. The New York Times’ Washington correspondent says, the Republican members of the Maine, Illinois, and Indiana Legislatures will nominate Abraham Lincoln for the Presidency on the 22d inst.
The St. Louis Union has placed the name of Abraham Lincoln at the head of its columns as its candidate for President in 1864.
The Republicans of the two Houses of the Pennsylvania Legislature have, on joint ballot, nominated Abraham Lincoln for the next Presidency. Their resolutions, with the preamble engrossed on parchment, have been committed to Simon Cameron to carry to Washington, and present to the President.
The Loyal League, of Nashville, has expressed its preference for Mr. Lincoln as the Presidential candidate in 1864; and for Andrew Johnson as Vice President.

NEWBERN, N. C, Jan. 8, 1864.
On New Year’s day, the negro population of this city had a grand celebration, on which occasion they turned out with full ranks-men, women and children, and marched all through the city, with fife and drums making music enough to awaken, if it were possible, even our patriot fathers. They seemed to feel as though a new era had just opened, and they could see in the future great and glorious times, which God grant they may. The front rank carried the stars and stripes, and they looked up often to the colors, seeming proud to carry them over their heads. 
The first regiment of North Carolina negro cavalry is filling up fast, and many of them have gone to Virginia. The third regiment of N. C. infantry is also fast filling up.
<c04>
Gov. Andrew's Address was delivered with great impressiveness and effect The Hall was crowded in every part, and notwithstanding its extraordinary length, the Message was listened to with the closest attention and without any signs of weariness. Some portions of it, under the fervid and earnest delivery of his Excellency, created much sensation, and more than one listener wiped away the falling tear, and more than one manly heart strove in vain to suppress its emotion. One could not help believing that many of those present felt an intimate personal interest in the heroes who, “on the ocean, on the rivers, on the land, on the heights where they thundered down from the clouds of Lookout Mountain the defiance of the skies, have graven with their swords a record imperishable;” and that the visions of vacant seats in the households of many gave unwonted pathos and effect to the Governor’s allusion to “the head-stones in the church-yard, consecrated to those whose forms repose far off in rude graves by the Rappahannock, or sleep beneath the sea.” Surely no one could have listened to that address without being convinced that the Governor enters into his work with his whole heart, or without a renewed benediction that Massachusetts continues to be favored with so energetic and noble a Chief Magistrate as John A. Andrew.-Boston corr. Salem Register.
THE RETURNING VETERANS. The Massachusetts 32d, Col. Prescott, about 350 in number, and detachments of the 23d and 25th (145 of the former and 45 of the latter) arrived in Boston on Sunday, and were received with a salute of artillery, amid great enthusiasm. They marched to the State House under escort of the Cadets, and received Gov. Andrew, then proceeded to Faneuil Hall, where the Governor delivered an eloquent address of welcome, to which Col. Prescott replied, and they were then furnished with a collation. The companies of the 32d were afterwards dismissed to their several towns, where great preparations had been made to receive them. 
GOV. SEYMOUR IN A PET. Horatio Seymour, by grace of official tenure, Governor of New York for one year longer against the wishes of the people of the State, as recently expressed in a most emphatic manner at the ballot-box, is in a pet. He has just delivered himself of a very wordy and ill-tempered Message to the Legislature. He thinks the war is needlessly prolonged-just as if he and his Copperhead friends had done anything to shorten it! He is down on Massachusetts; down on Emancipation; down on National Banks; down on the Draft; down on the President, who, he says, controls our armies, which will make our Presidents. He is down generally and individually, and in more senses than one.  But whoever may make our Presidents, Horatio won’t be thus made very soon, and there's the rub. He wants to be President, but he sees no chance.  Hence he is wroth. Horatio is played out.-Concord Ind. Dem.
The Richmond Examiner of Dec. 19th appears to be coming to a true sense of the condition of the Confederacy. “We are fast drifting into self-contempt,” it says. “The adjective ‘Confederate,’ as applied to the various make-shifts rendered necessary by the war, is quite the reverse of complimentary.  Confederate coffee is roasted rye. Confederate paper is only fit for wrapping parcels. Confederate swords are as harmless as if they were made of lead. Confederate notes are treated as if they were no more valuable than candle-lighters.”
SUCCESS OF FREEDMEN’S LABOR. Mr. E. D. Philibriok writes from Beaufort to Boston a most encouraging account of his experience with the contrabands. He says, “I employ about five hundred laborers-women and children, mostly, having a population of nine hundred and fifty on my lands. They have raised for me £73,000 of clean Sea Island cotton this year, worth 50d. sterling in Liverpool, besides their own provision crops. This has been done within hearing of Gen. Gillmore’s big guns on Morris Island, surrounded by camps, with no civil law, and without the help of the able-bodied men, who were all pressed into the military service, leaving the plantation with none but old men, women and children. I have no paupers, all the old and infirm being fed and clothed by their friends and children.”
GEN. WILD’S EXPEDITION. The Old Dominion, published at Norfolk, gives the annexed account of the results of Gen. Wild’s recent expedition into North Carolina with negro troops:-
“They proceeded as far into North Carolina as Woodville, and accomplished results highly valuable. Near Woodville they met a company of guerillas, under Capt. Ellett, and a heavy skirmish ensued.  Four guerillas and two Confederate soldiers were captured. The guerillas captured one of the first United-States colored troops. The wives of two of the guerillas were taken and held as hostages for the return of the negro, which Capt Ellett says he will return.
At Elizabeth City three of the regiment were poisoned, but no clew could be discovered of the perpetrator.
The gunboat that acted in concert with the expedition, captured at Nuvicon creek two schooners, blockade runners, one of fifteen  and the other of twelve tons.  On the next morning the infantry captured at the same place, two blockade boats and one man, a Mr. Simmons, a quantity of salt, &c. A Mr. Harris contractor, buying corn for the rebels, was taken at Elizabeth City.
One of the guerilla, a lieutenant, was hung by the regiment upon the evidence of his heinous atrocities against, the innocent and unoffending people.   The expedition scoured the whole country and emancipated some thousand slaves, many of whom were sent down to Roanoke Island, and the rest brought here. Union meetings were gotten up throughout the country which were largely and enthusiastically attended by the people.”
COLORED TROOPS-GEN. BUTLER. Gen. Butler is raising colored troops with rapidity in his department, and he predicts that in the spring this element of his military power will make itself felt. The colored troops under his command will undoubtedly join in the attack upon Richmond, which many people think will take place early in the spring. The General is a bitter enemy of all secessionists, and when one of them in his department attempts to claim his property under the amnesty proclamation of the President, he has a way of his own to defeat his scheme. We make the prediction that he will succeed in compelling Jeff. Davis to recognize him as something beside an outlaw, and also in securing and exchange of prisoners. If he does, it will be the noblest achievement of his military career. 
Fifty-six Federal soldiers, who have been held as prisoners at Shreveport, La., escaped, and made their way to Natchez lately. They complain of having received barbarous treatment.
Col. Farron, with a part of the 30th Missouri and 5th Tennessee regiments, made a raid to Trinity, on the Black River, a few days since, capturing seventy prisoners. The black troops behaved splendidly, as they have on all occasions, thus far, where they have had a fair trial and decent officers.
DEATH OF DR. ROBINSON OF KANSAS. The death of Dr. J. W. Robinson, one of the Kansas pioneers, and first Secretary of State, of that State, occurred on the 10th inst., at Fort Smith, Ark., where he was stationed as Surgeon of the 2d Kansas Cavalry. He was a true patriot and friend of freedom.
Secretary of War, Stanton, made a speech to the soldiers in Stanton Hospital, on Christmas day in which he said, “If we can end this rebellion with the extinction of slavery, it will be a great triumph.”
At a late Convention in New Orleans of free State men, called for the purpose of choosing unconditional Union men to the Convention of Union men of slave States at Louisville, a delegation of colored men were admitted to seats. The Convention opened with prayer by a colored minister. 
JEFF. DAVIS’ PLANTATION TURNED INTO A  CONTRABAND CAMP. The loss of his slaves is not all. The Commissioners in charge of the contrabands on the Mississippi have taken possession of the Davises plantations, and are about establishing contraband camps. The abandoned and runaway negroes are to be gathered there previous to distribution, and the plantations are to be cultivated by their labor. 
EMPLOYMENT OF BLOODHOUNDS BY THE REBELS. There is no room for doubt that the rebels employ bloodhounds to track and catch Union men for the purpose of forcing them into the rebel army. Hon. Louis Anderson, of Kentucky, Congressman elect, who was recently captured by guerillas,  and afterward released by exchange, says the rebels had bloodhound with them. He saw the dogs. He conversed with conscripts who had been chased, caught and lacerated by them, their wounds being yet unhealed.
Gen. Thomas, just back from the Mississippi valley, states that he has put into the field 20,000 drilled slaves, in infantry, artillery and cavalry, the latter mounted on mules, of whom 17,000 are in Banks department. He has 50,000 negro women and children under his care. He is leasing the sugar and cotton estates in Mississippi and Louisiana rapidly, and not for stipulated rent, but for a royalty on the produce-$4 a bale for cotton of four hundred pounds, one cent per pound for sugar, and five cents a bushel for corn and potatoes. This rent goes into the national treasury. The farms pay, besides, the direct revenue tax.
COLORED MEN AT THE PRESIDENT'S LEVER WASHISGTON, Jan. 2. To-day's Chronicle says: “Years ago had any colored man presented himself at the White House at the President’s Levee, seeking as introduction to the Chief Magistrate of the nation, he would in all probability have been roughly handled for his impudence.
Yesterday four colored men, of genteel exterior and with the manners of gentlemen, joined the throng that crowded the Executive Mansion, and were presented to the President of  the United States.” 
<c05>
THE  THIRTIETH
NATIONAL ANTI SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The Managers of the THIRTIETH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce to its numerous friends and patrons, and to the friends of liberty and emancipation universally, that it will be held, as hitherto, in MUSIC HALL, Boston, on Wednesday evening, January 27,1864; and they confidently anticipate not only the same liberal patronage and thronged attendance that have hitherto been extended to it, but a cheering increase of both, in view of the wonderful change which has been wrought in public opinion, on the subject of slavery, since the rebellion broke out, adverse to the longer continuance of that “sum of all villanies.”
The special object of this Anniversary has been, from year to year, to replenish the treasury of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and thus enable it to keep in operation those potent instrumentalities whereby the public conscience has been aroused, the public understanding enlightened, and the public heart softened, in regard to the pitiable condition of the millions of bondmen and bondwomen whose deliverance, though manifestly approaching, yet remains to be consummated. To that Society is the whole country most deeply indebted for its unfaltering, courageous and inflexible opposition to slavery as a system, and to the slave power as inimical to every element of Democracy and Christianity, through a long period of years; and it is now widely and magnanimously conceded that, if its solemn warnings, powerful appeals, and prophetic asseverations had been duly heeded, the present awful tragedy of rebellion and civil war might have been averted, and the abolition of slavery secured without violence or blood. 
The American Anti-Slavery Society has recently celebrated, at Philadelphia, its THIRD DECADE, or thirtieth anniversary since its formation. The occasion was one of thrilling interest and stirring remembrance, -calling, in the retrospect of the past, for devout thanksgiving to the God of the oppressed for what had been effected by the power of His truth, and inspiring to new labors to secure the liberation of every slave in the land. While the great concourse of “the tried and true,” who were present, were made jubilant by all the signs of the times, and while they expressed the confident hope that the monster Slavery had received its death-wound, through its treasonable revolt against the General Government, still, there was entire unanimity in the conviction that the Society should not think, for one moment, of retiring from the conflict until liberty is “proclaimed throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
Judge CONWAY, of Kansas, in a letter read on the occasion, regretting his absence, said-“I recognize in the American Anti-Slavery Society the primal agent in the regeneration of the American nation which is now in progress. The ultimate triumph of liberty is assured. Thank God, the future is ours! But this assurance should in no wise inspire us with indifference to the progress of events.  We must not suppose that our part of the work is finished. The American Anti-Slavery Society must not think of retiring from the field for many a long day. The future is ours; but we must do the work necessary to perfect the results.”
On the same occasion, Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, in the course of an eloquent speech, said—
“By years, by epochs alone, can we measure the progressive advancement of a movement so grand and comprehensive as the anti-slavery movement in America. What mighty changes have been wrought in the condition of the anti-slavery cause in the United States since the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized by representatives of ten States in 1833! Then a few unknown and nameless men were its apostles; now the most accomplished intellects in America are its champions. Then a few proscribed and hunted followers rallied around its banners; now it has laid its grasp upon the conscience of the nation, and millions rally around the folds of its flag. Then not a statesman in America accepted its doctrines or advocated its measures; now it controls more than twenty States, has a majority in both houses of Congress, and the Chief Magistrate of the republic decrees the emancipation of three millions of men. Then every free State was against it; now Western Virginia, Delaware, Maryland and Missouri pronounce for the emancipation of their bondmen. Then the public press covered it with ridicule and contempt; now the most powerful journals in America are its organs, scattering its truths broadcast over all the land. Then the religious, benevolent and literary institutions of the land rebuked its doctrines and proscribed its advocates; now it shapes, moulds and fashions them at its pleasure. Then political organizations trampled disdainfully upon it; now it looks down in the pride of conscious power upon the wrecked political fragments that float at its feet. Then it was impotent and powerless; now it holds public men and political organizations in the hollow of its hand. Then the public voice sneered at and defied it; now it is master of America, and has only to be true to itself to bury slavery so deep that the hand of no returning despotism can reach it.
“Nevertheless, I say to you, and to the anti-slavery men of the United States, who have rejected the subtle policy of concession and compromise, who have repudiated the guilty delusion that the sin of slavery belongs to past generations and repentance to posterity, who have perpetually sounded into the ear of the nation the sin of oppression and the duty of repentance, go not home with the conviction that your work is done, but go home cheered by the assurance that the battle is going on for you; that you have stormed battery after battery, carried position after position; that you have only to be as true in the future as you have been in the past, to secure a permanent and enduring triumph. If the nation had accepted your doctrine of peaceful, legal, Christian action, this bloody war would never have come upon us.  The crimes of two centuries have brought this terrible war upon us; but if this generation, upon whom God has laid His chastisements, will yet be true to liberty and humanity, peace will return again to bless this land, now rent and torn by civil strife. Then we shall heal the wounds of war, enlighten the dark intellect of the emancipated bondmen, and make our country the model Republic to which the Christian world shall turn with respect and admiration.”
When such are the convictions and assurances of distinguished public men, not connected with the American Anti-Slavery Society, in regard to the value and magnitude of the work it has accomplished, and the further need and importance of the Society in perfecting what remains to be done, surely it is no time to think of disbanding, or of cherishing the pleasing illusion that the victory is won, and therefore we may safely trust to events to shape our national destiny.
Ever since the rebellion broke out, this Society has been thoroughly in earnest in sustaining the Government, and all those measures of emancipation which President Lincoln and Congress have deemed it necessary to adopt to suppress the rebellion, and to give unity and stability to republican ideas, institutions and interests, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from the Lakes to the Gulf.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY, therefore, feel that they may properly call upon all loyal men and women as well as upon all those who “reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy that man can hold property in man,” in every part of the land, to contribute liberally to its funds on this occasion, and, as far as practicable, to be present at its commemoration at the place and time designated. Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to William I. Bowditch, Esq., 18 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. These will be gratefully received, duly acknowledged, and faithfully expended. 
Mary May,		Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Ann Greene Philips 	Sarah H. <illegible>
Lydia D. Parker, 		Caroline R. Putnam,
Louisa Loring, 		Mary Willey,
Henrietta, Sargent,	Abby H. Stephenson,
Sarah Shaw Russell, 	Sarah J.Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, 	Elizabeth Von Arnim,
Helen E.Garrison,		Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, 	Sarah Cowing, 
Sarah Blake Shaw,	Abby Kelley Foster,
Caroline C. Thayer,	Mary E. Stearns
Mattie Griffith, 		Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, 		Sarah C. Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, 		Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, 	Georgina Otis,
Elizabeth Gay, 		Katherine Earls Farnum.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY COURSE. 
SIXTH SERIES SUPPLEMENTARY COURSE,
AT MUSIC HALL.
Opening Lecture on TUESDAY EVENING, Jan.26, by
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
Subject—THACKERAY.
To be followed by
ROBERT COLLYER, of Chicago.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, of Boston.
GEORGE THOMPSON, of England.
Tickets, admitting the bearer and lady to the course, at $1.50. Tickets, admitting one person to the course, at $1,00. For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington Street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court Street; John S. Rogers, 1077 Washington Street, and at the Liberator Office.

ENTERTAINMENT IN BEHALF OF THE COLORED ORPHANS AT GEORGETOWN, D.C.
An ENTERTAINMENT will be given <illegible> Hall, 16 Summer street, on Thursday evening, January 28, in behalf of the colored orphans at Georgetown, D.C. The order of performances, commencing at 7 3-4 o'clock, will be as follows:—1. Music, 2. Recitations from Macbeth-by a Lady and Gentleman. 3. Song of the Fremost Guard. 4. The Rough Diamond-by Amateurs.
Tickets of admission, $1.00 each. To be had at E. P. Peabody's, 15 Pinckney street, between the hours of 1 and 2,  P.M. and at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington st.
We understand that the Amateurs who are to play the Rough Diamond are the same that played it so effectively at Allston Hall, during the week of the Sanitary Fair.
The money to be raised is in order to extend the house which was assigned by Congress for the reception of colored orphans-rendered necessary by the enormous pressure from the hospitals of these poor little estrays, whose parents are missing by death or other stress. Twenty-four were lately added to the thirty already there: and the house has but eight rooms! Therefore the necessity for these barracks. There should be accommodations for at least a hundred, and their care-takers, all of whom are wholly disinterested and philanthropic. 

CONVENTION IN NORTH ABINGTON.-There will be an Anti-Slavery Convention in North Abington, at Union Hall, on Sunday next, 24th inst., commencing at half-past 10o'clock in the forenoon, and continuing through the day and evening; to be attended and addressed by STEPHEN S. FOSTER and PARKER PILLSBURY.
In the evening of the same day, Mr. Foster will lecture in North Bridgewater.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.—WM. 
WELLS BROWN will  address the people as follows on the above subject:—
Brookfield,Mass.,			Friday, Jan. 29.
North Brookfield,			Sunday, Jan. 31.
South Wilbraham, 		Monday, Feb. 1.
Belchertown,			Tuesday, Feb. 2.
Amberst,			Wednes., Feb. 3.
Brimfield,			Thursday, Feb. 4.

OBITUARY
DIED—In Boston, December 23, Miss MARY JANE PARK- MAN, daughter of the late John Park-man, Esq., aged 38.
The death of one so amiable and lovable—so remarkable for her sympathy with the suffering poor and lowly, and especially the ostracised colored people, both bond and free—so generous and unstinted, yet discriminating and sagacious in her multitudinous charities, given with that secrecy which does not allow the right hand to knew what the left performs—so truly religious in spirit, without narrowness or bigotry, and full of sweet humility and charming simplicity of character—so cheerful and elastic in spirit under the most depressing circumstances of bodily ailment, requiring repeated surgical operations of a formidable nature-so resigned to the will of God to live or die as it might seem good in His sight-calls for our heartfelt tribute, which we offer with all possible regard. It is rare indeed that one, to whom ample means for doing good are entrusted, carries the disposition to consecrate them unreservedly to the cause of the poor and needy. Her Will, understand, is remarkable for its remembrances in that direction. To the deceased applies, with striking aptness, the following sonnet of Milton, “On the Religious Memory of a Lady and Friend,”  who died Dec, 16, 1646:-
“When Faith and Love, which parted from thee never,
Had ripen’d thy just soul to dwell with God,
Meekly thou didst resign this earthly load 
Of death, call’d life; which us from life doth sever. 
Thy works, and alms, and all thy good endeavor,
Stay’d not behind, nor in the grave were tred;
But, as Faith pointed with her golden rod,
Followed thee up to joy and bliss for ever. 
Love led them on; and Faith, who knew them best
Thy handmaids, clad them o'er with Purple beams
And azure wings, that up they flew so drest,
And spake the truth of thee on glorious themes
Before the Judge; who thenceforth bid thee rest,
And drink thy fill of pure immortal streams.”
Three weeks after the death of Miss PARKMAN, her revered and estimable mother, whose life was also full of good fruits and liberal benefactions humanely bestowed. Mrs. SUSAN PARKMAN, obtained her translation to a higher sphere of existence, aged 80 years. In life how united! In death they were not divided.- [ED. LIB.

JUST PUBLISHED,
STEPHENS’S
ALBUM VARIETIES. 
THE SLAVE IN 1863.
A THRILLING SERIES OF THE GREAT EVIL.
TWELVE ALBUM CARDS, splendidly lithographed in seven oil colors, by H. L. Stephens, comprising:
The Slave in the Cotton Field; The Christmas Week; The Slave; The Parting; “Buy Us, Too”; The Lash; Blow for Blow; In the Swamp; Free; The Union Lines; The Soldier of the Republic; “Make Way for Liberty”; Victory; He Died for Liberty.
Also, now ready, the Second Edition of 
STEPHENS’S ALBUM DROLLERIES,
from original designs by H. L. Stephens. Twelve Cards each, in Oil Colors.
Part 1. Our Relations at Home and Abroad.
Part 2.  The Adventures of a Conscript.
Two of the most amusing things ever published.
Price Fifty Cents each set. Sent free upon of price.
A very liberal discount to the trade.
Published by WM. A  STEPHBNS, 400 Chestnut St,
Philadelphia.	Jan. 15.-4t

A MAGNIFICENT
ANTI-SLAVERY WAR PICTURE, 
ENTITLED
THE FUGITIVE,
DRAWS BY FELIX O. C. DARLEY,
(Engraved by Brightly,) 
Embellishes the first page of
THE NEW YORK MERCURY
of January 30, 1864.
Now Ready at all the News Depots in America.
This beautiful work of art represents a fugitive negro holding a bloodhound at bay.
“Many a mile, through thicket and fen, 
With the bay of the bloodhound loud to his ear,
Fleeing for life from beasts and men,
And hardly knowing which most to fear.
Fleeing for freedom, God’s gift to all;
Fleeing from chains, from black despair,
Which hangs o’er his soul like hideous pull;
He turns, at last, as a wolf at his lair.
One Now for freedom! ‘Down, hell-bound ! No! 
I’ve a giant’s strength! Hope <illegible> me be brave!
If I fall, it shall be with my face to the foe— 
I can die a MAN, though I’ve lived a slave!”
All who do not enjoy the weekly visits of THE NEW YORK MERCURY fail to secure the finest and most expensive series of Wood-Engravings ever printed in an American illustrated journal. These pictures have graced the pages of THE NEW YORK MERCURY <illegible> the opening of the New Year, and have added vastly to the already enormous circulation, and given a new triumph to American pictorial art.
Subscription Terms-$2 a year; three copies, $5; six copies, $9; eight copies, (with an extra one to the clubbers,) $12 Specimens free. Address
CAULDWELL & WHITNEY, Proprietors,
48 Ann and 118 Fultan Street,
Jan.22-IW	New York City.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
AN ODE,
FOR THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE PROCLAMATION.
January 1, 1864.
What time the midnight wrapped our sky, 
And every star that gleamed on high
Affrighted fled the canopy, 
Each streaming ray and guiding light
Gone from the reach mortal sight;
Faith raised her eye to Heaven, and said, 
"Oh God, are right and justice dead, 
And truth from earth forever fied?" 
And Heaven replied, with lifted rod,
"Be still, and know that I am God!"
What time oppression’s power unfurled 
Its  flag of treason to the world, 
And threats of vengeance rashly hurled,- 
with lip of scorn and heart of pride,-
“Vengenuce is mine," the Lord replied. 
What time the impious builders made
Their shameless boast of strength and said,
“Our corner-stone in blood is laid," 
And jubilant raised the cup and quaffed-
"Who sitteth in the heavens laughed." 
What time our brave and bannered host,
The patriot’s pride, the nation’s boast, 
By mountain gorge and stormy coast
Swept onward to the bloody strife, 
Resolved to save the nation’s life;
And struggling-ah! so oft in vain-
Left thousands of the noble slain 
On many a field of mortal pain, 
And bowed their heads in sore defeat, 
Driven to surrender or retreat; 
What time our statesmen faltering stood,
And counselled for our selfish good, 
God’s higher plan not understood,-
While yet our arms in battle failed, 
And still our hosts their banners trailed;- 
Then, in the nation’s sovereign name, 
The call to prayer and fasting came;
And hearts in selfish grief and shame 
Asked of the Lord, with bitter pride, 
To stand upon the nation’s side. 
Then from Jehovah’s presenor spoke 
This voice:—" No more my name invoke; 
Go break the bondmen’s heavy yoke,- 
The heavy burdens quick undo,-
This is the fast I choose for you. 
“ Who in my merey dares to trust, 
Let him remember God is just: 
Go raise your brother from the dust,-
Nor stand in impious mockery there,  
To vex the heavens with idle prayer." 
The nation groaned in pain and pride;
While godless men their God defied,
By Constitutions justified; 
And swore with wrath like Pharaoh’s-" No! 
We will not let the people go!"
O powerless wrath! God's time is come, 
To plead for his own poor and dumb; 
And wise men are as fools become, 
While the grand march of His decrees
Keeps time with man’s necessities,
Thanks unto God for wisdom then,
To inspire the hearts of better men, 
For grace to guide the immortal pen 
Which traced those lines of living light 
Upon our nations’s darkest night!
O darkness felt! O night of fears!
0 blessed dawn of better years, 
When God for his oppressed appears, 
And in the mystery of his ways 
Makes the weak wrath of man his praise!
Hail! day of Freedom's second birth! 
With music and with solemn mirth 
Send the glad tidings round the earth:— 
While dawning peace,with mercy blent,
Beams in the brightening Orient!
—Portland State Press. 
THE OLD YEAR AND THE NEW. 
Once more Old Time unbars the silent tomb, 
In the Past Land where his dead Years are lying, 
All side by side, amid the eternal gloom; 
For now his last-born in the night is dying. 
He bids adieu the solemn, dark-robed Hours, 
That, one by one, glide by his snowy bed-
And now the great bells from a thousand towers
Chant out his requiem-for the Year is dead. 
But, lo! a new-born cherub hovering near,
Whose wings shall sweep the starry circle through; 
For the death-struggles of the passing Year 
Were still the birth-pangs of the coming new. 
Now Janus wears a smiling face before, 
Yet backward looks a sad, a long adieu;
From the same fountain doth Aquarius pour 
Tears for the old, libations to the new. 
Time buries his dead, and from the tomb comes forth, 
Rolls to the stone, and writes above the door 
Another epitaph that all the earth 
Shall read and ponder through the evermore.
There is the story of the by-gone Years, 
Their joys and sorrows, and their love and hate;
And there the lachrymals of bitter tears
Stand full, forever, by the frowning gate. 
There hang the scutcheon of departed nations; 
There glows the red page of their growth and strife; 
There lie the ashes of the dead creations- 
A world, or state a creed, or mortal life. 
And all the legends on those stony pages 
Shall grow to oracles in coming days;
And unborn minstrels, in the unborn ages,
Shall tell them over in their sounding lays.
Then write no record of our woe and crime;
Let no dirge drown the <Illegible> of that day;
"What I have written," cries the voice of Time,
"That I have written, and it stands for aye." 
There is no resurrection of the past- 
Its ghost may baunt thee, but it lives no more;
Yet mourn it not-for thee the future vast, 
The eternal future, stretches on before. 
Take then the book of fate into thine hand, 
And for the New Year write the great decree; 
And what thou writest shall forever stand; 
And what thou willest, that the end shall be.
Herper’s Monthly. 
THE OLD YEAR OF THE NATION.
Closed is the book whose crimson-lettered pages
Are blurred and blotted by a nation's grief; 
Sealed up with all the ponderous tomes of ages
By Him who turned for us its darkest leaf.
Not ours that volume to revise, erasing
The lines that tell what deeds of shame were done; 
Nor turn the leaf down where, with victory blazing,
Stands the proud record of the fields we won. 
Many the chapters dark with fear and failing, 
Or bright with hope of conquests yet to be;
There wrote we how the land was rent with wailing, 
Blent with th’exultant sounds of jubiles.
The lists we lingered o'er with reverent sorrow,
Filled full as heaven of stars with here-names,
A deathless light from Freedom's triumphs borrow,
Kindling their laurel-wreaths to martyr-flames. 
Round the red chronioles, on every border,
Illuminations done by Mercy’s hand
Show fair amid fierce battling and disorder
Her white tents gleaming up and down the land. 
The book is closed, and in His holy keeping
Who <Illegible> heals a nation free and brave; 
Who eareth for the widow lowly weeping, 
Robukes the traitor, and reduces the slave.
Despite its glooms, the grand huroie story
We need not blush to ponder o'er again; 
For Freedom on the title-page wrote "Glory,”
And on the last, with firmer pen, "Amen!" 
N.Y.Independent. HARRIET MCEWEN KIMSALL. 
<c02>
The Liberator. 
PLANTATION  PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank’s Household." 
CHAPTER XVI.
IN THE SWAMP. 
Of late, the hard side of Hinna’s nature had been growing harder, as if it were turning to stone.  The days, as they rolled by, had brought to her only what Slavery had to offer to one who had already sufficiently 
loathed it. It had been no "veiled prophet" to her, for she had never been its devotee; but still, she had cherished something of hope, a wan and ghastly semblance of hope, that these wrecks of humanity-victims of the all-crushing system-the poor whites-might in some way be elevated, or at least be induced to go where their disabilities would be known no more. But this she had abandoned.  And, notwithstanding the generous outlay of tact, vigilance, toil and expense 
she had made to assist the fugitive from bondage, she had often been disappointed in the result; for while, here and there, one escaped, more would fail in the attempt, while the mass could not or dared not fly from their taskmasters. The few that were delivered, what were they to those that remained? Bitter scorn towards the "rich whites," as she denominated the planters,—a scorn and an abhorrence verging to intense hatred; and a pity towards the slaves, strong-minded and practical, yet taking on evermore a deeper hue of sadness that imparted to her efforts on their behalf the energy of desperation; these were the predominant traits that were being developed 
in her character.
 Dilly and Dove had been like sunbeams in the home of the ferry woman.  Separated from them constitutionally as wide as the tree from the fragile vine that winds in graceful dependence around its trunk, she loved them for the very contrast. But, since the night attack of the kidnappers, Hinna's love seemed to be driven back upon itself, and her moodiness and reserve filled Dilly's sensitive heart with grief. The brief summer hour of safety had fled, and Hinna was now to the gentle child, as the oak with its sides chilled by the winter's wind is to the drooping vine.
" Dilly," said Hinna one day, herself breaking the silence, " the slave-hunters-may they be cursed of God forever!-are on your track, and I can't hide you much longer. There's only one place about here for such as you-but in the grave; and they'd dig up your bones there, if they could sell ‘em for silver! But they must n't get their claws on you, that’s all, if I can help it. ’Pears like I wanted to keep you all my days; but there’s nothin’ here in this slavery. cursed land for me to love, and I don't see but you must go."
" Does n’t  Hinna love Dilly no more?" said the weeping child, impulsively throwing her arms around Hinna's neck.
" Loves her as well as the robbers “II let me! But," she continued, shaking off the clinging arms. "there aint much call to love in these times, but to hate, hate, hate! That's what I'm called to! And I mean to hate to some purpose, being as they's bound to make me! They’ll find out afore long that Hinna don’t love ‘em any too well, I reckons"-and the lines about her firm-set mouth deepened, and her eyes looked stony cold, as if her heart were ice.
The "one place" to which Hinna alluded was, it is scarcely necessary to say, the Dismal Swamp. It was with a heavy heart that she thought of such a retreat 
for Dilly and her babe; it was truly a dernier resort, beset with many difficulties. But the knowledge of its necessity was enough for the ferry woman, and she at once set about making arrangements for their departure. She had been successful beyond her expectations; so, all things being ready, the little boat once more received the child-mother and her babe, and floated away on its mission of mercy.
It was night when the adventurers reached Norfolk, but Hinna kept out in the channel, steering for a river which was one of the many outlets to the swamp.
The night grew black with clouds, which, having gathered in the horizon, were rolling in heavy masses across the sky.
"Oh!" said Dilly, "what will become of us? Isn't there going to be a storm?”
"Yes," said Hinna, "but keep well wrapped up, and don't be afraid; perhaps it will pass over before it rains much here."
Soon every star was obscured, and the boat was hidden in utter darkness, save when the vivid flashes revealed it. The wind swept and whirled over the water, and it became necessary to take in sail. The bay grew rough, and the little boat danced like a leaf on the foamy waves. Dilly was in extreme terror.
"Oh, Hinna, is n't it dreadful?" said she, crouching as closely to the ferry woman as possible.
But the ferry woman, as the lightning revealed her firmly holding the spray-dripping helm, looked like the spirit of the storm.
“Dreadful? no!" she replied. "It does Hinna's heart good to see the clouds rush on, and the lightnings glare, and to hear the winds howl; and only to hear that thunder! "she added, as a terrific peal died away. "That’s GOD’S voice! I love such things; they makes me glad. When the sun shines day after day, and the flowers grow, and all is so still, and the poor slave is a groanin’ and a cryin’ and a prayin', and the rich whites treadin’ ‘em down, and livin' so as if they's a right to everything,-when I thinks on't, I thinks there can't be no God, or he'd speak to ‘em, and blast ‘em with his vengeance, and save those that be sufferin' so. An' then I thinks, perhaps the Bible aint true:—and wish it’s all a puzzle, and I hates everybody, and wish I'd never been born. But when God speaks on the water, I say, there's a God, and by and by he'll wake up, and these things “II be righted!".
"Do you know the way now?" asked Dilly.
"Yes," replied Hinna, "I knows the trees ‘long the shore, and can see them at every flash. There," exclaimed she, as there was another lighting up of the scenery, "there’s the river at last!" and after a few moments more of tossing, the little bark rode at rest in the comparatively still waters. The tempest increased in violence; crash after crash shook the wild woods through which they were wending their way; and the roar of the waters in the bay and ocean commingling with the reverberations, the effect was awful in sublimity. Once a charge of electric fluid struck a towering tree whose dead branches were reaching up to the clouds as if to tempt the bolt. And then the sight was exciting, as the resinous pine, a hundred feet in height, crackling and sputtering in fiery volumes, became a shaft of fire.
"Don't see how anybody can live in such a place as this," said Dilly, as by the lightning she saw the mammoth trees and shrubbery standing in pools of water.
"The swamp is all afloat now," said Hinna, " because of the shower. But we shall find a shelter soon, for we're in the canal."
Ere long, a light glimmered on the water.
"There ‘tis," said Hinna, as she plied her oar more vigorously, "that's for us!  We are to stop here till morning."
"Won't they trouble us?” asked Dilly.
"No, indeed," said Hinna, "it’s for their interest to help the slaves into the swamp settlement. The more there are there, the more trade they have. And Hinna's gwine to take Dilly among friends who are expecting her."
In a moment more, Hinna had moored her boat at the cabin-landing. The house was hidden behind a huge growth of tangled shrubbery; and as they approached, 
if was only at intervals that the light could be seen. The ferry woman gave a peculiar call, which was shortly answered by a man opening a passage through, and holding a pine knot in his hand, and shouting, "This way!" At the same instant, a fiery bound, restrained by a chain, bounded forward as if to fall on the intruders, while another was heard growling in his kennel. 
<c03>
Hinna and her passengers took a circuit of a few Yards to avoid the animal, while his master called out, ”Be still, Growler! be still!"-and as soon as he recognized the ferry woman, " Hallo, Hinna, welcome to Poquonac! How goes the  world with you? Should n't have expected anybody but you such a night as this.  Did n't yer most drown? What upon arth is these little folks made of, to look so bright after their voyage," said the man, ushering them into a little one-room cabin with a loft, and rolling up a log by the wide fire-place for them to sit on. Then, adjusting the torch in a hole in the wall, he began to rake open the coals, and put on wood. "It's cold enough for Jinivary; and I guess 'twon't hurt yer to dry yer clothes a bit." Soon the flames were crackling and rejoicing up the chimney, and in the brilliant light let us describe him.
The host was a tall man, about thirty years of age, with a low perceptive forehead, deep set eyes, gray and twinkling, aquiline nose, with a touch of the acquisitive, weather-beaten countenance, luxuriant brown hair, and unshaven beard. A home-made bedstead, four barrels in a row, and two peddlers' trunks, were all the furniture visible, save a table and cupboard.
The man was a regular Yankee from one of the back towns of "downeast," his peculiar race disappearing before railroads and telegraphs, as the Indian fades before civilization. He was the son of a rich old farmer, who brought up his household to work hard six days in the week, go to church on Sabbath, and to school in the winter months. Elihu Woodman began to think farming a hard business by the time he was twenty-five; and a roving spirit setting in, nothing would do but he must "pack up and seek his fortin”-which, applied to a farmer's son with small capital,- means to engage in that species of commercial transaction dignified with the name of peddling. Hence, in a short time from the attack, he was missed from his neighborhood. None dreamed how much they would miss him until he had gone. Then they were often saying, "Elihu was a good fellar-always good natured and obligin'. Pity he could n't make up his mind to stay with us."
Elihu, meanwhile, with trunks filled with a variety of useful and ornamental articles, in the month of November took passage for Norfolk, and travelled about Virginia all winter, visiting planters' homes as well as the cabin of the poor white and of the slave.  No traveller has a better opportunity to study the manners and customs of a people than a pedlar, other things being equal; and our hero, although quaint and uncouth in speech, was "nobody's fool."He had his eyes about him, and, as was natural, was often mentally contrasting the effects of slaveholding with nonslaveholding. Elihu was better read in human nature than in books—was more practical than theoretical; and as the planters did n't expend much attention on him, there was nothing in the way of his seeing just what the institution was, and not "investigating" it "through a glass darkly."
He was solicited a number of times to officiate as overseer, but warily declined, saying he "had n't the patience for't." Truth to tell, his sympathies were alive for the slaves, and he was considering how he could serve them. "No use to try to help ‘em off," thought he, "but it's mighty hard to see one man use another as a dumb critter, and not let him use his own will the least mite nor grain."
Elihu's spirit was at length "measurably" stirred within him. He became disgusted with his business, as, whenever he sold anything, he was paid in the gains of the system, which, to him, were "the price of blood.  "Impelled by these feelings, he was about leaving slave-land forever, when an incident came under 
his observation which gave a new direction to his plans. He had heard of the trade with the swamp refugees; and concluding that he must know more about it, he kept watch for some clue to parties engaged in the traffic, and once on the track, he soon knew how to act.
One evening, while in Norfolk, he called on a merchant with whom he had sometimes traded. After finishing his business, he sat down to read a paper, and continued to read it till quite late in the evening. At length, the merchant falling into conversation with him, asked him how he liked the country? This was just what the Yankee was waiting for; and he promptly replied,-
"First rate and a quarter! But I can't say as much for everything that's in it.  A pretty curus piece of business is this ere slavery goings-on. Why, don't you see your cake is all turning to dough? Where's yer schools, yer factories, railroads, and flourishing villages?"
"We're in a hard case, that’s so," said the merchant, smiling, "but what are we to do?"
“Do?" replied Elihu, "do something! It’s ruination to let things go on drivin' like split the wrong way. Right about face! march, all hands! My stars, would n't I like to slash away at this ere noxious tree that's grown up in the way of your goin' ahead!"
"I’d like to do that thing myself," replied the merchant, earnestly; "but a man can't even speak his mind here. This is n't a free country exactly."
" Not a mite nor a grain of a free country," rejoined the Northerner; "and I tell you how ‘tis, this ere slavery has made pesky bad work. Such a fine country, too! Why, we Yankees, just give us a chance, would make it look bright as the North. We wouldn’t have any slave labor; and the way the factories would start up would be a caution. Why, this ere miserable poor country, Virginny, would beat everything else all holler in twenty years!"
The door opened, and a slouching, rough-looking man, in a drab coat, worn bear-skin cap, with his pants stowed into the tops of his coarse cowhide boots, looked cautiously in, then entered.
"Hello, Cummings, how are ye?-and seeing a stranger present, "Step this ere way, will ye?" He then whispered aside that he had a boat-load of staves and shingles lying at the wharf, and he wanted to trade, and be off before morning. Elihu's sense of hearing was as acute as an Indian's, and that which would have been unintelligible to another, was sufficiently audible to him.
"Very well," replied the merchant in a low tone, "A very 'll be in shortly."
The individual named was the clerk, who soon came in, and seeing the drab-coated trader,turned and accompanied him out. All this our Yankee took note of, and when once more alone with the merchant did not hesitate to ask him who the stranger was; and winning his confidence, got much information from him.
"The trader that called here just now," said Mr. Cummings, "is a swamp merchant.  The Great Dismal Swamp, you are aware, commences near us, and extends South along the eastern shore of Virginia into North Carolina. A canal, connecting Chesapeake bay with Albemarle sound, passes through  the entire length of the swamp; and all along the canal are the cabins of the swamp merchants, who make a living, and some of them get wealthy by trading with the runaway 
negroes."
"Trading! how in nater’s that?" asked the Yankee intensely.
"Why," replied the merchant, "the maroons get out staves and cedar shingles, and sell them to the swamp merchants, who pay them in salt fish, pork and beef, Indian corn, coarse clothes, tools, seeds and similar articles."
"My stars!" ejaculated the Yankee, "an' this ero big swamp, that everybody thought wuse than waste land, is your great safety-valve! I've been a wondering 
up hill and down what kept these ere slaves from risin’, an’ murderin’ the whites.  The cat’s out now! It’s these ere safety-valve operations of runnin’ away that does it! That ar swamp is the savin' of lives-no question of it! My stars! it's a pretty curious piece of business. I'd like to inquire a leetle more about it. There is no such thing as hunting the runaways out, is there?"
"I should scarcely think it possible," said the merchant. "And it would cost ten times as much as it would come to, supposing it could be done." 
<c04>
"How many slaves is there in the swamp?"
"No census has ever been taken," replied the merchant,”and that can't be done; but the swamp has been a resort for them for a hundred years or more. Then there is the natural increase, and they have continual additions from Virginia and North Carolina. It's the great leak-hole to the profit of slavery in these States."
"How many do you guess there is there?" asked Elihu.
"From the trade with this city," said the merchant, "it is judged that there are not less than a million and a half dollars lost there; in other words, the swamp  must have a population of some 40,000." 
"Jingo! I'd no idea! quite a little city!"
"They are not all in one settlement, I take it," continued the Southerner. They have numerous little villages, a mutual security."
"I'd like to ’pull foot' for them ere settlements myself," said Elihu. "I'm a master hand at swamp travelling."
"It's death to a white man to set foot in them," replied Cummings. "There are heaps of snakes,-moccasin, copperheads, adders, rattlesnakes, and what not; and then the plants and vines are half of them deadly poison. No, no-if you value your life, keep clear of the swamp! It's reeking with miasm; and as for mosquitoes, and dragon flies, and lizards, and toads, they are more abundant than the plagues of Egypt.”
"How in natur do the blacks live there then?" asked Elihu.
"What's one man's meat is another man's poison," rejoined the merchant. "It does seem as if Providence fitted them for their condition. The poison oak, or pawpawab, is a deadly thing for a white man to approach, but the blacks can handle it without harm. I sometimes think that they have a charmed life."
"I'm in for the swamp!" exclaimed the Yankee. "I aluz did like diffikilties—I'd like to sojer amongst them. I've been homesick jest the least mite in the world, and I was jest on the pint of pulling up stakes for the North; but you've taken me altogether by the ears, and I shall be as uneasy as a fish out of water till I explore them ere regions."
"I would advise you to keep out of the swamp altogether," 
persisted the merchant. "We have deaths more or less every year, from the wilful imprudence of some of our hot-headed young men; they will not be advised, but run into danger, and, one way and another, death is the result."
"I'm much obliged to ye for your advice," replied Elihu, "but I'm jest like Bonaparte crossing the Alps; the greater the diffikilties, the greater pluck to slash my way through them. As for arbs and snakes, them are raly putty small enemies for a body to git skeered at. A man of the real grit won't run for ‘em, I guess! I'm in for studyin’ that ere swamp; and if you like, have the goodness to introduce me to that swamp merchant; I want a passage in his boat."
"Very well," said the merchant, "I will do so."
And that night, at twelve o'clock, Elihu was "shipped" aboard the boat, and on his way up the canal. 
He found that the swamp merchant with whom he rode lived only two or three miles in the swamp. He was a poor white whose mind had only been exercised on the subject of trading, and had no ideas of anything else.
He made known his wish to visit the runaways.
"Can't be done, no how," said the trader, "unless you are a slave, or kin to them someway, or have done them service so as to secure a guide. Their laws is  that strict.They’d shoot a white man down like a wild beast if they found him in the swamp." 
"How shall I get a guide?" asked Elihu.
"There'll be one along in a week or two for provision, and then'll be the time for you to try. They'll be long here to trade right smart quick, an’ I'll let you do some of the tradin’, an so git used to it, like. I want to leave my place, and go further down the canal, and you can live here if you like."
Thus Elihu became a resident on the banks of the canal, more for the sake of securing an entrance to the "cities of refuge," than from a love of trading. He had now lived two months in this lonely way, diversified only by trading, hunting, and floundering in the mud, and an occasional ague chill; and although a dozen or more came to trade, Elihu found it difficult to secure their confidence. The strange wild people were reserved and taciturn. With bags of meat, fish, and dried apples, they marched off, declining to show him or give him any information whatever.
Hinna cut the Gordian knot of his difficulties. She had, confidence in his trustworthiness, and the fugitives had confidence in her. He had just the qualities needed to assist her in getting Dilly and Dove to the maroon settle
ment, and he was to accompany them, it being arranged that a guide should meet them at his cabin.
On the evening of our narrative, the party ate their corn cakes and sipped their coffee quite cheerfully, after their fierce encounter with the elements. Then Elihu betook himself to the loft to rest, while the new fugitives were made comfortable with skins and blankets before the fire.
As the sun came up next morning, the vapor from the swamp rose thick and impenetrable; without the cabin, everything was enveloped in the cloud.  The trees were reeking with dew, and the long grass lay prone on the pools of the last night's freshet.
Hinna awoke in good season, although to the impatience of Elihu, it seemed the reverse, for he had slept little, so brain-busy had he been with plans for the morrow. Shortly the household were seated at the breakfast table.
"You seem to be pretty well posted up about the swamp," said Elihu to Hinna, as he carved the roasted coon.
“I know something about it," replied Hinna, "but it's a great study; one might spend a lifetime inquiring, and be learning new things all the time."
"That's a fact," replied Elihu. "I've learnt lots since I came here, but I haint got ahead much in exploring. I don’t git the hang of it!"
"Has anybody let you into the secret?” asked Hinna.
"Secret? secret?" said Elihu; "do you mean the knack of getting into the swamp?" "Yes, indeed," replied Hinna.
"No, never a breath of it," said Elihu.
"No wonder, then, you got stuck in the mud," said Hinna. "No livin' man can get in, unless he’s got the key."
"The runaways get in, don't they?" said Elihu.
"Yes," replied Hinna, "but escaping for life and liberty gives one the advantage. And one way and another they have the secret of walking the mire."
"Well, this ere is the beatenest thing!" said Elihu, "I never before see anything done but I could do it; and my old copy-book used to say, 'What man has done, man can do.’ And’ never give up in a good cause, 'that's another proverb I believe in. I'm bound to take a squint at this ere swamp, thick and thin!"
"There is one thing that'll help you the most towards seeing the swamp,"said Hinna.
“That’s good news! and what is that!".
"Why, the more slaves you help escape, the more that’ll tell you, for they'll know you are a true friend and no spy, and a friend that can do as well as talk."
"I'm in for that, like a two year old," said Elihu. 
"I hate slavery wuss than pizen, and you can send runaways to me thick as hops, when once I get the hang of it. It's a humane cause-it’s a glorious cause!"
"I reckon," replied Hinna, well pleased, "that I can help you to some business in this line, but you know there is no pay with it. We work for nothing and find ourselves, in helping the slaves off."
"Exactly," replied Elihu, "we do it for the good we are doin'. Our fathers fought at Lexington because they loved liberty, not money; and you may depend jest the same grit would lead ‘em’ to whisk into the swamp if they'd a been slaves." 
<c05>
"That's so," replied Hinna, "cause they could n't get nothin' to defend themselves with, and fighting's no use."
"The man that won’t be won’t he a slave," said Elihu, "is a man, and no mistake. I can eny most worship such a man, if he is black!”
Hinna saw that the sun was high in the firmament, and felt hurried to return, but tarried a while longer to encourage Dilly, hoping also that the guide would arrive. The short time that remained, Hinna devoted to them.
Meanwhile, Elihu took down his gun, and stepped forth to get game for dinner, and to fill his soul with the fancies which the scenery inspired. He could pick his way a few rods in different directions, but the moment he attempted to proceed farther, he was sure to come off floundering.
Past experience made him more cautious so; climbing into a magnificent cedar, some ten feet in diameter, be seated himself in the thick boughs, and leisurely fired at the pigeons as they whisked by. He had shot a couple of dozen, and was about to descend and gather them up, when a hound of the largest size sprung through the thicket that separated his little domain from the morass, caught up one of the birds, and was making off with it, when Elihu arrested his attention by a whistle; and looking in the direction of the slough-land, he saw a man approaching. He was clad in a hunter's coat of coarse cotton cloth for summer 
wear, old, but well-kept straw hat, his powder horn hung suspended by a red cord to his shoulders, and he carried a gun. The stranger, a fine-looking, intelligent mulatto, bowed with a free and easy grace, and said, "My dog was carrying off your game. "He then whistled, and the animal came running back with the pigeon in his mouth. "Put it down, Hero, do you hear?" and the trained creature laid it down, and walked behind the shrubbery, as if to conceal his mortification.
The new comer was wary and cool, naturally, and by his bearing was evidently a person of some consequence among the swamp dwellers. The glance he gave Elihu was as searching as it appeared careless. "You are Elihu Woodman, I suppose," said the stranger. "I have a little business with you."
Elihu ushered him into the house, gathering up his birds as he passed along.
"Ah!" said the mulatto, "Hinna here? glad to see you. The slave people all love Hinna, and there's many of them in the swamp that would die for her, if she was in trouble," he added. "And these are Dilly and Dove-glad to see them, too-plenty of room, such as ‘tis, for mother and child with us."
Elihu was amazed. He had never seen the mulatto before, and yet he knew all about him and his guests.
"Well, I never!" mentally exclaimed Down East.
"Where'd this ere feller find out so much? Guess this ere still swamp has more eyes in it than  I thought for."
"It has been a little lonesome to you, Mr. Woodman, waiting so long to get to our hiding-places; but our people have brought very good accounts of you, and as you are on the right side, and may be useful, we’ve thought best to gratify your curiosity. You wish to take Dilly and Dove to the settlement, aided by a guide; for their sake, we will relieve you of this, but you may accompany me, if you wish, on my return."
"That's jest what I would like ter do, most amazingly. But, jingo, stranger, how'd ye know so much about me? That's what I'd like ter know."
The mulatto smiled, as he said, "You have not been alone a moment since you left Norfolk in the boat; and if you should not see a human being as you go with me farther into the swamp, remember that many eyes are watching every step you take. This is our home, and we have to guard it."
"Well, how soon shall we start?" asked the eager Yankee.
"Not to-day; the water is up, and you could not possibly get over the pools until it is lower."
"How upon arth did you manage it then? I seed yer come right through the black miry waters, as if they'd been froze over. I'd just like ter ask, if it aint being too bold, how yer did it?"
"You're one of the asking-question whites," said his mysterious caller; "well, don't ask too many here, or the swamp will get angry!"
Our Yankee was glad when, at last, the visitor announced that the time for their journey had come, and said,-
"Well, I'm ready for the jaunt, if I have to go up to my waist in snakes; but what’s to be done with them children?" glancing towards Dilly and Dove.
The mulatto did not reply, but drawing from his vest a reed-like instrument of peculiar shape, blew it shrilly. In a moment more, several able-bodied negroes 
came through the tangled reeds and bushes, and carefully taking up mother and child-for Dilly seemed to expect it-bore them into the thicket.
"They will get there before us," said the mulatto, as they disappeared, "let us be going. I shall go very slowly, but you must keep close to me, and step where I step."
It was a perplexing, perilous and tiresome undertaking to the white man; for despite example and precept, he was often getting mired and needing help. Yet, as he went on, he became more and more excited and interested. The dark, deep forests of gum, cypress, and juniper, that they were passing through, where rested at noon-day the gloom of a heavy twilight; the oozy beds, through which wriggled and crawled reptiles of every shape; the deafening chorus of frogs piping from numberless pools, slime-coated and inky-black; the cry of the panther, the notes of strange birds, and the creaking of the branches beneath 
the heavy tread of the bear, furnished sights and sounds that kept his attention on the stretch.
After hours of patient wading and plashing through the mud, and heroic assaults on serried ranks of briers, canes and reeds, they came to a halt beneath an 
immense gum tree, standing on a mound of dry soil. Elihu threw himself at full length on the green grass, exclaiming,-
"If this aint the dampest sile that ever a man wallered in! jest the dampest!  Why, I  have n't got breath enough left to hold on to the grass with, and the briars have sawed my legs half off. I  don't wonder the slavery men have let you alone in here so long! Gracious goodness, what a time they'd have of it in here without a guide! Why, I should have been drowned a hundred times in these ere mire puddles, with nobody to mourn for me but pisonous serpents and catamounts, if you hadn't taken care of me like a brother. But how fur is it to where we are goin'?" he added.
"We are not half way yet; but if you are rested, and would like a little change of exercise, follow me, and do as I do," said his conductor, striking out for the deep woods again.
Their route lay across an impassable swamp; but the trees growing near together, for long distances, certain of the branches had been cut out, leaving those which connected tree with tree to form a path. Over this the mulatto went as nimbly as a squirrel, yet watching over his Yankee companion with sharp-eyed vigilance.
"It's a regular trade," said he, "but you'll soon learn it. This is our railroad, for it cuts short the distance, and catching hold of the limbs and trunks, we can get along at a good speed after we get used to it.
"Late in the day, our travellers approached an opening in the swamp. Just beyond, the sun’s rays lighted up a broad belt of dry soil, elevated above the level of the swamp. Elihu was glad to "see daylight once more," as he expressed it.
"My stars!" shouted he, overcome with admiration, "if this ere don't beat all! a little city right in the heart of this ere swamp! pretty as a pictur too! How I wish some of the folks North could see this ere sight! I guess they'd think the slaves could take care of themselves, if they ken get through the mud, and the snakes, and the briers, and build such a place as this into the bargain!"
<c06>
It was a maroon settlement, and made indeed a charming picture. Half hidden by the trees, were the little cottages, well thatched with long grass their sides neatly white-washed, and covered with flowering vines. 
They were now within a few rods of the settlement. The streets of the town were laid out in circles, intersected by starlike alleys radiating from the middle and in the centre, with wide grounds raised,  <Illegable> the old chief. 
There was the hum of busy life. A hundred <Illegible> were in operation. each family thus grinding their corn, unless there chanced to be wind enough to <Illegible>the windmill, which seldom happened.
Elihu, a stranger to fear heretofore, really felt his heart palpitate, as he looked on the dwellings of this fee people, and he was a little solicitous how his visit would be received by them. 
At the entrance, a guard of brawny men met our party. Elihu could not help thinking how he would have fared, if he had not been under the wing of the mulatto, to whom the grim sentinels touched their hats as he passed. 
Peeping out of doors and windows were the <Illegible> in  Pocosin,for this was the first Yankee that had entered their village. They had various <Illegible> but the children laughed heartily at his droll appearance, so accustomed were they to dark complexious that, like the people of Africa, a real white men was a curiosity.
A one-story building of large proportions was the dwelling of the chief. It was enclosed by a high fence of pickets, and a strong gateway. The chief, a large man of ebony, sat on a brilliant colored mat <illegible> his door, smoking and sunning himself. 
He arose to welcome them with the air of a superior, and ushering them within, pointed to gaily <Illegible> mats and hade them be seated. 
Elihu, who had been a great reader, could easily faney himself at some regal residence in Africa. The chief evidently was at home as a leader and although some two or three years a slave, like the lion of the desert, he was never tamed.  He killed the <Illegible>. and fled for the swamp, determined, like our <Illegible> to be free, or die in the endeavor. He was a <Illegible> and the swamp men of Pocosin, immediately on the death of their chief, chose him for their leader. 
The interview with the swamp king was <Illegible> and the presents brought him by our Yankee acceptable. 
"Do news outside, stranger?" asked Auger the chief."
I haint heered nothin' for a considerable spell," said Elihu.
Presently refreshments were brought, hot corn bread, baked sweet potatoes coffee, nuts and berries. 
"Windmill  no go," said Auger, white man medicine it?" 
"Yes," replied Elihu, wondering how it could go without wind. "I'll see what I can do." 
"You make steam-mill?" asked Auger. Elihu,  nothing daunted, replied in the <Illegible>. 
"De bery man we want!" said the chief: <Illegible>, big house, big garden, every thing you shall have." 
Here was a new phase of the affair. Elihu had not coveted an invitation to spend his life in the swamp, and the idea of being forced to remain there was anything but pleasant. He began to regret that he had allowed himself to be so variously accomplished. He had sought out the governor for the greater security of his person, but the idea of cultivating his further acquaintance was now wholly repugnant to him. His guide arose to go, and Elihu also arose. 
"Come and stay here to-night," Auger said; "you be my man, big man." 
Elihu bowed, to express his sense of the honor conferred, but said," I would just like to go and see the slaves I helped here fust  I guest they are master lonely without me."
 “I tell yoa what 'tis," said Down East,as they pawed out the gate, "my heart's in my month. I begin to think the  governor will make me his servant, whether or no." 
"Sarvant!" said his conductor, "you'll get a good heart if you go in with him.  You'll have s chance to get rich; the old governor is right generous to his friends." 
"I guess I'll barter hafter go and see the old man fust" replied Elihu. You see, father, he's gettin'old, an' he'll be uneasy at a flah out of water till I come down South here, and seek my fortin, tnd I guess I've done putty well, considerin'; but it'd never do in the world for me to agree to spend my days in this' ere swamp until I see the old man."  
“You gwine right off?" asked the mulatto with a funny smile.
“No, not as I knows on," replied Elihu, I <illegable> kinder  make the circuit of this 'ere region, and study its geography, an' see the folks fust" 
"How you going to get around without a guide!" suggested the mulatto; "and as to seeing the folks, it'd be like hunting a needle in a <Illegable> a great many live alone in such hiding-places as you'd never think of.  They build their cabins high in the <Illegable> trees, and train the vines so that they are entirely<Illegable> cealed; in this, and other ways equally effective, thousands are hidden. Once in a while they come in  some one of the settlements to get supplies, but where they live you'd never know, unless they told you. And now let me give you a little bit of advice:- Don't tell old Anger that you can make a steam engine, unless you can; he'll think the more of you <illegable> telling the exact truth.  He can read you better than you can read him. It wouldn't be treating our people right lo let you come in here, and then go right back they'd think we let white folks is too easy. So <Illegable> as contented as you can.  Your father won't have you are here, and therefore won't die any <illegable> for it. The governor 'll treat you well; and depend upon it, if he wants your services for a time, it won't be medicining windmills. You whites think the <illegable> don't know anything; but there's something that you  can do to your own and his advantage.   
Elihu was silent. He began to think of pedding talent hardly shrewd enough for his situation. He felt rebuked  also,  that prejudice against color <illegable> clang to him.  The slave pretends to be more <illegable> than he is, the better to deceive <illegable>thus outwits him.  Old Anger bad played upon very weakness for his own ammusemenant, and the better to understand the Yankee; and in this the white man learned a lesson that he could not easily forget.
At this moment, singing, with the <illegable> of the banjo and violin, mingled with the <illegable> sounds.  It was some streets distant, but was heard very distinctly.  
"It's on the green," said his guide. "there is a <illegable> and a wedding is coming off this evening”.
"Shortly they neared the bridal party. The bride was easily distinguished by the wreath of white flowers is her hair, and by her dress of white,  She was pretty and graceful, and the dance kept time to the <illegable> of the lively music, which Elihu said couldn't be <illegable> in all New England.              
"Neat as wax-work, every one of them!" exclaimed Elihu; "and then to see how glad they be! chock full, an' more too! brim-full an' runnian' over with fun an' happiness. I deceive they take the meet comfort of anybody that ever I see."
Companies of children and grown people <illegable> walked around, deligated witness of the some so expensive of the joy of Africa's children. As Elihu and his guide approached, a happy looking group came to meet them. Dilly was among them, and in her near attire, said-
"Neber expressed to see Dilly again-thought she was drowned in de river! O, I'see so glad she's come!"
"Guess you knew her then, didn't ye!"
"Lawe yes! she's my niece, an' dish <illegable> old heart feels young to see de little beauty once more an'de baby too! Dey'll neber want nothin' while Dinah's 'bout." 
