THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO, 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for Ten dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan 
Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACESON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitant thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the plane of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVE. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slave taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."- J. Q. ADAMS.
THE LIBERATOR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX[1. NO. 15.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1862.
WHOLE No. 1633.
<C01>
Refuge of Oppression.
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN PENNSYLVANIA.
Personal denunciation is the most unpleasant part of a journalist's duty: but such is the infamous career of many men that the newspaper press would be conspiring against the public virtue and safety, if it did not incessantly pursue them, and exercise all its energies to commote against them the perpetual odium of the nation. There is no man in this country who deserves a more severe application of this rule than Wendell Phillips. He has scholarship and eloquence. But in what honorable direction has he employed his faculties for the last nineteen years? In the honorable field of his profession? In the composition of useful works? In instructing the people in their obligations to the country of their birth? In enlightened patriotic statesmanship? In generous assistance to make America the most happy of land?-is this the line of conduct to which he has applied the fine talents that nature generously gave him? This line he certainly could have filled with eminent distinction: but he has not entered on it. Treason most bold, most reckless, most unblushing, and most dangerous has been his career.
In a recent lecture is Washington this man said: "I have labored nineteen years to take nineteen States out of this Union, and if I have spent any nineteen years to the satisfaction of my Puritan conscience, it was those nineteen years. Unless within twelve months or twenty-four, Maryland is a free State, Delaware, and half Virginia, would to God that building (the Capitol) with this city of Washington, had been shelled to ashes last July."
Here is not only a confession of guilt but also a boastful rhetorical amplification of it. This too in Washington-within earshot of the very President and Administration who have been eager to commit men of far less treason to Fort Warren and other Places! In presence of this fact, we ask where is the honest consistency of the government? Was the offence of Mr. McMaster anything in comparison with the which this fire-brand loudly declaimed of himself in the national Capital? Were any of the other imprisoned men equal to him in public criminality? The president is carrying on war against a most unjustifiable rebellion, and much of the energy of the war is owing to the truth that the South has been plotting separation for a long time: but Wendell Phillips declares himself to have labored for nineteen years to destroy the country. He makes his declaration in the ears of the President, and he says he will not desist; yet the traitor is allowed to remain at large! This is not honest consistency. We denounce it. We ask the people to demand its correction. Let all domestic enemies to the Constitution be punished. Repressing the rebellion in the South is only half the work. The Abolitionists of the North, with Phillips at their head, are the worst traitors of the two. Until that fanatic herd are extinct, the nation cannot be free from internal discord. Sparing such criminals is not a national virtue, but a national abandonment of duty that is certain to product the worst public consequences. Unfortunately we cannot hope that the duty will be resumed. We support the administration with all our strength in the war against the belligerent rebels: but we cry out against permitting the rebels of the North to proceed unmolested, giving daily increase to the distractions of the nation. Let Phillips be arrested. The dignity and honor and safety of the administration and the country demand this.
Such is the man-a very brief note on him, indeed to whom the Pennsylvania Legislature has given their Capital to lecture in. Comment is unnecessary. It would not be more criminal to give this privilege to Jefferson Davis himself than to Wendell Phillips. The latter is the Yancey of the North. Pennsylvania is not represented by the men that have thus insulted the Constitution. But the Smithsonian Institute set them the example, and another month may show that the national Capital itself has been tendered to Wendell Phillips. We have no trust in the safety of the Republic but in the people themselves; and with them the best remedy is-the remedy now in the hands of their fathers, their sons, and their friends against the criminal South-Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
HOW TO PREVENT MOBS.
Wendell Phillips was mobbed at Cincinnati, as we mentioned last week. It was wrong, mean, and inexpedient. Mobs are often the arguments of cowardice, sometimes of intolerance, frequently of impatience, rarely the result of calm deliberation, very rarely the expression of justice. Every man ought to set his face against them, in public and in private speak and act against them, and by the stern power of an enlightened public sentiment discountenance them. whatever may be the provocation. It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong. It is better to let wrong go unpunished than to usurp unlawful power, and use it in the name of justice. Wendell Phillips by his treasonable utterances, would do little harm, compared to the injury done to public morals, order, safety, and permanent social peace, by a riot that strikes down a citizen without the regular process of law. 
But is there no remedy for the wrong which such an arch traitor commits. who goes into the capital of the nation and into the peaceful cities of the land, and blurts out his treason in the ears of the patriot people? Is the patience of the country to be tried, till its passions can no longer be restrained, by the unbounded licence accorded to this enemy of the Constitution, this avowed hater of the Union, who glories in having devoted nineteen years of his life to its destruction? We have heard him curse the Union with an intensity of malignant bitterness that made every honest patriot's blood run cold. But even then we would not have had an unlawful hand laid on the head of this enemy of his country. And again we ask, is there no remedy?
There is, and we are now speaking words that the highest officers of government have already embodied. we doubt not, and on which they are acting, if they are wise as they are patriotic. The remedy is the IMPARTIAL application of LAW and POWER to the disunion traitor, whether his proclivities are Southern or Northern. Mr. Lincoln has the ability of command, Mr. Stanton has the ability to direct: and the country will sustain them in the measures they may take to apply the force of government in the work of self-preservation. Their attention we call to the speech which Phillips made in Washington as published without criticism in the New York Tribune. He said:-
"Now, I love the constitution, through my friend (Dr. Pierpont) who sits beside me, has heard me curst it a hundred times, and I shall again if it does not mean justice. I have labored nineteen years to take nineteen States out of this Union, and if I have spent any nineteen years to the satisfaction of my Puritan conscience if was those nineteen years. 
"Unless within twelve months or twenty-four, Maryland is a free State, Delaware and half Virginia, would
<c02>
to God that building (the Capitol) with this city of Washington, had been shelled to ashes last July."
Speaking of the origin of the rebellion, Phillips declared that, "It was nobody's fault," but that "it is the inevitable results of the seeds our fathers planted seventy years ago;" and in another place, he says of the Fathers of the Republic, that they "dared not trust God."
Referring to William Lloyd Garrison, the inveterate disunionist-who kept standing time out of mind, at the head of his paper, the sentiment that the men who framed the Constitution had made "an agreement with death, and a covenant with hell," he characterized him as a "man who had done more, in the Providence of God, to shape the fate of this generation that any other one," and that he (Phillips) was "proud to sit at his (Garrison's) feet."
Such a man ought not to be allowed to stir up dissension and sedition at such a time as this. And if the Government at Washington that has filled Fort Lafayette and Fort Warren with secession traitors suffers such a man to talk treason in Washington, it loses the glory that crowns the administration of justice when its IMPARTIALITY commands the homage of an enlightened people.
But it is amusing, even in its seriousness, to read the fierce denunciations of the Cincinnati mob in the columns of those papers that have not a word to say when traitors of another stripe are mobbed! If Dr. Hawks should say in Irving Hall, "I have labored fifteen years to take fifteen States out of this Union." and if the Union is not broken up in two years, "would to God that the city of Washington had been shelled to ashes last July," he would have been hooted down, and driven from the city. Some of the papers that now condemn the mob that hunted Phillips, would praise the mob for hunting Hawks. May we not go still further, and say that if a newspaper in this city should advocate the destruction of the Constitution, and the disruption of the Union, to let the South go, it would be suppressed instantly and its conductors justly held responsible for treason to the government.
The New York Tribune says: "It is wickedly false that Mr. Phillips advocates treason." That depends altogether on what treason is. The Tribune may not be the best authority on that delicate question. We believe it is treachery to the country now, to wish the city of Washington laid in ashes if slavery is not abolished in Maryland. Phillips says that, and the Tribune devotes six columns to spreading the infamous speech in which the sentiment is uttered. We regard it as the quintessence of treason to speak or print such sentences as we have quoted from the Tribune, unless we quote them to protest against them in the name of the Constitution and the Union. The Springfield Republican says: "Wendell Phillips has the right to speak his opinions freely, and every friend of free speech must maintain that right." No, he has not. No man has a right to do wrong. No man has a right to smoke a cigar in a powder magazine. No man has a right to denounce the government of his country in time of war. No disunionist has a right to speak his sentiments anywhere now. We are in a state of war. Every man must stand by the Union or keep quiet. we are utterly opposed to mobbing Phillips or any other man. But the peace and safety of the country demand that his seditious tongue be silenced till the Union is reestablished in peace. Let him be indicted for his sedition, and held to answer at the bar of justice for his offences, but let us have no mobs. Justice is slow, but mighty. An abolition-disunionist is as dangerous an enemy now as a secession disunionist, and if Fort Warren is open for the latter, let Fort Lafayette receive the former: or, still better, put them both together. They have labored in the same cause, let them rest together in the same walls.-New York Observer.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Wendell Phillips, last evening deemed it expedient to tone down and sugar-coat his treasonable lecture on the War. With this slight difference, the discourse was substantially the same as THE NEW YORK TRIBUNES report of is as delivered in Washington. The labors of the framers of the Constitution were scoffed at and derided, and he frankly admitted that he had been a zealous Disunionist for sixteen years, and until, through the working of the present war, he discovered glimmerings of universal and immediate emancipation, and of the blissful era of practical amalgamation. Comparing the relative exports of the West India Islands and of the New England States as the test of the superiority of the races, the lecturer deduced the statement that the negro beats the Yankee a hundred per cent. The audience, crinoline and broadcloth alike, enthusiastically applauded this announcement of their own inferiority to the greasy and half-civilized negroes of Jamaica and Hayti. So much for the audience. The existence of any Union sentiment whatever at the South Phillips earnestly combatted, and its alleged non-existence formed the basis of an argument of the creation of a Union party of emancipated negroes and the colonization of the slaveholders. This sentence, in fact, is almost a syllabus of the argument of the entire lecture. The military ability of Gen. McClellan was ridiculed, and this provoked the only manifestation of disapprobation indulged in by the audience. Rather strange, too, considering that Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison, and other architects of the Constitution, were stigmatized as even more complete failures as statesmen than McClellan as a soldier. But throughout, the harangue abounded in as palpable treason as has ever been uttered by Davis or Yancey. It was administered, too, in a most plausible shape. False facts, figures, and logic were resorted to. The dead statesmen of the Republic were maligned and misrepresented and contemporaneous history grossly perverted.
Wendell Phillips can return to Boston and congratulate the treasonable coterie of which he is a shinning light, on a brilliant achievement: Chicago, which once refused to hear Douglas in vindication of the Constitution and the sanctity of the Union, and mobbed the great statesman from the rostrum, has applauded him to the very echo in his execration of the charter of our-liberties and his ridicule of our departed national greatness.-Chicago Times.
While we would accord to Wendell Phillips, as we would accord to every citizen, the full measure of his constitutional rights, we are at a loss to conceive how certain high functionaries of the Government can reconcile it with their sense of propriety to bestow on this rabid and abusive radical the public marks of distinguished consideration with which they have honored him. The presiding officer of each branch of Congress has bestowed on him attentions which, under the circumstances, were most unseemly and impolitic. There is no victorious general in the army, nor any loyal governor of a free State, who would have been treated with more marked courtesy than was bestowed on this maker of seditious harangues, who has been twenty years denouncing the Constitution and aiming at the dissolution of the Union.-New York World.
<c03>
Selections.
WIPE OUT THE NATION'S SHAME.
A Speech for the Abolishment of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Delivered in the United States Senate on Tuesday, March 25 1862.
BY HENRY WILSON OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MR. PRESIDENT: The first Congress under the Constitution of the United States was summoned to the consideration of questions of transcendent importance, which excited the profound interest of the nation, and of the statesmen of that age. Hildreth, in his history of the United States, tells us that "of all the questions discussed at this session, none produced so much excitement as one started toward the close of it, respecting the permanent seat of the Federal Government." The Eastern States would have been content to retain the seat of Government in the city of New York, where the Continental Congress had established it; but Pennsylvania sought to win it back to Philadelphia, and Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas sought to fix it on the banks of the Potomac. The members of the East, supported by Pennsylvania, hoping to conciliate the dissatisfied members of the South proposed to fix the permanent seat of Government on the Susquehanna, but the proposition was strongly and violently opposed; and they were told by even the moderate Madison, that "if that day's proceedings had been foreseen, Virginia would never have ratified the Constitution."
The House bill, locating the capital on the Susquehanna, amended by the Senate so as to fix the seat of Government in a district ten miles square adjoining Philadelphia, failed through the growing opposition and manifest dissatisfaction of the men of the South. Thus the Congress of 1789 was stirred to its profoundest depths by the absorbing question whether the national capital should be located on the banks of the Delaware, the Susquehanna, or the Potomac. These conflicting claims of sections and of interests defeated, in 1789, all propositions for the location of the seat of the national capital; but at the next session, in 1790, a bargain, a compromise, was consummated between the advocates of the assumption of the State debts, under the lead of Hamilton and Morris. and a few members of Virginia by which the House of Representatives, after taking the yeas and nays thirteen times, determined by a vote of thirty-two to twenty-nine, to locate the permanent capital of the Republic on the banks of the Potomac. This victory over the North, won by the skill and determination of the statesmen of the South, placed the permanent capital of the new Republic on soil polluted by the footsteps of bondsmen. This early victory of the leaders of Southern sentiment and opinion has cast its malign influence over the policy of the National Government. Here, for two generations, the statesmen of republican and Christian America have been surrounded by an atmosphere tainted by the breath of the slave, and by the blinding and perverting influences of the social life of slaveholding society.
The Constitution gave Congress the "power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever," over this ceded ten miles square we call the District of Columbia. Instead of providing a code of humane, equal, and uniform laws, for the government of the capital of a Christian nation, Congress enacted, in 1801, that the laws of Maryland and Virginia, as they then stood, should be in force on the north and south side of the Potomac. By this act, the inhuman and barbarous, the indecent and vulgar colonial slave codes of Maryland and Virginia became the laws of republican America for the government of its chosen capital. By this act of national legislation the people of Christian America began the first year of the nineteenth century, by accepting, reaffirming, and reenacting for the government of their new capital, the colonial legislation, enacted for the government of the wild hordes of Africa, which the colonial and commercial policy of England forced upon Maryland and Virginia.
The National Government, by reenacting the slave codes of the ceding States for the government of the ceded territory, accepted as its creed the wicked dogma that color, in the national capital, is presumptive evidence of slavery. In 1827 the Committee on the District of Columbia in the House of Representatives, reported that "in this District, as in all slaveholding States in the Union, the legal presumption is, that persons of color going at large without any evidences of their freedom are absconding slaves, and prima facie liable to all the legal provisions applicable to that class of persons." The Committee state that in that part of the District ceded by Virginia, "a free negro may be arrested and put in jail for three months on suspicion of being a fugitive; he is then to be hired out to pay his jail fees; and if he does not prove his freedom within twelve months he is to be sold as a slave." In the territory ceded by Maryland, the Committee say that "if a free man of color should be apprehended as a runaway, he is subjected to the payment of all fines and rewards given by law for apprehending runaways, and upon failure to make such payment, is liable to be sold as a slave." The legal presumption that persons of color are "absconding slaves"-that if arrested as runaways they are "subject to the payment of all fines and rewards given by law for apprehending runaways"-that failing to pay such "fines and rewards" they are "liable to be sold as slaves," are the recognized doctrines in the national capital of this Democratic Republic. For two generations has Christian America recognized in her capital the wicked and guilty dogma that color is legal presumption that man, whom God made, and for whom Christ died, walking the earth in the pride of conscious manhood, is an "absconding slave" to be "apprehended as a runaway," "subject to the payment of fines and rewards", or "to be sold as a slave to pay jail fees."
Clothed with the authority of legislation by the National Government, the corporation of Washington, not content with this monstrous legal presumption that color is evidence of slavery, enacted on the 31st of May, 1827, that every negro and mulatto found in the City of Washington who shall not be able to establish his or her title to freedom, shall be committed to the jail of the County of Washington as absconding slaves. In what age of the world, in what land under the whole heavens, can you find an enactment of equal atrocity to this iniquitous and profligate statute-this legal presumption that color is evidence that man made in the image of God is an "absconding slave"?
This monstrous doctrine, abhorrent to every manly impulse of the heart, to every Christian sentiment of the soul, to every deduction of human reason, which the refined and Christian people of America have upheld for two generations which the Corporation of Washington enacted into an imperative ordinance, has borne its legitimate fruits of injustice and 
<c04>
inhumanity, of dishonor and shame. Crimes against man, in the name of this abhorred doctrine, have been annually perpetrated in this National Capital, which should make the people of America hang their heads in abasement before the nations, and before that. Being who keeps watch and ward over the humblest of the Children of men. Men and women of African descent, no matter in what State they were born, no matter what rights and privileges they possessed under the laws and institutions of the States from whence they came, have annually been seized, imprisoned, fined, and sometimes sold into perpetual servitude. This doctrine, that color is presumptive evidence of slavery-this ordinance, consigning its victims to imprisonment-offers a tempting bribe to the base, the selfish, the unprincipled, to become man-stealers and kidnappers. This bribe has converted Government officials, justices of the peace, constables, and police officers into manufacturers of slaves. This bribe has annually filled your jail with its victims, making it the workshop where the selfish, souls and bodies of men. Hundreds, aye thousands of men of African descent have been seized, arrested, imprisoned, since the District of Columbia became the seat of the National Capital. In January, 1829, the United States Marshal, in a letter addressed to the Committee of the House of Representatives on the District of Columbia, reported that in the three years from the 1st January, 1826, to the first of January, 1829, 179 persons in Washington and Georgetown were arrested and committed to prison as absconding slaves. Of this number, 26 proved themselves to be free, and being fortunate, enough to pay jail fees, were discharges. Six of these persons were sentence by the jailor without trial, and sold as slaves, and the proceeds pocketed by the Marshal of the United States. Mr. Miner, of Pennsylvania, in a speech in the House of Representatives in 1829, states that "a black man was taken up in August, 1821, and imprisoned as a runaway 405 days. In this time vermin, disease, and misery had deprived him of the use of his limbs. He was rendered a cripple for life, and finally discharged, as no one would buy him." More than 1,000 of the citizens of the District of Columbia, on the 24th of March, 1828, in a memoral to Congress, declared, "that it was not alone from the rapacity of slave-traders that the colored race in this District were doomed to suffer; that the laws sanction and direct a procedure unparalleled in glaring injustice by anything among the Governments of Christendom." They state that in the Summer of 1827 "a colored man who stated that he was entitled to freedom, was taken up as a runaway slave and lodged in the jail of Washington City. He was advertised, but no one appearing to claim him, he was according to law put up at public auction for the payment of his jail fees, and sold as a slave for life! He was purchased by a slave-trader, who was not required to give security for his remaining in the District, and he was, soon after, shipped to Alexandria for one of the Southern States. An attempt was made by some benevolent individuals to have the sale postponed until his claim to freedom could be investigated, but their efforts were unavailing, and thus was a human being sold into perpetual bondage at the Capital of the freest Government on earth, without even a pretence of trial, or an allegation of crime." The men of New England, New York and Pennsylvania of that generation were responsible before God for such deeds of inhumanity.
But we of this age, in America, are not guiltless of like enormities. Senators will remember that when Congress assembled in December last, we found nearly sixty human beings immured in our jail, under the authority of our Marshal and his officials, as fugitive slaves, and that of this number one man, admitted by all to be free, had been confined more than six months. Colored men of the Free States, who have come with Northern regiments to the defence of the national capital, have been seized and imprisoned in our jail as runaways by constables, and by that race of man-stealers, the legitimate offspring of this doctrine, that color is presumptive evidence of slavery. Men who have escaped from the camps of armed treason, who had given our military commanders important intelligence of the movements of Rebel forces, appearing in the streets of Washington, are seized and thrust into jail by the creatures who see "slave" written on the forehead of every man through whose vein courses a drop of African blood. In this national capital lurks a race of official and unofficial man-hunters, greedy, active, vigilant, dexterous, ever ready, by falsehood, trickery, or violence, to clutch the hapless black man who carries not with him a title deed of freedom. Only a few days ago, these harpies of the land, more merciless than the wreckers of the seas, pounced upon and hurried to your jail two men your officers in the field had sent to Washington to give important intelligence to your Generals. For these deeds of inhumanity and injustice, the intelligent, patriotic, and Christian freemen of America are responsible before man and before God! And if we, their representatives, who now, for the first time, have the power, do not end these crimes against man forever, the guilt and shame will rest upon our souls, and we shall be consigned to the moral indignation of Christendom.
Justice to a wronged and oppressed race demands that this corrupt and corrupting doctrine that color is presumptive evidence of slavery in the capital of the Republic shall be condemned, disowned, repudiated by the Government of the United States. For two generations it has pressed with merciless force upon a race who mingled their blood with the blood of our fathers on the stricken fields of the War of Independence. In those days of trial, black men, animated by the same mighty impulse, fought side by side with our fathers to win for America a place among the nations. They rallied at the tap of the drum on the morning of the 19th of April, 1775, to meet the shock of the first battle of the Revolution. They poured their unerring shots into the bosom of the veteran troops of England as they moved up the slopes of Bunker Hill. They met, and three times, by their steady valor, repulsed the charges of British veterans on the battle-field of Rhode Island, which Lafayette pronounced "the best fought battle of the Revolution."
They fought and fell by the side of Ledyard at Fort Griswold. They shared in the glorious defence and victory at Red Bank, which will live in our history as long as Delaware shall flow by the spot made immortal by their valor. They endured with our fathers uncomplainingly the toils and privations of the battle-fields and bivouacs of the seven years' campaigns of the Revolution from Lexington to Yorktown, to found in a America a Government which should recognize the rights of human nature. For more than sixty years, unmindful of their rights and ungrateful for their services in our hour of weakness, we have recognized in the capital of the nation, the wicked and insulting dogma which writes "slave" on the brow of all who inherit their blood. Let us of this age hasten to atone for this great wrong, by erasing that word from the brow of this prescribed race here, and making manhood, here at least, forever hereafter presumptive evidence of freedom.
<c05>
By the act of the 27th of February, 1801, Congress continued in force in this capital the statute of Maryland, enacted in 1717, that "no free negro or mulatto shall be admitted and received as good and valid evidence in law, in any matter or thing whatsoever, wherein any Christian white person is concerned." This statute enacted nearly one hundred and fifty years ago, reenacted by Congress on the 27th of February, 1801, is the law in the capital of this nation that professes to recognize the sublime creed of human equality. This law places the property, the liberties, the lives of twelve thousand free persons of color in the District of Columbia, at the mercy of the avaricious, the violent, and the abandoned. It puts in peril the rights of property and of person of every free colored man in America whose feet shall press the soil of the District of Columbia. Here the oath of the black man affords no protection whatever to his property, to the fruits of his toil, to the personal rights of himself, his wife, his children, or his race. Greedy avarice may withhold from him the fruits of his toil, or clutch from him his little acquisitions; the brutal may visit upon him, his wife, his children, insults indignities, blows; the kidnapper may enter his dwelling and steal from his hearthstone his loved ones; the assassin may hover on his track, imperiling the lives of his household—every outrage the depravity of man can visit upon his brother man may be perpetrated upon him, upon his family, upon his race-but his oath upon the Evangelists of Almighty God, though his name may be written in the Book of Life, neither protects him from wrong nor punishes the wrongdoer. This Christian nation in solemn mockery enacts that the free black men of America shall not bear testimony in the judicial tribunals of the District of Columbia. Although the black man is thus mute and dumb before the judicial tribunals of the capital of Christian America, his wrongs, which we will not have righted here, will go up to a higher tribunal, where the oath of the proscribed negro is heard, and his story registered by the pen of the recording angel. What wrongs, what outrages, may not be perpetrated upon a race of men where "color is legal presumption of slavery," where they "may be arrested as absconding slaves," where their oath cannot be received as "good and valid evidence in law," where "every person seizing and taking up runaways shall receive 200 pounds of tobacco, or the value thereof;" where, "if any slave strikes a white person, he may, upon the oath of the person so struck, have one of his ears cropped." What wrongs, what outrages, may not be perpetrated upon <illegible> <illegible> <illegible> to any Justice of the Peace that any free negro or mulatto is going at large without any visible means of subsistence, such Justice is required to issue his warrant to any constable, directing him to apprehend such free negro or mulatto; and if such free negro or mulatto shall fail to give security for his good behavior, or to leave the State within five days, or if, after leaving the State, he shall return again within six months, such Justice may commit said free negro or mulatto to the common jail; and if such offender so committed shall not, within twenty days thereafter, pay his or her prison charges, the Sheriff, with the approbation of any two Justices of the Peace, may sell such free negro or mulatto to serve six calendar months." The wrongs, the outrages, the enormities, which the cupidity, the dark passions of the sordid and the base have visited for the last sixty years upon the unoffending, the helpless, under these laws of Maryland, reaffirmed by the Congress of the United States, will never be known until the secrets of the last day are revealed 
Congress in 1820 gave to the Corporation of Washington "power and authority to restrain and prohibit the nightly and other disorderly meetings of slaves, free negroes and mulattoes, and to punish such slaves by whipping, not exceeding forty stripes, or by imprisonment, not exceeding six months for any one offence; and to punish such free negroes and mulattoes by penalties, not exceeding $20 for any one offence; and in case of the inability of any free negro or mulatto to pay any such penalty and cost thereon, to cause him or her to be confined to labor, for any time not exceeding six calendar months; to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which free negroes and mulattoes may reside in the city; to punish corporally any colored servant or slave for a breach of any of their laws or ordinances;" "and to pass all laws which shall be deemed necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers vested by this act in the said Corporation."
Clothed by the Federal Government with this power of legislation, the Corporation of Washington has passed ordinances relating to persons of color, bond and free, more oppressive, more inhuman, more degrading, than the Colonial Black Code of Maryland, which Congress reaffirmed in 1801.
By an ordinance passed on the 31st of May, 1827, the Corporation of the City of Washington enacted, "if any free colored person is found going at large after 10 o'clock at night without a pass from some respectable citizen, he shall be fined not exceeding $10, and locked up till morning." This act, often executed upon honest toiling men and women whose callings or duties require them to enter the streets after that hour, is profligate, burdensome, oppressive. Officials, who too often look upon the black race as the prey of avarice and passion, under color of this enactment, seize their victims going to or returning from their lawful callings. Since I have held a seat in the Senate, I have known colored men, trusted and employed by the Government, while quietly hastening to their homes after 10 o'clock, from their duties in the public service, to be arrested under color of this ordinance. An ordinance so oppressive, so barbarous, should be annulled by the Congress of the United States.
On the 29th of October, 1836, the Corporation of the City of Washington enacted that
"Every free colored person must exhibit to the Mayor satisfactory evidence of his or her title to freedom, and enter into bond with five good and sufficient sureties, in the penalty of $1,000, for the good and orderly conduct of his or her entire family, the bond to be renewed every year; and on failure so to do, may be fined $20, and sent to the workhouse."
A statute like this, which requires every free colored person to furnish the Mayor of the City of Washington evidences of his or her title to freedom, and to give bonds annually for his or her orderly conduct, and failing so to do to be sent to the Work-House, places ten thousand free persons of color at the mercy of the Corporation officials of this city, who may exercise, under color of this law, the most oppressive acts of petty tyranny.
On the 29th of October, 1836, the Corporation of the City of Washington, under the authority conferred upon it by the Government of the United States, enacted that
"All secret or private meetings or assemblages whatsoever, and all meetings for religious worship beyond the hour of ten at night, of free negroes, mulattoes, or slaves, are declared to be unlawful; and any colored person or persons found at such assemblages or meetings, or who may continue at any religious meeting after ten o'clock at night, shall for each offence pay the sum of $5; and in the event of any such meet-
<c06>
ing or assemblage, it shall be the duty of any police constable to enter the house where such assemblage is held, and employ all lawful means immediately to disperse the same; and in case any police constable, after full notice and knowledge of such meeting, shall neglect or refuse to execute the duty hereby required, he shall forfeit and pay the sum of fifty dollars, and be incapable of holding any office of trust under the Corporation for one year thereafter."
The Christian men of New England, of the Central States and of the West, must not forget that they are not free from responsibility for the existence in their national capital of a statute which imposes a fine of five dollars upon Christian men and women, who may be found in a religious meeting after the hour of 10 o'clock at night. In the Capital of this Christian Republic it is made the duty of police constables, under penalties of fine and disfranchisement, to enter a religious meeting after the hour of 10 at night, and disperse Christian men and women listening to the story of salvation or offering up to Him who made the humblest of the race in his own image the praises and gratitude of contrite hearts.
On the 28th of July, 1841, the corporation of the City of Washington passed an ordinance "empowering the Mayor to grant any person a license to trade and traffic in slaves for the sum of $400." This ordinance legalized in the national capital the revolting slave-trade, which had dishonored the District of Columbia from the day it had been selected as the seat of the Federal Government. The Grand Jury of Alexandria as early as 1802 bad presented these "dealers in the persons of our fellow-men who ex­posed their victims loaded with chains in the public streets.". In 1816, Judge Morell of the Circuit Court of the United State, in his charge to the Grand Jury, declared that "the frequency with which the streets of the city had been crowded with manacled captives, sometimes on the Sabbath, could not fail to shock the feelings of all humane persons." John Randolph, in the same year, denounced this traffic in slaves "as inhuman and illegal." The Alexandria Gazette, in 1827, denounced this "traffic which filled the streets not unfrequently with men, women, and children handcuffed and chained together." In 1828, more than one thousand of the citizens of the Dis­trict of Columbia implored Congress "to suppress a traffic disgraceful and demoralizing in its effects," and in 1829 the Grand Jury of Washington made a communication to Congress, in which they declared that "the whole community would be gratified by the interference of Congress for the suppression of these <illegible> <illegible> <illegible> <illegible> <illegible> traffic from the District." In 1830, the Washington Spectator indignantly denounced these "processions so often seen in the streets of Washington, of human beings handcuffed in pairs, or chained in couples," wending their way to the slave ships which were to bear them to the distant South. Yet this traffic, denounced by Judges and Grand Juries, citizens and presses, was legalized in 1831 by the Corporation of the City of Washington; and Williams, Birch, Neal, Kephart, Richards, Franklin, and Armfield, polluted the capital of the nation with this brutalizing traffic, under the sanction of law, until it was made illegal by the legislation of 1850.
The Corporation of the City of Washington, from 1829 to 1841, enacted cruel and brutal laws for the punishment of slaves within the limits of the city. I quote from these brutal and bloody laws these enactments:—
"If a slave breaks a street lamp, he shall be punished by whipping on the bare back."
"If any slave ties a horse to any of the trees on any of the public grounds in the City of Washington, he shall he punished by whipping on the bare back."
"If any slave willfully injures any dwelling-house or any of the appendages thereof, he or she shall be punished by whipping on his or her bare back, not exceeding thirty-nine stripes."
"Any slave offending against any of the laws regulating the public market shall be punished with not less than five nor more than twenty lashes on his or her bare back."
"If any slave sets on fire in any open ground or lot any straw or shavings, between the setting and the rising of the sun, whereby a false alarm of fire may be created, he shall be whipped not exceeding thirty-nine lashes."
"If any slave sets off any fire-crackers within one hundred yards of any dwelling-house, he shall be punished by whipping not exceeding thirty-nine stripes."
Do Senators believe that there can be found in the laws and ordinances of any Christian nation on the globe, acts so brutal, degrading, inhuman? It is time these bloody statutes for lashing men and women should be obliterated from the laws and ordinances of the capital city of the Republic.
The acts of Congress of March 3, 1805. and March 3, 1809, confirmed to the corporation of Georgetown all the rights, powers, and privileges theretofore granted to the corporation by the General Assembly of Maryland, among which was the power to "pass, make, and ordain all laws necessary to take up, fine, imprison, or punish any and all vagrants, loose and disorderly persons, free negroes, and persons having no visible means of support." Under this authority of Congress the Corporation of Georgetown enacted that every free black or mulatto person who should come to Georgetown to reside should exhibit to the Mayor satisfactory evidence of freedom, and enter into bonds for good conduct. On the 22d of August, 1845, the corporation of Georgetown passed an ordinance prohibiting under the penalty of thirty-nine lashes for slaves, and thirty days imprisonment for free colored persons, all assemblages by day or night of black or colored persons, except religious meetings conducted by white men and terminated before half-past nine o'clock at night. From 1827 to 1845, while slavery was in the zenith of its power, the Corporation of the city of Georgetown passed many ordinances hardly less brutal, degrading and indecent than the statutes of the metropolis of the Republic.
These colonial statutes of Maryland, reaffirmed by Congress in 1801—these ordinances of Washington and Georgetown, sanctioned in advance by the authority of the Federal Government—stand this day unrepealed. Such laws and ordinances should not be permitted longer to insult the reason, pervert the moral sense, or offend the taste of the people of America. Any people mindful of the decencies of life, would not longer permit such enactments to linger before the eye of civilized man. Slavery is the prolific mother of these monstrous enactments. Bid slavery disappear from the District of Columbia, and it will take along with it this whale brood of brutal, vulgar and indecent statutes. In spite of these oppressive and cruel enactments, which have pressed with merciless force upon the black race, bond and free, slavery, for more than half a century has grown weaker, and the free colored stronger, at every decade. Within the last half century, the free colored population of the District of Columbia has increased from 4,000 to 12,000. In spite of the degrading influences of oppressive statutes, and a perverted public sentiment, this free colored population as it has increased in numbers, has increased also in property, in churches, school, and all the means of social, intellectual, and moral development. This despised race upon which we are wont to look down with emotions of pity, if not of contempt or of hate, are industrious and law-abiding—loyal to th

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Government and its institutions. To-day the free colored men of the District of Columbia possess hundreds of thousands of dollars of property, the fruits of years of honest toil-they have twelve churches, costing some $75,000, and eight schools for the instructions of their children. They are even compelled to pay for the support of public schools for the instruction of the white children, from which their own children are excluded by law, custom and pubic opinion. Some of these free colored men are distinguished for intelligence, business capacity, and the virtues that grace and adorn men of every race. Some of these men have in possession considerable property, real and personal. If Senators will go to the office of this city where deeds are recorded, they will find there a mortgage deed, dated the 30th of January, 1858, in favor of Alfred Lee, a colored man of this District, to secure a debt of $12,000, signed by two Senators of the United States and their wives. One of those Senators, signing a mortgage deed to secure to a colored man of this District a loan of $12,000, is a member of the Senate to-day; the other sleeps on the shores of Lake Michigan, in the city of his adoption, and the State that honored him.
This bill proposes to strike the chains from the limbs of 3,000 bondmen in the District of Columbia, to erase the word "slave" from their foreheads, to convert them personal chattels into free men, to lift them from the degradation of personal servitude to the dignity and responsibilities of manhood, to place them in the ranks of free colored men, to perform with them the duties and bear with them the responsibilities of life. This bill, if it shall become law, will simply take 3,000 men from humiliating and degrading servitude, and add them to the 12,000 free colored men of this District, to be absorbed in that mass of industrious and law-abiding men. The passage of this bill by the Congress of the United States will not, cannot, disturb for a moment the peace, the order, the security of society. Its passage will excite in the bosoms of the enfranchised, not wrath, nor hatred, nor revenge, but love, joy and gratitude. These enfranchised bondmen will be welcomed by the free colored population with bounding hearts, throbbing with gratitude to God for inspiring the nation with the justice and the courage to strike the chains from the limbs of their neighbors, friends, relatives, brothers, and lifting from their own shoulders the burdens imposed upon them by the necessities, the passions, and the pride of slave-holding society.
This bill to give liberty to the bondman deals justly, aye, generously, by the master. The American people, whose moral sense has been outraged by slavery, in the District of Columbia, whose fame has been soiled and dimmed by the deeds of cruelty perpetrated in their national capital, would stand justified in the forum of nations if they should smite the fetter from the bondman, regardless of the desires or interests of the master. With generous magnanimity, this bill tenders compensation to the master, out of the earnings of the toiling freemen of America. In the present condition of the country, the proposed compensation is full, ample, equitable.
But the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. Davis) raises his warning voice against the passage of this measure of justice and beneficence. He assumes to speak like one having authority. He is positive, dogmatic, emphatic, and prophetic. He repeatedly assures the Senate that he gave utterance to what he knew; that his warnings and predictions were infallible prophecies. The Senator predicted in excited, if not angry tones, that the passage of this bill, giving freedom to three thousand bondmen, will bring into this District beggary and crime; that the "liberated negroes will become a sore, a burden, and a charge;" that they "will be criminals;" that "they will become paupers;" that "they will be engaged in crimes and petty misdemeanors;" that "they will become a charge, a pest, and a blight upon this society." The Senator emphatically declared. "I know what I talk about!" "I speak from what I know!" Assured, confident, defiant, bitter, the Senator assert that "a negro's idea of freedom is freedom from work," that after they acquire their freedom they become "lazy." "indolent," "thriftless," "worthless," "inefficient," "vicious," "vagabonds." the Senator from Kentucky, who speaks with so much assurance, may have the right to speak in those terms of emancipated slaves in Kentucky, but he has no authority so to speak of the 12,000 free colored men of the District of Columbia. One-sixth part of the population of this District are free persons of color. Under the weight of oppressive <illegible> they have, by their industry, their obedience to law, their kindly charities to each other, established a character above such reproaches as the Senator from Kentucky applies to emancipated bondmen. As a class, the free colored people of this District are not worthless, vicious, thriftless, indolent, vagabonds, criminals, paupers, nor are they a charge upon this society. The Senator from Kentucky, Sir, has no right to apply to them these disparaging epithets. Do they not support themselves by their industry and thrift? Do they not support their own churches? Do they not support their own schools? Do they not also support schools for the education of white children from which their own are excluded? Do they not care for their sick and their dying? Do they not bury their dead free of public charge? What right, then, has the Senator from Kentucky to come into this chamber and attempt to deter us from executing this act of emancipation, by casting undeserved reproaches upon the free colored population of the District? Their condition this day demonstrates the utter absurdity of the doctrines and prophecies so oracularly announced by the Senator from Kentucky.
But the Senator from Kentucky, upon this simple proposition of emancipate in the National capital three thousand bondmen with compensation to loyal maters, chooses to indulge in vague talk about "aggressive and destructive schemes," "unconstitutional policy," the "horrors of the French Revolution," the "heroic struggle of the peasants of La Vendee," and the "deadly resistance" which the "whole white population of the slaveholding States, men, women and children, would make to unconstitutional encroachments," Why, Sir, does the Senator indulge in such allusions? Have not the American people the constitutional right to relieve themselves from the guilt and shame of upholding slavery in their National capital? Would not the exercise of that right be sanctioned by justice, humanity and religion? Does the Senator suppose that we, the representatives of American freeman, will cowardly shrink from the performance of the duties of the hour, before these dogmatic avowals of what the men in the slaveholding States will do? Sir, I tell the Senator from Kentucky that the day has passed by in the Senator that the people whose representatives we are, now realize in the storms of battle that slavery is and must ever be the relentless and unappeasable enemy of free institution in America, the mortal enemy of the unity and perpetuity of the Republic. slavery perverting the reason, blinding the conscience, extinguishing the patriotism of vast masses of its supporters, plunged the nation into the fire and blood of rebellion. The loyal people of America have seen hundreds of thousands of brave men abandon their peaceful avocations, leave their homes and their loved ones, and follow the flag of their country to the field, to do soldiers' duties, and fill, if need be, soldiers' graves, in defence of their perilled country; they have seen them fall on fields of bloody strife beneath the folds of the national flag; they have seen them suffering, tortured by wounds or disease, in camps and hospitals; they have seen them returning home maimed by shot or shell, or bowed with disease; they have looked with sorrowful hearts upon their passing coffins, and gazed sadly upon their graves among their kindred or in the land of the stranger; and they know-yes, sir, they know-that slavery has caused all this blood, disease, agony, and death. Realizing all this- aye, sir, knowing all this, they are in no temper to listen to the threats or menaces of apologists or defenders of the wicked and guilty criminal that now stands with uplifted hand to strike a death-blow to the national life. While the brave and loyal men of Republic are facing its shots and shells on bloody fields, their representatives will hardly quail before the frowns and menaces of its champions in these chambers.
The Senator from Kentucky proposes by his amendment to remove from the District, from the United States, the persons emancipated under the provisions of this bill. He tells us that, "whenever any power, constitutional, assumes the responsibility of liberating slaves where slaves are numerous, they establish as inexorably as fate, a conflict between the races that will result in the exile or extermination of the one race or the other." "I know it!" exclaims the Senator. How does the Senator know it? In what age and in what country has the emancipation of one race resulted in the
<c02>
extermination of the one race or the other? In what chapter of the history of the world is such exterminating warfare recorded? Nearly a quarter of a century ago, England struck the chains from eight hundred thousand of her West India bondmen. There has been no conflict there between the races. Other European nations have emancipated their colonial bondmen. No wars of races have grown out of those deeds of emancipation. One sixth part of the population of the District of Columbia are free colored persons-emancipated slaves, or the children of emancipated slaves. The existence of this numerous class of liberated slaves has not here established, "as inexorably as fate," a conflict between the races. More than one sixth of the population of Delaware are free colored persons-emancipated slaves, or the descendants of emancipated slaves. The existence in Delaware of this large class of emancipated slaves has not produced a war of races. The people of Delaware have never sought to hunt them like beasts, and exterminate them. One eighth of the population of Maryland are free men of African descent. No exterminating warfare of races rages on the soil of Maryland. No sir; no! Emancipation does not inevitably lead to an exterminating war of races. In our country, the enfranchisement of the bondman has tended to elevate both races, and has been productive of peace, order, and public security. The doctrines so confidently proclaimed by the Senator from Kentucky have no basis whatever to rest upon, either in reason or history. The Senate, I and sure will not close the chapters of history which record the enfranchisement of bondmen, nor will they ignore the results of their own experience and observation, under the influence of the positive, impassioned, and emphatic assertions of the Senator from Kentucky.
This bill, Mr. President, for the release of persons held to service or labor in the District of Columbia, and the compensation of loyal masters from the Treasury of the United States, was prepared after much reflection and some consultation with others. The Committee on the District of Columbia in both Houses, to whom it was referred, have agreed to it, with a few amendments calculated to carry out more completely its original purposes and provisions. I trust that the bill, as it now stands, after the adoption o the amendments proposed by the Senator from Maine (Mr. MORRILL) will speedily pass, without any material modifications. If it hall become the law of the land, it will blot out slavery forever from the National capital, transform three thousand personal chattels into freemen, obliterate oppressive, odious, and hateful laws and ordinances, which press with merciless force upon persons, bond or free, of African descent, and relieve the nation from the responsibilities now pressing upon it. An act of beneficence like this will be hailed and applauded by the nations, sanctified by justice, humanity, and religion, by the approving voice of conscience, and by the blessing of Him who bids us "break every Yoke, undo the heavy burden, and let the oppressed go free."
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN CHICAGO.
For the week past, the columns of the Secession Times have been filled with appeals to mob violence to break up the lectures of Mr. Phillips at Bryan Hall, announced by the young Men's Association. Nothing was spared to bring about such an end. With a shamelessness that in a good cause would be bravery, and a persistence worthy of a better end in view, they have openly urged and secretly plotted to reproduce in Chicago the Cincinnati outrage. And the attempt had failed utterly. The tribute was a noble one thus paid to free speech and a free discussion of the great issue of the day. Any one who was present last evening must have been blind and deaf not to have read the augury. Had Bryan Hall been two or three times as large, it would have been a duplicate or triplicate demonstration, and proof that the hearts of the people are right on this question-that in their view slavery is dead-and they prefer to listen to those who "come to bury, not to praise." We give enough of his speech to show what is the mission of Wendell Phillips, pleading and entreating his fellow-citizens to spare not the monster evil of slavery, and to evidence the spirit in which Chicago has received him. He at least there are no mobs. Never was the matter better tested than last evening, and it now stands emphatically on record that such is the case. Never were appeals to base passions more shameless, and a premium on mob violence more openly offer <illegible> quietly as to a Sabbath service, and the few minions of The Times slunk away rebukes. We have no elaborate comments to make upon Mr. Phillip’s lecture. It was eminently patriotic, as our report will convince all who do not put the salvation of slavery before the preservation of the union. It takes the ground that there can be no peace without the extinction of slavery, whose root the war had laid bare. Honest-minded men are very much of that opinion-Chicago Tribune.
Simply as a specimen of the sublime and solid lying by which the democratic organs hope to carry this election, we quote from the last issue of by no New Haven Register-which coolly says:-
"Wendell Phillips everywhere avows himself a disunionist, and expresses his gratification that [as he says] the Union is broken and the constitution destroyed."
-Probably fifty thousand people have heard and hardly less than five millions have read, Mr. Phillips's explicitly stated that whereas he has repeatedly and explicitly stated that whereas he has been a disunionist, believing the union to be a bulwark of slavery, he is now unequivocally and heartily for cause is now inseparably bound up with that union partial Liberty. He has imposed no conditions, made no qualifications, but a hundred times said, "I comprehend perfectly that many of you Unionists do not waged for Emancipation: I realize that the war is not waged for Emancipation: but I see further. that you will have to emancipate or be beaten, and am with you at all hazards and to the last." Such is the spirit, such the drift, of Mr. Phillips's War lectures, and such are the utterances which Democratic ruffians do their utmost to suppress by yells, paving-stones, and bad eggs. He who does not see that their hearts are with Jeff Davis and his crew, can have nothing like a heart of his own.-New York Tribune.
Referring to the late dastardly pro-slavery mob in Cincinnati, Frederick Douglass's Paper says:-
No doubt that the object of the mob was to humble Wendell Phillips, and at the same time to cheer the rebels with the hope that they still have friends and allies at the North. Neither object is accomplished. The proud slaveholder feels only contempt for such exhibitions of servility on the part of Northern mobs. As to humbling Wendell Phillips, or shutting him out of the popular heart, that cannot be done. He shines all the brighter for every assault made upon him, and will be welcomed by the people of the North and East with a more glorious enthusiasm for this new manifestation of violence towards him. Wendell Phillips looked grand at the capital, with the eyes of the nation upon him; but grand as he looked at that moment, he was incomparably grander when he stood calm and serene in Cincinnati amid the tempest and storm of a howling pro slavery mob thirsting for his noble blood.
We observe that it has basely asserted that Mr. Phillips was mobbed for uttering treasonable and disunion sentiments. The satanic press know better. When the union was perverted and polluted by slavery-When it was an engine for extinguishing for freedom of the black man at the south-Mr. Phillips repudiated the union, and did all he could, by moral means, to induce his fellow-citizens to follow his example; but no man has spoken with more energy and eloquence, in behalf of the union, as warred upon by the slaveholding traitors, than has Mr. Phillips. All this is patent to the press which lyingly chooses to misrepresent him.
Thus ended one of the most disgraceful scenes witnessed in this country for many years, unless we may except the attempt at a mob in Boston last spring. The true report shows how the telegraph perverted Mr. Phillips's remarks, as it always has and does anything hostile to slavery. The people of this nation owe to Mr. Phillips a deep debt of gratitude for his unflinching boldness in maintaining the right of free speech. Future generations will at least, if the present does not, appreciate the greatness of the man, and consign to deserved infamy the scoundrels who by such means have sought to suppress the discussion of the most momentous question of the age.-New Bedford Rep. Standard.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1862.
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Eighth Annual Meeting if AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY Will be held in the Church if the puritans (Dr. Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 6, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. In the evening, another public meeting will be held in the cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of speakers for these meetings will be seasonably announced.
The Society will meet, for business purposes only in the Lecture Room of the church of the puritans at 3 1\2 P. M. on Tuesday, and 10 A. M. on Wednesday.
The object of this Society is still- as at its formation-the immediate and total abolition of slavery wherever existing on the American soil, because of its inherent sinfulness, immorality, oppression and barbarity, and its utter repugnance to all the precepts of the Gospel, and all the principles of genuine Democracy; its measures are still the same-peaceful, moral, rational, legal, constitutional; its instrumentalities are still the same-the pen, the press, the lecturing field, tracts and other publications, etc., etc., disseminating light and knowledge in regard to the tyrannical power claimed, possessed and exercised by slaveholders, the actual condition of their miserable victims, and the guilty complicity of the people of the North, religiously, politically, governmentally, with those who "trade in slaves and the souls o men” its spirit is still the same-long-suffering, patient, hopeful, impartial, benevolent alike to the oppressor and the oppressed, zealously intent on "promoting the general welfare and securing the blessings of liberty" universally, "knowing no East, no West, no North, no South," but embracing the whole country in its charitable and humane concern, and conflicting with nothing just, honest, noble and Christian in sentiment, practice or tendency.
In regard to the struggle now going on between the Government and the Rebel States, this Society is unequivocally with the Government, because it has done no wrong to those states, nor furnished any justification or such a treasonable procedure on their part. Yet the Society sees in the awful conflict the fulfillment of the prophetic declaration-"Ye have not proclaimed liberty every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; therefore, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine";-and it trusts that, in the spirit of sincere repentance and deep humiliation, acknowledging the righteous retribution which has come upon them, The PEOPLE Will imperatively demand of the Government, (now that it has the constitutional right under the war power,) that it forthwith decree the immediate and entire abolition of slavery, so that peace may be restored on an enduring basis, and the unity of the nation preserved through universal justice.
In behalf of the Executive committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
THE NEW YORK (CITY) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will hold its anniversary in the Cooper Institute on WEDNESDAY evening, May 7th.
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
This act of national justice and self respect was among the earliest that the Abolitionists pressed upon the attention of congress; and for a long series of years, through their untiring efforts, multitudes of petitions, very numerously signed, were annually sent to that body from all parts of the Free States,-exciting <illegible> Senate and House, and eliciting a great deal of discussion among the members and throughout the country. But these petitions proved unavailing. So long as the South chose to be represented in congress, she successfully resisted every effort made to cleanse the District, over which it held entire jurisdiction from the loathsome pollutions of slavery. It has required her perjured withdrawal from that body, and a fierce and bloody civil war which she has traitorously instigated for the overthrow of the Federal Government, to render it morally possible for congress favorably to entertain a proposition for the abolition of slavery within the limits of the District. It will be seen by the following extract from a letter from the Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal, that special credit is due to Hon. Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts, for the passage, last week, by a strong vote in the Senate, of a bill for the immediate liberation of every slave in the District:-
"The vote of the Senate, ransoming the slaves in this District, is a memorable event. Slavery, hitherto a national institution, because sanctioned at the seat of government, will now become sectional, and Columbia, 
'Unloosening her bonds,
By her strong will shall be at last the home 
Of broadly-based and virtuous liberty.'
Massachusetts has good reason to feel proud of the triumphant result of the labors of her senators in bringing about this important movement. General Wilson first introduced the bill, almost exactly as it has been passed, on the 10th of December, and through his persistent and earnest efforts the Committee on the District were induced to report it on the 13th of February which has only been impeded by the fruitless endeavors of others to amend it in accordance with their individual desires. But the senate finally passed the General's original bill, which practically strikes the fetters from the slave, without violating the rights of the legal owner, thus carrying out the great principle of constitutional government, by which liberty is founded on law, and progress is conservative. While we rejoice that the metropolis of our free public will be no longer be profaned by the wrongs of slavery, or be desecrated by the barbarisms of slave-owners, let us not forget to remember, as the chief working antagonist of this social curse, HENRY WILSON, a Massachusetts Senator."
We print in our present number, with very great pleasure and without abridgement, Mr. Wilson's straight-forward, matter-of-fact, able and luminous speech in favor of the bill to abolish slavery in the District, as delivered in the Senate on the 27th ultimo. We ask for it a thorough perusal: its humiliating and afflicting facts, respecting the slave code to which congress has given its sanction from the beginning till now, will cause a blush on every virtuous cheek, and excite a generous indignation that such a code could have been tolerated for an hour.
The bill was also earnestly sustained by Mr. Sumner in a speech characterized by rhetorical excellence and eloquent expression, for which we shall endeavor to make room in another number.
Senator Fessenden, of Maine, gave to the bill a decided support, in a speech of marked ability.
We shall record as much of the discussion upon it, in both houses, as our limits will permit-the measure being one of historic importance, and having a most pregnant relation to the future legislation of the country.
Of course, the "loyal" slaveholding Senators, such as Saulsbury of Delaware, and Davis of Kentucky, were rampant in their opposition to the passage of the bill, and tried the old game of bluster and menace but to no purpose. The retort of senator Wilson, at the close of his speech, upon the latter, indicates that the overseer's lash has ceased to have any terror, and is a most scathing rebuke, full of manly spirit, and couched in vigorous terms.
Senator Wright, of Indiana, did what he could to defeat the measure in a speech becoming a doughface, and one whose contempt for the negro race shows him to be vulgarly self-inflated and destitute of all Christian sympathy. It is to be hoped that such a change will yet be effected in the sentiments of the people of Indiana as to make his re-election out the question.
<c04>
THE AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY.
This Society has lately received from the British and Foreign Bible Society the offer of two thousand pounds sterling, as a mark of Christian sympathy, and a help (supposed to be needed ) in our present national troubles.
To this the Managers of the American Society reply, with thanks, first, that their treasury is well provided, and that they need to money at present; and next, that "they do not deem it proper, in their present circumstances, to receive directly this proffered aid."
This form of expression seems to imply some difficulty, other than an overflowing treasury, in the way of their reception o the above liberal offer. And this presumption is strengthened by an italicised note, appended to so much of the correspondence in question as the Managers allow to appear in the religious papers on this side the water. The note is as follows:-
"A further explanatory letter was also sent by the secretary of the American Bible Society to Mr. Bergne." 
This letter no doubt contains, besides the explanations that are withheld from American readers, some suggestion of a manner in which the American Society may indirectly avail itself of the two thousand pounds. If it is published in England, I hope we shall receive it from some friend there.
The Managers of the American Bible Society certainly belong to the class who are hoping for a reconstruction of our political system without interference with slavery. Nine of their Vice Presidents, and one hundreds and fifty-eight of their Life Directors are from slave states. Are the Managers fearful of hurting the feelings and alienating the minds of these worthy gentlemen, by taking money from the nation which declines to recognize the southern confederacy? Do they estimate the continued good-will of the slaveholders as worth more to them in the future than ten thousand dollars at present? The secret letter may perhaps throw light upon these matters.
Abolitionists know very well the consistently proslavery attitude which the Managers of American Bible Society have always preserved, ever since they refused, in 1834, and again refused, in 1835, to accept the offer of 85000 from the American Anti-Slavery Society, on condition of their distributing Bibles to slaves as well as to others.
We know very well, also, that the sort of piety which prevails at the South does not prevent its professors from holding, buying, selling and flogging slaves, nor from "breeding" them (black, yellow and white) for the market. But are the Southern officers and patrons of the Bible Society as cruel and oppressive as the other slaveholders? A recent letter from a missionary at port Royal contains valuable information upon this point.
The correspondent of the Standard at that station Rev. N. R. Johnston, a most intelligent and trust worthy witness, writing from Beaufort, S.C., March 15, 1862, gives some incidents illustrating the character of the religion taught in the Episcopal church in that place. The following are among them:-
"Yesterday, I had a long interview with an old man, a deacon in the Episcopal church, (colored,) who, when I real several portions of scripture directly anti-slavery, seemed perfectly astonished.-Said he: ‘And dat is de law of de Lord? Demparts we neber hear read to us.' This deacon's children were all taken from him by his master when the army came here.
"To-morrow I am to preach in the Episcopal church, where used to worship the largest white congregation of the wealthiest slaveholders on the island-the Rhetts, the Barnwells, the Habershams. To give you an idea of the character of the religion of which this house used to be the headquarters, let me mention an illustration. Samson was the property of an Episcopal clergyman, living most of the time in Charleston. He was sexton of the church here. His Wife and children were the slaves of the pastor of this church, and lived with Samson at the time the army came here. On the night of the flight from Beaufort, Walker, the parson, came into Samson's house at the hour of midnight, and tore the wife and children out of bed, and dragged them away with him. This I have from the lips of poor, heart-broken <illegible> Many similar cases have come to my knowledge."
On turning to the last Annual Report of the American Bible Society, I find that the parson Walker here referred to is a Life Member of the Society, and President of the Auxiliary Bible Society established in Beaufort District.
Here we have a specimen of the beauties of oral Biblical instruction, administered by slaveholders An aged colored man, the slave of one Episcopal clergyman, and attended on the church of another, had never heard one of the may anti-slavery portions, of the old and New Testaments read, either in church or at home! And as to the pretence that the piety in vogue in south Carolina makes its professors and its ministers so just and so Christian that they may safely be trusted with the ownership of men and women-look at the Rev. J.R. Walker, D. D., Rector of the Episcopal Church and President of the Bible Society, who when obliged to flee, for fear of meeting a traitor's punishment, drags another man’s wife and children out of bed in the middle of the night, and carries them off with him!-C.K.W.
THE MISSION SCHOOL AT CHATHAM C. W.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
SIR,-Whatever may have been said in public or otherwise, in opposition to this school, has as yet failed to prove that it is not doing a great work for the colored people in this vicinity. Heretofore, the atmosphere has been freighted with sordid opinions about this school, which were conceived in the evil passion of persons who have never visited it, nor even given themselves the trouble of knowing its true status. We are too prone in becoming the converts of a prevailing sentiment, without setting ourselves aright upon its veracity.
AS regards the resolutions which were circulated in opposition to this school, through the Chatham Argus of Dec.19th, 1861, the Toronto Globe, and Pine and Palm, bearing my name, I would say that I remonstrated against their publication, because I perceived that it was a sectarian strife that occasioned the meeting in which they were nominally passed; and, furthermore, being a neutral on the church dissension, I die not want to be entangled in church quarrels, and thereby incur the holy indignation of one party, when I had no disposition to do so.
On the 18th inst., this school held examination; and, truly, it was a complete success, and an honor to its teacher, Mrs. I.D. Shadd. Sixty-five scholars were in attendance this term. The braches taught were Algebra, Arithmetic, History, Philosophy, Grammar, Geography, Botany, Penmanship, &c. &C. There were present some of the best educated colored men of Chatham, who took part in examining the several classes. The scholars were neatly clad, and an expression of intelligence beamed on each countenance; the recitations, too, were to the satisfaction of those present, interspersed with music from the melodeon by some of the pupils who are learning this branch.
The following pupils received prizes:-Miss Mary Hosey 1st, Wm. Russell 2d, and Wm, Douglass 3d prize in History: C. Hosey and Lloyd Wheeler prized in Geography; George Burton, 1st prize in Grammar; Mary Levere, 1st prize in Arithmetic; ElihuSmith, 1st prize in Catechism of History, John Jones, 2d; Henry smith, prize in penmanship; Henry Jones, 1st prize in Mother's Catechism; Miss Martha Scott, Prize for exemplary conduct.
Mrs. I. D. Shadd is a Woman of great forbearance and integrity, and under her and Mrs. M. A. S. Cary’s <illegible> management, the school will rise above the surges of opposition.
Yours, for truth, JOHN W. MENARD.
Chatham, March 26th,1862.
We acknowledge our indebtedness to Hon Charles Sumner, Hon. Henry Wilson, Hon. William Pitt Fessenden, and other members of the Senate, for various congressional speeches and documents.
<c05>
"PALMAM QUI MERUIT, FERAT."
A paragraph has gone the rounds, signifying that Generals McClellan, Halleck, and Don Carlos Buell conversed by telegraph many hours during the progress of the great battle at Fort Donelson, and "made all the orders and dispositions of forces to perfect the victory and pursue the broken columns," &c. I should rejoice at the news that Gen. McClellan had done any fighting, were it with telegraph batteries only. But I cannot indulge, as so many seem to, this consoling illusion. I must first be informed by some of the swift and indefatigable trumpeters of the illustrious cunctator—some of that corps of Mamelukes, who assume to regulate, without or against law, our most vital concerns—how the wires, worked by the trio of Generals, were connected with the head-quarters of Gen. Grant or the battle-fields of Donelson? No telegraph, except those belonging to the enemy, reached within eighty or one hundred miles of the scene of action. This was rather a serious obstacle to Gen. Grant's profiting by the skill and promptitude of the commander on the Potomac, however great those may be, or of the other Dons, who are paraded in this vain attempt to depreciate real and confer fictitious merit.
"Percy is but my factor, good my lord,
T' engross up glorious deeds in my behalf."
In conclusion, Mr. Editor, I do not wonder that all pro-slavery and nearly all West Point are eager to appropriate to their so much magnified leader (omne ignotiem pro magnifico) the honors of others, since he has achieved none in his own person.
JUSTICE.
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN WISCONSIN.
Madison, Wis., April 1, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON:
It has occurred to me that it might be interesting to you and your readers to know what kind of a reception we gave to your friend and coadjutor, Wendell Phillips, here in the capital of Wisconsin. Thinking that I am probably as near a "Garrisonian," by faith and practice, as any in the place, and probably the only one in the regular receipt of the Liberator, I have taken up the pen to write you about it. It was Mr. Philips's first appearance here, I think, and curiosity was more than usually on tiptoe to see and hear the renowned orator who has been doing so much for a number of years past to "turn the world upside down." The existing war and the present condition of the country helped to give interest to the occasion.
We gave him a good hearing. The people of Madison are not slow to turn out to hear any one who comes with the prestige that Mr. Phillips possesses, and of course very many came to hear him who can very little sympathize either with the spirit of the man or his opinions. I think I have never seen so large an audience together here before, as I certainly have never seen a more attentive one. I was not unacquainted with Mr. Phillips as a speaker, nor with his manner of treating his particular subject; but I had never heard him deliver a set, elaborate lecture before, and therefore never heard him when he was so little impassioned, so cool and methodical. It was by no means wanting in the fire of eloquence; but it was the eloquence of thought, and reached the heart by first convincing the judgment. I watched the faces of my neighbors, and saw that every eye was fixed upon him, and every face, almost, was kindled into a glow of intelligence and enthusiasm. Many of his hearers, who came expecting to hear a man rave and rant and "tear a passion to tatters," must have been greatly disappointed. I felt that it was an event for our city of Madison, and one that will long be remembered by our citizens. The personal presence of the man-his deep sincerity, manliness of bearing, and the peculiar fineness that is expressed in his face-all these must tell upon an audience with wonderful effect, and do quite as much for the great cause of human enfranchisement as any thing he said. I think many must have left the meeting with a higher and nobler ideal of life, and n profounder faith in humanity; and the young man must have been stolid indeed who did not feel some faint aspirations rising up within him to be like the model before him. There were passages in the speech that could only be appreciated by being heard. When he spoke of the deep hatred of the South to-wards the North-a hatred that has been strengthening for so many years of bitter controversy—and of the impossibility of its being suddenly eradicated, and spoke of emancipation as the only thing that can by any possibility make us a homogeneous people, he showed how by that act of simple justice all parties, even the slaveholders themselves, would in a little time be reconciled and made friends,-the negroes first, as owing their freedom to the North, and the poor whites next, when they are made to see that the enfranchisement of the negro brings enfranchisement to them also, and at last of the eighty or hundred thousand slaveholders, who are too much perverted to be reached by any human influence, but must be left to God, and those methods of His that are not known to mortals,-there was a pathos in his manner, and a perspective in the picture that he presented, that apparently made a profound impression, and the full house was as silent as death. The feeling that he awakened must have been as much one of pity as of indignation.
Z. H. HOWE. 
THE PHILLIPS RIOT AT CINCINNATI. Mr. Phillips writes from Milwaukee to a friend in Boston as follows:—
"The mob at Cincinnati did me no harm, only covered my dress with eggs. Its stone and vitriol department did not reach me. We waited half-an-hour on the stage of the Opera House in which I spoke, and the outsiders got tired of remaining; so we walked home in peace. It was a sly trick. Had the Committee believed the rumors they heard, it would not have mattered that the mayor, mayor-like, sent all the police out of the way. They use their own fists out here; and Judge Stallo, who introduced me and was equally hissed,-the head of the Germans,-said if he had had an hour's notice, he could have had one hundred Turners ready, and pitched the whole mob out of the hall. Read, the editor of the Gazette, said it was no sentiment of mine they mobbed, but me, and that I should have been treated the same way had I uttered that evening a Democratic speech.
You have no idea how the disturbance has stirred the West. I draw immense houses, and could stay here two months, talking every night, in large towns, to crowds."
This has always been the result. Every mobocratic attempt to put down the Anti-Slavery cause has sent it at least an arrow's flight higher than ever, and reacted powerfully in favor of its proscribed advocates.
For a series of bitter and malignant attacks upon Mr. Phillips, from well-known pro-slavery journals, see "Refuge of Oppression" on the first page. The article from the Boston Pilot is particularly venomous, and equally absurd. The inquiry which it raises, "In what honorable direction has he employed his faculties for the last nineteen years?" shows how besotted and grovelling is the writer of it.
Mr. Phillips has engagements at the West till the 12th inst., and among others another for Cincinnati, with the assurance on the part of his friends that he shall have the fullest freedom of speech. He of course will be heard.
THE PORT ROYAL NEGROES. The valuable and interesting Report of EDWARD L. PIERCE, Government Agent at Port Royal, S. c., made to Hon. S. P. Chase, Secretary of the Treasury, has been published in a neat pamphlet, and may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street, Boston.
THE RIGHT WAY, THE SAFE WAY. By Mrs. L. MARIA CHILD. Perhaps no other work is in all respects so wall adapted to convince and satisfy the honest inquirer, dispel the fears of the apprehensive, and root out prejudice and error in all minds, on the Duty and Safety of Emancipation, as tested and proved in multitudes of cases, over and over again, as this of Mrs. Child; of which a new edition has just been published, and may be had as above.
<c06>
METAYERS.
Conscientious men, in pursuit of moral reform, may reasonably differ in their methods of reaching the same result. A great problem in civilization is now to be solved; a great event in history is in progress in this country; and the question is how to solve the problem correctly, and establish the event with the highest regard to the instincts and best interests of humanity. Slavery is to be abolished, but how, is not determined. It is being abolished, and the question we have to consider is, whether our intellectual leading is good. Are we shaping the event in the best practical manner for the elevation of the slave, and the greatest good of society in the shortest time? "Haste makes waste," is a venerable proverb, and the way to reach the top of the mountain in the shortest time, or indeed to reach it at all, is by winding up the side in gradual approaches.
Now, your contributor, C. K. W., is for a sudden dash straight up from the bottom to the top, if I comprehend his strictures in your issue of 21st ult., upon my plan of advancing the slave to the Metayer. He does not seem to consider that the mountain itself is not raised in that way; it does not rise perpendicularly from the edge of the ocean, but slopes upward to its grand elevation, and its solitary communion with the stars, by steppes-hills succeeding plains and valleys, to the summit. Public opinion must precede law or law is of no avail, and custom makes a stronger bond than a written instrument. It appears to me to be the extraordinary merit of the Metayer system, that it is not the creature of law, and that it is free from the quibbling and cunning and special pleading of litigation, the meaning of which men of enltivated intellect cannot readily understand, and the result of which they can easily anticipate. Sheriff Baldwin who is well remembered by the citizens of Boston of middle age or over, is said to have remarked, that if any man should make a demand upon him for $500, he would endeavor to ascertain the justice of the claim, and if it were unjust, he would, if possible, convince the claimant of the fact; but it he could not, or could not otherwise avoid a lawsuit, he would take out his pocket-book and pay the money as the shortest and cheapest way of getting rid of the extortion and its legal consequences. If I entertain any well-grounded opinion, the result of experience, reading and reflection, it is that law should never sanction debt, and that the demand for high morals will always be indifferently supplied so long as the public depend for the sulfilment of promises upon legal obligations. Rogues should be treated with rogues' law and suffer disgrace accordingly. Swindling should not be accommodated, as a matter of dollars and cents, to be made right by the decision of a legal tribunal, and inevitable insolvency is common in this country without fault of the debtor.
The Metayer tenure, as it is represented by the best authorities, is maintained solely by moral obligations of the strongest character. It would seem to furnish no employment for lawyers, and to be admirably calculated for the freedmen of the plantations, who for a long period will generally neither read nor write, nor be able to comprehend the various stipulations of differing and unequal special contracts.
I quoted Sismondi, in relation to the Metayer system, as follows:-
"The differences in one such contract and another are inconsiderable; usage governs alike all the engagements, and supplies the stipulations that have not been expressed; and the landlord who attempted to depart from usage, who exacted more than his neighbor, who took for the basis of his agreement anything but the equal division of the crops, would render himself so odious, he would be so sure of not obtaining a metayer who was an honest man, that the contract of all the metayers may be considered as identical."
And Chateauvieux says:-
"They consider the farm as a patrimony, and never think of renewing the lease, but go on from generation to generation on the same terms, without writings or registries."
The moral law binding these contracts seems to be the enactment, so to speak, of the metayers themselves, and to be maintained by them quite as much and as carefully as by the landlords. I do not see the force of C. K. W's objection to the metayer tenure, that it lacks the security of a special contract to protect the laborer against the proprietor, because it has the much stronger security, as it appears to me, of public sanction and unwavering custom. He objects, also, that it differs from freedom. I do not see this; and when I spoke of turning the slaves adrift in freedom, without any organization of capital, or of labor to provide them with wages, I did not imply that the organization of the metayer system is anything less than freedom. That the metayer is not altogether as independent as the peasant proprietor is simply because he is not a proprietor-because he lacks the necessary capital. There is nothing in my view of the Metayer system to prevent the acquisition of capital, and the advancement of the metayer to the proprietor in due time. Our friend clearly draws upon his imagination in supposing that I "represent the negro as one absolutely needing a master because incapable of taking care of himself." I have no doubt of his capacity to do this, and to acquire capital with the experience and opportunity of the metayer culture, much sooner and better than by the system of day labor to which he would otherwise be consigned.
I quote from John Stuart Mill:-
"The metayer has less motive to exertion than the peasant proprietor, since only halt the fruits of his industry, instead of the whole, are his own. But he has a much stronger motive than a day laborer, who has no other interest in the result than not to be dismissed. If the metayer cannot be turned out except for some violation of his contract, he has a stronger motive to exertion than any tenant-farmer who has not a lease. The metayer is at least his land-lord's partner, and a half sharer in their joint gains. Where, too, the permanence of his tenure is guaranteed by custom, he acquires local attachments, and much of the feelings of a proprietor. But if we suppose him converted into a mere tenant, displaceable at the landlord's will, and liable to have his rent raised by competition to any amount which any unfortunate being in search of subsistence can be found to offer or promise for it, he would lose all the features in his condition which preserve him from being deteriorated; he would be east down from his present position of a kind of half proprietor of the hand, and would sink into a cottier tenant."
I submit, therefore, that if slaves in this country, or serfs in Russia, are to be suddenly turned adrift in freedom, the Metayer organization of capital and labor would place them in a position greatly in advance of any they could find as a class seeking employment at day labor, liable to be left in idleness when work is not particularly needed, and subject to the caprice of employers at all times. As to renting land without capital, that would be impossible as a system; or with such small holdings as could be cultivated in that way, their condition would be no better than that of the Irish cottiers, which is about the most miserable existence known to civilization, excepting, perhaps, that of the prowlers in the sewers of London and Paris. On the score of absolute physical suffering it is, Probably, on the average, worse, and a lower state of existence, than that of slaves.
I think I comprehend very well the zeal of your contributor for the welfare of the colored race in this country, but I fear his views are tinctured a little with impracticability; a little of poetry, it seems to me, enters into his conception of their condition in freedom under law, which freedom I am as desirous to secure to them forthwith as he can be, or even yourself, Mr. Garrison, the acknowledged prophet of this movement in the United States. I suspect his fancy looks upon the high cultivation of the white race in the Northern States, and their possession of wealth, honor and intellectual enjoyments, which are the result of the struggling and suffering and gradual enlightenment of nearly three hundred years, and many ages of intellectual industry, as attainable by the blacks of the South rather suddenly in a condition of freedom. No doubt he and I have the same end in view, but some-what different methods of reaching it; and, after weighing his arguments carefully, I am still of opinion that it would be reached sooner and better through the Metayer culture than by turning the slaves adrift in
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
freedom with no organization of capital or labor for their aid and advancement to the possession of property and intelligence.
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
NEMAHA CO. JAIL,
SENECA, Kansas, March 25, 1862.
DEAR GARRISIONS: I wish to say a few words to the <illegible> of the Liberator. I am sure that you will grant me the privilege. You will notice that my letter dated in the jail in which I am confined as a prisoner. It is to let you know how I came here that I write this letter.
The readers of the Liberator know very well that I came to Centralia, in Kansas to take charge of a school and build up liberal church. You know from all my antecedents, that the sectarian bigots and the <illegible>opposed and malign me with the <illegible>. But, to the case in hand. The founders of Centralia set apart sixty village lots of <illegible> an acre each, and sixty mechanic shares of ten acres each in the centre of the town, for a college fund valued at 87,000. They erected a good two-storey building for the school. Until otherwise organized, the charter gave to the Home Town Committee, elected yearly in September, the control of the college fund. Last August the Committee proceeded, in a strictly legal manner, to organize a permanent Board of Directors, to which were committed the oversight and control of Centralia college. That Board, then and now representing the wishes of, at least, nine-tenth of the contributors to the fund, and of those having an interest in the college, agreed with me to take the school, and teach a session of four months. In the mean time, Dr, Hidden, an able but most <illegible> man, had taken mortal offence because I had thwarted him in some of his wicked and oppressive schemes. He put himself at the head of the bigots, <illegible> and drift wood, and organized a thorough and uncompromising opposition. His party carried the Town committee at the last September election. They at once set up a claim to the control of the college, and said that Mr. Foster should not be allowed to teach school therein. They tried all possible legal measures to break up the organization of the college by the old Committee, and signally failed. I commenced my school the first of December. I soon had sixty scholars, and everything was full of promise of the largest and best success. It became necessary for me to hire an assistant teacher. In accordance with the advice of the Directors, I employed Mrs. Sheldon, a most accomplished teacher. Dr. M Kay, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, was bitterly offended because his wife, who is not a successful teacher, was not employed. He at once took his children out of school, and joined the Hidden party and worked indefatigably against me and the school. But in spite of all efforts against us, we were having a must prosperous school. Every Friday afternoon our house was filled with the parents of the children and other friends, to hear the declamations, compositions and exercises of the classes in review. All legal threats had failed to oust me. The Chairman of the Board was under trail for official misconduct, and about to be turned out. Desperate means must be used, or total failure would mark their efforts. So, on the 11th of February, Hidden went to McKay, then about to the expelled from his office, and got the books, papers and records of the college; and that <illegible> with a party of miscreants, he went and took out the doors and windows of the college; and carefully had them away. The next day, I removed my school to another house, where I successfully finished up the term. We tried to get the doors and windows, on a search warrant, but failed to find them. On the 10th of March, Dr. Hidden and his party put back the doors and windows, and attempted to install a family min the house. Seeing this, I adjourned my school, and went over and commanded them to leave my school-house, that I might go on with my school according to my contract. They, in turn, ordered me to leave with the threat of forcible ejectment if we did not go. We refused to heave or to be put out, and than the other party, outnumbering us three to one, took off their coats, and, with hatchets, axes and canes, came towards our little party to put us out of the house. I then drew a pistol, with which I had armed myself, to resist a threatened attack some weeks before, and ordered them to stop, on peril of their lives. This order they at once obeyed, and so doing saved bloodshed. In the mean time, I had sent for a magistrate, to come and issue a writ of ejectment; but before this could be done, a writ was served upon me and my friends, who had gathered to protect me if I should be assailed. We were taken before Injustice <illegible> a rigid Baptist and negro-hater, who thinks he is doing God service to put down such a heretic as I am. It was evident from the first, that our condemnation was a pre-ordained result. All testimony showing that I had legal possession of the college, and consequently had a perfect right to be there, was <illegible> of court. We were Bound over to the Circuit court. several of us refused to give bail, on the ground that the whole proceeding was a tissue of injustice. We are therefore in jail till our application for the Habeas is answered by Judge Horton. On <illegible> we shall certainly be released. Let it be remembered-
1. That the intelligent, high-minded portion of the community, and at least nine-tenths of the owners of the college fund, are with me in this whole trouble.
2. That those who oppose do so wholly through <illegible> or pro-slavery prejudice, or personal spite recurred by me in the discharge of my duty.
3. That this giving up of the books deprives me, for the time being, of my winter’s earnings, and I am consequently poor, and in need of some present <illegible> cannot some of your readers afford me some slight help.
4. That we are bound to persevere and establish here a school which will be a light and a blessing in this community. It is only a question of time.
DANIEL FOSTER.
MERITED TRIBUTE.
A Philadelphia correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard pays the following merited tribute to the memory of ROBERT PERVIN, Jr., (eldest son of Robert Parvis, Esq. of Byberry, Pa.) whose decease was recorded in the Liberator of last week:-
"The death of poor Robert Purvis, though for months expected, has come, as the event always does with a shock. It has produced a profound sensation of Sorrow among his numerous friends and acquaintances. Sorrow or the departure of one so young and noble, and sorrow for the still deeper sorrow of his bereaved parents, and his mourning brothers and sisters. He was fair in form and feature, and his character was in keeping with his manly appearance. His uprightness and loftiness of tone were his characteristics: his erect figure and almost haughty <illegible> indicated his native self-respect and the contempt felt for the narrow and vulgar prejudice with which he was continually brought in contact. But, though identified with a hated race, Robert Parvis was not hated. On the contrary, he was rejected by all who knew him, and by many beloved. As a merchant, he enjoyed a good reputation for commercial and personal honor.
The pain of his protracted illness was not aggravated by gloomy apprehensions of death. The inevitable messenger came to his as a welcome deliverer. To his most intimate friend he said, just before his departure, ‘Farewell! we shall meet again in another world!’
He was an Abolitionist by conviction as well as by inheritance. One of the chief originators of the junior Anti-Slavery Society, he was among its most active members. He found solace in his last hours in hearing of the advance of the cause, and especially in listening to his father while reading a report of Wendell Phillip’s speech in Washington. The sympathy with his parents is wide-spread and deep."
Most deeply do we sympathize with the bereaved parents in the heavy loss they hare sustained.
<c02>
GENERAL McCLELLAN.
For some reason which we do not fully understand, there is remarkable sensitiveness displayed whenever any of Gen. McClellan’s plans or movements are criticised. We are told that it is impossible for civilians to comprehend his motives, and that it is a terrible thing to indulge in any remarks that are calculated to impair public confidence in the leader of our forces engaged in suppressing the rebellion. It is noticeable, however, that these same persons and presses, who now deprecate discussion, were by no means sparing of their epithets and harsh judgments of Gen. Fremont, and certainly did their full share to "impair public confidence" in his ability and capacity. Gen. Sherman, Gen. Buell, and Gen. Grant have also been made the objects of unfavorable remark, but nobody goes into antics over it, and they manage to get on pretty well, notwithstanding this criticism. It has done them no harm, because they have substantial merits to back them. It will do nobody much harm, particularly if it is refuted by some vigorous and telling actions. Gen McClellan is to be judged in history by what he does, and not what is said about him; and when he leads our boys on to victory, as he has promised them, the country will take ample care of his fame, and give him the degree of credit to which his services entitle him. In the meantime, it is the duty of the country to continue to stand by him, as it has done for seven sad and disheartening months, so long as he is the leader of our forces, and is entrusted by the government with the conduct of the campaign. We should stand by all our commanders, (including Fremont as well as the Hunker Generals,) remembering that while all that is said about them is not to be believed, a little outspoken criticism is better for them and for the cause, than fulsome flattery and blind acquiescence in everything which they may say or do.-Yarmouth Register.
There are differences of opinion in regard to Gen. McClellan's recent address to his troops; but on the whole, it has experienced from the press and people a negative reception. The general opinion is, that it were better unwritten. There is an expression in it especially unhappy. He says: "-you have brace foes to encounter-foeman well worthy of the steel you will use so well." Is this so? When the battle-field of Ball's Bluff was recently occupied by our troops, they found on it the whitening bones of our soldiers who fell in that engagement. The "brave foes." the "foeman worthy of the steel" of our troops, had left the bodies of our men unburied. Is such conduct becoming a brave foe? Let the reader judge. We will praise General McClellan for whatever he achieves, even if it should be at the conclusion of a waning rebellion; but we cannot subscribe to such sentiments as the one noticed above.-Miners' Journal.
BULL RUN AND MANASSAS.
Prof. Mattision, for the benefit of the Sunday-School connected with the congregation of which he is the pastor, gave a lecture Wednesday evening in his church in forty-first street, near the sixth avenue, upon Manassas, Centreville, and Bill-Run, which places he has recently visited. He gave an account of his experience in the City of Alexandria, previous to his visit, and a description of the slave-pen there, fragments of wool from the doors of which, and a piece of the whipping-post, he exhibited as relics. While on his journey toward Centreville he met a poor slave girl suffering from a diseased spine, and in such a condition that she could move along but slowly and with great pain at each step, yet her master compelled her to walk from morning until night. His feelings were so wrought up at this cruelty, that he offered a soldier $10 to go up and flog the master of the girl, and subsequently said he would give $100 if the poor creature could be placed in some charitable institution at the North. Mr. Mattison spoke of the fortifications in and about Washington, and gave an excellent description of the Rebel fortification at Centreville, Bull Run, and Manassas. In the course of his remarks he exhibited relics consisting of knives, shot, maps, and so forth, which he had picked up in the deserted camp of the Rebels. In regard to the wooden guns or "Quaker guns" of which considerable had been said of late in the public prints, he remarked that in the principal fortification at Centreville, which he carefully examined, he counted eleven. The muzzles projected from the embrasures, and some of them were partially covered over with brush. They were made of pine logs, and were one foot in diameter, and about seven feet in length, with muzzles turned or cut out- nearly all of them were well painted, and from a little distance he said "were as fine looking guns as you might wish to see. "Before leaving the fort to go forward, he chopped off some pieces from one of the guns as relies. Upon returning homeward he secured one of the guns entire, and sent it to New York. It had not yet been received, but he expected it was at present in the Express Office. Mr. Mattison fully sustained the assertion of Bayard Taylor in regard to those bogus guns, and thought it-strange that Dr. Bellows, during his visit to Centreville, did not see them. He had closely examined the fort, gave it as his opinion that the Rebels never had any real guns there, and from all that he could learn, these Quaker guns had been peering from the embrasures since September last. Mr. Mattison gave a description of the old battle-field, and an account of the brutal treatment that our dead and wounded soldiers had received at the hands of the Rebels. His lecture was listened to with much interest, and it was announced that it would be repeated at the Cooper Institute for the benefit of the Sunday School.-New York Tribune.
THIRTY-ONE QUAKER CANNON AT CENTREVILLE.
To the Editor of the N.Y. Tribune:
SIR,-As there seems to be a doubt in the minds of some people in regard to the existence of Quaker guns at Centreville, I beg leave to give you an extract from a letter I received from an intimate friend who visited that place immediately after the evacuation by the Rebels. HE writes:-
"The fortifications at Centreville and Manassas have been tolerably accurately described in the Tribune. There never has been a cannon mounted in the forts at Centreville, expect the wooden-log imitations which I saw there, of which there were, if I made no mistake. 31 in eight or nine forts, which were pierced for between 50 and 60 guns. Some of the logs has not even the bark taken off; others were more carefully prepared, being smoothed off, and some were marked '42-pounders.'"
New York, April 2, 1862. Wm. HENRY BURR.
A Cincinnati paper says: Mr. M.L.C. Hopkins, a Cincinnati merchant on a visit to Washington has obtained one of the celebrated Centreville "Quakers," and has forwarded it home.
How GENERAL MCCOOK CONCILIATES THE REBELS. The Nashville Patriot states that a considerable number of fugitive slaves are following the army on its march southward through Tennessee, in the hope of being ultimately freed. "The action of the army leaders on this subject." says the Patriot, "is of vast importance to the owners of slaves." A gentleman, who has just tested the matter, reports that they are disposed to be just and honorable. We quote:-
"He visited the camp of Gen. McCook, in Maury County, in quest of a fugitive, and that officer, instead of throwing obstacles in the way, afforded him every facility for the successful prosecution of his search. That General treated him very courteous and gentlemanly manner, as also did Gen. Johnson and Capt. Blake, the Brigade Provost Marshal. Their conduct was in all respects that of high-toned gentlemen, desirous of discharging their duties promptly and honorably. It is impossible for the army to prevent slaves from following them; but whenever the fugitives come into the lines of General McCook, they are secured, and a record made of their names and the names of their owners. All the owner has to do is simply to apply in person or through an agent, examine the record, or look at the slaves, and if he finds any that belong to him, take them away.
It gives us a great deal of pleasure to make these statements, which acquit the Federal army and its officers of conniving at the escape of slaves."
SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. The U.S Senate has passed the bill providing for the Abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia by the decisive vote of 29 yeas to 14 Nays-more than tow to one. All the Yeas were Republicans, and we rejoice to state that both Senators from our State were present and voted Yea. Mr. Cowan, of Pensylvania, did not vote, and was probably out of the city. All the anti-Republicans present voted Nay. Mr. Pearce, of Maryland, was absent. A most important amendment moved by Mr. Clark, of New Hampshire, had been previously adopted, providing that no one who has aided the Rebellion shall receive any of the compensation provided by this bill. If this can be fully enforced, the cost of freeing the slaves of the district will be light indeed. Every claimant of compensation must make oath that he ahs not aided the rebellion but his oath will not be conclusive. Another amendment was adopted providing that, in taking testimony before the commissioners whom the bill creates, no witness shall be excluded by reason of color. An amendment was also adopted appropriating $100,000 to aid the voluntary emigration of the manumitted slaves to Hayti, Liberia, or elsewhere. As the bill provides that "all persons held to service or labor within the District of Columbia, any person of African descent, are hereby discharged and freed of an from such service or labor," we infer that the passage of this bill through the House, and its approval by the President, will put an end to Slavery in the Federal Metropolis without further delay.
Champions of Impartial Liberty! let us thank God and take courage! the world does move!-New York Tribune.
<c03>
CAPTURE OF ISLAND NO. 10.
Sinking of their Gunboats and Transport—Their Floating Battery Captured—Three Rebel Generals and Six Thousand prisoners Taken—One Hundred Siege Guns, several Field Batteries and Immense Quantities of Small Arms Captured.
Chicago, April 8. Dispatches from New Madrid say that the gunboats Pittsburg and Carondelet yesterday shelled and silenced the batteries on the opposite shore, when Gen. Pope ordered the troops to cross, which was accomplished without the loss of a man. The rebels fled toward Tipton, sinking several of their transports and gunboats.
Their floating battery, mounting 10 guns, drifted down the river last night, and is now aground near Point Pleasant, and will be recovered with its armament. The Ohio Belle will also be recovered. Gen. Pope took the Pittsburg and Carondelet, and with a part of his army marched to Tipton, and attacked the enemy this morning. He took 2000 prisoners, and will probably get as many more before night. The rebels tied to the swamp in great consternation. Our victory is complete and decisive. Great quantities of stores, cannon and ammunition have fallen into our hands, also all their baggage and supplies. The rebel Adjutant General Makall is a prisoner.
A special dispatch to the Times from Cairo says that 4.000 prisoners, including 7 officers, 30 pieces of artillery, a large quantity of ammunition, muskets and small arms were captured on the island. It is said that the rebels have become perfectly demoralized. In many cases whole regiments refuse to obey orders. Much ill-feeling prevailed among the officers, and none had any confidence in the commanding officer.
ST. LOUIS, April 8. Gen. Pope has captured three Generals, 6,000 prisoners, 100 siege guns, several field batteries, and immense quantities of small arms, tents, wagons, horses and provisions, and not lost a single man.(Signed)H.W. Halleck, Major General.
TERRIBLE BATTLE AT PITTSBURG, TENN.
Beauregard Attacks the Federal Troops, but is Defeated and Driven Back — Immense Loss on Both Sides A—Complete victory.
CHICAGO, April 8. Information was received here to-night, that on the 6th inst. the rebel force under General Beauregard attacked our forces under General Grant. The battle lasted all day. Our lines were driven in by the attack, but as our reserves were brought into action the lost ground was regained, and the rebels were repulsed with great slaughter. Our loss is very heavy. No particulars are known as yet.
New York, April 9. A special dispatch to the Herald, dated Pittsburg via Fort Henry, April 9th, 3.20 A. M., says one of the greatest and bloodiest battles of modern days has just closed, resulting in the complete route of the enemy, who attacked us at daybreak Sunday morning.
The battle lasted without interruption during the entire day, and was renewed on Monday morning, and continued undecided until 4 o'clock in the afternoon, when the enemy commented their retreat, and are still flying toward Corinth, pursued by a large force of our cavalry.
The slaughter on both sides is immense. We have lost in killed and wounded and missing from 5,000 to 10,000 men. That of the enemy is estimated at from 10,000 to 20,000. It is impossible in the present confused state of affairs to ascertain any details.
The rebels exhibited remarkably good Generalship. At times engaging the left with apparently their whole strength, they would suddenly open a terrible and destructive fire on the right or centre. Even our heaviest and most destructive fire upon the enemy did not appear to discourage their solid columns.
The fire of Major Taylor's Chicago artillery raked them down in scores, but the smoke would no sooner be dispersed than the breach would again be filled.
The most desperate fighting took place in the afternoon. The rebels knew that if they did not succeed in whipping us then, their chances for success would be extremely doubtful, as a portion of Gen. Buell's forces had by this time arrived on the opposite side of the river, and another portion was coming up the river. 
We were contending against fearful odds, our forces not exceeding 38,000 men, while that of the enemy was upwards of 60,000.
About an hour before dusk, a general cannonading was opened upon the enemy from along our whole line, with a perpetual crack of musketry. Such a roar of artillery was never heard on this continent. For a short time the rebels replied with vigor and effect, but their return shots grew less frequent and destructive, while ours grew more rapid and terrible. Gunboats Lexington and Tyler, which lay a short distance off, kept raining shell on the rebel hordes.
This last effort was too much for the enemy, and ere dusk had set in the firing had nearly ceased, when night coming on all combatants rested from the awful work of blood and carnage. Our men rested on their arms in the position they had at the close of the night, until the forces under Major General Wallace arrived and took a position on the right, and Gen. Buell's forces from the opposite side of Savannah were now,  being conveyed to the battle ground.
In the morning the ball was opened at daylight simultaneously by Gen. Nelson's division on the left, and Major General Wallace's division on the right. Gen, Nelson's force opened up a most galling fire on the rebels, and advanced rapidly as they fell back. The fire soon became general along the whole line, and began to tell with terrible effect on the enemy.
About 3o'clock in the afternoon Gen. Grant rode to the left where fresh regiments had been ordered, and finding the rebels wavering, he sent a portion of his body guard to the head of each of the five regiments, and then ordered a charge across the field, himself leading as he brandished his sword, and waved them on to victory, while the cannon balls were falling like hail around him. The men followed with a shout that sounded above the roar and din of artillery, and the rebels fled in dismay, as from a destroying avalanche, and never made another stand.
Gen. Buell followed the retreating rebels, driving them in splendid style, and by half past five o'clock the whole rebel army was in full retreat to Corinth, with our cavalry in hot pursuit, with what further result is not known, not having returned up to this hour.
We have taken a large amount of artillery, and also a number of prisoners. We lost a number of our forces prisoners, yesterday, among whom is General Prentiss.
Among the killed on the rebel side was their General-in-Chief Albert Sydney Johnston, who was struck by a cannon ball on the afternoon of Sunday. Of this there is no doubt, as the report is corroborated by several rebel officers taken to day. It is further reported that Gen. Beauregard had an arm shot off.
Our loss in officers is very heavy. It is impossible at present to obtain the names.
Gen. Sherman had two horses shot from under him, and Gen. McClernand shared like dangers; also Gen. Hurlburt, each of whom received bullet holes through their clothes. Our loss of officers is very heavy, but it is impossible at present to obtain the names.
New York, April 7. Port Royal letters report stirring intelligence from North Edisto. The rebels came down in considerable force, and succeeded in cutting off, at night, nearly an entire company of the 55th Pennsylvania Regiment which was on Little Edisto Island as a picket.
Strangely enough they neglected to guard the bridge between them and the main force, and the enemy succeeded in burning that, and surrounded the picket, killing three, wounding a dozen, and capturing about 30.The balance escaped to North Edisto. Since then several skirmishes have taken place. Ample reinforcements will be sent directly by Gen. Benham. Col. Fellows, 3d N.H regiment, goes to command the post.
Fifteen men of the 46th New York volunteers were captured, together with a field piece, on Wilmington Island in the Savannah river. Col. Rosa took the responsibility of conducting 30 men on a reconnoissance on Wilmington Island, without orders. He was surrounded by a superior force of rebels and half his men captured. All the officers and the balance of the men escaped. The field piece was lost, and is doubtless now on exhibition in Savannah.
FEDERAL PRISONERS OF WAR. The fact that none of our brave men have been returned home from Southern prisons since Gen. Burnside gave up twenty-five hundred secessionists in arms, taken at Roanoke Island, is a sad illustration of the meanly dishonorable and doubly treacherous course of the enemy.
The Confederate leaders not only retain the prisoners still in their hands, whom they are bound in honor to release, but they also propose to absolve from their parole those whom we have released to await a full exchange. If this is done, no matter how binding his parole may seem to be, the Confederate soldier will be compelled to resume his place in the army, thus subjecting himself to the penalty of being shot if recaptured.
The impudence of the rebels is only equalled by their cowardly barbarities. A letter from Winchester, Va., says the fiercest Secessionists in that place do not hesitate to ask favors, while at the same time they abuse everything Northern, and do all they can to defeat the plans of our army. It is no matter that the owner of a farm is only two miles away in the rebel army, his family at once send for a guard when our troops come up. One man had the impudence to ask to have a guard sent a mile to protect his chickens, when he made it his boast that four of his family were in the rebel army, and showed with fiendish exultation the skulls of two Yankees which he had obtained at Ball's Bluff. In this case the protection was not granted, but in many cases, as bad as it has been, and at some of the camps, the principal duty of the Union troops has been to guard Secession henroosts.
<c04>
<THE PLOT AT BALTIMORE AGAINST PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S LIFE. A correspondent of the New York Evening Post, who dates from Baltimore, March 27th, tells the following story:—
"For a long time it was believed that an Italian barber of this city was the Orsini who undertook to slay President Lincoln on his journey to the capital in February, 1861, and it is possible he was one of the plotters; but it has come out on a recent trial of a man named Byrne, in Richmond, that he was the captain of the band that was to take the life of Mr. Lincoln. This Byrne used to be a notorious gambler of Baltimore, and emigrated to Richmond shortly after the 19th of April, of bloody memory. He was recently arrested in Jeff. Davis's capital on a charge of keeping a gambling house, and of disloyalty to the chief traitor's pretended government. Wigfall testified to Byrne's loyalty to the rebel cause, and gave in evidence that Byrne was the captain of the gang who were to kill Mr. Lincoln, and upon this evidence, it appears, he was let go. Of course, to be guilty of such an intended crime is a mantle large enought to cover up all other sins against society and the divine law."
The Washington Republican says, 97 " contrabands " arrived at Philadelphia on Friday, having been sent there from General Banks's command. They had been employed by the Government on the Baltimore and Ohio railroad. Three of them had been the slaves of ex-Senator Mason at Winchester, two of them had been the slaves of Hon. C. G. Faulkner at Martinsburg. These "contrabands" were received and taken care of by the colored people of Philadelphia, many of whom are wealthy. Some of the "contrabands" had money which "they had earned working for the Government. One of them had upwards of one hundred dollars. Some lewd fellows of the baser sort in Philadelphia endeavored to get up an excitement against their being brought to that city, but without much success.
AMONG THE FAITHLESS. A correspondent of the New York World, writing from Nashville, Tenn., says: 
"Nashville is still down with the sulks. Groups of the disconsolate stand on the corners of the streets and about the hotels, refusing to be comforted—the rebel Rachels! The negroes are our only friends as a class. In their friendship there is no exception or limit."
Yet these are the loyal friends that we thrust out of our camps, and insist upon restoring to bondage.
From Washington, the report comes that Marshal Lamon is busily engaged exercising his power for the rendition of negro fugitives to their masters; the latest case being that of a black man who had joined his precarious fortune with a company of the 4th New York Artillery; and with this report we have the additional statement that an active business is going on in the sale and transportation of slaves from the District of Columbia to Maryland dealers.-N.Y. Tribune.
On Saturday, two persons in Washington attempted to arrest as a slave a servant of an officer in the 7th New York Cavalry, a free man from the West Indies. Detected in the act, they came near being lynched, but were rescued by the military guard, sent to the Provost Marshal, and afterward confined in the central guard house.
A few days since the pickets along the Lower Potomac and Chesapeake Bay were drawn in by Gen. Hooker. The rebel sympathizers in Lower Maryland took this as an intimation that the U. S. forces were about to leave, and immediately commenced to send slaves to Virginia for the rebel service. Gen. Hooker ordered the arrest of six or eight of the ringleaders, who are among the most prominent citizens of that section.
It is reported that Gen. Hooker authorized slaveholders to enter his camp on the Potomac and recover their negroes. Gen. Sickles ordered the slave-hunters out of camp, amid the loud cheering of the troops.
Letters say the roads to Washington are black with contrabands." They are coming not in squads, but in battalions.
A vessel arrived at Newburyport on Friday last, from Philadelphia, with a black captain and crew—not a white person on board. This is the first case of the kind in that city.
On Monday last, the Catholic priest and the Episcopal minister of Nashville were notified that unless they desist from praying for Jeff Davis and the Southern Confederacy, they should be sent to Fort Lafayette.
The Common Council of Nashville, by a vote of l to 1, has refused to take the oath of allegiance to the Federal Government.
In Baltimore a few days since, a little fellow while at play in the street was approached by a gang of boys, whose ages ranged from 12 to 16 years, and asked if he was a Union boy. The little fellow replied "yes," whereupon the whole gang of juvenile ruffians fell upon and beat him until he was nearly dead, and then shoved him into the flue of a brick kiln, where he was subsequently found just alive by his parents.
After Gov. Seward's return from Winchester, Va., he was asked by a Senator how much Union sentiment he found in that city. "The men," he replied, "were all off in the rebel army. The women were she-devils."
ATTEMPT TO TAR AND FEATHER A CLERGYMAN.—An attempt was made in Georgetown, D. C, Wednesday night, to tar and feather a clergyman who had been announced to lecture before a society of negroes. A mob surrounded the hall where the lecture was to have been delivered, but the clergyman was forewarned, and escaped injury by non-appearance, whereupon the rioters dispersed.
The citizens of Cincinnati cannot brook the outrage perpetrated upon the good name of their city by the recent mob at the Opera House, on the occasion of the appearance of Wendell Phillips, and so have sent him an invitation to repeat his lecture in that city on his return East, when they pledge themselves to "see him through."
MR. LINCOLN AND THE SLAVES. Wendell-Phillips represents President Lincoln as saying that "the negro who has once touched the hem of the Government's garment shall never again be a slave."
Referring to the immunity granted to rebels in Washington, a distinguished Senator is reported to have remarked a day or two ago: "One has no rights here units he is a rebel."
REBEL GENERALS FROM MASSACHUSETTS. The Salem Gazette says Massachusetts has furnished four generals for the rebel army, namely: Wm. H. Chase Whiting, Albert G. Blanchard, Daniel Ruggles, and Mansfield Lovell, son of the late Surgeon General Joseph Lovell.
The members of the 2nd Illinois cavalry, who took possession of Columbus, have taken charge of the printing materials which the rebel editors left behind, and issue a neat little sheet called the Federal Scout, which bears the particularly appropriate motto—
"In Dixie's land we'll take our stand,
And live and die in Dixie."
DEATH OF A WELL-KNOWN PUBLISHER. We regret to report the death of Mr. Abel Tompkins, a prominent Boston bookseller and publisher, especially of Universalist works. He was widely known and esteemed by the denomination to which he belonged, and his store has been for years a kind of religious exchange, where prominent preachers and writers of the Universalist faith were accustomed to congregate.— Boston Transcript.
FIRE IN LYNN-NARROW ESCAPE. At about two o'clock Monday morning, the Sagamore cottage on Beach street, Lynn, belonging to the estate of the late Alonzo Lewis, Esq., was discovered to be on fire, and before the flames could be stayed the building was nearly consumed. The widow of Mr. Lewis, and her child, of some four years, were the only occupants of the house at the time of the fire, and to the sagacity of a small dog they are undoubtedly indebted for their lives. The fire broke out in a small ell of the building contiguous to the room where Mrs. Lewis and her child were sleeping, and the barking and noise made by the dog awoke Mrs. Lewis, who found her room filled with smoke. She had just time to take her child from the room ere the flames reached it.
The house is insured at the Saugus Mutual. Circumstances make it probable that the fire wad incendiary.—Boston Traveller.
NEW HEAVEN, April 6. The election in this State is overwhelmingly Union and Republican—so much so as to make the details unimportant. More than two-thirds of the Legislature are supposed to be Union and Republican. Not one Democratic Senator is supposed to be elected. The whole Union and Republican State ticket is supposed to be elected by over 5000 majority. Cornelius S. Bushnell, of the "Monitor" celebrity, and David J. Peck, both Union men, one Republican and the other Democrat, are elected representatives from this city, over Tilton E. Doolittle and James Gallagher, old line Democrats.
The Rhode Island election, which took place on the 2d, ended in the choice of Gov. Sprague and the other State officers, without opposition. The Governor's patriotic conduct in regard to the war has made everybody friendly to him.
STAMPEDE OF MR.MASON’S SLAVES. The slaves of James M. Mason, a recent inmate of Fort Warren, now in England, have decamped from Winchester in a body, and made their way to Philadelphia. It is currently reported, also, that one of Mr. Mason's daughters has become hopelessly insane from the various family misfortunes.
<c05>
IN MEMORIAM
Died, suddenly, at Peterboro', N.H., on Thursday morning, March 27, CATHARINE PUTNAH, formerly of Boston, aged 84 years and 8 months.
A woman of the ancien regime; stately in person, gracious in consideration, sparkling in her talk. Vivacious as a child, and as innocent of any malice, after the world's way—charming through caprices which won as to laugh at, as well as with her—sweet as the sweetest June morning in temper, and of a beneficence as unfailing as the mountain cloud—Catharine Putnam calls for a memorial, complete and eloquent. Her clear and wonderfully enlightened mind kept all its power to the last; and it was characteristic of her long life, that self-possession stayed with her till her eyes closed, and her last conscious act was to gather the fragments that had fallen from her already stricken hand.
The erectness of her carriage seemed to symbolize the sure kindness on which all relied. The delicate propriety of her toilet to the last hinted at the ingrained ladyhood, which must have been the same with or without her abundant wealth; wealth—given, as she thought, only to be dispensed, and shared with a liberality such as the world has seldom seen.
You could not confer a greater kindness on her than to ask of her than to ask of her a service; yet you never thanked her for the quick response—were it of one dollar or one hundred—for to have done less would hare been unworthy of herself.
Nor was her bounty limited to the old and faithfully cherished charities of the world. Her quick intelligence took in every class of want. The Seaman's Aid or the City Missionary went helped and befriended from her door. So did the poor student, thumbing a worn grammar, the young minister, or the soldier arming at his country's call. But still more bountiful was the quick flow of her feeling towards the unhelped worker, the unpopular cause. She had a heart ready to take in the slave—and a single woman herself, she lost no word dropped in behalf of women.
At a time when Boston society was exclusive beyond record, she had known how, by a mere personal magnetism, to draw round her all good hearts and bright minds. Her parlor was an academy, and a man with a thought, more precious in her sight than the owner of hid treasure.
For once, the world appreciated its guest—and when she carried her failing energies up to the bracing hills of New Hampshire, loving thoughts followed, and the little cottage set on a flowery slope by the river overflowed with the tokens of tender if distant remembrance. With correspondents scattered over half the world, with a memory that embraced the active life of three generations, her very presence gave character and attraction to the little country town, where her table seated all the guests who could find pleasure in her welcome.
One to whom she was tender as a mother, and dear as she was tender, pens these weak words—waiting for a worthier tribute. C.H.D
OBITUARY.
It pains us to hear of the death of GERRIT SMITH HAMBLETON, only son of Thomas and Alice Eliza Hambleton, of Upper Oxford, Chester Co., Pa. He was among the Pennsylvania volunteers, sent to Port Royal, S. C, where he died of typhoid fever, on the 30th of January, aged 22 years. His remains were interred at Longwood, on Sunday, Feb. 16th; when a large concourse assembled to pay a tribute of respect to his memory, and of sympathy with his bereaved parents and other kindred. Of his character, it is enough to say that it was worthy of the name he bore, and fitted to excite the most glowing hopes as to his future career. A writer in the Chester County Times bears this testimony:—
"Seldom is it our sad experience to mourn the loss of one so truly good and talented—one who was so universally beloved—so faithful and true a friend—such a dutiful and loving son and brother. Highly educated, and gifted by nature he was fitted to adorn almost any position in life; his inclination led him to prefer a professional career, and, preparatory to entering thereon, he had availed himself of the opportunity of teaching as a means of self-discipline and improvement. In this capacity he was, highly successful, and much beloved—occupying a lucrative position, which he felt it his duty to resign that he might minister to the comfort of his parents, and relieve them of care in their declining years; and when his home and country were in danger, and freedom still further imperilled, the same conscientious adherence to duty called him far away from that loved home and its endearing ties. He said there was not one attractive feature to him in camp life, or the duties pertaining thereto; that nothing but a sense of duty would have induced him to enter the service. If there were only more who enlisted from the same conscientious motives, what an army we should have! As he had always been in every avocation of life, so he proved to be in the new field of labor, so recently entered, faithful in the discharge of every duty; manly and beautiful in his strict integrity, and observance of the divine moral law. He was a bright example to all those who were associated with him; occupying a position which required peculiar talent to give satisfaction, he bad won the esteem of all the officers and men in his company; and gave universal satisfaction in every department of the regiment with which his duties were connected."
DIED—In Watertown, April 3, of consumption, WALTER S. McLAUTHLIN, aged 32 years, 9 months, son of Lewis and Polly McLauthlin of Pembroke.
In Newburyport, April 2, Frederick, son of Richard and MARY PLUMER, aged 18 years.
An invalid for several years, no murmur ever escaped his lips. His mind was bright and active, and his heart warmly sympathetic towards the suffering and friendless. He delighted in doing little acts of kindness to this class in particular. It was a touching and affecting tribute to his memory, that a request wad made by several pauper boys at the Alms House to be permitted to walk to his grave; and their wish was gratified. He had a strong affectionate nature, and loved his parents with a filial passion which always secured ready and exemplary obedience to their wishes. In their deep and long-continued interest in the cause of the poor oppressed slaves at the South, he fully participated, and was always highly gratified at the visits of those who were the public advocates of emancipation. We proffer our heart-felt sympathy to our bereaved friends at the loss of one so promising and so good, at so early a period; while we feel assured the language of their hearts will be—
"We know thou art not far away,
Thou child our hearts deplore;
For, ever since thy dying day,
We feel thee more and more.
Thou art a glorious angel now,
An angel meek and mild;
A spirit-crown is on thy brow,
Thou who wert here a child." [Ed. Lib.
In Fall River, April 3d, Miss HANNAH E. Stoddard, in the 55th year of her age.
In the death of Miss Stoddard, the slave, and the sick and suffering around her, have lost a faithful and devoted friend, and the Anti-Slavery cause an energetic and untiring laborer. Ever true to her convictions of right, she left a popular church on account of its pro-slavery position, and, with the touchstone of anti-slavery truth, she tested the genuineness of professed love to God by the love manifested to the imbruted slave. She was the foremost; laborer in the little Anti-Slavery Sewing Circle, which has done much, by the pecuniary assistance it has rendered, to promulgate genuine anti-slavery truth in our city, besides affording occasional aid to the cause in other places. Of marked individuality of character, she conscientiously pursued her own path of duty, and always rejoiced at any opportunity to serve, in however humble a manner, the cause of the down-trodden and oppressed. A.
In this city, April 1, SARAH ONLEY, aged 17.
April 3d, GERTRUDE LOUISE MARSHALL, daughter of Ira and Louisa Nell Gray, aged 5 years and 7 days.
An uncommonly promising child. She was not only the pet of the household, but also of the whole neighborhood and circle of acquaintance. But she has gone,
"Where the touch of her gentle hand
Doth brighten the harp in the Spirit land,
Where she waits for us, with the angel band,
Over the starry way."
We have
"Borne her gently to her rest,
And gently heaped the flowery sod—
Left her body to the dust,
Her spirit to her God." N.
NOTICE.—All communications relating to the business of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery society and with regard to the Publications and Lecturing Agencies of the American Anti-Slavery Society, should be addressed for the present to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington St., Boston.
Many of the best and most recent publications of the American Anti-Slavery Society are for gratuitous distribution. Application for them to be made at above, which should be accompanied with directions how to send them.
<c06>
NOTICE.—Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown, Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL MAY, Jr.,221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
REMOVAL—DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. MARGARET B. BROWN, M.D., and WN. SYMINOTON BROWN,M.D., have removed to No.23, Chauney Street, Boston, where they may be Consulted on the above diseases. Office hours, from 10, A.M., to 4 o'clock, P. M.
March 28. 3nt
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of women and Children.
References—Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in
Plymouth, Sunday, April 13.
Gloucester, Sunday, April 20.
Milford, Sunday, April, 27.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETINGS—Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON of Philadelphia, who has commenced a brief course of Anti-Slavery lecturing in New England, will speak in the city of PROVIDENCE, on Sunday next, 13th inst., morning and evening.
In the morning, the meeting will be at Pratt's Hall.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture at Reading, Mass, in the Lyceum Hall, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock.
Woman's Rights under the Law. 
THREE LECTURES,
DELIVERED IN BOSTON, JANUARY, 1861,
BY MRS. C. H. DALL,
AUTHOR OF
"Woman's Right to Labor," "Historical Picture Retouched," etc.
16mo. cloth, sixty-three cents.
"An eloquent protest. Mrs. Dall maintains her positions with energy and skill. Her rhetoric is pointed by earnestness of conviction, and her historical illustrations are well chosen."— N.Y. Tribune.
"The present work will not disappoint those who have formed the highest estimate of her qualifications to Write upon whatever relates to woman. She has invested her subject with an interest akin to that of the highest works of fiction or art."—Anti-Slavery Standard.
"These three lectures evince much research, careful thought, and earnest feeling."—Christian Register.
"She has an earnest purpose, large command of facts, and a power of satire which gives a relish to all she writes." —Portland Transcript.
"No one, we are sure, can read the studious and freighted leaves of Mrs. Dall's bright and brave little volume, in a cordial and generous spirit, without receiving exalted Christian impulses."—Bottom Transcript.
"We find ourselves constantly regretting that there is not more of it."—Home Journal.
"We welcome this book, not only for its large information, but because it is a woman's view of a subject on which women have seldom written."—Worcester Spy.
"Mrs. Dall is neither a visionary nor a fanatic. Her arguments in this volume are intensely practical."—Nor-folk County Journal.
"This is an unostentatious little book, without rant or exaggeration. She makes a very powerful argument for the repeal of all laws which mix up the question of sex with the rights of property, liberty, and life."—New York Evening Post.
"This is an earnest, and in many respects eloquent, protest against existing laws."-Congregationalist.
"Mrs. Dall's books abound in the most curious and interesting information. Their tone is the reverse of truculent. They are the must womanly books about women." — G. W. Curtis, in Harpers' Weekly.
"We hope all our readers will peruse this thorough and eloquent treatise."—New York Christian Inquirer.
"Mrs. Dall has done a good work in collecting valuable facts, and arranging them, as in this book, with ability."— Unitarian Monthly.
"She crowds into these lectures a great deal of historical information; and no candid reader will deny that she fully vindicates her claim to be heard."—Monthly Miscellany.
"We cordially commend the book for the importance of its subject-matter, its wealth of material and fact, its straightforward earnestness of purpose, and its purity of style. It has also the unusual quality of making the reader regret that there is not more of it."—Christian Examiner.
"If a good cause, always ably expounded; patient persistence in pleading it; a calm tone, coupled with profound conviction and strong feeling, a chastened spirit and a resolute purpose, can purchase success, Mrs. Dall is doomed to no failure."—Free-Will Baptist Quarterly.
Published by WALKER, WISE & CO., BOSTON.
Sent FREE BY MAIL on receipt of price.
April 11
IN ONE VOLUME
THE
PATHOLOGY
OF THE 
REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS
BY
RUSSELL T. TRALL, M.D.
THE
SEXUAL ORGANISM
AND ITS
HEALTHFUL MANAGEMENT,
BY
J. C. JACKS0N, M.D.
THE authors of this book, it is confidently asserted, have had more experience in SUCCESSFULLY treating diseases of the sexual organism than any other physicians in America: and, in writing this work, they new offer to the public the full benefit of that experience; thus supplying a long-felt want, and furnishing a valuable book, free from every thing that is quackish; one which will enable the reader to treat successfully, and permanently cure, any disease of the reproductive organs, without swallowing any drug, or feeing any doctor whatever; and, more than that, a book which, if read by the young, will prevent the diseases which it so ably treats.
This book ought to be in every family in the land; and especially should it be possessed by every young person who is sexually diseased. To purchase it of a responsible dealer is infinitely wiser, on the part of such diseased person, than to send money to any of the scores of advertisers who fill the newspapers with their specious but deceptive notices 
The following reasons why this book should be purchased by the sick, in preference to any remedy offered to them, are respectfully submitted:—
1. The good fame of the authors is as wide as the continent: they are known to be truthful men, who place principle paramount to fees, and who would not consent to write any thing which they did not know to be TRUE; while their theory is proved to be practically correct from the fact that they do CURE their sick ones after they have been given over by other physicians as incurably diseased.
2. The book is in no sense an advertisement, or an advertising medium, but contains the fullest information which the most scientific and successful practitioners in the country can impart.
3. The book is for sale only by responsible men; and, therefore, whoever should remit money to them would get that for which it was remitted. It is beautifully bound in substantial library style; is handsomely printed on the best of paper; contains elegant and accurate steel engraved likenesses of the authors; and makes an octavo volume of 550 pages. 
Price THREE DOLLARS; which should be remitted by mail, or otherwise sent, to the following-named booksellers, who should be ordered to send the book by express; this being the safest way to transmit valuable books, If you wish the book sent by mail, however. you must enclose wish twenty-seven cents extra in stamp to pay postage.
THREE DOLLARS, therefore, sent to the following-named persons, will insure the book by first express or $3.27 will pay for it pre-paid by mail; or hand this advertisement to your nearest bookseller, and request him to order it for you.
Send orders, with the money, as above, to-
B. LEVERETT EMERSON, PUBLISHER,
129 Washington Street, Boston.
Copies may be procured of Dr. TRALL at the lecture-room.
Also for sale by all booksellers and news-dealers every where.
Boston, April 11. 
What is claimed for this valuable work we endorse as to the vital importance of the topics discussed, the value of the advice and information communicated, the judicious manner in which the investigation is conducted, and the experience and ability of Drs. TRALL and JACKSON. 
—Ed. Lib 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
A VISION OF SCEPTRES.
I had a dream; yet was not all a dream.
I saw the earth untilled; for men were few,
A scattered handful, tending flocks and herds,
Living in caves and dens among the rocks,
Or sheltering in huts from the wild beasts,
That ranged at will over the lonely plains,
Rending their hapless prey. Man's lofty front
No longer awed the savage; for he was
But little raised above the animals.
And then I saw a lordly form arise,
Strong in his youthful courage; and be called
The scattered, trembling herdsmen to his side,
And into every fainting heart be breathed
A courage like his own. They formed rude weapons,- 
Spears, darts, and arrows, and with them subdued
Their enemies, the fierce and ravenous beasts.
His grateful comrades made their leader king;
And the first sceptre was a hunting-spear.
I saw upon a specious plain, high walls
Guarding a city's wealth; I saw the fields
Waving with golden harvests; I beheld
Its glad inhabitants pass in and out,
And good and aged men, revered alike
For justice, truth and wisdom, calmly sit,
Like that most patient patriarch at the gates,
While listening crowds surrounded them, to hear
Their well-considered, just and wise decrees.
Not long the vision gave this lovely scene,
For, o'er the distant hills, I, shuddering, saw
Fierce men draw near, on evil deeds intent,
Thousands on thousands pressing eager on.
I saw rich harvests trodden under foot
By the wild creatures man's own skill had tamed
For man's peculiar service; but they now
Helped him to spoil that earth he had subdued:
I saw the trembling weak ones leave their cots,
And crowd within the city walls for shelter;
I saw the brave, the strong, the desperate,
Prepare to meet the cruel foe. They fought
For home, and for home-ties,-and household loves.
But war without, and famine in their walls,
Thinned the heroic ranks; and pity cried,
"Yield, and preserve the lives of those ye love!"
The young, the brave, the strong, bent the proud knee
Before the haughty victor, who pass'd on
O'er prostrate hearts, the steps to his proud throne;
And the next sceptre was the blood-stained sword.
I saw mankind the abject slaves of Force
And Fraud; I saw them bend before a statue,
And call it "God!" I saw them even bow
Before the image of the very brute;
All-even the wisest, who paid outward homage,
Even while their secret heart was filled with scorn-
All but one little nation, who refused
Such worship, and who called themselves the Chosen
Of the One God, Jehovah, but who loved
Their sullen pride before their own God's law;
I saw the bitter rage gnawing their hearts,
When forced to bend beneath the Roman's yoke.
And then appeared a meek, but glorious Form,
The gentle Dove descending on his head,
And listening crowds hung on his gracious words.
I saw the proud and vengeful conclave meet,
Dooming that sacred form to painful death:
With mock humility they called the Roman
To aid their cruel purpose; I beheld
That meekest sufferer fainting 'neath his cross!
Time pass'd, and I beheld even monarchs bow
Their gem-crowned heads before the very name
Of the once vilified and humble Jew,
Jesus of Nazareth, now Christ, the Lord.
But men mistook the sceptre of his rule;
Instead of the fair Dove, emblem of Peace,
The gentle Dove, and the green olive branch,
They called the crucifix the Savior's emblem,
And lowly bowed before that cruel engine;
And thus the spirit of the Glad News changed
From love to hate, from peace to cruel woe,
Instead of reigning in the hearts of men,
And taming their fierce passions to its sway,
And nursing budding virtues into ripeness.
Proud, cruel men wielded the blood-stained sword,
To make disciples to the name of Christ;
And the third sceptre was the Crucifix.
Again I dreamed. The sisters, Faith and Hope,
Withdrew the misty curtain of the future,
And I beheld the reign of Charity- 
Charity, best and greatest of the Three.
I saw mankind, with joyful hearts, bow down
Beneath the Olive-Branch and snow-white Dove,
The only sceptre worthy her meek hand,
And Hate, and Wrong, and War were known no more.
Tenterden, (Eng.) JANE ASHBY.
From the Boston Traveller.
TRIBUTE
TO THE MEMORY OF MRS. PEAK,
The Colored Teacher to the Contrabands, whose saintly life and holy death were described in a recent number of the Boston Traveller.
Washed by the hand of death,
Finally, finally,
None of the taint is left
Drawn from her ancestry!
A child of a slave's child,
Christ's by adoption,
Bowing in death she smiled,
Freed from corruption.
Bound by a single thread,
In her veins hidden,
She ne'er presumed to tread
In paths forbidden.
Vaunting no pride of birth-
Taunted because of it-
Humbly she walked on earth,
Spurned by the laws of it.
Scorned by the scornful lip,
Curled to despite her-
Tried in the light of life,
She were the whiter!
Doing her duty well,
Selfless and lovingly,
Never a murmur fell
From her lips reprovingly!
Looking up-bearing up
Life with its burden-
In at the open gate-
Passed by the warden-
White as the queenliest,
Stainless in purity,
"Home at last-home at last-"
She dwells in security!
O.EVERTS M.D.,
Surgeon 20th Indiana Vols.
Fortress Monroe, March 2, 1862.
HYMN.
BY MISS HARRIET L. LADD.
Lord, fill over nation with Thy fear;
To blinded eyes reveal Thy light:
Let fall on ears that will not hear,
The bugle tones from that far height
Where Freedom waits to bless!
Thy voice send o'er the stormy sea;
Be "Peace to men" its glad refrain;
But grant that peace which makes all free,
Which brings, through fiery strife and pain,
Justice and righteousness!
So shall our land arise in strength
And wondrous grace from its new birth;
So shall the lore of Christ, at length,
By steps like this redeem the earth
From war and bitterness.
DUTY.
Whene'er a duty waits for thee,
With sober judgment view it,
And never idly wish it done;
Begin at once, and do it.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE PARABLE OF JONAH.
BY REV. F.S. BLISS.
There is much of thrilling interest in the life of Jonah. There are few passages of history that touch the experiences of living men at so many points as his. We know nothing definite of the time, place or circumstances of his birth or private life. He stands before the readers of the Bible chiefly in connection with a single transaction of his life. Almost the first thing we read of him, we are told that "the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it; for their wickedness is come up before me." But for some reason, perhaps we can never certainly know what it was, Jonah did not wish to go. It matters not that the reason was; so averse was he to going, that we are told he rose up to flee from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa, a seaport town and haven on the coast of Palestine, and finding a ship bound for Tarshish, he paid the fare and went aboard to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. How many such prophets the Lord has in these days! Only it is to be feared they are not all as careful as Jonah was to pay the fare, as they go up and down the world. But in other respects, there are a great many pretended prophets or religious teachers who resemble Jonah. If the Lord calls them to do any unpleasant duty, as, for example, to rebuke a great and wicked nation for its crimes, or to denounce some popular sin that is entrenched in the laws, the habits, the pride, the prejudices of the people, they flee from His presence. They are not willing to stand against so many; they fear the multitude; they dare not speak out their convictions, or proclaim truths which the prevailing sentiments condemn. Hence they keep still, and never agitate exciting topics, never stir up living questions. But we will see how they come out in the end.
No doubt Jonah felt, for a little while after he had taken passage in the ship, that he had escaped most perplexing circumstances, and got into safe quarters. So satisfied was he with his condition, that he strait-way went down into the sides of the ship, and, stretching himself, went fast to sleep. We wonder how his conscience would let him sleep, after having so wilfully disobeyed. But his repose was short. God was on the sea as well as on the dry land, for He made and rules them both. Perhaps Jonah did not think of that; certainly no such thoughts entered the minds of the managers of the ship when they bargained to carry him; their chief concern was to get they fare, to obtain the profits.
We are told that the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken. We have no reason to think this storm came up in a moment. Doubtless it arose as most storms arise. First they saw the clouds gathering in the heavens, and then they heard the pealing of the thunder and the bellowing of the waves. Next came fiery shafts of lightning and sweeping torrents of rain, until at last they seemed to be hurled upon the drifting elements into the very jaws of death. And now fear strikes terror to their hearts. Brave sailors tremble. The hardy mariners, reared amid the clashing waves, accustomed to fierce gales, grow pale, and cry every man unto his god, and cast forth the burden of the ship. Meanwhile, Jonah sleeps, in selfish unconsciousness of the danger. The crew toil and pray until all hope is gone, ere they disturb him. They resort to every other means of rescue before they think of the real cause of their trouble. How blind, how stupid they are! And when, as a last resort, their extreme peril drives them to turn to him, what a strange idea they have of the way in which he is to help them. They do not plainly tell him that he is the cause of their danger, that he has basely ruined them and deserves to die. As yet, they have no thought of expelling him from the ship; they are not going to break the "union" between them, to violate the marine "constitution" by which they "guaranteed" to carry over all whom they took on board. They were going to have the storm abated in a more religious way, and proposed to Jonah a sort of "compromise." "What meanest thou, O sleeper!" said they. "Arise, and call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us, that we perish not." How subservient they were to him! How humble they were in his presence! Not a word of reproof for his guilt did they offer; they did not even hint that he ought to repent of his wickedness before he prayed. They were ready to join with him in a prayer meeting or time of fasting for the common safety. They believed with a modern orator, not long since deceased, that when people meet to worship, they never ought to have their consciences stung or their minds perplexed by being reminded of outside, business passions and delinquencies.
And no doubt Jonah prayed; sure we are that he talked very religiously. "I am a Hebrew," said he; one of God's chosen ones; one of his favorites. "I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, which made the sea and the dry land." This sounds well; he is strictly Orthodox; no "infidel fanatic" he, but one of your sound, conservative men. He believes in none of these wild reform schemes. He is not tinctured in the least with the Ninevitephobia, and does not intend to run mad with zeal to save those poor degraded idolaters; they are at best but a lower order of beings, "having no rights that Hebrews are bound to respect."
Doubtless, while telling them of his reverence for God, he put on a very grave countenance and assumed a proper dignity; and it seems his language produced the desired effect, for when they heard it, "the men were exceedingly afraid." So far from being shocked at his blasphemy, they came to regard him with awe, and with trembling voices exclaimed, "Why hast thou done this!"
Understanding the power which his hypocritical pretensions had given him over his ignorant associates, Jonah now grows bolder, and tells them plainly that he is the cause of their trouble, and that either he or they must go to the bottom. We should suppose this would be enough, and that they would hesitate no longer. He has frankly told them that there is "an irrepressible conflict" between his life and theirs; that they cannot both continue in the same ship; and has advised them to take him up and cast him into the sea, assuring them that then, and not till then, the sea will be calm. We are not informed how much of menace there was in Jonah's words. It is not said that he agreed not to resist them, but he presented the issue in plain terms, and was ready to meet it. And yet, strange as it may appear, those men still stand trembling and hesitating. So infatuated are they with Jonah, that they will not lay hands on him. Perhaps some of the more hopeful ones imagined that he would jump overboard of his own accord. The storm increases, the waves rush furiously, the spars are flying in every direction, the ship creaks frightfully at every gust, and has already sprung a leak. But there they stand, crying, "What shall we do unto or for thee? What concession can we make? what peace-offering can we bring, that the sea may be calm unto us?" And now they all row hard again to bring the ship to land, and cry unto the Lord, saying, "We beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee, let us not perish for this man's life". But it was all to no purpose; they could not do it. Perhaps they gained a few knots here and there as they approached some port or harbor, but the storm did not pass away; still "the sea wrought and was tempestuous against them." Stupid men! why do they not cast Jonah into the sea, as he has challenged them to do! Perhaps most of them have about concluded that it ought to be done, but then there are some of the crew who are personally interested in him, and threaten to lay down their oars and do nothing to resist the storm if he is touched. And then the captain of the Vessel is especially desirous to fulfil his contract to carry him over. It may
<c03>
be that Jonah, having some secret misgivings and fears that all might not be well with him, made the captain take the oath of his office that he would do it. And so there they are in an evil case; destruction is nearing them every moment, and still they cannot decide what policy to adopt. It is all a mere matter of policy with them. Doubtless, personal interests and pride have great weight They had undertaken to carry Jonah, and they were ashamed to have it said they could not weather the storm with him aboard. We do not know but the captain and some of his crew owned property in Nineveh, and of course they would not like to have Jonah go and cry against it that it should be overthrown. Such preaching would tend to depreciate its value, if it did not accomplish its ruin. Or they might have had some rich relatives living there, for whose interests they were solicitous. It may be that they had planned to provide Jonah with a rich parish and a fat salary over in Tarshish, and so keep him away from Nineveh, and prevent him from agitating against its crimes. All these plans would be upset if they threw him into the sea. They knew God's hand was in their trouble, and they were by no means certain that he would not provide some ship or whale to take him in if they let him go. Those were days of miracles, and such things were not so uncommon then as now. And more than this, since the world began, human experience has taught that these agitators are the hardest men to get rid of, of any in the world. They will turn up somewhere and in some way, even after we have thrown them into the sea. There is no getting rid of them, unless they can be corrupted-bought up for money.
But the time at length came when something must be done with Jonah, and that immediately. The furthest extremity had been reached. Either he alone or the whole crew, ship and all, must go into the deep. And as the very last resort, they "took him up and cast him forth into the sea." They did not do it until they were obliged to, in order to save themselves. They tried every conceivable means to rescue him. Murderer though he was at heart, a poor, wretched, guilty refugee from the presence of God, and blasted with his curse; though he had never done them any thing but evil, and they knew nothing of him but wickedness; though, had it not been for him, they might have had a prosperous voyage and long since reached the shore, yet, so infatuated are they, that they cling to him to the very last. Only to save the ship itself, and after it has been demonstrated, by wretched experience, that it can be saved in no other way, will they give him up. Their motto was, "Let Jonah perish rather than the whole crew, for, if the ship goes down, he of course must go in it; but we will save both if we possibly can." But they could not; and so, after a long time and much danger and suffering, they were compelled to do just what they ought to have done at first. True, it was no great credit to them thus to be forced into a compliance with duty. Thus they were guilty of an immense waste of property; and they might have saved themselves a great deal of suffering by doing as they ought. But they deserved it all; it was only a reward of their own works. As soon as they changed their course, they had no trouble. We are informed that when "they took up Jonah and cast him forth into the sea, the sea ceased from her raging." Not one moment before, but just then, did it become still.
I will not detain you, readers, to explain this parabolic chapter, but leave you to make your own application. I need simply add, that here in our own time and country, we have our Jonah, our Nineveh, and that our ship of state is being furiously driven by the storm. May we learn wisdom by the experience of the ancient mariners ere it is too late!

ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION FOR BARN-STABLE COUNTY.
This body met, pursuant to notice, in Masonic Hall, Hyannis, on Saturday, March 15, 1802, at 2 o'clock, P. M. The meeting was called to order and organized by choosing officers, as follows:-
President-EZEKIEL THACHER, of Yarmouth.
Vice Presidents-Alvan Howes, of Barnstable, and Warren Hinckley, of Hyannis Port.
Secretaries-Edwin Coombs and Francis Hinkly, of Hyannis, and Joshua Robbins and John W. Emery, of Harwich.
Messrs. Ezekiel Thacher and Francis Hinkly, and Mrs. Alice Thacher, were, on motion, chosen a Financial Committee.
The inclemency of the weather and the bad state of the roads were very unfavorable to a large attendance during both days of the meeting, though on Sunday afternoon and evening the attendance was very good-far better than could have been reasonably anticipated under the circumstances. But though the audiences were thus rendered necessarily slim,-especially on the first day,-the various speakers who shared in the deliberations seemed endowed with unusual power. Their utterances were full of inspiration and quickening energy. Of course, any attempt to report them correctly or fully, with the poor facilities at the command of the acting Secretary, would be impossible. He must therefore content himself by giving the reader a very meagre and fragmentary account of what was said, giving as nearly the substance of their remarks as possible.
PARKER PILLSBURY, of Concord, N. H., made the opening address. He dilated upon the wealth and greatness of the country, and its large professions of freedom and equality; yet its greatness was a sham and a delusion, and its democracy a lie. Europe thinks we are a Republic, but we are not. She points her liberals to us now in the hour of our abasement, and says, "Behold the fruits of democratic government!"
The right of a State to separate itself from the Government, under just limitations, he held to be positive and absolute. But the manner of doing so must be proper. Nay, he had even said at the first, "Let the South go!" He could not say so now; neither had he any sympathy with the proposition to buy off the slaveholders.
He spoke with his usual earnestness and at considerable length, and was followed in some well-timed and appropriate remarks by Rev. Daniel Whittemore, a veteran of ninety-one years, well known upon old Cape Cod in "days lang syne," and by Loring F. Moody. The last named gentleman took a very hopeful view of the present state of things in this country; felt that good must come out of the conflict, and was not at all inclined to fret at the course of events. We were mere passive instruments in the hand of God. "Whatever is, is right," etc. At the close of his remarks, the Convention adjourned to 7 1/2 o'clock.
Convention met in the evening pursuant to adjournment-Ezekiel Thacher in the chair.
Parker Pillsbury took the floor. He animadverted at some length upon Mr. Moody's position that we were "mere passive instruments," etc. He believed that, in a certain sense, he had as much to do with the affairs of this world as God has. Theoretically, there might be a view in which the doctrine was true; but for all practical purposes it was false and mischievous, and fostered a spirit of indifference and indolence fatal to all reform, which tended to weaken the sense of moral responsibility. We must quicken and keep alive the conscience. There is little danger at this time that the cause of liberty and human progress will sustain injury by an extreme tendency in the minds of men to view only the dark side of things. The danger all came from a public inclination directly the opposite of this. "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
What boots it that men be made nominally free by this war, if at its close there is to be returned back upon the country the wreck of a profligate and demoralized army?-if "none calleth for justice"?-if the nation is to be carried down with the lava current of moral ruin which war is likely to entail upon the country? We cannot cast out the devil of Slavery by the devil; we must cast it out by Jesus. Waiting for a "military necessity" will not do it See how
<c04>
guilty the North has been!-even more guilty than the South!-and can it now hope for salvation by abolishing slavery under the war power? And is not this the utmost virtue that it proposes to practice? Not because slavery is a crime, and ought to be abolished; but because we shall be ruined if we don't.
War teaches terrible instructions. In it, soldiers are constantly taught by example to override and trample upon law, liberty and humanity. What to them is the inviolability of property?-what to them the sacredness of human life?
The nation has reached a fearful crisis of its disease; and if physician or nurse abate one iota of their vigilance, it must go by the board. The general profligacy of this nation-it must and it will be punished. It is only through compliance with the laws of Humanity and Justice that salvation can come. Mr. Phillips sometimes delivers a lecture upon the "Lost Arts"; Mr. Pillsbury wondered if he included Repentance!
E. H. Heywood, of Boston, who arrived by the evening train, was here announced, and invited to address the meeting. He was, he said, inclined, on the whole, to take a hopeful view of our national affairs. A marvellous change has taken place all over the North, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, since the Abolitionists of Boston were beset by a mob at Tremont Temple a year ago.
The Abolitionists are sometimes charged with having begun the war. When a father takes his refractory and disobedient son across his knee, suppose that son should say, "Look here, father,-who began this 'ere war?" The Government began this war, by planting the seeds of it in the Constitution.
Mr. Heywood's remarks were of exceeding interest, but unfortunately, the Secretary's notes of them were not as full as those which were preserved of his speeches of the succeeding day.
Mr. Moody followed. He referred to some of the prophecies of Democrats and Abolitionists, and read an extract from a Democratic journal, in which the editor uttered the prediction that the Government would not be sustained by the North in putting down the rebellion. He read also a beautiful prophetic poem by Whittier, as an offset to the treasonable language contained in the paragraph first read. He also illustrated the blindness and fanaticism of those who charged the responsibility of the war upon the Abolitionists by supposing that in a certain city an alarm of fire is sounded; the firemen awake, and rubbing their eyes, get up and run impetuously to the rescue with their engines, cursing at every step those who gave the alarm, and telling them if they had not raised such a pother, there would have been no fire!
When Mr. Moody had concluded, the meeting adjourned to Sunday morning, at 10 1/2 o'clock.
Convention met on Sunday morning, as per adjournment-Alvan Howes in the chair.
Mr. Heywood led off in a speech of much force and eloquence. The highest office, he said, is not to be President, but to be right. Dr. South-side Adams doesn't like thick lips and a woolly head; but he worships in the creed of St. Augustine-a woolly-headed theology! Majorities, he said, determined nothing. God still wields the thunderbolts of Justice, though Satan secedes, with all hell at his command.
Lying was one of the "fine arts" of war. Men call it strategy. The world had not advanced very far, yet it had advanced. Massachusetts had not even cut her eye-teeth yet upon the question of human rights. Jesus marched to Calvary with his cross. By the example of his professed disciples in these days, he should have marched to Jerusalem at the head of an army as Major-General Jesus! He should have enlisted a body of Zouaves in Palestine, and marched against Herod and Pilate!
In his view, Mr. Heywood said, the President's recent message had signs of hope in it. There were other hopeful signs also. Edward Everett, Caleb Cushing, and the New York Herald had risen for prayers! This is not anarchy which we see. These clouds show a silver lining. It is the pouring out of the sixth vial of the Apocalypse, to be succeeded by the glorious Millennium.
Mr. Pillsbury followed Mr. Heywood, criticising severely the course of the Republican party, declaring that their platform had sunk so low that Stephen Arnold Douglas, were he living, would have to go down a whole flight of stairs to get to it. The first use the Republicans made of their power was the offer of a guaranty to the slave States that slavery should not be disturbed.
We need for these times, he said, words of fearful warning. It is no time to speak comfort to the people to-day. Abraham Lincoln and that Jezebel wife of his know all the plans and purposes of the South, and do not try to defeat them. Jeff. Davis and his pirates know also the plans and purposes of the North, and they fear Lincoln and his whole army less than they did John Brown with his handful of twenty men.
Convention adjourned to 2 o'clock, P. M.
On calling the Convention to order in the afternoon, Edwin Coombs presented the two following resolutions:-
Resolved, That this Convention utterly repudiates the doctrine, very commonly assented to, that "obedience to wicked laws is the duty of the citizen so long as such laws remain on the statute-book"; and that we here renew our solemn protest against the shameless and atheistical assumption that any prince, potentate or power whatsoever can by any decree or law justly deprive a citizen or subject of his rights, or absolve him from the moral obligations imposed upon him by God's higher law.
Resolved, That the day has now arrived, and the opportunity is presented, for a more humane and philanthropic legislation; and that it becomes the imperative duty of Government to "proclaim liberty to the captive," and "let the oppressed go free"; and while doing this, there is imposed upon it the equal duly of providing, with a liberal and benevolent hand, for the exigencies likely to arise from the adoption of such a policy.
On motion, they were received for discussion; after which, Parker Pillsbury presented the following resolutions, which were also received for discussion:-
Resolved, That in the main issues presented in the present conflict, the North may be wholly right and the South wholly wrong; but this only convicts the North of being just as vile and guilty as the South, on the great cause of the war, which all sensible and honest men admit to be Slavery. For whereas the South wages the war on the plea that the North has interfered and proposes still further to interfere with her constitutional right to hold slaves, the Federal Government has to this hour disclaimed all intention, wish or right to interfere with the slave property or prerogative of any loyal citizen of the Government, in any, even of the revolted and most rebellious of the States.
Resolved, That the position and purpose of the Government remain essentially unchanged, and the President so avows in his recent message to Congress. The Union with slaveholders, therefore, is still unbroken-the constitutional covenant with death is not yet annulled-the confederate agreement with hell still stands; and though, under the war power, every slave might be immediately set free, not even the National Capital is yet cleansed of the abomination of either slaveholding or slave-hunting; and in the army and navy, such commanders as Commodore Goldsborough and General Burnside are complimenting North Carolina men-stealers on their Christianity! and assuring them that in the North, "the sacred obligations of the Christian character" are pledged "in no manner or way to interfere with their laws, constitutionally established, their institutions of any kind whatever, their property of any sort, or their usages in any respect," unless forced to do so by some necessity which seems not yet to exist.
Resolved, That we must, therefore, as Abolitionists, faithful and true, continue to inscribe on our banner "No Union with Slaveholders, under Repub-
<c05>
lican or Democratic administrations; in peace or war, in North or South; and though joyful at every manifestation of improved public sentiment in favor of Liberty and Justice, and against the crimes and cruelties of the Southern oppressors, our demand still is, that every slave be immediately emancipated, not as a "military necessity," but "in the name of humanity, and according to the laws of the living God."
Resolved, That the popular religion of the North, as garnered up in Presbyterianism, Methodism, Congregationalism, Episcopacy, and the powerful denomination of Baptists, that has for thirty years resisted the demands of the Anti-Slavery enterprise, and maintained almost unbroken ministerial and sacramental fellowship with the slave-breeding and slave-holding churches of the South, but is now engaged in butchering in battle the very brethren with whom but a little while ago it ate and drank the communion bread and wine, is now too clearly seen to be a compound of worldly conformity, hypocritical pretence, and unblushing wickedness and disregard of the claims of humanity, to be longer mistaken by any except such as are given up to strong delusion to believe in lies, that they may suffer the fatal consequences.
Mr. Moody here obtained the floor, and read an extract from a journal in his possession in regard to John Brown; after which, he presented his views upon the two conflicting ideas, Slavery and Freedom, in which he endeavored to show that good must come out of it; that it exhibited only a crisis of the nation's disease, etc.
At the close of Mr. Moody's speech. Mr. Pillsbury occupied a few moments in discussing the duties, responsibilities and office of the Abolitionists,-their progress, &c. From the first, they had encountered opposition from the Church, which had never ceased to malign and persecute them. It was a long time before the Church could be got to say that slavery was even an evil; another long pause, and the Abolitionists drove them to admit that it was a sin. It came hard, like pulling teeth, but it came at last. This admission caused them a split in the Methodist denomination. But we are not to think, because the Church begins at last to come to its senses, that the millennium has come. O, no! there is work to be done in her by Abolitionists for this many a day; and they must still drink the sacrament of suffering, as the soldier must drink his.
The remainder of the afternoon session was occupied in a short address by Mr. Coombs, of which the Secretary has preserved no notes.
On motion, adjourned to 7 1/2 o'clock, evening.
EVENING SESSION. Mr. Heywood led in the deliberations of the evening. He took occasion to object to that clause of Mr. Pillsbury's second resolution in which it was asserted that "the position and purpose of the Federal Government remain unchanged." The President, in his late message, had certainly taken a step forward. He had proposed the adoption by Congress of a resolution "that the United States ought to cooperate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery,"-a measure which he would not have recommended six months ago. And he furthermore says, in his message, that "such means as may seem indispensable, or may obviously promise great efficiency toward ending the struggle, must and will come." Mr. Heywood submitted whether this was not a very distinct intimation that if the border slave States did not see fit to adopt emancipation, with such encouragement from the Federal Government, such emancipation would then be accomplished under the war power. He (Mr. H.) would not be unreasonably captious. Does a mother box the ears of her child because, in its first attempts to walk, it is clumsy? Does she not rather rejoice at, and encourage, its earliest efforts?
Mr. Heywood commented upon the President's recommendation to colonize the slaves. It would keep eight Great Easterns constantly employed, plying each once a month, to transport even the annual increase. Colonize the slaves!-why, they are a part of the continent! You might as well talk of colonizing the hands and leaving the arms-of colonizing the stomach and leaving the mouth. There were five thousand blacks in Kansas, not one of whom had become a public charge. The "contrabands" at Fortress Monroe are more than self-sustaining. The blacks in the West Indies export annually $27 per man; the whites here in the North export but $13 per man. Yet the New York Herald says the blacks in the West Indies do nothing but lie upon their backs, and look up into the blue sky! Proof this, is it not, that they are smarter, lying upon their backs, than the "universal Yankee nation"?
The sacrifices of the war he next referred to. The expenses of the war, should it be ended by early summer, would not be less than $700,000,000, while it would be a fair estimate to place the sacrifice of human life at three hundred thousand souls. And yet this was as nothing compared with the demoralization of a vast army of volunteers soon to be turned back upon the country.
You talk about reconciling North and South upon some basis short of the abolition of slavery. You might as well attempt to reconcile Paradise and Perdition. It is the negro who marshals your soldiers. Whoever would purchase peace by restoring the old Union, with slavery in it, is a traitor. You think to restore peace by putting down anti-slavery;-you cannot do it. Put down anti-slavery! You might as well get up a mob of owls and bats to put out the sun!
Mr. Pillsbury, after offering some remarks upon the finances of the Convention, paid a compliment to Senator Wilson for his faithful labors thus far to cleanse the sanctuary of the nation of its slave pens. He then proceeded to say that it was not the cry of peace that alarmed him; but it was the acceptance by the Government of terms even more dangerous, under the name of peace, under the plea of restoring the old Union. Therefore it was that he said amen when his friend Heywood declared that whoever would restore the old Union, with slavery in it, was a traitor. The President had said, substantially, in his late message: "If you rebels will lay down your arms and come back into the Union, the war will be ended; and furthermore, if you will emancipate your slaves gradually, we will pay you for it." That is the utmost that he dares to propose, under the Constitution. He is very careful to say, that "such a proposition on the part of the Federal Government sets up no claim of a right to interfere with slavery within State limits;" and, a little further on, he declares that "a practical acknowledgment of the national authority would render the war UNNECESSARY, and the war would AT ONCE CEASE." Here, then, we have a distinct avowal, from his own lips, that Abraham Lincoln "would restore the old Union with slavery." Can any thing, then, be said of him less than that he is a traitor, by even Mr. Heywood's admission?
The New York Tribune says that the Republicans made haste to do all that they could do, under the Constitution, for slavery. They had even offered to introduce an article into the Constitution guaranteeing the return of fugitive slaves; and President Lincoln would this day kill his fattest calf to feast the traitorous South, if she would return to her allegiance. Mr. Pillsbury here pronounced a scathing rebuke against President Lincoln and his wife for their most shameful and unwarrantable lack of sympathy with the nation in its distress, as evidenced by Mrs. Lincoln's late grand party at Washington, the gorgeous splendor of which so completely monopolized the pens of Washington correspondents at the time. President Lincoln and his wife feasting with traitors and conspirators while the nation was in mourning! So we read it in history, that "Nero fiddled while Rome was burning!" The whole nation must go into mourning at the funeral of Mrs. Lincoln's son, and the arrangements for the celebration of Washington's birthday must be suspended to pay a tribute of respect to her grief; but never does the shadow of her presence bless the lowly couch of the dying soldier, whose life must pay for her ease!
Mr. Heywood objected to Mr. Pillsbury's general
<c06>
interpretation of the President's message. His (Heywood's) view of the document was the one entertained by Congress. Mr. Hickman so understood it and pronounced Mr. Lincoln's proposition "a fearful warning to the South." The President says, virtually, to the South-"Take what you can get now, or by-and-by we will refuse even that."
Some further remarks were offered by Mr. Pillsbury, upon the general tenor Mr. Heywood, when the resolutions of the former were, on motion, adopted. Mr. Coombs resolutions were also taken up, read and adopted.
On motion, it was ordered that the Secretary transmit a copy of the proceedings of this Convention to the publishers of the Boston Liberator, National Anti-Slavery Standard, Cape Cod Republican, and Cape Cod Advocate, with the request to publish the same.
On motion, adjourned sine die.
EDWIN COOMBS. Secretary.

DEATH OF A NOBLE WOMAN.
Some of the readers of the Inquirer may remember an item which appeared in your columns, extracted from the Boston Traveller, in which your correspondent gave some account of little "Daisy," a child whose father was formerly a slave, and both whose parents had African blood in their veins, though they, as well as their child, were so nearly white as with difficulty to be distinguished from their Anglo-Saxon neighbors. Mrs. PEAK, the mother of little Daisy, was exceedingly well educated, having been sent to Northern schools for that purpose. She might readily have separated herself from her despised race, denied her allegiance to it in lineage, and thus escaped contumely. She would not do this, but refused, like Moses of old, to be considered as one of her people's oppressors, "choosing rather to suffer affliction with" them, than to enjoy such sinful pleasure as forsaking them might afford. She devoted her time to their instruction. She married a slave, but together they bought his freedom. He became independent in means (the slaves cannot take care of themselves, you know!), owned two houses in Hampton, <illegible> and one or two thousand dollars. She constantly taught the colored people as far as possible, keeping a private school in her own house-very private the laws of Virginia and their penalties required it to be -and through her instrumentality, many an else ignorant slave was taught to read and write, several of whom were, at last, useful as preachers of the Gospel to their people. When Hampton was burned by the rebels'. Mr. and Mrs. Peak lost their all in the flames. But she still continued her vocation as teacher, and opened a free school for the contrabands in the little red cottage where they found a resting place. Teaching in a cold room-the best her means could afford-some consumptive tendencies were developed, and she soon was laid on the bed of sickness. But she continued her usefulness and gathered the children about her bed, and taught them as well as her feeble health allowed. On Saturday I saw and prayed with her at her request. It was a pleasant day, that last earthly day of hers and particularly pleasant in her sick-room. She asked her friends to sing two hymns which are in our book of "Army Meloilies," and which she loved especially. One is entitled, "Homeward Bound," and its last verse is as follows:
"Into the harbor of heaven now we glide;
We're home at last, home at last.
Softly we drift on the bright silver tide;
We're home at last, borne at last.
Glory to God! all our dangers are o'er,
We stand secure on the glorified shore;
Praise be to God! we will shout evermore.
We're home at last, home at last."
The other hymn seemed significant of the "rest" to be enjoyed in that glorified "home," which thought to one whose life had been so full of trial as had Mrs. Peak's, it is not wonderful should be a sweet and comforting one. It speaks of rest in final home, even to those who had been slaves as had been her husband and most of her associates-yes, even for the despised people of color to whom she was allied by some slender tie of blood, which, slender as it was, she was neither ashamed of nor would deny, but felt the obligation it imposed to labor for her oppressed and scorned race. Yet, doubtless she often found comfort from the sentiment which these lines contained, and which were favorites with her in her last sickness:
" In the Christian home in glory,
There remains a land of rest;
There my Savior's gone before me,
To fulfil my soul's request.
On the other side of Jordan,
In the sweet fields of Eden,
Where the tree of life is blooming,
There is rest for the weary,
There is rest for the weary,
There is rest for you."
Just at midnight, on all the ships in Hampton Roads, and which are so near us that the cry on shipboard is distinctly heard on shore, the watchman cried aloud, as usual, "Twelve o'clock, and all's well." The sound penetrated the sick chamber, and the dying invalid, apparently, heard it. She smiled sweetly, and then breathed her last sigh, and entered upon that "rest for the weary." exchanging midnight's earthly gloom for the radiant noon of heaven.
Fortress Monroe. [REV. A. B. FULLER.]
For another tribute to the memory of Mrs. Peak, see our poetical department.]
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing, 
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
THE PULPIT AND ROSTRUM
No. 28.
THE WAR: A SLAVE UNION OR A FREE!
The Speech of Hon. MARTIN. F CONWAY, delivered in the House of Representatives, and revised by the author, is published in the PULPIT AND ROSTRUM, No. 28.
Three different men-WM. LLOYD GARRISON, of Massachusetts, GARRET DAVIS, of Kentucky, ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, of Georgia-are represented in the Pulpit and Rostrum, Nos. 26 and 27, (double number, two in one, price 20 cents,) as follows:-
The Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War: A Lecture by William Lloyd Garrison, delivered at the Cooper Institute, New York, January 14, 1862.
The War not for Confiscation or Emancipation: A Speech by Hon. Garrett Davis, delivered in U. S. Senate, January 23, 1862.
African Slavery, the Corner-Stone of the Southern Confederacy: A Speech by Hon. Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President of the Confederacy, in which the speaker holds that "African slavery, as it exists among us, is the proper status of the negro in our form of civilization;" and "our new Government, [the Southern Confederacy] is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical and moral truth."
The Pulpit and Rostrum, No. 25, contains the celebrated address of WENDELL PHILLIPS: in support of The War for the Union. It is delivered in the finished and unequalled style of Mr. Phillips, and has called forth many commendatory notices.
The Pulpit and Rostrum gives full Phonographic Reports (revised by the authors) of the Speeches and Discourses of our most eminent public speakers. It thus constitutes a series most valuable for perusal or reference.
Price 10 cents a number, or $1 a year (for 12 numbers.) E. D. BARKER. PUBLISHER.
135 grand St., New York.
March 27.
