THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisement inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERTOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any depts of the paper. viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDSON QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 23. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 7, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1589.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
WHAT ARE WE FIGHTING FOR?
Are we fighting merely to protect Washington and Cairo?
Are we fighting merely to keep the enemy out of the free States?
Are we fighting merely to retake Fort Sumter? 
When shall we retake it? 
What shall we do with it?
What shall we do further, after we have retaken it?
Do we simply wish to retaliate?
How will injuring the Southerners benefit us? 
Is retaliation Christian?
What else shall we do besides retaliating?
Can we conquer the South in the fevers and heat of
Of this summer?
Are we sure we can do it next winter? 
What will be the benefit of a long war to our commerce and our morals?
What shall we gain by conquering the Southerners?
Can we subdue them into loving obedience?
What is any other obedience worth?
Are we fighting to enslave our fellow-citizens?
Are we fighting to free their slaves?
How shall we do it?
Will the masters consent?
Shall we free the slaves against the master’s consent?
Will the masters then ever yield us any obedience which will not cost more to get and to keep, than it is worth?
Do we want any States in this Union which can only be kept in by other Slates’ bayonets?
Will this war conciliate the Southerners?
Will anything ever conciliate them into obedience but compromise?
How long will a peace based on new compromises to slavery last?
Can we make the seceded States willing members of our Union?
Do we want unwilling members?
Are we sure we can keep the seceded States in the Union, if they do not come back with a wish to be friends with us?
Will conquering them make them wish to be friends with us?
If they do not wish to be friends with us, why should we keep them in the Union?
Will not the withdrawal of Government protection and patronage give them a good opportunity to consider what these are worth?
May we not be obliged to let them out of the Union any way, sooner or later?
If we must let them go, how much blood shall we shed first?
Cannot the next Congress so amend the Constitution as to let them go?
Cannot the States that shall remain, give each other such guaranties as will prevent any further secession without general consent?
If Jeff. Davis is in any danger of being conquered, is he not sharp enough to see it?
Will not this exhibition of our strength make him glad to make peace on reasonable terms?
What are we fighting about that is worth fighting for?—Corr. Journal of Commerce.

[From the same canting, traitorous sheet.]
Fellow-countrymen, and ye men in authority, be not deceived. Stop now, before it is too late; ere the breach has acquired such depth and breadth as no line can measure, and no lead fathom!
Who are they who now counsel you to this madness of coercion and subjugation, that will cause your brother’s blood to cry out from the ground? Tell me, are they not the Beechers and Greeleys, the Phillipses and Garrisons of Abolitionism? And will you be led by them? And who are they that appeal now to both sections of our land to hold to the truth; who but the men who are most ready now, and ever, to stand by the Union, its Constitution and flag?
You have firmly responded to the appeal to defend the Capital; but if the voice of warning was ventured upon, even in the British Parliament, and was unheeded because of the blind infatuation that could see only the right they claimed “to shear the wolf,” oh, beware, my countrymen, how you allow yourselves to be blinded in a matter where your culpability will be only the greater because of the denial you assert to claims urged successfully by your ancestors, as well as those of “JUNIUS.”

A GREAT BLUSTERER.
John Forsyth, editor of the Mobile Register, and one of the recent commissioners to Washington, vents his indignation upon the North in this way:—
“The cry of the North is for war! War to save the Union, to defend the United States flag, ‘to show that we have a government.’ These are the pretences of sheer hypocrisy. They are the patriotic gloss given to a false cause. The cement that unites the North is rage at the inevitable mischief that has been done to Northern property by the loss of the trade and tribute of ten, perhaps twelve of the richest and most productive States of the late Union.
If they want war, give it to them to their heart’s content—to the knife and the hilt. Give them battle every morning and every evening, whenever we can marshal a force for the fight. Nor should we stop to receive it. It ought to be sought for and invited. Nor wait to drive them from confederate soil, but force the war to their own borders. We hold that the enemy should be driven from Washington, not because we want Washington, but because it is a slave State, and because our brethren in Maryland should be released from the iron heel of military power that is upon their necks. Whose blood does not boil to read of the proud men of Maryland overrun and subdued by the outcasts of Massachusetts, under the lead of that scoundrel, Gen. Butler, who played his part in the political disturbances that were the immediate cause of this revolution? Maryland should be freed at all hazards, and the enemy driven beyond the Susquehanna. 
Defensive aggression is the Southern policy in this war. The surest and the safest way to defend our homes is to meet the enemy at a distance from them-to keep away the havoc and devastation of conflict from our women and children as far as possible. The North has undertaken to conquer the South. We must make up our minds to conquer the North, at least so far as to dictate the terms of peace. To this end, every man must devote himself to arms. Nothing else is of value, nothing worthy to be thought of in comparison to the sacred duty of defending the liberties of our county in this atrocious war. We must become a nation of soldiers, and every man ready to take the field when called upon. An active and desperate war is always a short one. We cannot make this war too bloody or desperate.”
<c02>
THE HAND-WRITING ON THE WALL.
The North is at blood-heat from Maine to Nebraska. Every city, village, and county is in arms. One continuous roll of drums sweeps the land. They outnumber the South more than two to one. They boast of untold millions of wealth, and exhaustless provisions at command. They are armed and equipped; they have monopolized always the manufacture of arms on this continent; and, besides this, while they were professing peace two months ago to the South, they had an agent in Europe buying 500,000 more arms of the most approved pattern. These are being received by every steamer. And what is the spirit that moves the vast North? Revenge and hate stream through every column of their journals. Conciliation, peace, and mercy are banished words. “War to the knife,” “extermination of the rebels,” “crush the traitors,” are the common forms of their expressions. The South is to be overrun and crushed forever; her proud spirit broken, her property confiscated, her families scattered and slaughtered, and then to remain, through all time, a dependency on the “free and sovereign“ North. Powerful armies of fanatics and plunderers are to be quartered in our cities and towns in the South, dictating to us laws at the point of the bayonet, and the slaves to be turned loose with more than savage atrocity on helpless women and children. Every friend we had in the North is silenced, the entire press is against us, and the ministers of religion, without distinction, are praying for the “holy cause,”—the utter reduction of the rebels. At the bottom of all this lies the insane idea, held by many of the leaders, that it is their religious duty to exterminate slavery, and make the “Irrepressible Conflict” doctrine universal. The men who have acted with and for the South—Pierce, Buchanan, Fillmore, Cass, Everett, and Dickinson,—all have bowed before the torrent of fanaticism; all have left us, and chime their voices in the fearful chorus of Northern indignation. Aged ministers of the gospel, presidents of colleges, and editors of religious newspapers,—all, without exception, so far as we know, urge on the maddened and bloody populace. The vast North staggers under its load of wrath, waiting only for orders from the usurper Lincoln, to overwhelm the South with blood and chains.—Nashville (Tenn.) paper.

A REBEL ESTIMATE OF THE YANKEE CHARACTER.
The Richmond (Va.) Examiner informs us as follows:—
“The Yankees are the lineal descendants of the Vi-Kings, the sea-rovers and land-robbers of Norway and Denmark. They retain all the qualities and characteristics of their illustrious ancestry. They are the best privateers, the best pirates, the best fillibusters, and the best kidnappers in the world. They are, besides, the wire-grass of nations, and gradually and insidiously worm themselves among the people of various countries, and cheat them out of their lands, when they are not strong enough to rob them of them.
Yet, they would have a monopoly of dishonesty, and insist that what is honorable and reputable in themselves, is highly unbecoming in other people.
For a Yankee to be a sharp fellow and half a rogue is all right, for it is his metier; but the chivalrous and honorable Southron disgraces himself, in Yankee eyes, when he takes to Yankee ways. This is all perfectly right Stealing, lying and cheating are creditable in a Yankee, disgraceful to a Southron. But retaliation is not theft, any more than killing, in self-defence, is murder.
The Yankee threatened, and is attempting to sack, plunder and burn our cities; to stir up our slaves to insurrection; to steal our lands, and to violate our women. When he had done all this, and not until he had done it, we turn round to him, and to make him stay his hand, propose to issue letters of marque and reprisal, to meet him on his favorite element, and to compete with him in his favorite and time-honored pursuit. Instead of admiring our fairness and our chivalry, and complimenting us on the occasion, he sets up a howl of abuse and indignation that pandemonium, let loose, could hardly emulate.”

PICAYUNE BUTLER.
Our citizens feel considerable relief at getting rid of Gen. Butler—in other words, Picayune or Strychnine Butler—who was in command for some days of this military division. A more conceited or bigger fool has not appeared in Baltimore since the National Democratic Convention last spring, when the same popinjay coxcomb was here figuring as a great Breckinridge man. Our citizens of intelligence and polite attainments, who were obliged to come in official contact with him, were absolutely disgusted. Supreme respect for law and order alone prevented his getting into difficulty. Fancy the old mush-head seated upon a charger, armed with sword and pistols, a cigar in his mouth and half tight, surrounded by his staff and body-guard, riding the streets in open day, blustering like a swelled frog, assuming importance much beyond what that reptile did when it swelled to bursting at beholding the ox. Thank fortune, “ Picayune Butler“ has gone from town, as is well understood, at the bidding of his master, and left a gentleman—Gen. Cadwallader— to adorn the position he encumbered with a mountebank.—Baltimore corr. of Charleston Courier.

ETERNAL HATE TO THE NORTH.
The National Intelligencer says a subscriber writes from Athens, Georgia, May 8th, as follows:—
There is now no Union or Reconstruction party in the South. My business brings me in intimate connection with the best men of this State, also with the masses. One universal remark is, ”undying hate to the North.” I have been for the Union, but now I am for eternal hate to the North. I will advocate, at the next Legislature, a bill making it penal to purchase anything made at the North, except munitions of war and things taken in war. This is no personal feeling on my individual part, but the feeling of the masses, and I only write to you that you may honestly know how the people stand. The whole State is in arms, and if we fail, many persons propose to desolate the country and retreat; and if that will not do, to offer the country to England as a colony. Anybody, anything, rather than the North. This is the universal opinion of the people. I lately met the prominent men of the State at the executive meeting of the Agricultural Society of the State. We gave all our cash ($4500) to the State; we sold some silver plate for the same purpose. We cut up our large canvass tents to make soldiers’ tents, and most of the members present said they belonged to military companies. An old man, seventy-two years of age, who was a sergeant at Lundy’s Lane and Chippewa, has joined a company and is now in Virginia, with three sons, all in the Georgia army. I mention this that you may know the eternal hate which inspires our people.
<c03>
Selections.
“THE FLAG OF OUR UNION“—WHAT DOES IT SYMBOLIZE?
“OUR TROOPS”-SHALL THEY FIGHT FOR FREEDOM?—OR FOR SLAVERY?
Neutral they cannot be—neutral they ought not to be—neutral they will not be.
It is in vain to say that the war has nothing to do with slavery—that it is only for the support of the government against the rebellion—that the slavery question will take care of itself—or that it must be postponed until the war is over, and be settled afterward.
Slavery has everything to do with the war. It waged the war against anti-slavery; and nothing but anti-slavery can meet and cope with it.
“The Government” that needs to be “supported” is either pro-slavery or anti-slavery. It is not and cannot be neutral. If it is not anti-slavery, then it is pro-slavery. And if it is pro-slavery, then it is essentially on the same side with the Confederates they are making a bluster of fighting against. It is only fighting against itself, and every victory will prove, in the end, a defeat.
If the slavery question “takes care of itself,” without the wise care of the Government, the Government will, perhaps, have to “take care of itself” in its hour of extremity, as it best may.
If the slavery question has to be postponed until after the war-if such a thing could be-then the question whether the war, if successful on our part, is to be a curse or a blessing, would have to be postponed still longer, or at once settled against us.
What, then, does the “flag of our country symbolize”? Are “our troops fighting for slavery, or freedom”?
The following documents may cast some shadows, if not light, on the subject.
Gen. Harney, commanding the U. S. forces in Missouri, issued a Proclamation to “the people of the State of Missouri,” dissuading them against secession, inviting and urging them to remain in the Union, and support the Federal Government. The closing paragraph is as follows:—
Disclaiming, as I do, all desire or intention to interfere, in any way, with the prerogatives of the State of Missouri, or with the functions of its executive or other authorities, yet I regard it as my plain path of duty to express to the people, in respectful, but at the same time decided language, that, within the field and scope of my command and authority, the “supreme law“ of the land must and shall be maintained; an1 no subterfuges, whether in the forms of legislative acts or otherwise, can be permitted to harass or oppress the good and law-abiding people of Missouri. I shall exert my authority to protect their persons and property from violations of every kind, and I shall deem it my duty to suppress all unlawful combinations of men, whether formed under pretext of military organizations or otherwise. WILLIAM S. HARNEY,
Brigadier-General United States Army, Commanding.
We have italicised the words “property,” and “every kind,” to inquire whether “slave property” was not meant to be included. The inquiry, it seems, was suggested to the minds of the slaveholders, which gave rise to the following correspondence:

LETTER TO GEN. HARNEY.
Gen. Wm. S. Harney, Commanding the Military Department of the West, St. Louis, Missouri:
SIR,-In common with thousands who have perused your admirable proclamation of this morning, I return you the thanks of a citizen of Missouri, for its patriotic tone and tranquillizing assurances. There is nothing in this paper, which, in my opinion, needs explanation; yet I wish to be able to answer, with the authority of your name, a question which I have already replied to, on my own judgment. Last evening, a gentleman of the highest respectability and intelligence, from Greene County, Missouri, asked me whether I supposed it was the intention of the United States government to interfere with the institution of negro slavery in Missouri or any slave State, or impair the security of that description of property. Of course, my answer was most unqualifiedly, and almost indignantly, in the negative. I told him that I had no means of forming an opinion that were not open to every other private citizen, but that I felt certain that the force of the United States would, if necessary, be exerted for the protection of this as well as any other kind of property. Will you be good enough to spare, from your engrossing military duties, so much time as may be required to say whether I answered correctly?
I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your most obedient servant,
St. Louis, May 14,1861. THOMAS T. GANTT.

GEN. HARNEY’S REPLY.
MAY 14th, 1861.
Thomas T. Gantt, Esq., St. Louis, Mo.:
'SIR,-I have just received your note of this date, inquiring whether, in my opinion, you were correct in replying to a citizen of South-Western Missouri, as to the purpose of the United States Government, respecting the protection of negro property. I must premise by saying that I have no special instructions on this head from the War Department. But I should as soon expect to hear that the orders of government were directed toward the overthrow of any other kind of property as of this in negro slaves. I entertain no doubt whatever, that you answered the question you mentioned correctly. I should certainly have answered it in the same manner, and I think with the very feelings you describe. I am not a little astonished that such questions could be seriously put. Already, since the commencement of these unhappy disturbances, slaves have escaped from their owners, and have sought refuge in the camps of United States troops from the Northern States, and commanded by a Northern General. They were carefully sent back to their owners. An insurrection of slaves was reported to have taken place in Maryland. A Northern General offered to the Executive of that State the aid of Northern troops under his own command to suppress it. Incendiaries have asked of the President permission to invade the Southern States, and have been warned that any attempt to do this will be punished as a crime. I repeat it, I have no special means of knowledge on this subject but what I have cited, and my general acquaintance with the statesman-like views of the President makes me confident in expressing the opinion above given.
Very respectfully your obedient servant,
WILLIAM S. HARNEY,
Brigadier-General commanding Military
Department of the West.
This is sufficiently explicit. If it rightly expresses the wishes and intentions of the Federal Administration, the questions at the head of this article are answered. The “flag of our Union,” in that case, symbolizes slavery. “Our troops” are being employed for the support of slavery, the antagonist of freedom. “The Almighty,” said Jefferson, “has no attributes which could take sides with us in such a contest” “Our troops“ are, no doubt, brave; but shall they be required to fight against the Almighty? 
“Our flag “-”the flag of our Union“—is indeed sacred. Shall we permit it to be desecrated by transferring it from the fair citadel of freedom, and planting it upon the dark, dreary battlements of slavery?
The New York Tribune’s ingenious and convenient solution of the question, is this:—Protection to
<c04>
slave property is not to be extended to States in rebellion against the government. They must take care of their slave property as they best can. It is only the loyal, the law-abiding, the Union-loving States—the States that submit, quietly to the Administration of President Lincoln—that are to enjoy the paternal protection of the National Government, and the secure possession of their human chattels. The loyal slave States are to remain slave States, and the National Government will see to it that their slaves are kept in subjection, crushed down and throttled, if they attempt to assert their “inalienable rights.” It is only the rebellious, Jeff. Davis States, that are to be given over to the horrors of emancipation, and to the calamity of being deprived of the blessings of slavery! (1)
What a stroke of national policy have we here for the defence of “our glorious Union,” and the crushing out of rebellion! What a tempting bait to the 300,000 slaveholders, at the expense of four million slaves, and six or eight millions of non-slaveholding whites, including the “free State“ men, now under the harrow of the “border ruffians”! These, with the slaves, (three fourths of a million of whom are capable of bearing arms,) our prudent administration can afford to ignore and help trample down, now that it is in process of winning over the slaveholders to their support!
See how the policy is already working, how it is expected to work, and what the result would be, if it should be successfully carried into execution!
Maryland was, lately, in a State of rebellion against the General Government-really so, if not in form. The slaves were about to rise in support, virtually, of the Federal Government.
Our Gen. Butler offers to help Gov. Hicks put them down. This conciliates the slaveholders, and, lo! Maryland becomes a loyal State! Thus we read the import of Gen. Butler’s reply to Gov. Andrew of Massachusetts, in defence of his policy, and in illustration of its benefits!
Thus encouraged, the same policy is apparently pursued in respect to Virginia, and is openly proclaimed by Gen. Harney in Missouri.
What next? Gen. Butler, we are told, is to operate in North Carolina and Tennessee as well as in Virginia. The three States stand dubiously in respect to the Union. How are they to be treated? By the same rule, it may be presumed. “Remain in the Union, and the Federal Government will help you keep down your negroes. Go out of the Union, and we will let your negroes do what they please with you”!
Having thus subdued rebellion in these States, the way will be prepared for the same operation in the Gulf States.
By this programme, the security of the Union and the security of slavery are to go hand in hand. As the one succeeds, so does the other. The result of the war, if successful, on the part of the Government, will be to place slavery on a firmer footing than ever, with renewed assurances and pledges of national support, in all coming time! The demand of the slaveholders, in Congress, last winter, for an amendment of the Constitution for perpetuating slavery, a demand re-echoed by President Buchanan in his message, assented to by Mr. Seward in his speech, and by President Lincoln in his inaugural, recommended by both Houses of Congress and by Gov. Morgan, without distinct remonstrance from any prominent political journal in the country-[by none, except one in the West]-this demand would be likely, in that case, to be acceded to, as the finale of the Republican victory of 1860, and of the glorious Union war of 1861.
But will it succeed? Not unless God is dethroned, or unless, in his righteous decree of reprobation, he is reserving this nation for a more terrible overthrow than could be otherwise reached, and than the world has yet witnessed. It has been believed that he is now coming out of his place to deliver the nation as well as the slaves from the dominion of the slaveholders. These hopes must be disappointed, or else the programme of the Administration, as understood by its two Generals, Butler and Harney, will disappoint its projectors.
It must be acknowledged that the idea of fighting the slaveholders without the help of the slaves, without the help of the God and Refuge of the enslaved, is a daring and an ambitious one. So was the idea of the arch rebel described by Milton, but it proved an impracticable one.
What if, while at war with the slaveholders and the slaves, the Government should suddenly find itself in war, also, with France and Great Britain? What if Northern troops, or a portion of them, with a sprinkling of Abolitionists and Abolition chaplains, should have some scruples of conscience about fighting the battles of slavery, when the issue shall be fully understood? What if the very sections of the free States from whence help chiefly comes, the people whose help is most needed and most relied on, should sympathise in such scruples, and loudly remonstrate? What if God, in his Providence, should permit the forces of Jeff. Davis to prevail over those of President Lincoln? Or, what if, after both the great belligerents, having well nigh annihilated each other, should both sink down exhausted, crippled, and helpless as infants, while hundreds of thousands of stalwart colored men, fresh for the onset, with hearts burning for deliverance, having bided their time, should start up at God’s bidding, seconded by his right arm, and clothed with his thunder, and should walk over the course, in the majesty of freemen?
Who knows what shall be? It will be as God pleases! “The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches“—the sinews of war-“to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill” “Man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, so are the sons of men snared, in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.”
Let all whose loyalty and love of country is based on the impartial love of man, and guided by the love and fear of God, bestir themselves, and utter, earnestly, to those around them, whatever of wisdom is within them. Let them lose no time in petitioning the Chief Magistrate to “proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”-New York Principia.
(1) Read, also, the following extract from a proclamation of Major-General McClellan, of Ohio, “To the Union Men of Western Virginia,” on entering that portion of the State with his troops:—
“The General Government cannot close its ears to the demands you have made for assistance. I have ordered troops to cross the river. They come as your friends and brothers-as enemies only to the armed rebels who are preying upon you. Your homes, your families, your property are safe under our protection. All your rights shall be religiously respected. Not-withstanding all that has been said by the traitors to induce you to believe our advent among you will be signalled by an interference with your slaves, understand one thing clearly: not only will we abstain from all such interference, but we will, on the contrary, WITH AN IRON HAND, crush any attempt at insurrection on their part.”
<c05>
FUGITIVE SLAVES IN WASHINGTON.
To the Editor of the New York Tribune:
SIR,-Ever since the negroes began to show their slight appreciation of the patriarchal institution by escaping to the North, there has been an active, conscientious conflict in the minds of Northern people in regard to returning the fugitives. Every one felt it was a mean business; many believed it was so essentially wicked and cruel that no considerations of State policy would induce them to participate in it, while many who unwillingly sanctioned the delivering up of runaways, silenced objections by saying it was a “constitutional obligation,” and that they would sacrifice their feelings in order to preserve friendly relations between the North and South.
But all things are now changed. Southern Governors forbid the payment of Northern debts; Southern people show their wish to preserve “friendly relations,” by mobbing, tarring, and occasionally hanging such Northern men as may unhappily wander in that inhospitable shore; Southern troops steal arms, arsenals, forts, and whatever else they can lay their hands on; the whole South land shows an utter disregard of “Constitutional obligations,” and the majority repudiate the Constitution altogether. In view of these facts, it is infamous that gentlemen of New York, who have volunteered to protect the liberties of the country, should be required by the Government to catch and return the slaves who escape through the enemy’s country on their way to freedom.
And yet such is the case. Since the 71st Regiment have been in Washington, the guard have, in obedience to orders, arrested more than twenty fugitives escaping from different points in the South. Several have been returned, and a number are now under arrest, awaiting the appearance of their owners.
This is a stretch of magnanimity which would be ludicrous, if it was not so inhuman and cruel.
A fugitive escapes from the enemy, and we volunteer to catch him, keep him, and give him to the owner free of charge. Mr. Webster was right-we do it “with alacrity”! Would the United States Army return a deserter from the Secession lines? And, if the slave is property, would the U. S. Army deliver up a horse which might escape from a cavalry troop of Secessionists?
Besides, it is an outrage on the members of the 71st to require them to assist in so revolting a service. They don’t like it. I know that many of the members regard it as a degrading necessity of their oath to obey orders. Several of them have openly expressed their abhorrence of the business, and complain that, when they went to fight for Liberty, they are made to catch negroes-the business which Southern men consider is the most degrading which a white man can engage in. R. J.

GENERAL BUTLER.
The Richmond Whig, a strong secession paper, devotes a short article in a late issue to Major-General Butler, which we copy entire, as follows:—
“Of the Massachusetts General, who has been sent to Fortress Monroe to lead the army to be there assembled for the subjugation of the South, we know little. Judging by the extract we published the other day, he is not very well read in the history of his country. But he may, nevertheless, be a very dashing, gallant and enterprising commander. Some circumstances which we observe in the papers in regard to him, tend to give us a rather better opinion of him than we expected to entertain of one charged with his mission. He acquitted himself quite respectably in a recent correspondence with Gov. Andrew of Massachusetts.
“On his arrival at Annapolis, he heard rumors of an insurrection of slaves, and promptly volunteered to aid Gov. Hicks in suppressing it. There was no occasion for his assistance-there being no insurrection nor any thing approaching it; but he is entitled to credit for his proffer of aid. This tender reaching the ears of the bloody fanatic who disgraces the seat of Winthrop, he wrote a protest to Gen. Butler on the subject. The General responded in manly terms, avowing his determination to wage only such a war as was recognized amongst civilized nations-and he would see his Excellency at Jericho before he would have a hand in any other.
“As to his previous life, he is said to have been always a Massachusetts Democrat-warmly in favor of Southern rights, which he now comes to exterminate; a lawyer of eminence and ability, and of fair standing in all the relations of life. His selection for this command by General Scott, and his refusal to be associated in it with Gen. Wool, would argue that he is the highest-toned man and most gallant Captain the invading hosts can supply. We are willing to regard him and treat him as such. But he may rest assured, while he will receive all the courtesies of honorable war, as he and his come to ravage our land and destroy our liberties, we shall neglect none of the means that God and nature have given us to make good our defence.”

THE ARMY INTERFERENCE TO SUSTAIN SLAVERY.
In an article, last week, on “the war and its results,” we noticed the alacrity with which Gen. Butler offered his services to return fugitive slaves, and remarked that we were not sure but he would be for helping Jeff. Davis, in case of a general insurrection of the slaves in the Confederated States. Since that time, we have seen a letter from Gov. Andrew, of Massachusetts, calling on Gen. Butler for the reasons that induced him to take such a course, with Gen. B.’s reply, in which he says explicitly, that, in case of a general insurrection of the slaves to gain their freedom, he would, if asked, employ the whole force under his command to help put down such insurrection! He then proceeds at length to justify such a course by as pure a piece of special pleading as is not often met with, and his whole letter shows that he never looked at this subject, except from the stand-point of the regular pro-slavery democracy. He can see no distinction between a Baltimore mob laboring to destroy all law and order, and fighting against the society and government that protects their rights, and the slaves rising to gain the freedom that our Declaration of Independence declares is the inalienable birthright of every human being, and against those who have robbed them of all these rights. A strange position indeed! According to Gen. Butler’s logic, if the Governor of Virginia should call on him to aid in reducing to subjection what he would probably denominate the mob in Western Virginia who are throwing off the State authority, and setting up for themselves, it would be his duty to do it. He does not seem to have, as far as the negroes are concerned, any idea of a difference between a State loyal to and fighting for the Union, and those in arms for its destruction. The “niggers” must be kept in slavery at all hazards. If they run away, our astute democratic General must return them,
<c06>
oven to secession masters and secession States. A war that the slaves make to regain their liberties is, in his estimation, a terrible thing,; while the war forced on the North for the rake of the continued existence of slavery, with its villanies and wrongs, is a very allowable thing, and he even must, rather than see the horrors of St. Domingo repeated, turn in and fight fur the enemy that has insultingly thrown off the authority, and refused the aid in such cases guaranteed to them by the Union. This is patriotism with a vengeance. It is a kind of benevolence that it would give us great pleasure to see the gentleman experience, until he was fully satisfied with it.
We have no patience to argue against the propriety of such proceedings. Anybody with half an eye, or a heart to love the Golden Rule, and to appreciate, we might say, the most common principles of justice, must protest against their being allowed. Gen. Butler should be peremptorily forbidden to send back another fugitive, or make any more disgraceful and gratuitous offers of aid to our enemy. If he does not stop this course, let him be treated as a traitor himself.—Syracuse State League.

CONDUCT OF ARMIES.
Hon. Neal Dow, of Portland, in a letter published in the last New York Independent, pithily says:—
“There seems to be an impression, even among officials of our Government, that compliments and courtesies are better than cannon, and genuflections better than grape. General Butler, sent by Massachusetts to rescue the Capital of our country from disgraceful capture, and save the Government from humiliating flight, and all our invaluable archives from inevitable destruction, turns aside from that pressing business which admits of no delay, and inquires of the enemies of his country if he cannot be permitted to employ his troops-the freemen of glorious old Massachusetts-in the work of putting down and keeping down their slaves!
“This must be pardoned to the antecedents of that official: there will be no repetition of the act. La Fontaine relates that, in the days of enchantments, a cat was changed into a beautiful lady, who betrayed to her husband her origin, by leaping from her bed and eagerly seeking a mouse, which she heard nibbling in the wainscot. Our Generals will soon see that the exigencies of this war will not permit them to disregard those rules for the conduct of armies which require every circumstance of an enemy’s weakness to be taken advantage of.”
Gen. Butler has already seen, at least partially, that he can use his military authority better than in the suppression of the rising spirit of freedom in the breasts of the slave population. Hundreds of fugitive slaves are now protected by him in Fortress Monroe, as “contraband of war,” until their owners come forward, and take the oath of loyalty to the Union.

SOUTHERN LETTERS.
[From the New York Christian Inquirer.]
We print the following letters, as revealing the animus of the present Southern movement-letters which we have just received from subscribers and Unitarians in Baltimore and Charleston. If they do these things in the green tree, what will they do in the dry?
“I discontinue my subscription to your paper, Christian Inquirer. Your account shall be paid (on presentation) to your agent here. No man of Christian humanity, no one of the Unitarian faith should’ patronize a vehicle of blood-hound- passion, such as your paper has become, through the inspiration of such men as Bellows, and Osgood, and others, and your editor.”
“CHARLESTON, S. C., May 9, 1861.
Some months since, in connection with several members of our congregation, I wrote requesting you would send no more copies of your paper, as the articles contained in them were offensive, based on false premises, and an outrage on the people of a section to which the North owes the greater portion of its prosperity. I now write again, to inform you that a copy of your journal, directed to-,continues to be sent, for what purpose, or to what end, I cannot imagine, as her name was attached to the number above alluded to. Our time can be much better employed than in reading the gangrenous lucubrations of a mendacious press, or the blatant outpourings of an unchristianized priesthood, which combination has done more to place the country in its present condition, than all other media united.
Thank God, we’ve arrived at last at a point from whence there can be no retreat. We have put our hands to the plough, and will not look back. The issue has been forced on us; we accept the gauge, and God defend the right. I beg you will not trouble yourself to direct any more papers to-.”

A SECESSION GEM OF ART.
In all our researches in fruitful fields of genius, ancient and modern, we have never met with anything of the kind more perfectly fascinating, more exquisitely delightful, than the following pen-and-ink sketch. It is copied from our very gifted and amiable cotemporary of the Petersburg, (Va.,) Express, of the current week. With artistic skill he has seated the North before his easel, and with the canvas gracefully turned to the Southern sun, he thus draws his picture:—
“Gorged with the plunder which her tariffs and her thousand ingenious and cunning impositions upon Southern friendship and credulity have enabled her to acquire, the American Tyre vainly imagines that she has the whole continent in her sling. Bloated with arrogance—puffed up with self-conceit-drunk with the fumes of her former prosperity, and little dreaming that desolation has marked her for its victim-presumptuous, haughty, imperious and heartless, she is now under a transparent delusion, embarking in, a career that can only, if persisted in, choke up her streets with grass, and make her palaces the habitation of bats and owls.”
What gorgeous coloring! What variety of tints! What grouping of landscape! What perspicacity of design! What clustering of mountain and river, ship and shore, rus in urbe! What dramatic windings of those “presumptuous, haughty, imperious and heartless” thoroughfares, all “choked up with grass“!—not a parterre of green, with a path here and there, but all full up to the windows of the houses, so there is no getting along! And then, those “bats and owls”! Ugh! The blood-sucking and hooting things, to make their “habitations“ in the “palaces” of our American Tyre, commonly known as the city of New York, vulgarly called Gotham! What a glorious artist, to give such a back-ground to his picture!
But we will not dwell on this magnificent specimen of modern genius. The prosaic pens of The Century are utterly incompetent to do it justice. We can only hang it in our gallery, for the astonished gaze of an admiring posterity.—The Century.
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with half.
“what order of men under the most absolute of monarchies of the most aristocratic of republics, was over invested with such as odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investments of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and <illegible>through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, mere adverse to the rights of all, and more adverse to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility over known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can he likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine of foresee what a <illegible> to Moloch was hidden under the , mask of this concession.”-John QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>AMERICAN CONGREGATIONAL UNION.
Mount Vernon Church (Rev. Dr. Kirk's) was filled to overflowing at the meeting of his society, the main floor, galleries and aisles being thronged with an enthusiastic audience. The President, Rev. Leonard Bacon, D. D., occupied the chair. After the singing of a patriotic hymn by the choir and congregation, prayer was offered by Rev. E. N. Kirk D.D Dr. Bacon made the opening address,
ADDRESS OP REV. DR. BACON. 
In explaining the objects and aims of this society, the speaker remarked that it had one line of effort the building of churches in the destitute portions of our country, the establishing of these strongholds of our religion, of our individual and national liberties. Meeting-houses are identical with the earliest history of New England; the first house built by the Puritans after landing in this country was a meeting-house, and it was a significant fact that this house had a flat roof for a platform, not a Say brook nor a Cambridge platform, but a platform for a battery and artillery was placed on this roof! And such is the relation which Congregationalism has always borne to the safety, welfare and liberty of the people! The motto of Cromwell, and his invincible army, was, "Trust in God, AND keep your powder dry." and here our fathers had God and Christianity under the roof, and they kept their powder dry on the top! (Applause.) They made no apologies for their cannon; they so read their Bible as to believe in the right of self-defence, and were men of peace just so long as peace was possible or honorable. The Bible does not require us to live peaceably with all men. Only "so far as in us lies." 'Twas thus in the early history of Connecticut: the early settlers could not live peaceably with the Pequots, and therefore they lived without them. The Indians were wiped out, and the land had rest for forty years, and so may we have rest for forty years and more, after a year or two! (Laughter.) Our land has witnessed various conflicts; one was for a principle. Controversies can be settled by giving up, by yielding, but peace does not come in that way. Then was settled the question that civilization had a right to plant itself by peaceful means. Another conflict was whether civilization, having planted itself, had a right to spread. Still another, whether Puritan Protestantism or French Catholicism should spread through the West. And yet again, whether America should belong to Americans or to England. The whole history of the past has been converging to the position in which we now find ourselves, and we must meet the issue. If it be questioned what connection these political topics have with this meeting, it may be said that our religion is a bulwark of liberty, and the present union of feeling in the mighty uprising at the East and West is traceable in a high degree to the spirit of home evangelization, and we now unite, under God and in the right, to decide whether government or anarchy shall rule-whether we are a nation-whether a majority shall decide. We never expected to see this conspiracy, darker, deeper and more accursed than that of Cataline! We have been sleeping for twenty-five years in quiet confidence, and now we wake to the reality; and now we must decide whether votes, or military force or cabals shall rule; whether the people are to be compelled into the toils and nets of conspirators. In Congregationalism is no element of compulsion; in it the people move, the people rule.
Dr. Bacon's remarks were frequently interrupted by applause, and his earnest patriotism elicited the warmest admiration.

ADDRESS OF REV. A. L. STONE.
We welcome our cousins from the West, the pioneers of our New England institutions. We have heard of your uprising for the government, and we recognize the harvest from the seeds of our own loved principles, the seeds of Congregationalism. Our system develops individual rights, freedom and support of righteous laws. Nor do we forget that from you has come the man chosen of God whose firm hand holds the helm of the ship of State, which has met at last the storm that has so long threatened her, and who, we believe, under God, will steer her safe through! (Enthusiastic applause.)
We welcome the home boys, the New Englanders born with a knowledge of east winds, of frost and of snow. An orator once said in this city, in our own hearing, that "our ancestors caught a chill on Plymouth Rock, and the children had never got over it!" True, we do not boil over as soon as some, but our heart is more fervent and more reliable. Tis easy to set on fire a pile of garden rubbish with a single match; but not so with anthracite coal; that is a slow process, but the heat is redder, is hotter, is more enduring, and it is kindled now to a white heat, and will melt and destroy all rebellion and treason. (Applause.)'T will shrivel up the Times, the John Bull Russell, the Jupiter Tonans. They may thunder; but we will thunder back, not with paper columns, but columns of armies and navies. They once had a taste of this, and now, if they want it, they may have a surfeit. (Cheers.)
[An abstract like this cannot do justice to the fervid address of Mr. Stone. It was received with great enthusiasm.]

ADDRESS BY REV. J. P. THOMPSON, D. D., OF NEW YORK.
It is no mere association of words-American Congregational Union, American Union! And while we speak of our earnest patriotism and zeal for our government, we claim no pre-eminence over our Christian brethren of other denominations, who have nobly expressed themselves. In this cause we hope there will be no aliens, no Jew or Greek, and may we not hope, no such distinctions as bond and free. (Applause.) We are thankful that our lawyer soldier has discovered that slaves being property are now "contraband;" let us remember this, and rejoice in it. This great struggle tallies with our principles, our religious teachings. It is a movement of the people. I would add a little to the story of that first meeting-house. It was about eighteen months after the landing of the Puritans; their numbers reduced one-half by death; and the Indians sent a snake-skin and arrows to the starving settlers. They replied, "If you will have war, you may." They sent the skin back filled with powder and balls, and then they built their meeting-house, with the battery on the roof. So, when the Palmetto flag sends its snake-skin to us, we take the war, and then we go to our churches; we pray and watch and fight, and the influence of that first church has not died out. (Applause.) We must throw into this movement the. religious element, and we must thank God that we live in these times. What was the flag a short time ago? a mere piece of bunting seen on a holiday! What is it now? the emblem of our Government, to be saved, to be protected. It is glorious to have a past, to look to the deeds of our ancestors; to feel the life and inspiration that come to us from the past. My grandsire served under the gallant Wooster, and gave his life to his country; I came by his grave to-day, and an inspiration seemed to come to me from that blood shed for our liberties; it seemed to be a summons from the past, a command to be faithful to man-to the liberty for which he died. (Applause.) It is glorious to live now, and we shall yet see the eagle on the flag-staff at Montgomery. There are two kinds of fighters: one who do not fear the devil, the other, who fear God. In our army are both. Billy Wilson's Zouaves are a wonderful race of men, comprised of the lowest stratum of society; it is said that Wilson offered $25 for a pickpocket who could be found in the 6th ward after his regiment left. But the men to endure are the Christian soldiers; men such as your Massachusetts soldiers, who passed through our city, and around whose necks we threw our arms in affection and admiration. God is giving us great examples-like Colonel Ellsworth-a race of heroes. (Applause.) We are now where we have been praying to be; we have prayed that God would " turn and overturn," and now he is doing it, and let us meet the work manfully and trustfully in God and his Providences.

ADDRESS OF REV. RAY PALMER, D. D.
Dr. Palmer began by relating the fact that he knew of a clergyman who commenced preaching from a well-selected text, appropriate to the times, and had already preached four sermons from it, and cannot find a stopping place. This illustrates the progress of feeling in our hearts and throughout the country; at first a little rill, then a stream, a mighty river, which in its tremendous flow should engulf all rebellion. We are glad to be here. I have heard men in my own State sneer in times past at Massachusetts. "Where are they now? All speak her praise; she was the first in the field to save the country. Our object as a society is to save our land, and our churches are batteries from which we will thunder destruction to all sin. God is at work, and his purposes are being fulfilled-and we realize that God is with us in this struggle. We must remember that this battle is only a part of God's work, a part of the great battle against sin, and so we can take
<c02>
Courage and fight on. And we can reverently emblazon the cross on our flag, and go with the same spirit as a missionary of the cross.
Dr. Kirk here wished to put a "pepper pot" on the table. When in Richmond lately, I learned that yearly 8,000 "chattels" are bought and sold in that city; and now the first blow struck at Richmond will make my heart glad. Virginia has lost her glory; she has turned herself into a breeder and seller of <illegible> who are God's children. He also would put On a "salt cellar." The spirit of our denomination is one of self-sacrifice, of martyrdom. Perhaps God is about to rebaptize the children. If so, let us be true to our ancestors.
Rev. Dr. Kitchell, of Detroit, followed, alluding in glowing terms to the Massachusetts soldiers and their deeds, and the spirit which has actuated the old Bay State. Boston and the West will stand side by side in this struggle, and if God destroys slavery in this country, His will be done.
Rev. Dr. Buddington, of Brooklyn, N. Y., made a thrilling address, which we have not room to present, although we have full notes of it. The main idea he presented was that the clergy, and all men, had something to do now; that action under the guidance of God was demanded. He traced the conspiracy and rebellion from its origin in the most scathing manner, and he thought we should find that we had something to do soon. He closed by saying that he was a peace man, and loved it so well, he would fight for it.
This meeting was most enthusiastic and patriotic, and the frequent outbursts of applause which greeted all the speakers testified the interest taken in the topics presented. Seldom is it that so many first class addresses are heard at one meeting.-Boston Journal.

THE WAR POWER OVER SLAVERY.
We published, not long ago, an extract from a speech delivered by John Quincy Adams in Congress in 1842, in which that eminent statesman confidently announced the doctrine that in a state of war, civil or servile, in the Southern States, Congress has full and plenary power over the whole subject of slavery; martial law takes the place of civil laws and municipal institutions, slavery among the rest, and "not only the President of the United States, but the Commander of the Army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
Mr. Adams was, in 1842, under the ban of the slaveholders, who were trying to censure him or expel him from the House for presenting a petition in favor of the dissolution of the Union. Lest it may be thought that the doctrine announced at this time was thrown out hastily and offensively, and for the purpose of annoying and aggravating his enemies, and without due consideration, it may be worth while to show that six years previous, in May, 1836, Mr. Adams held the same opinions, and announced them as plainly as in 1842. Indeed, it is quite likely that this earlier announcement of these views was the cause of the secret hostility to the ex-President, which broke out so rancorously in 1842. We have before us a speech by Mr. Adams, on the joint resolution for distributing rations to the distressed fugitives from Indian hostilities in the States of Alabama and Georgia, delivered in the House of Representative. May 25, 1836, and published at the office of the National Intelligencer. We quote from it the following classification of the powers of Congress and the Executive:-
"There are then, Mr. Chairman, in the authority of Congress and of the Executive, two classes of powers, altogether different in their nature, and often incompatible with each other-the war power and the peace power. The peace power is limited by regulations and restricted by provisions, prescribed within the Constitution itself. The war power is limited only by the laws and usages of nations. This power is tremendous: it is strictly constitutional, but it breaks down every barrier so anxiously erected for the protection of liberty, of property, and of life. This, sir, is the power which authorizes you to pass the resolution now before you, and, in my opinion, no other."
After an interruption, Mr. Adams returned to this subject, and went on to say:-
"There are indeed powers of peace conferred upon Congress which also come within the scope and jurisdiction of the laws of nations, such as the negotiation of treaties of amity and commerce, the interchange of public ministers and consuls, and all the personal and social intercourse between the individual inhabitants of the United States and foreign nations, and the Indian tribes, which require the interposition of any law. But the powers of war are all regulated by the laws of nations, and are subject to no other limitation. * * * It was upon this principle that I voted against the resolution reported by the slavery committee, that Congress possess no constitutional authority to interfere in any way with the institution of slavery in any of the States of this Confederacy,' to which resolution most of those with whom I usually concur, and even my own colleagues in this House, gave their assent. I do not admit that there is, even among the peace powers of Congress, no such authority, but in war there are many ways by which Congress not only have the authority, but ARE BOUND TO INTERFERE WITH THE INSTITUTION OF SLAVERY IN THE STATES. The existing law prohibiting the importation of slaves into the United States from foreign countries is itself an interference with the institution of slavery in the States. It was so considered by the founders of the Constitution of the United States, in which it was stipulated that Congress should not interfere, in that way, with the institution, prior to the year 1808."
"During the late war with Great Britain, the military and navy commanders of that nation issued proclamations, inviting the slaves to repair to their standard, with promises of freedom and of settlement in some of the British colonial establishments. This surely was an interference with the institution of slavery in the States. By the treaty of peace, Great Britain stipulated to evacuate all the forts and places in the United States, without carrying away any slaves. If the Government of the United States had no power to interfere, in any way, with the institution of slavery in the States, they would not have had the authority to require this stipulation. It is well known that this engagement was not fulfilled by the British naval and military commanders that, on the contrary, they did carry away all the slaves whom they had induced to join them, and that the British Government inflexibly refused to restore any of them to their masters; that a claim of indemnity was consequently instituted in behalf of the owners of the slaves, and was successfully maintained. All that series of transactions was an interference by Congress with the institution of slavery in the States in one way-in the way of protection and support. It was by the institution of slavery alone I that the restitution of slaves, enticed by proclamations into the British service, could be claimed as property, But for the institution of slavery, the British commanders could neither have allured them to their standard, nor restored them otherwise than as liberated prisoners of war. But for the institution of slavery, there could have been no stipulation that they should not be carried away as property, nor any claim of indemnity for the violation of that engagement."
If this speech had been made in 1860 instead of 1836, Mr. Adams would not have been compelled to rely upon these comparatively trivial and unimportant instances of interference by Congress and the President for the support and protection of slavery. For the last twenty years the support and protection
of that institution has been, to use Mr. Adams's words at a later day, the vital and animating spirit of the Government; and the Constitution has been interpreted and administered as if it contained an injunction upon all men. in power and out of power, to sustain and perpetuate slavery. Mr. Adams goes on to state how the war power may be used:-
"But the war power of Congress over the institution of slavery in the States is yet far more extensive. Suppose the case of a servile war, complicated, as to some extent it is even now, with an Indian war; sup-pose Congress were called to raise armies, to supply money from the whole Union to suppress a servile insurrection: would they have no authority to interfere with the institution of slavery? The issue of a servile war may be disastrous; it may become necessary for the master of the slave to recognize his emancipation by a treaty of peace; can it for an instant be pretended that Congress, in such a contingency, would have no authority to interfere with the institution of slavery in any way in the States? Why, it would be equivalent to saying that Congress have no constitutional authority to make peace. I suppose a more por
tentous case, certainly within the bounds of possibility -I would to God I could say, not within the bounds of probability-"
Mr. Adams here, at considerable length, portrays the danger then existing of a war with Mexico, involving England and the European powers, bringing hostile armies and fleets to our own Southern territory, and inducing not only a foreign war, but an Indian, a civil, and a servile war, and making of the Southern States "the battle-field upon which the last great conflict will be fought between Slavery and Emancipation." "Do you imagine (he asks) that your Congress will have no constitutional authority to interfere with the institution of slavery in any way in the States of this Confederacy? Sir, they must and will interfere with it-perhaps to sustain
<c03>
it by war; perhaps to abolish it by treaties of peace; and they will not only possess the constitutional power so to interfere, but they will be bound in duty to do it by the express provisions of the Constitution itself. From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way by which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States burdened with slavery to a foreign power"-New York Tribune.

THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 7, 1861.
WHAT HAVE THEY GAINED BY IT?
Undoubtedly, in lifting the heel of rebellion against the American government, and organizing a truculent confederacy for themselves, the Southern secessionists have sought to gain that protection for their rights and interests, which they insist can no longer be hoped for under the Constitution and laws of the country. Those rights and interests, of course, mean nothing pertaining to freedom of person, of labor, of speech, of the press, but simply and exclusively the preservation of slave institutions, and the right to traffic in human flesh, to an unlimited extent. It may not be premature, even at this early period, to raise the inquiry, "What have they gained by it?"
1. Geographically, they are as near to the hated North as ever. Nature has undergone no change; no earthquake has convulsed mountain or plain, creating new divisions, and opening new channels; the waters of the Chesapeake are no broader or deeper than hitherto; the Mississippi and Missouri rivers still remain in their beds, cover the same extent, and find their outlet in the same manner; not a boundary line has been altered, not a single new barrier erected, whereby unwonted security for the future has been obtained by the act of secession. Distance from those whom they so absurdly fear, so contemptuously despise, and so fiercely hate, would seem to be absolutely necessary to their repose; yet they have neither colonized themselves abroad, nor increased a hair's-breadth space between the freedom of the North and the slavery of the South, by a sudden exodus toward more tropical regions. In this respect, they are as much exposed, and quite as impotent, as ever. In other words, they have gained nothing.
2. In their catalogue of grievances, before seceding, they complained that increasing obstacles were thrown in their way at the North, in regard to the rendition of their fugitive slaves. But how have they bettered this by withdrawing from the Union, and thus depriving themselves of all constitutional right to make any pursuit or institute any legal claim in such cases? Hitherto, even the hated and iniquitous Fugitive Slave Law, wherever the hunted bondman has come within its iron grasp, has been executed with relentless fidelity, in Massachusetts as in Illinois; and no court or commissioner has shown a disposition to get round or over it. But now the Southern Confederacy, by its own determination, has abandoned the valuable protection for its fugitive slave property which it had under that law, and furnishes to all the slaves upon its soil the most powerful motives to seek their freedom by flight, seeing that they can no longer be pursued by their masters in any part of the North. As it affirms the old Union to be dissolved, it thereby precludes itself from the benefit of Article
of the U. S. Constitution; and though the government at Washington denies that the Union is no more, and is resolved to maintain it at whatever cost of blood and treasure, yet while the war continues between the two sections, it is evident that no fugitive slaves from any of the Confederate States will be given up. Here, then, is no gain, but a serious loss, for the seceders.
3. In the Union, they became more and more restive under the free discussion of slavery at the North They attempted to suppress that discussion by every means in their power. They found accomplices in this tyrannous proceeding in every city, town and village in the Free States, from doctors of divinity to the lowest rowdies, all animated by the same detestable spirit, all seeking the same pro-slavery end. But it was not in their combined power to gag the lips of the advocates of universal emancipation; the more of violence, the more of discussion; till, finally, to shield themselves from this perilous "agitation," the remedy of secession was tried by the Southern lords of the lash. But is the question of slavery no longer debated at the North? Were ever so many disposed to examine it, to talk about it, to execrate and repudiate slavery, as now? Take up any newspaper you please, go to any gathering you choose, travel where ever you may, and the dominant topic is slavery-its factious and insolent spirit, its audacious demands its boundless profligacy, its astounding robberies its piratical designs, its infernal cruelties; public conviction hourly deepening, and finding expression in growing plainness of speech, that the present struggle
must not terminate until the death-blow be given to a system so fraught with mischief, danger and ruin-so productive of "treason, stratagems and spoils."
4. These malcontents protested against the exclusion of slavery from the national territories, and made this a prominent cause of their separation. If they could not find power enough in the Union to carry their purpose in that direction, arc they so insane as to suppose they can do so out of the Union? If they had remained, there was great probability that their efforts would have been crowned with at least partial success; but now they occupy so exposed a position that, instead of seeking new conquests, they will require all their resources to maintain their own boundaries. It is not the territorial extension, but the total abolition of slavery that is soon to be the "order of the day."
5. They further complained that they were held up to odium at the North; in many cases excluded from Christian fellowship; represented as destitute of manliness, honor and integrity, and denounced in the harshest terms. But how have they attempted to vindicate their character in these particulars? By the basest perfidy! by the blackest treason! by the most atrocious conduct! They have stolen millions of the national treasure, confiscated public and private property to an enormous amount, seized upon whatever fortifications and arsenals they could surreptitiously capture, struck down the national flag, made fidelity to that flag and the Union a treasonable act, driven out from the South thousands of estimable citizens because they would not be as perfidious and lawless as themselves, commissioned piratical cruisers to capture Northern ships, and rallied their myrmidons for the seizure of the national capital, and the subjugation of the whole country! While their insults, extortions and atrocities were confined to their miserable slaves the Abolitionists found it extremely difficult to make their vileness appear to the people of the North; but now every vision is purged, every judgment rectified and the universal conviction is, that all that has been said of them is true-that they are capable of commit-ting any crime, violating any pledge, disregarding any obligation, and inflicting any outrage, however monstrous or savage. They are no longer defended as upright and honorable men, or in any case spoken of as "dear Christian brethren," but popularly branded as "thieves," "robbers," "traitors," and "pi-rates," who richly deserve to be executed for their accumulated and accumulating villanies. Hence, their character at the North has " gained a loss" since they raised the standard of rebellion.
6. Before their secession, and almost up to the hour of the capture of Fort Sumter, a powerful minority at the North (of the Democratic and Bell-Everett stamp) evidently sympathized with them, if not to the verge of treason, at least in a manner to strengthen their factious purposes, and to repress vigorous action on the part of the government. The new administration
<c04>
was powerless in their hands; for they controlled both houses of Congress, the Treasury, and the Supreme Court-so that there was no chance whatever for any action adverse to the interests of the South, either on the part of the President or of Congress, even if the disposition had existed (as it assuredly did not) to take such action. No President, since the election of Washington, had been so feebly supported, or so straitened for lack of deliberative cooperation, as Mr. Lincoln. The Republican party was getting rapidly demoralized, through timidity and a disposition to compromise, under the leadership of Mr. Seward, and its opponents growing more defiant and resolute; so that the success of the slave oligarchy, at the next Presidential canvass, clothed with new powers, seemed more than probable. But, fortunately, the time had come for the Southern traitors to throw off their mask, infatuated with the idea that they could forcibly seize the reins of government, prevent the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln, and compel submission to their tyrannical edicts. They had laid their plans with consummate adroitness, and in view of the hot political divisions at the North, had good reason to believe they could carry them into effect. The conspirators were everywhere busily working in the dark; doubtless, in regard to some of whom, startling revelations are yet to be made, as the telegraphic proofs of their treasonable complicity shall be collated. But, in due season, God " takes the cunning in their own craftiness, and carries the counsels of the forward headlong." That hour culminated in the fierce cannonading and final capture of Fort Sumter. The necessary daily supplies for the Fort had been ruthlessly denied by the Charleston authorities, in order to starve the gallant Anderson and his heroic little band into a surrender. Thus far, the government had witnessed the seizure of forts, custom-houses, and other kinds of property entrusted to its care, without attempting to make an arrest, or to summon any military or naval force. Even the "stars and stripes," as borne by the Star of the West, were allowed to be fired upon and chased from the harbor of Charleston with impunity; still, there was no visible excitement at the North, and it seemed as though the conspirators were to be indulged to any extent.
At this crisis, the President undertook to send food, in an unarmed vessel, to the beleaguered men at Sumter, with no other design than to keep them from starving; but, before doing so, it is said he humbled himself so far as to promise the rebels in power at Charleston, that he would not add a single soldier to Major Anderson's little force,-sorely as he needed a strong reinforcement,-if they would only allow the provision to be landed at the Fort without a resort to violence. "Fools and blind," that they did not grant what common humanity dictated in this case! Had they done so, Fort Sumter would have remained as useless to the government as though every gun within its walls had been spiked, and as harmless to Charleston as after its surrender; for there was evidently no intention on the part of Major Anderson, (under instruction from Washington, of course,) under any provocation, to fire the first shot. Did he not allow the hostile batteries, by which he was circumvented, to pour their shot and shells upon his devoted band for two hours, before returning their fire?-as though hoping that, by such unparalleled forbearance, he should excite in their breasts a similar spirit, and thus make reconciliation possible, even at that late period! 
But it was not so to be. The enormity of the assault, under such circumstances, and the downfall of the Fort, caused an electric flame of indignation to sweep through the North, melting all the bonds of parties and sects, and bringing its twenty millions of people to their feet, as if the resurrection trump had sounded -all united in a resolute determination to "crush out" the rebellion, come what might. No one now presumes to talk of compromise or conciliation, for these have been tried too long, and worse than in vain. The blindest are beginning to see that, as the existence of slavery is the sole cause of all our national troubles, so the abolition of slavery is essential to the unity and safety of the republic. How that beneficent, all-reconciling measure shall be consummated,-whether directly under the war power by the government, or by some method of compensation as a peace offering,-there is yet considerable diversity of opinion; but, evidently, the feeling is growing and deepening that, in some way or other, SLAVERY MUST BE ABOLISHED, before peace can be re-stored, and the government permitted to exercise its functions as freely at the South as at the North.
What, then, have the Secessionists gained by their treasonable course? What have they not lost? "They have sown wheat, but shall reap tares: they have put themselves to pain, but shall not profit. They have taught their tongue to speak lies, and weary themselves to commit iniquity. The cities of the south shall be shut up, and none shall open them Lift up your eyes, and behold them that come from the north!. were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, saith the Lord." 
A NEW AND IMPORTANT WORK. A Normal Institute for Physical Education is to be opened in, this city on the 4th of July next. It is incorporated, and will have four Professors, viz:
Thomas H. Hoskins, M. D., Professor of Anatomy;
Josiah Curtis, M. D., Professor of Physiology;
Walter Channing, M. D., Professor of Hygeine;
Dio Lewis, M.D., Professor of Gymnastics.
The course will continue two months, receiving about one hundred drills in Lewis's New Gymnastics, hearing in the mean time of lectures in each of the above departments, from the able gentlemen named, and rehearsing daily the matter introduced in the lectures. At the conclusion of the course, diplomas will be granted.
Those interested can send for a circular. Address Dr. Dio LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
So far as we know, it is the first Institution ever established to prepare teachers of physical culture.
SECOND STANDARD PHONOGRAPHIC TEACHER. Andrew J. Graham, Author and Publisher, Phonetic Depot, New York.
We have received from the author a copy of this work, which he says is "designed for reading and study, after the student has read and copied the First Reader, and studied the Compendium thoroughly, from section 255 to 280." It makes, with the Index, a volume of 184 pages, fifty of which are Reporting Exercises, beautifully engraved in Phonography, the balance comprising a Key to these Exercises, with copious notes, which are of exceeding value to the student, and from which even the practised reporter, if he has not settled into the old ruts, may derive many profitable suggestions. Mr. Graham does not content himself with generalizations, but enters into all the minutiae of the system he lays down, and gives a thorough and comprehensive, and, we might say, an exhaustive, analysis of it. The book is gotten up in excellent taste throughout, and gives evidence of great care, skill and patience on the part of the author. Those who have any acquaintance with Phonography, whether of the earlier or more recent systems, will find it highly useful and interesting.-Y.
At the recent Annual Meeting of the American Tract Society, Dr. South-Side Adams was reelected a member of the Executive Committee. The fact that he has recently given his vote in favor of the continuance and extension of slavery is not recognized, by the Reverend managers of that Society, as in the least degree a disqualification for the office in question, though the advocacy of other sorts of robbery, or other sorts of licentiousness, would cause his immediate removal.-C. K. w.
A paper, entitled The Colored-Patriot, has been started in Brooklyn, N. Y., by Rev. James N. Gloucester, having for its motto,-" Truth is Omnipotent To arms! to arms! ye loyal sons of patriotic sires! No more union with slaveholders."
<c05>
TO THE WOMEN OF THE NORTH.
In 1842, Mr. Giddings, in his zeal for the non-extension of slavery, unadvisedly offered the resolution, that Congress should never, in any event or in any way, interfere with slavery in the States. John Quincy Adams, at that time, with prophetic inspiration replied, "If civil war come, if insurrection come, is this beleaguered capital, is this besieged government, to see millions of its subjects in arms, and have no right to break the fetters which they are forging into swords? No; the war-power of the Government can sweep this institution into the gulf."
Considering that there is this high authority for launching the thunderbolt of emancipation upon the South, in the extreme case of rebellion, but that, if it were made a war-measure of the Federal Government, it would probably arouse an internecine social war in the South, fraught with equal misery to guilty and innocent, whether white or black, inasmuch as the desirable acquiescence of the masters would not be secured, nor that progressive prosperity which obtains at the North, where all classes of society play into each other's fortunes; while, on the other hand, if emancipation is proclaimed by the State governments, it is probable that, as in the West Indies, it would be attended with not a single act of violence or disorder; the emancipated being-under the protection and restraint of the Law-at once changed from unpaid into paid laborers and loyal citizens,-is it not in character for women, not only to aid and comfort the soldiers in their sacrifices, but to urge on Government to follow up the present most righteous war with the magnanimous offer of assisting to extinguish the slavery which it is obvious to common sense and conscience is its ever-reproducing cause, whatever may be its pretext or immediate occasion? And to descend from the high motives of humanity to those of prudence, remembering that the French wars of the first of this century cost Great Britain a million of dollars a day, is it not plain that compensated emancipation would cost, even in money, less than protracted war?
With these views, some of the ladies of the Quincy Family, Mrs. R. W. Emerson, Mrs. Horace Mann, and others, have signed the following petition.
Women who sympathize with them will be glad to add their names, and get others, and send them to A B C D, Concord, Mass., before the 1st of July.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled:
THE PETITION OF THE WOMEN OF THE NORTH, CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. Whereas, a fratricidal war is raging in the once United States of America, having for its real origin and cause the holding of slaves in some States, we, the women of the North, pray Congress to propose to any State or States, beginning with Maryland, which shall proclaim emancipation within its borders, aid from the United States Treasury, to remunerate all individuals, who, having no, property except slaves, would be impoverished by their emancipation.
A petition to Congress has been placed at the Merchants' Exchange for signatures, setting forth that a rebellion against the laws and government of the United States has for some time existed, and does still exist, calling for a great expenditure of treasure, and imperilling our nation, while slavery lies at the foundation of the troubles; and that it is eminently desirable that slavery should be removed if possible, safely and with the greatest benefit to all classes in the community, and to all parts of the country. It is therefore proposed by the petitioners that Government, as a beginning, shall purchase all the slaves in Maryland, Delaware, Missouri and Kentucky, at $300 apiece, making in the whole a sum less than one hundred and thirty millions of dollars, which is less than the sum paid in a single year to put down rebellion in this country. They, therefore, desire Congress to pass a law in accordance with the prayer of their petition.

DEATH OF SENATOR DOUGLAS.
The death of Senator Douglas is recorded in another column. He died at Chicago, on Monday morning last, after a brief illness, of typhoid fever, in the 49th year of his age. For the last fifteen years, he has been the recognized leader of the Northern Democracy, and was its Presidential candidate at the last election, having been repudiated by the Southern wing because he was unwilling to say of slavery, as pertaining to the territories, any thing beyond this:- "I do not care whether it is voted up or voted down." In all other respects, he had been all that the South desired-the advocate of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the abusive assailant of the three thousand New England clergymen who petitioned Congress in opposition to that repeal, the supporter of the Fugitive Slave Law, the bitter and malignant enemy of the Anti-Slavery movement, the encourager of the Border-Ruffian invasion of Kansas, the rampant antagonist of the Republican party, the passive witness of the murderous attack of Preston S. Brooks upon Senator Sumner, and the upholder of the Southern slaveholding policy to the fullest extent.
His intellectual force was great, and his influence over the more unenlightened masses quite potential. A more unscrupulous politician, however, has never made his appearance upon the American stage; and, perhaps, no one has done so much to debauch the moral sentiment of the North. His ambition was boundless, and his manner at all times confident, self-satisfied, gladiatorial, boisterously defiant. The reason why he did not readily occupy the extreme Southern ground, in regard to slavery in the territories, was not because he was troubled with any conscientious or even constitutional scruples, but because he knew the
temper of the North in general, and of his own State in special, on that point, and dared not provoke it. For the same reason, he espoused the side of the government in its present conflict with the Southern traitors -all the more decidedly, because he had been ungratefully ostracized by the entire South. It is in vain that flags are hoisted at half mast, and bells tolled to commemorate his death; and those Republican journals which are now lauding his statesman-like qualities and deploring his removal, are manifestly amenable to the charge of political simulation. Death makes no change of character.
THE QUEEN'S PROCLAMATION-. The proclamation issued by the government of Great Britain declares its intention of maintaining the strictest and most impartial neutrality between the government of the United States and certain States styling themselves the Confederate States of America. It warns British subjects that if they enter the military service on either' side, or join the ships of war or transports, or attempt' to get recruits or fit out vessels for war purposes or transports, or break or endeavor to break any blockade lawfully or actually established, or carry soldiers, dispatches, or any material contraband of war, for either party, they will be liable to all the penalties and consequences, and will do so at their peril, and in no wise obtain protection from the government.
THE CAMPAIGN IN VIRGINIA. The campaign in Virginia is progressing rapidly, and stirring events may soon be expected in that famous Commonwealth. Her right, left, and center are now threatened, by Gen. Butler in the East, Gen. McDowell opposite Washington, and Gen. McClellan in the Northwestern section of the State. Important results are evidently near at hand.
The New York Journal of Commerce, while coldly pretending to uphold the government, is daily crowded with articles, either editorial, communicated, or purposely extracted from Southern journals, all saturated with a factious and treasonable spirit.
Joshua B. Smith, the well-known caterer, has tendered to Governor Andrew one hundred dollars, in aid of the Massachusetts soldiery.
Communications multiply much faster than we can find room for them. Correspondents must study brevity, if they would be heard.
<c06>
THOUGHTS ON THE WAR.
PHILADELHIA, May 27, 1861.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
Dear and Esteemed Friend- It was quite unexpected to find the simple breathings of my spirit in your paper of the 20th inst. Yet, whatever may be its emanations or aspirations, they can be safely confided to the sincere earnestness of Wm. Lloyd Garrison. 
My letter, however, was incomplete. Your remarks, like footlights, lent a pleasant illumination, and I thank you for them; and I find some who regard them as the chief attraction.
I do not profess to be on the popular side. Indeed, I do not court it. Great popular movements always should be carefully watched-often even doubted. Those who ride the popular wave, how grandly bounds the bark! The glad "Ha! ha!" bursts from the lips-life merrily. It is an easy existence. But does it accomplish the highest glory! Does it open new truths'-break unjust bonds?- enlarge freedom?-insure peace and perfection? No, not necessarily. It rather clogs and impedes. The great developments of morality seem to come from hard work, individual and unostentatious-long, anxious, unremitted and unpopular effort; from testimonies that will bear trial, and even martyrdom. The war feeling is the popular one now, and every word you utter is eagerly grasped, and is potential. Need I remind you of your influence, than, and warn you to watch never so closely? I feel it my duty. As the work of war is rapid and effective, and that of peace slow, and seemingly uncertain, so one gun from the battery of a garrison seems to be worth a whole broadside from that of love. The slightest countenance you give to war gratifies the combatant, turns the wavering, and even shakes the resolute non-resistant.
I know, full well, that whatever interest you feel in the present war is based upon the hope that it will benefit the slave; and I am far from condemning the policy of so moulding the fighting sentiment that it may make slavery the key-note of this conflict, which, being sounded, may be held throughout and burst into the glad chorus of emancipation.
The cry goes forth-"This war is the death blow to slavery." But I must say I doubt it. I cannot yet think that so sublime a virtue-a child so pure a con summation so prayerfully desired-can be the off spring of so corrupt a parentage as war.
"The world's history is the world's judgment doom." I have examined history, and I find no permanent, substantial, and fully satisfactory liberty has ever been achieved by force of arms. The demoralizing influence of this means of victory permeates every institution, and innoculates the whole system of government, and may inaugurate many kinds of slavery very and oppression.
A people so diverted from the even tenor of their way, so automatonized by the one dress, one step, one motion, one command-taking away their individuality, and blunting their consciences and accountability to God alone-will be likely to imbibe such a love for contention as will cheapen life, engender an irritability that will cause dissatisfaction with everything, and give such a sway to evil passions, that, when they return from warring with the South, they will fall upon the Abolitionists, and say "You have been the cause of our troubles, we will make you suffer "-looking no further than this, (for it is the common error of the masses,) rather than regarding the Abolitionist as the innocent cause of the war, or, perhaps, better, the unavoidable instrumentality, because of the existence of slavery. It cannot be that those who have engaged in this war are to be converted, in a day, from hatred to Abolitionists and their cause, to love, respect, and cooperation. I have little faith in "eleventh hour" conversions; they are not reliable; and, after all, the plain, up-hill tug of moral force is to be depended! upon.
It does not seem likely that this war will be so construed by those who fight it out, that the liberty and rights of the negro, North and South, will be secured. Why, such an idea has not been uttered by government, nor by general or private. So far, indeed, is such an expression from the heads of the movement, that to breathe it would seem to them certain defeat, loss of forces, and a deadening of the enthusiasm. I have no faith in such a cause as will not bear the light of day and the fullest exposure. The Abolitionist, especially, should be careful before he joins the mad rush to arms, or encourages others. Neither he nor his cause can augment, sanctify, or inspire to deeds of true valor, that army which, would reject a volunteer on account of his color. When such tests are made of availability, and such rights are denied the negro, even killing his patriotic emotions, and preventing him enlisting, except as a mere servant, then it is that the Abolitionist would detract from the fashionableness of war. Surely, he cannot countenance it, without exposing its deep moving cause. Some counsel secrecy as to the cause, but I dislike deception; and wherever means are to be adopted that partake of it, I oppose them, and, in fact, doubt their efficacy. 
It is not long since the Northern States showed the greatest alacrity to abolish their Personal Liberty Bills, to please the South; wiping from the statute-books even these hopeful signs for the colored man. Not only this, but some free States were recently passing laws for excluding free negroes, and the new Territories were enacting statutes to the same end. We have scarcely forgotten the late cruel treatment of our genuine Abolitionists in the Empire State, when attempting to hold their series of meetings. Why, the ink is scarcely dry on the proposed amendments to the Constitution, receiving the support of nearly all the Northern representatives, that slavery should not be interfered with by the Government, where it now exists. Not one word uttered against the unequal representation in Congress; not one word for the repeat of the fourth article of the Constitution, relative to the return of fugitive slaves: not one word for the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law! Why, the Republican platform, although it contained some excellent principles, and was far in advance of all others, never satisfied the Abolitionist. There was quite a feeling among politicians for the restoration of the Missouri Compromise;-and yet, with all this, and the more recent action of Gen. Butler, Cols. Corcoran and Wilcox, Gov. Curtin and others, in relation to slaves and colored soldiers, all would seem to chill any ardor the Abolitionist might feel, even if he favored war under any circumstances. The Government has the control of the war. The former administrations have been eminently pro-slavery. Democrats, and those who have vindicated the demands of the South, fill the ranks of the army, and their generals have the majority of the command. Such influences will not permit the first expression of this being considered a war for the slave. Now, if they control the war, they will control its victories, and when a treaty is made, it is not impossible or improbable that not a single word will be uttered relative to the cause. The history of treaties proves this. Take the Madison treaty at Ghent as an example.
The shout is, "The Union, the Constitution, and the Enforcement of the Laws!" What is the essence of that cry but a determination to prevent a single inch of territory from passing from our grasp? Union should rather mean harmony, and not merely a confederation of States, under such regulations as would not admit of a dissolution. Such a Union may be the greatest discord. The purity of union comprehends the fullest concord, and the recognition of all the inalienable rights of the people. We have not had such since the birth of this nation, and it is scarcely to be expected, when we started with slavery, and promulgated in our Declaration of Independence a monstrous falsehood. There is this idea I desire to express: The Union was formed by the coming together of different States, of their free will, for mutual benefit, and it was a page in the annals of history that was the admiration of the world. Now, there has never been a nation willing to relinquish an inch of territory; but
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
It always contended for it even unto war. What a sublime spectacle it would be to see this country willing to part with discordant members, willing to lose a part of the common territory, for the sake of union—willing to retreat and retire into a such a domain as would be harmonious—and where the rights of all of God’s creatures would be recognized! This would indeed be a light in the world, an example of purity and morality, that would shine throughout the whole earth, challenging respect, and worthy of imitation. This course would secure a united government. No State would be continually discontented, and ready to secede for every trifling cause.
But such is not the case. Our people, the spirit of the age, is that which has existed since the formation of nations—to demand the whole of their property, and fight for every foot of land, though they may never see it, do not require it, and would not miss it. While this is the case, is it not most probable that the victory of the North will restore the old Union? And abolitionists who favor this war, though they may hope for something better in it, should take heed that they are not urging the same old covenant, so deceitful and unsatisfactory.
As to the Constitution, we know what that is, with all its series of compromises, and its guaranties to slavery. The success of the North will be to vindicate that instrument; and while it will rid it of none of its pro-slavery enactments, may add to its injustice, and render irrevocable some of its most objectionable provisions.
And now as to the enforcement of the laws. Some of our best citizens have long ignored certain laws which they could not sustain, and have lived by the higher law; but with victory for the North, all the old laws must be enforced, and they be required, with those who have lived by the lower or satanic laws, to recognize the government or middle laws. What will be gained here! The rights of conscience must be infringed; and I fear that you—moves for the right, who have upheld the noblest principles by your battling for rights, with your own columbiads of moral grandeur-will lose your significance and influence, and the cry will go up—"Oh, they cheered on the war, thinking to give it an abolition turn; but we will show them that it is the government that we are fighting for, and not for the negro!" Why, it is but a little while since a very pious Sunday school-teacher said in market, "He would as soon kill an abolitionist as anything else"; and only last week, a merchant said, "There are no persons bit enough fools to go and hear Lucretia Mott now." Ah! She can be heard without their going. She is standing unhesitatingly beside the immutable principles of peace, as the sweet harbinger for freedom, and the most acceptable attribute of our Father. Oh, how grand is that position! I know it is difficult to occupy it, with all our feelings enlisted, and eager to accept almost any means to liberate the slave; and we should all exercise the most Christian charity. Still, the animal nature must be overcome; for it is not our spiritual nature that prompts to bloodshed, even for the slave. It is out of love for him that we espouse anti-slavery sentiments; any yet he is far more innocent than the slaveholder; and if we love our enemies as we should-if we love our gusguided brethren as we are required to—surely, our love for the slaveholder should not be forgotten. Some call them savages and brutes; and though their acts might justify the impression with some, still, the more they err, the more they become objects for our sympathy, solicitude and reformation—they become more than brothers and we should mete out kindness, goodness and love to them, together with an earnest, resolute vindication of the rights of the enslaved. This was being done by you, Mr. Garrison, and others, with large hearts. Is it any time to change your tactics? Oh, hard as it is to resist the war feeling, because there may, through some spectacles, seem a dim prospect for the slave, think of the magnificent position you would occupy, if, with all their insults, with all their bitter denunciations, you continued magnanimous! The grandest conflict is that which successfully resists temptation, and the most complete victory is that which successfully overcomes it. What a sad commentary upon the abolition cause, if, after the struggle is over, the old Union should be patched up, and old compromises re-read and re-affirmed;; the government resolved into a mutual admiration society; "the South hug the North, and the North hug the South," and both sides claim the victory! What a commentary upon our great cause to see the influence of our choicest spirits spent for so ignoble a result! Whereas, what a splendid achievement it would be to find them, whether in victory or defeat, masters throughout of themselves, contending unflinchingly with brain, with tongue, with pen and example, for the abolition of slavery from the very requirements of morality! These appeals are not lost upon mankind, not even upon our Southern brethren. Who are they? Look into their relationships: are they not interwoven with us by all the laws of consanguinity and nationality? They are not so wonderfully different from us. We have our faults and foibles. We are not infallible. They have some noble traits, they are children of the same impartial Father, they all have consciences. Yes, consciences! Touch, then, that fountain of goodness. You cannot do it with the sword-that breeds revenge, and killeth. You can touch it with the whisperings of the spirit of love. It is an easy matter to love those that love us, yet empty of rewards. The triumphs of this life are gained by overcoming evil with good. Yet we must not be impatient, or we may accept the speed of war, so seducing is it, to carry out devout ends, and thus retard rather than hasten. Some may say, "This will do very well when the millennium comes, but that is not yet." Why, we make millenniums-every man can make them for himself! They are the development of our spiritual nature, attainable only by live of purity and virtue, by abjuring the use of carnal weapons, and by a system of universal benevolence and love to mankind. Let us work indefatigably, but consistently. Our course is the highest in the scale of moral excellence. Let us adopt those means that are the most peaceful, fraternal, and Christ-like.
I sometimes think, that if this cause of the abolition of slavery requires the consecration of blood, how much better it would be to have that of the pure and innocent, rather than that of the guilty, who are less prepared to render up an account of their stewardship. As at present planned, the war may cost the blood of thousands; while under a pure non-resistance, no army, and especially no army of Americans, would sacrifice many lives, but eventually grant all the rights and privileges that could be vouchsafed by the victorious sword, and this without the heir-loom to our children of military spirit, and without the drunkenness, profanity and disgrace which are visible in our midst under the war influence.
There is an omnipotence in a fearless, dignified, humanitarian non-resistance—the sublimity of moral courage—fearing no death to the body, earnest alone for the life of the spirit. It conquers eventually. God’s self is in it!
Hopefully and faithfully, your friend,
ALFRED II. LOVE. 
REMARKS. The letter of our esteemed correspondent is suggestive of many comments, but we cannot find room for them inn connection with it. While we admire its excellent spirit, and cling as tenaciously as ever to the principles of peace, we cannot take its somber view of the present conflict, but regard with hopefulness the almost miraculous uprising of the people of the North, to prevent the success of the most hideous conspiracy ever framed for the extinction of popular liberty; and though it is true that they are not seeking, primarily, the abolition of slavery, but rather the preservation of the government as administered hitherto, still it is more and more apparent that they will be compelled by necessity, if not from choice or principle, to proclaim liberty to the oppressed—in which case, the cause of peace will be greatly promoted, as well as that of impartial freedom. "From seeming evil still educing good." 
<c02>
A SHORT ADDEESS TO THE NORTHERN SOLDIES.
[This was written for the company raised in Ellsworth, Maine, but not delivered, owing to its Anti-Slavery sentiment, though the author is confident that a majority of the company would hare endorsed it]
SOLDIERS,—The circumstances in which oar common country is conditioned, have imposed upon the President of the United States the duty of calling upon the Governor of the State of Maine for troops to defend the Capital of the Nation from Southern secessionists and mobocrats.
You, at the call of our excellent Governor, have volunteered your services for the army. Coming as you do, from the work and mechanic shops, the mills and the fields, listening with alacrity, without an hour's notice, to fill up a company of eighty men, and those, too, most of you young men, scarcely out of your time, to serve in a war against the most cruel and diabolical foe that ever disgraced the history of man, gives us who witness your patriotism and courage, occasion to be proud of our own dear Ellsworth and its vicinity. Her sons are made of the true metal; it has the ring '76 and the spirit of Bunker Hill.
You go forth to battle with a terrible, revengeful and wicked foe: not, however, as our fathers did, in '76, to achieve and create a country which they could call their own, but to preserve what they achieved, after a seven years' war; to preserve from the raid of a foe as much more cruel and malignant than those our fathers had to contend with, as the cruelties of the fourteenth century were to that of the eighteenth: a savagery which is only equalled by the science found in the cruelties of the very institution which these Southern vandals have waged to perpetuate.
To you and the like of you is committed the safety of our institutions; to you the safety of our homes and firesides. For, once suffer the Southern slaveocrat to plant his cabbage, palmetto and rattlesnake flag over the Free States, and liberty would have to flee to Canada or the frozen ocean for a place to plant her foot.
This is not a war alone to preserve the Union; but the two institutions, planted and compromised over by our fathers, are brought face to face, and as one goes up, the other goes down; and it is for you to say whether this country shall become the great slave mart of the world, or whether it shall be the home of the brave and free. Slave labor and free labor are brought fare to face, and you, soldiers of the Northern army, are to say to the army of the South, "Here your encroachments upon the freedom of the North shall be stayed; here we meet you steel to steel."
True, little did the friends of the new Administration apprehend that the South, in her madness, would put her threats into execution, and lay violent hands on the Government, and pull down the pillars of State. Little did the democrats of the North believe that their apparent friends of the South would march with an army upon the Capital of the nation. Little did they think they should meet Jeff. Davis and Mason in any oilier spirit than conservators of the peace and preservers of the Union. But slavery is not to be trusted for anything that docs not serve its ends; and its immediate supporters are ready to sacrifice every friend,—political, religious, social, fraternal,—where its apparent interest demands it. Thus the democrat of the North, alike with the republican, comes to the rescue of the Union, the stars and stripes, which are wickedly assailed by the vandals of the South; and you to-day stand shoulder to shoulder, democrat and republican, forgetting names and previous conditions, in the struggle for the sacred cause of freedom.
To you is committed the responsible duty of placing that flag upon the apex of liberty—not alone for the white man, but for all persons in this country— holding these truths as the guiding star by night, and the pillar of cloud by day, "That all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." You go forth to meet the enemy in the sunny South, to retake the forts, arsenals and other public property, which these thieves and robbers have stolen. You go forth to plant the flag of your country once more on the ramparts of Sumter. That you will do it, is the prayer of all whom you leave behind, though the rebel Pickens has sworn that the Palmetto shall never be lowered, except in a sea of blood.
Soldiers, are you ready for the fight? Can you meet this foe without faltering, and sweep before you, with the besom of stern retributive justice, these vandals and pirates? Yes; I hear the shout going up from all hearts, "The stars and stripes shall float again over Sumter, though it cost the liberation of every slave, and the lives of a hundred thousand Northern sons of liberty." I thank you. Go forth, and he who falls in defence of that flag shall have a better passport to the next life than any priest, church or sacrament can give. But in all things be humane—never cruel; always have your pieces well charged, and never discharged only as they cover one or more of the enemy.
Your brothers are already in the field. Some of the sons of Maine now sleep in death for the cause which you swear to uphold. Their blood cries from
the streets of Baltimore for redress; let it not plead in vain, but take no rash oath of vengeance; yet armed with justice and liberty, yield nothing, compromise nothing with rebels, though it be necessary to lay Baltimore a waste of ashes and blackened bones. Teach the South and her slaveocracy that the free mudsills "of the North know their rights, and dare maintain them; that liberty is better than slavery,
that justice is better than robbery. IN no case allow your freedom to be narrowed down to yourself, but let it be as universal as nature, embracing all classes
and grades of humanity. Your motto, "Liberty and the Union, now and forever, one and inseparable." With this you shall conquer a peace worthy of your
prestige, which shall be lasting, final, glorious. Then shall you sit down, each under his own vine, and none to molest nor make him afraid. The clanks of the
coffle-chain and the whistle of the slave-driver's whip shall be heard no more. No longer shall Northern Senators be bludgeoned in the halls of Congress. No
longer shall the North eat dirt, and compromise with wrong. No longer shall the interests of the sunny South be in opposition to the frozen North, but each
shall work harmoniously together, clothed in the beautiful garments of liberty and Justice for all. Commerce, the arts, sciences, politics, religion, government, shall conspire to make "Young America" the pride and glory of civilization and popular franchise. Such a victory won and such a peace conquered shall immortalize your name, and the age in which you live. But to secure a selfish, narrow freedom, confined to the strong, making the weak and helpless the slave of the rich and powerful, shall only confine the fire, which shall break out some other time like a pent-up volcano; for as sure as justice is immutable, every yoke shall be broken, every chain sundered. And woe to those who persist in fighting against it: they shall be buried in the ruins of their own structure!
But I will not look upon the dark side; for the future of our country is bright and beautiful, and every one of yon, who carries a weapon of defence for that flag, is a divinely commissioned precursor of the future liberty and happiness of our country; yea, the bright hosts of heaven, who in their mundane sphere took active part in the achievement of our nation's independence, shall hover over the progress of your arms and your victories, won under that flag.
To you is committed die responsible duty of being the agents in the hand of justice to wipe oat the traitors to civil liberty in our country.
Not a part, bat the whole country is to be dedicated to Freedom's God; and a few more shocks from Freedom's battery, shall teach the rebels that it is hard to fly in the teeth of justice. Therefore, my brave brothers, fear not, bat go in the spirit of the revolutionary fathers, a rich inheritance of '76. "Give me liberty, or give me death," with this appendix: Lib-
<c03>
erty for my whole country, and all the inhabitants thereof. Let this be your patriotism, and victory shall perch upon your banner.
And now to the loved ones whom you leave behind: YOU, wives, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, lovers, friends—they bat go to prepare a more beautiful country, wherein righteousness and justice shall dwell; and if by duty they fall, the angels shall bear them up to their fathers and our fathers, who shall crown them with the wreath bright from the throne of Freedom's God. Therefore, bid them go. Hold them not back; and if their ranks be thinned, we will fill them with others of our number, who are waiting to go at the call of our country.
Farewell! The blessing of twenty millions of hearts goes with you. Yea, the humanity and response of the whole civilized world sends up its prayer for your success. We unite from Canada to Washington in one unanimous God-speed for a happy and successful issue; and though we cannot be with you in person, yet we are more with you in our hearts, than at home by your own fireside.
God bless you! Good bye!
G. W. MADOX.
ENCOURAGING FACTS.
Edward Garrison Walker, a young colored man, was, on May 6th, on motion of Robert Morris, Esq., Judge Russell on the Superior Court bench, admitted to practice in the Courts of this Commonwealth.
Mr. Walker has read law a portion of his time in the office of C. A. Tweed, Esq., of Charlestown; but the required term being three years, or an examination, he passed the ordeal, we are told, in a manner very creditable to him.
There are other young colored men in Massachusetts of like aspirations.
I recently overheard a conversation between two enterprising and intelligent colored Americans, the most prominent feature of which was the education of their sons and daughters. One of them, not satisfied with the facilities afforded in New York city for the education of colored children, had abandoned a lucrative business, and absented himself and family ten years in Europe, where he had been so far successful that his eldest son became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, England; Licentiate in Midwifery, Dublin; Resident Surgeon to the Liverpool Southern Hospital, and late Resident Surgeon to the Liverpool Eye and Ear Institute. He has returned to the United States, ready to practice his profession.
The other, for four years, had been making large business sacrifices, both in New York and Rhode Island; while in the latter, especially, struggling for equal school rights. He has now removed to Boston, where his children daily rejoice in the fact, that the dew-drops of knowledge are dispensed without regard to accidental differences of complexion.
I met a worthy and industrious resident of an adjoining city, on his way home from church. He pointed me, with manifest delight, to his second daughter, who, he said, was now in the High School; the same from which his eldest daughter had graduated some months since.
A few days since, a paper reached me from Adrian, Michigan, containing an account of the City School examination, in which the exercises of a promising colored boy were highly complimented; and the programme of the Ninth Annual Examination of the Institute for Colored Youth in Philadelpha is before me, with the names of candidates for prizes in the highest department of Mathematics and the Classics.
It is a noticeable and encouraging fact, that so much interest continues to be manifested throughout the country by colored parents and their children in the pursuit of knowledge, even in those localities where the exclusive school system is still a towering difficulty. Their success in the schools where all conditions and races meet on terms of equality is a fixed fact. 
Boston, June 15, 1861. W. C. N.
JEFFERSON DAVIS AT RICHMOND.
The rebel President and suite were welcomed to Virginia, a few days since, by a deputation of the Governor of the State and the Mayor of Richmond. Accompanied by a cortege on horseback, he left his quarters at the Spotswood House, and proceeded to the New Fair Grounds, where, in response to the calls of an assemblage of soldiers and civilians, he delivered the following brief address:—
"My Friends and Fellow-Citizens: I am deeply impressed with the kindness of your manifestation. I look upon you as the last best hope of liberty; and in our liberty alone is our Constitutional Government to be preserved. Upon your strong right arm depends the success of our country; and, in asserting the birthright to which you were born, you are to remember that life and blood arc nothing, as compared with the immense interests you have at stake. (Cheers.)
It may be that you have not long been trained, and that you have much to learn of the art of war; but I know that there beats in the breasts of Southern sons, a determination never to surrender—a determination never to go home but to tell a tale of honor. (Cries 'Never!' and applause.) Though great even may be the disparity of numbers, give me a fair field and a free fight, and the Southern banner will float in triumph everywhere. (Cheers.) The country relies upon you. Upon you rest the hopes of our people; and I have only to say, my friends, that to the last breath of my life, I am wholly your own."(Tremendous cheers.)
President Davis then retired from the balcony.
"Mr. Crenshaw, of Richmond, has tendered to Jeff. Davis the gratuitous use of his house, furniture, and negroes, for a term of three months, or longer if desired, for the "Presidential Mansion."[A more appropriate place would be the Penitentiary.]
DEATH OF SENATOR DOUGLAS.
CHICAGO, June 3.
Senator Douglas died at 10 minutes after 9 o'clock this morning. Those in attendance at the time were Mrs. Douglas, Dr. Miller, Mrs. Cutts, J. Madison Cutts, Jr., of Washington, B. P. Rhodes, of Cleveland, J. Mc Vicker, Spencer B. Benham, and Dr. Hay, of Chicago. His remains will be taken from here on Wednesday to Washington. He was born at Brandon, Vermont, April 23, 1813. In 1834, he was admitted to the bar, soon obtained a lucrative practice, and was elected Attorney-General of the State. In 1837, he was appointed, by President Van Buren, Register of the Land-office, at Springfield, Illinois. He afterwards practised his profession, and, in 1840, was elected Secretary of State, and the following year Judge of the Supreme Court. This office he resigned, after sitting upon the bench for two years, in consequence of ill health. In 1843, he was elected to Congress, and continued a member of the Lower House for four years. In December, 1847, he was elected to the United States Senate, of which he continued a member. He was, (as he had been for several sessions,) during the first session of the Thirty-fifth Congress, Chairman of the Committee on Territories. He was subsequently reelected a Senator in Congress. He was married April 7, 1847, to Miss Martha D. Martin, daughter of Colonel Robert Martin of Rockingham county, North Carolina, by whom he had three children, two of whom arc living. She died Jan. 19, 1852. He was again married, Nov. 20, 1856, to Miss Adele Cutts, daughter of James Madison Cutts of Washington, D. C., Second Comptroller of the Treasury. He leaves no children by his second wife, and is reported to have died in impoverished circumstances.
WASHINGTON, June 1. The Washington Star, of this afternoon, gives the following full account of the skirmish at Fairfax last night: Cavalry company A of the 2d cavalry, and 47 privates under Lieut. Tompkins and 2d Lieut. Gordon, accompanied by Quartermaster Fearing, Assistant Quartermaster Carey and Adjutant Frank of the New York 5th, were reconnoitering within 300 yards of Fairfax Court House, by the Winchester road, when they were fired on by two pickets. They took one a prisoner, and the other escaped; the cavalry then charged into the village from the north side, and were fired on from the Union Hotel, formerly kept by Jackson, who shot Col. Ellsworth, but the man firing was instantly shot down. They then charged through the principal street, and were fired on from many houses and from platoons behind fences. Having thus passed the end of the College, they wheeled instantly, charging back; they were then met by two large detachments with two field pieces. Turning, they cut through a third detachment in the rear and left, bringing five prisoners, and killing throughout the engagement 27 of the rebels. Two of the cavalry were shot, two are missing, and Assistant Quartermaster Carey, of the 5th, was wounded in the foot. Lieut. Tompkins had two horses shot under him, the last falling on his leg, injuring it slightly. The wounded are under the charge of the surgeons of the 5th.
<c04>
The following is the letter addressed to General Scott by General Butler, asking instructions in relation to the reception of fugitive slaves at Fortress Monroe:—
"Since I wrote my last," says Gen. Butler, "the question in regard to slave property is becoming one of very serious magnitude. The inhabitants of Virginia are using their negroes in the batteries, and are preparing to send their women and children South. The escapes from them are very numerous, and a squad has come in this morning, (May 27,) and my pickets are bringing their women and children. Of course, these cannot be dealt with upon the theory on which I designed to treat the service of able-bodied men and women who might come within my lines, and of which I gave you a detailed account in my last dispatch.
I am in the utmost doubt what to do with this species of property. Up to this time, I have had come within my lines men and women, with their children—entire families—each family belonging to the same owner. I have, therefore, determined to employ, as I can do very profitably, the able-bodied persons in the party, issuing food for the support of all, and charging against their services the expense of care and sustenance of the non-laborers, keeping a strict and accurate account as well of the services as of the expenditures, having the worth of the services and the cost of the expenditure determined by a board of survey hereafter to be detailed. I know of no other manner in which to dispose of this subject and the questions connected therewith. As a matter of property, to the insurgents, it will be of very great moment—the number that I now hare amounting, as I am informed, to what in good times would be of the value of sixty thousand dollars.
Twelve of these negroes, I am informed, have escaped from the erection of the batteries on Sewall's Point, which this morning fired upon my expedition as it passed by out of range. As a means of offence, therefore, in the enemy's hands, these negroes, when able-bodied, are of great importance. Without them the batteries could not have been erected, at least for many weeks. As a military question, it would seem to be a measure of necessity, and deprives their master of their services.
How can this be done? As a political question and a question of humanity, can I receive the services of a father and mother, and not take the children? Of the humanitarian aspect I have no doubt; of the political one I have no right to judge. I therefore submit all to your better judgment; and as these questions have a political aspect, I have ventured—and I trust I am not wrong in so doing—to duplicate the parts of my dispatch relating to this subject, and forwarding them to the Secretary of War.
Your obedient servant,
BENJ. F. BUTLER.
Lieutenant-General Scott"
It appears that Gen. Butler now has 135 negroes happily working inside his lines. It is very strange, and wholly contrary to the rule laid down by Southern slaveholders and Northern doughfaces, that these negroes should have left the kind masters whom they love so well, and for whom they have been begging to fight. The Southern people would declare that these cases are exceptional; but, really, the exceptions are becoming so frequent that the rule is likely to be reversed. From some of the slaves we have an additional proof of what we have often declared—that the negroes of the South have long had their ears open and their minds active, watching for the moment of deliverance. The new doctrine which makes them contraband of war is likely to be of exceeding popularity with the slaves, though it may pinch the masters seriously before the end of the year's campaign.—Tribune.
A letter from the Fortress says:—
"It was discovered that thirty of the slaves belonged to one man in Richmond. He obtained permission to visit the fort to confer with Gen. Butler, on the subject of getting his live property back. He asked the General if he might be allowed to convey them back. The General said they came there of their own accord, and could go back with him if they desired to. They were asked if they desired to return with their master. They quickly decided that they preferred to remain with the soldiers in the fort. The claimant then said if the General would allow him to take his slaves to Richmond, he would manumit them. Gen. Butler said he could not make any such arrangement; but the claimant could go to Richmond with or without the slaves, and they could go or stay, as they pleased, and if they went the claimant might do as he pleased about manumitting them. The claimant finding himself in a bad fix, manumitted the thirty slaves on the spot, left them in the fort free men, and left himself for Richmond."
The Washington Republican of Friday says:— "It is reported from Fortress Monroe that gangs of fugitive slaves, in parties of twenty or thirty, were constantly arriving there, over one hundred having reached there on Monday. Some of them said they were about being sent South, and others alleged that they came in to get food. They complained that whilst they were kept at work in the sandhills, the soldiers ate up all the food. Some of them were free negroes, who had been compelled to work upon the enemy's fortifications in and near Norfolk."
 A correspondent of the New York Tribune has some interesting information relative to a certain class of contraband chattels with legs, which have of their own accord found their way to Fort Monroe:—
"The first invoice of Virginia property received at Gen. Butler's camp, consisted of eight packages. Gen. Ashley was detailed to examine and report.
'What are you going to do with us?' the negroes asked.
Gen. Ashley—'We shall not harm you.'
Negroes—' We know that, but will you send us back? We want to know, because if you don't, our friends will follow. They wait to know how we are treated.'
Gen. Ashley—' I have no authority to act, but you may be sure that you won't be returned to your masters for twenty-four hours.'
At this, about 200 volunteers, who had gathered about from various regiments, and all parties present, clapped their hands, and cheered, showing the sentiments of the soldiers. Gen. Ashley then examined the eight separately, and seemed to understand their situation, and to feel as with one of their number, an old Methodist class-leader, who said that they were like the children of Israel in Egypt, they knew that deliverance was 'gwine to come;' but how, was not so clear. But the war was something toward it. They had awaited quietly since September, 'when we made up our minds that the North was too strong for the South.'
'Who are "we"?' asked Gen. Ashley.
'Masters and slaves both,' was the reply.
The next day, according to their prophecy, 40 or 30 more came into camp; and these 'Volunteer Virginians’ continued coming until Gen. Ashley left. An examination of these confirmed the conclusions respecting the knowledge of the negroes that something was going on which might inure to their good, and they determined to seize the opportunity."
IMPORTANT DECISION OF GOVERNMENT.
SLAVES OF REBEL OWNERS CONTRABAND OF WAR.
WASHINGTON, May 31. The War Department sent the following letter of instructions to Gen. Butler:—
"SIR,—Your action in respect to the negroes who came within your lines from the service of the rebels is approved. The department is sensible of embarrassments which must surround officers conducting military operations in a State, by the laws of which slavery is sanctioned. The government cannot recognize the rejection by any State of its Federal obligations; nor can it refuse the performance of the Federal obligations resting upon itself.
Among these Federal obligations, however, no one can be more important than that of suppressing and dispersing armed combinations formed for the purpose of overthrowing its whole constitutional authority; while, therefore, you will permit no interference by the persons under your command with the relations of persons held to service under the laws of any State, you will, on the other hand, so long as any State within which your military operations arc conducted is under the control of such organizations, refrain from surrendering to alleged masters any persons who may come within your lines.
You will employ such persons in the services to which they may be best adapted, keeping an account of the labor by them performed, of the value of it, and of the expenses of their maintenance. The question of their final disposition will be reserved for future determination. S. CAMERON, Sec'y of War.
To Major-General Butler."
AN INTERESTING INCIDENT. This noon a fugitive slave, just arrived from Baltimore, (via "U. G. R. R.") was passing through the Doric Hall, at the State House, when he recognized one of the soldiers wounded on the 19th of April at that city, and at once accosted him, inquiring after his health, and asked him if he did not know him. The soldier did not at first remember his face, when the fugitive asked him if he did not remember a colored man bringing him water to drink, and rags to bind up his wounds, while he lay wounded in the street. He replied that he did, and at once recognized his Good Samaritan in the person of the fugitive. The peculiar circumstances of the case made the interview deeply touching. Without revealing facts which might do more harm than good, we will simply add that the fugitive has a wife and two children, and when the Massachusetts soldiers felt wounded in the street of Baltimore, the fugitive's wife tore up her clothes, to make rags to staunch the flow of blood. These rags she threw out of a window in her master's house, when her husband gathered them up and carried them to the wounded soldier.—Boston Herald, May 28th.
<c05>
SLAVE INSURRECTION. A Washington dispatch to the New York Times is to this effect:—
"It will be remembered, doubtless, that several weeks since, a slave insurrection in the vicinity of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, caused such serious alarm among the white population that many families left the city, some going to Havana, and others to Europe. From reliable sources 1 learn that a similar insurrection has broken out in the same vicinity, and that troops are employed to master the insurgents. On one plantation, some fifteen miles from Baton Rouge, on which was residing an overseer, with his family of eight persons, the slaves stole quietly into the bedrooms, murdered every one in the house, and then set fire to the building, and to their own quarters. For two days these facts were unknown, and had it not been for an unfulfilled engagement on the part of the overseer, the truth might have been concealed for weeks, as the plantation was exceedingly retired. These slaves, with some 40 runaways, concealed themselves in "Wilderness Swamp," where, for six days and nights, they defied their pursuers, and were finally brought to terms by the use of bloodhounds, who followed them into the swamp, and troops, who surrounded it, preventing escape. In consequence of this, the inhabitants have called on the Parish for military protection, and terror reigns supreme for twenty miles around."
OUTRAGE ON THE OSAGE—Steamboat Belonging to Mr. Fender Scuttled and Sunk by the Secessionists —Union Men Driven Off. We had an interview yesterday afternoon with Mr. Jackson Fowler, who has been driven away from his home at Brokers' Landing, on the Osage river. Mr. Fowler has, during the winter, been building a small steamboat to run in the Osage river. The boat was nearly completed, and just awaiting her machinery at the mouth of the Osage. On the 10th, a company of one hundred men from the railroad bridge went down to the boat, scuttled and sunk her. These men were originally from Camp Jackson, and probably were under Capt. Kelly. The boat was valued by Mr. Fowler at $3,600. A lot of tools, sunk with her, were worth about $300. The reason given for her destruction was, that Governor Jackson was afraid Frank Blair intended coming up, and using her for one of his army transports. Not content with destroying Mr. Fowler's boat, these rebels on Thursday last gave him notice "to quit his home immediately, threatening I him with death should he remain."
Another Outrage. — Bernard Wegman, from Taos, Cole county, reached this city yesterday, having been driven away from his home because of his Union sentiments. A gang of twenty men came to his house, robbed his store of money and goods, and then ordered him to leave the country at once, which he did.—Missouri Democrat, May 21st.
The Topeka Record says: "We have been kindly permitted to make the following extracts from a letter from North Carolina to a gentleman in this city. The letter says:—
'My object in writing this is this—Our country is at war, and a bloody scene is upon us. I have, therefore, resolved to move my family out of the slave States,
and now I want to ask you this question: If I were to bring my family to Topeka next June, do you think a Southern family would be safe there?.... for as
soon as a Northern army comes to the South, the negroes will rise, and kill every person they can get hold of......Our Southern States will be rained by this war, and as I am not a slaveholder, I do not wish my family to perish with the slaveholders.'"
A SOUTHERN EXAMPLE. The Nashville (Tenn.)
'Banner says: "One of the Cairo soldiers was at Columbus on Friday. He was carefully searched, but no papers of consequence were found on his person. He
confessed, however, that he was from Cairo, also that he was a soldier, and had been sent to that place by his commanding officer. The last our informant saw
of him, he was tied with a rope by the neck to a black jack, his feet dangling at an inconvenient distance from the ground."
THE REBELS HANG A HORSE-SHOER. A Mr. Bennett, who had been employed as a horse-shoer by the U. S. cavalry, and although a Virginian still remained true to the Union, was hung, on Saturday last, at manassas Junction. A NEGHO PREACHER HUNG. A negro preacher belonging to Mrs. Haden, at Pine Bluff, indulged in violent language to his mistress last Sunday afternoon,
remarking, among other things, that he would be free in three weeks, and could raise a thousand men himself for the purpose. His case was reported to the
authorities the same evening, and he was taken out "and hung on Monday afternoon.—Memphis Bulletin.
A SPY HUNG BY SOUTH CAROLINA VOLUNTERS. —The Richmond Dispatch of the 31st ult. reports, that it has received information that a son of the law partner of the President of the Loudon and Hampshire Railway, had been arrested by the South Carolina Volunteers, and hung as a spy. Upon his person, concealed in his coat collar, when arrested, were a map of Harper's Ferry, and a manuscript embodying the writer's ideas in regard to the effective force and disposition of troops at the Ferry, and the best mode for the Federal forces to pursue to ensure success. Mr. Alden Moulton, of Greene, recently driven out of Alabama, informs the Lewiston Journal, that a vigilance committee from Mobile tied up his employer, (a Southerner!) and whipped him, for retaining Northern men in his service. On his way home, Mr. M. found this identical Southerner, who had been whipped for employing him, actually enlisted in the U. S. army at Cairo! He said he had made up his mind to give full payment and interest for the flogging which his Southern friends had bestowed upon. him.—Portland Transcript.
All the U. R. officers escaped from Texas are in Washington. They denounce the traitor Twiggs in violent terms. He sent them over a vast territory, shut off from the North. Capt. Gerard paid over $30,000 given him in charge by a resigning Quartermaster at Cairo, bringing it safely the whole distance in his waistcoat lining. Thirty or forty officers, with 300 or 400 men, are still prisoners in Texas. The officers having given their word of honor, feel that they must keep it; but those who gave it may be assigned to posts, the duties of which can be performed! without a breach of honor. As all the officers who escaped reported themselves here, the Government has good proof of their loyalty.
The Virginians having warned off a Friend from Philadelphia, named Iredell, who had established a flourishing boarding- school among them, he held a public sale of his personal effects, which his neighbors bought at high prices. The amount of property thus sold was large; but when the sale was over, every purchaser refused to pay for what he had bought, and the plundered man was driven off with his family, with barely enough money to bring him to Pennsylvania.
Four Southern ladies recently arrived at Brattleboro', Vt, as a place of safety during the war their husbands or brothers have inaugurated against the North!
GOV. ANDREW ON THE WAR. GOV. Andrew, of Massachusetts, in a letter to Gen. Walbridge, of New York, approving the General's policy of enlisting half a million men for the war, says:— 
"The day of compromise with treason has irrevocably passed, and the day of absolute victory shall be, made to come, if we fight for a century. There is a perfect unanimity of sentiment in Massachusetts. Party names and party creeds are utterly ignored and forgotten. The preservation of the Union, the support of the Government, and the emphatic punishment and solemn extinction of traitors, are the catholic religion of us all. And it is a religion of mercy. We have always been impressed with the wisdom of Washington, who, when advised that five thousand men would suffice to quell Shay's Rebellion, replied, Then I will send fifteen thousand.' There can be no mistake about that."
THE PARENTS OF COL. ELLSWORTH GAZING ON HIS CORPSE. The mother and father of Col. Ellsworth, with hearts bowed with grief, awaited the arrival of the body of their beloved son in painful anxiety at the Astor House, and as soon as the coffin containing the inanimate soldier was deposited in the room, both parents entered, and proceeded to hold communion with grim death. It was a scene such as may be witnessed once in a long period of years— deeply affecting, solemn and heart-rending. The mother—she whose heart is always full of tenderness —has a hard task to go through when she stands gazing on the dead body of her only son. Imagination may therefore draw a faint picture of what Mrs. Ellsworth must have suffered while in that chamber of death. On entering, she first kissed his cold lips, the father followed the example, both looked at each other a moment in mute grief, and then burst into a wild paroxysm of anguish, sob following sob, until the few who witnessed the sad picture began to fear the effect would prove serious to either one or both parents, and they were accordingly conducted from the room.— N. Y. Herald.
The Vicksburg Whig says that Andrew Jackson Donelson has announced his determination to go into active service, by drawing the sword given him by General Jackson in defence of the South.
"WASHINGTON, June 3d, 1861. Lieut-Gen. Scott tonight received a dispatch from Gen. McClellan, stating that the command under Gen. Morris last night marched on Grafton. It was raining at the time.
They surprised a party of Secessionists near Phillippa, about 2,000 strong, and effectually put them to route, and killed some of them
A large quantity of arms, munitions, and a number of horses, which the Secessionists left in their alarm, fell into the hands of the Federal troops. The Rebels retreated further into Virginia. Col. Kelly was dangerously wounded.
<c06>
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Milford, MASS., Sunday, June 9
Evening lecture, subject: "The Star- Spangled Banner as the Symbol of Liberty."
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Weymouth, Sunday, June9, at half-past 10,A.M., and half-past 5, P.M.
MARRIED—In this city, June 3, by Rev. R. C. Waterston, MARSHALL GORDON, Esq., to Miss MARY E. BROWN, both of Boston.
New Dress Goods
—AT —
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street
Figured Irish Poplins, 62 cts. cost 87 cts.
French checked do.50 cts "62 cts.
French striped and figured do. 50 cts "62 cts.
Double with Mozambiques, 37 $ 50 cts. 62 & 75 cts. 
Double width Grey Goods, 25 cts. cost 50 cts.
Single width Grey Goods, 8&10 cts. "9&12 cts.
Best American Prints, 62 cts "82 cts.
Berages, silk and wool, 17 cts. "32 cts. .
Organdie Muslins, 13 cts. former
price,27 cts.
Common Muslins, 8 cts, cost 12 cts.
Double width Challie, 25cts. "35 cts. Borton, June 7.
Look at the Prices! 
— AT —
HEBBARD'S,
365 Washington Street
Black French Lace Mantillas, $4 cost $8
Black Silk Mantillas, 6 "10
Black Silk Basquenes, 12 "16 
Cloth Garments, 5 "8 
Heavy Plaid Silks, for Mantillas,1 "1.50
Heavy Plaid Silks, 60 cts. "90 cts.
Rich Chene Silks, 75 cts. "$1.00Plain Silks at discount Boston, June 7.
Marking Down
— AT—
HEBBARB'S,
365 Washington Street
Look at PRICES!
Mourning Pine Apple sets, $2.50 cost 3.00
Valanciene Medallion sets, 3.50 "5.00
Cambric and Muslin sets, 1.00 "2.50
Collars, 25, 37, 1.50 cost 50, 62, 1.75
Linen sets, 20 cts.—Collars 6ts. Boston, June 7.
THE PINE AND PALM.
EDITORS:
JAMES REDPATH, GEROGE LAWRENCE, JR. 
HENRY MELROSE, OFFICE EDITOR.
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS.
JOHN BROWN, JR.,H. FORD DOUGLAS,
RICHARD J. HINTON,FRANK B. SANBORN,
WM. WELLS BROWN,M. DE ST. ANAND, Hayti,
J. B. SMITH,A. E. NEWRON,
J.W. LE BARNES,GEORGE H. HOYT.
PUBLICATION OFFICES.
BOSTON—Room 8, 221 Washington Street.
New York—48 Beckman Street.
No. I.—Contains Wendell Phillips’s Speech on Toussaint L’Ouverture, with an authentic portrait of the hero.
No. II.—Contains a portrait of President Geffrard.
No. III.—Also illustrated, contains a long and hitherto unpublished letter of John Brown, and all the documents necessary for a thorough knowledge of the Spanish Plot in St. Domingo.
The Pine and Palm is the successor of the Anglo-African, (the organ of the colored Americans,) and is devoted to the advocacy of practical organized efforts against Slavery. Its fourth page forms the official organ of the Government of Hayti.
Its first three numbers contain an immense amount of correspondence, including letters from Africa, Hayti, Vancouvier’s Island, New Brunswick, Washington, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Ohio, Virginia, South Carolina, New York, Detroit, &c.—chiefly by colored Americans; and this feature will still be more fully developed.
TERMS-$1 for six months.
JAMES REDPATH, Proprietor.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
It will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWEET & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3 mis.
$40PARKER$40
SEWING MACHINES,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combinations of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics’ Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington Street.
GEO. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861.3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetty
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER’S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheels & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties per tribute. These, together with Parker’s improvement make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 and $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such manner that they cannot get derange. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as we as other parts, is well arrange. There is another feats which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is wheel below the table between the standards, to come contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge up the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a greece measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that count."
Boston, June 7, 1861. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the New York Bee.
THE DEMON.
A PARODY ON POES RAVEN.
BY CALES S. WEEKS.
“Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered" in a query,
Through what scenes our nation's devious, winding, slippery pathway lies;
While my heart was filled with sadness, banishing all cheer and gladness,
Goading the poor brain to madness, racking all my frame with sighs;
Suddenly a hideous figure, as I gave vent to my sighs, 
Faintly flashed upon my eyes.
"Ah! right well do I remember, it was" blustering November,
And from each dim,” dying ember" flickering flames did freely rise:
"Vainly I had strove to borrow” solace for my crushing sorrow,
Hoping that some future morrow might bring back serener skies-
Bring back to our social vision purer and serener skies-
While the dark cloud from us flies.
"And the vague, confused, uncertain" tidings, which came fitfully 
flirting,
Filled my soul with nameless terrors, and with many a strange surmise:
So, to still the boisterous” beating of my heart, I stood repeating”
'Twas but some dim shadow fleeting o'er my heavy, tear-dimmed eyes- 
Shadow of some shapeless ember, which is oft cast o’ero'er the eyes
By the flame, just ere it dies.
Reasoning thus, at length my terrors partially confessed their errors,
Though with many a dread foreboding, which would ne’ertheless arise;
Thus with hopes and fears commingling, in a wild, discordant jingling,
All my heart-strings keenly tingling, ”Let me see!" at length I cries-
Looking up with struggling effort-" I will see what 'tis,’ I cries- 
Darkness only met my eyes.
Striving hard to see, but vainly, nought could I distinguish plainly,
While such dreams as racked my cranium Morpheus never could devise;
Silence there with darkness meeting, gave no single sound of greeting-
Never once a word repeating, ”save the whispered words,” 
“Be wise!" 
These I whispered, and an echo answered back the words-" Be wise!”
This, methought, all Nature cries.
To my hearth at length returning, kindling up my fire to burning,
Plainly on the blaze alighting, I beheld a Demon rise;
And, with sneaking, fiendish glancing, through the open door advancing,
With a sort of hobbling prancing, unlike aught beneath the skies,
Crouched him there before my eyes.
Most repulsive of all creatures, there commingling in his features
All the vile and loathsome passions, treachery, cowardice and lies,
With each other nameless evil, all united, held their revel;-
Cross between a toad and devil, but which either would despise;
Form which bird, or beast, or reptile, could but utterly despise,
And from it avert their eyes.
But my mind, confused, and wondering, o'er my country's future pondering,
Was quite filled with thoughts of omens, and I gazed in strange surprise;
"Tell me," said I, ”ghastly, sneaking wretch, what art thou here a seeking?
Art thou capable of speaking? Speak, and let a word suffice;
Tell me quickly what thy name is-speak, and let a word suffice"
Quoth the Demon, ”Compromise."
"Art thou, then, that craven, slinking demon, who hath long been linking
Us to slavery and corruption, till the world doth us despise?
Is it," said I, ”thy vocation to incite our youthful nation
To commit self-immolation, and its freedom sacrifice?
To bow down before oppressors, and its freedom sacrifice?"
Quoth the Demon, ”Compromise.”
"Is it," said I, ”then thy pleasure to degrade us without measure?
Is it thy malignant wish, then, every knave to canonize?
And when, with the right contending, wouldst thou thus, the wrong defending,
Strive to make its power unending, over all to tyrannize?
And suppress each manly feeling, and forever tyrannize?"
Quoth the Demon, “Compromise” 
"When aggressors' hands are grasping, and our throats are nearly clasping,
Shall we meekly hold forth to them? Is this what thou wouldst advise?
Shall we yield to each exaction, and of each truth make retraction,
To their perfect satisfaction, and surrender all we prize? 
While we're able to defend it, shall we give up all we prize?
Quoth the Demon, ”Compromise”
"When a compromise is ever used in treacherous endeavor 
To crush every trace of freedom, slavery to immortalize; 
As a cover while assailing, till o'er liberty prevailing,
Struggle will be unavailing, when we see 'tis a disguise;
Shall we tie our hands completely, when we know 'tis a disguise?”
Quoth the Demon, ”Compromise."
Thus I listened to his croaking, till, with indignation choking,
I sat down in deep vexation his advice to criticize;
But the Demon, still before me, cast his magnetism o'er me, 
With his song ne'er ceased to bore me, and upon me fix his eyes;
While a dense, pestiferous ether seemed to shoot forth from his eyes,
As he muttered, ”Compromise."
While unto him thus I hearkened, rapidly the air was darkened-
As if from infernal altars hellish incense did arise;
And I felt a stupor stealing o'er me, all my powers congealing,
Smothering every manly feeling-"Rouse thee, victim, slave!” I cries-
"Rend the bands with which he binds thee! stir thee,
quickly rouse!" I cries-
"Spurn the Demon-Compromise!”
"Demon! Knave! thy spell is broken! be that word no longer spoken!"
Cried I, starting upward wildly, ”Let the past of this suffice!
Leave me, base, disgusting, sneaking wretch, with all pollution reeking,
Let me no more hear thee speaking, for thy tongue is foul with lies!
Take thy loathsome presence from me, and thy tongue all foul with lies,
And thy song of 'Compromise,'"
But the Demon, all unheeding my upbraiding or my pleading,
Never stirred, but kept on croaking, to my chagrin and surprise;
Still upon me ever staring, with a wild, malignant glaring, 
As for no repulses caring, still his hellish arts he plies,-
To o'erthrow my sense of honor, all his hellish arts he plies, 
Still repeating, ”Compromise."
And the Demon now is hieing all around our country, trying 
To induce our trusted statesmen liberty to sacrifice;
<c02>
And, where'er I turn, his leering visage ever is appearing, 
At the right forever sneering, though in patriotism's guise; 
Still I see his hateful features through his poorly-worn disguise,
While he croaks of ”Compromise." 
And must it be so forever? O, my country, shall we never
Break his spell, and wake to action, every traitor to chastise?
Spurning all such base pretending, and with firmness true, unbending,
Freedom's cause commence defending, and with widely open eyes,
Pierce the dust-clouds which the Demon has so long cast in our eyes,
In the name of ”Compromise"?

The Liberator.
ANNIVERSARY WEEK.
The annual meeting of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday, May 28th, opened with prayer by the honored apostle of Liberty from Kentucky, Rev. John G. Fee. A forcible address followed by the President, and Report by the Secretary, reviewing in a succinct and truthful manner the complicity and blood-guiltiness of the American Church with slavery the last year.
The Secretary [Rev. Henry T. Cheever] submitted the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:-
1. Resolved, That, in view of the grave aspect of our national affairs, and the state of open rebellion against the Federal Government, on the part of ten of the States of our Confederacy, for no other cause than slavery, the chief anxiety felt by us, as a Society of Christian Patriots, has not been-as lately intimated by an eloquent voice from over the sea-for the dissolution of the National body, but for the death of the Nation's soul-not lest there should be a rending of States, and civil war, but lest there should be reconciliation and peace at the expense of a deadly compromise of principle.
2. Resolved, That we believe with the same clearheaded and earnest writer, (Mrs. Elizabeth Barrett Browning,) looking on, from abroad, upon the astonishing events now transpiring in this country, that ”nothing can destroy the Republic but what corrupts its conscience; that if the North stand fast on the moral ground, no glory will be like our glory; that our foes may be of our own household, but our friends must be among all just and righteous men, whether in the body or out of the body." Compassed about, therefore, with so great a cloud of witnesses, we can afford to risk anything except conscience.
3. Resolved, That we fully concur in the position taken by the late annual meeting of this Society in New York, viz: That the true policy for the National Administration, in its present tremendous struggle with domestic treason and conspiracy, plainly is, inasmuch as the unnatural war into which it is forced is a Pro-Slavery war on the part of the rebels, to make it an Anti-Slavery war on the part of the Government, and so to commend itself to the friends of impartial liberty everywhere, to the consciences of the good, to the sympathy of universal Christendom, and to the favor of Almighty God.
4. Resolved, That from the conviction which is forced upon us, that God is now exercising judgment with the nation for the long-cherished sin of slave-holding; and from a deep sense of dependence upon God only, for a safe issue in freedom to our country, and to the enslaved portion of it especially, out of the present struggle, we earnestly recommend to the churches, and to all praying people, that they observe a concert of prayer for the enslaved, and for our country, on the third Sabbath evening, or third Monday evening of each month of the year.
Rev. Dr. Blanchard, President of Wheaton College, Illinois, preached from Psalm 94: 29: Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with Thee, which frameth mischief by a law? The subject of the discourse was, God is the author of law.
The speaker said, this Society regards slaveholding as a throne of iniquity. This Society is to oppose slavery till it is destroyed. This is to be done by associating the churches of this country in a contest with Slavery. This is necessary, for the press and the pulpit of the South are unanimous in the defence of slavery, and many apologists are found at the North. Prominent among these is Dr. Rice of New York, who received some attention from the speaker, as a representative of a class of erring Christians. Dr. Leonard Bacon was also referred to as a representative of another class of mistaken men. Dr. Bacon would retain the slaveholder in Christian fellowship, which is plainly wrong.
The preacher then explained the system of Hebrew servitude, and claimed that it could not be quoted in defence of the system of iniquity which our country upholds. The Hebrew bondman was not a slave in the dire significance of the word at the present day. He gained by circumcision all the rights of the Hebrew citizen. There was also provision for the extinction of the system, and Dr. Barnes rationally supposes that our Savior might not have met a slave in Palestine during all his life. The speaker argued further that the New Testament churches were not slaveholding churches.
The sermon was followed by the reading of a letter from Rev. William Goodell, of the Principia, New York, who recommended that ”the Church of the Puritans, and its absent pastor, Rev. Dr. Cheever, receive at this time the warm sympathies and prayers of the Church Anti-Slavery Society. Not that any new or strange thing has happened to them, more than to scores, if not hundreds of others, within the last twenty-five years. But that this, the latest instance, and considering the circumstances, and the central position of the persecuted, one of the most remarkable and most audacious, deserves, at this time, particular attention, and should be remembered, and have a place in the history of these wonderful times."
This letter was submitted to a committee consisting of Rev. Dr. Blanchard, Hon. I. Washburn, and Rev. George Trask, with instructions to report at the business meeting in the afternoon, what action, if any, should be taken by the society upon it. Said Committee in the afternoon session, at the Meionaon, reported as follows:-
EX-PARTE COUNCIL ON THE CHURCH OF THE PURITANS.
Whereas, an Ex-Parte Council of Congregational Churches met by pastors and delegates on May 2d, 1861, and after hearing certain disaffected and suspended members of the Church of the Puritans, came to a ”result," in which they recommended that the fellowship of the Congregational Churches in this country be withdrawn from said Church; and,
Whereas, the present difficulties in the Church of the Puritans have followed, and, in our judgment, flowed from the testimony of the pastor of said Church against the Slave-Power in this country; and,
Whereas, said Council have submitted their ”result" to the world at large, through the secular papers, and to the household of faith in particular, through the religious papers-
We, therefore, as a Church Anti-Slavery Society, and constituting, in a qualified sense, a Standing Council of the Churches with reference to Slavery, submit to the Churches the following as some of our objections to said Ex-Parte Council and its ”result":-
I. We object that it was called in the absence of the Pastor, the natural defender and representative of the Church, whose return from Europe was confidently expected within some eight weeks from, the time when the Council was held.
II. We object that said Council should attempt, so far as within them lay, to excommunicate a Church of Jesus Christ from the fellowship of His saints, for no alleged heresy or apostasy, but on the sole ground of alleged irregular and violent action, which action was taken when the Church was in trouble. The Pastor was in Europe. The Church naturally declined the jurisdiction of a Council which they had no hand in calling, and after they had previously denied the request for a Mutual Council by a vote of 73 to 12, as not needing its advice in their affairs.
No Committee from the Church appeared before
<c03>
the Council, nor was any one heard on the part of the majority; and neither the Records of the Church nor copies from the Records were produced before the Council. Yet does this Council try and condemn, and, so far as it can, would annihilate that Church under such circumstances.
III. We, therefore, for these and other reasons, which in our brief report there is not room to set forth, do recommend to all Congregational Pastors and Churches totally to disregard the advice of said Council,-still to regard the Church of the Puritans as a sister Church in affliction, and to regard the action of said Council as erroneous, dangerous, and unscriptural.
This Report, after full and free discussion, was unanimously adopted, together with the following resolution, submitted by Lewis Tappan of New York:
Resolved, That we highly approve of the manly and Christian efforts made by the Rev. Dr. Cheever, during his present sojourn in Great Britain, in advocating there the cause of the Christian Anti-Slavery movement in this country, and urging upon the British public the duty and wisdom of not recognizing the Southern Confederacy; and we rejoice that God has raised up and sustained that eminent and beloved brother in vindicating the cause of righteousness, both in his own country and in other nations.
The officers of the Society were reflected, together with the following list of Honorary Vice-Presidents: C. D. Cleveland, Philadelphia; William S. Rentoul, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Arthur Tappan, New Haven; Edgar Ketchum, New York; Joseph N. Bacon, Newton, Mass.; J. T. Williston, Northampton, Mass.; A. C. Barstow, Providence, R. I.; I. T. Hutchins, Daniel-sonville, Ct.; Rev. George Gordon, Iberia, Ohio; Philo P. Stewart, Troy, New York; W. C. Gilder-sleeve, Wilkesbarre, Pa.; C. Stuart, Lora, Canada West; Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, New York; Rev. H. Mattison, New York; Rev. J. Blanchard, President of Wheaton College, Illinois; Rev. C. B. Boynton, Cincinnati; Simon Page, Hallowell, Me.; Rev. David Thurston, Litchfield Corner, Me.; James Allen, Bangor, Me.; Hon. Ryland Fletcher, Proctorsville, Vt.; Rev. Samuel B. Reed, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Rev. James A. Thome, Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. Jacob Ide, West Medway, Mass.
A Resolution was afterward adopted, pursuant to a suggestion from William Goodell, which elicited a warm discussion:-
Resolved, That it be recommended to the Ministry and Churches to circulate and sign a memorial to the President of the United States, that, as the Chief Magistrate of the Nation-" the minister of God for good, not bearing the sword in vain"-and having the undoubted Constitutional right, by the war power with which he is intrusted, to ”proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof"-that he call, by proclamation, upon all the inhabitants of the United States, of all conditions, bond and free, to aid in supporting the Government, assuring them of its impartial protection under the common flag of our National Union and Freedom.
A Petition was forthwith drawn up, and signed by upwards of twenty-five representative clergymen of different denominations, from all parts of the country.
After a recess, the session opened with prayer by Rev. J. S. Green of the Sandwich Islands.
Rev. Samuel Hunt, of Franklin, Mass., introduced a resolution to the effect that the Executive Committee be instructed to prepare an appeal to the Christian public, urging them to use every legitimate means, to prevent any peace with the South, which does not involve the removal of slavery, the guilty cause of all our troubles.
Rev. H. T. Cheever, Rev. I. T. Hutchins of Danielsville, Ct., Rev. C. B. Smith of Gloucester, and Rev. Elnathan Davis of Fitchburg, supported the resolution.
Mr. Cheever, the Secretary, said that it was their duty to give a correct tone to the public mind, so that the war be not permitted to end while there is a shackle upon a single slave. He believed the politicians at Washington desired to be pushed to an advance stand on this subject. Some of them had been heard to say, ”Only tell us what to do, and we will do it. Let the people who give us the money and the men, demand that we abolish Slavery, and we will do it. Let the Northern ministers make and declare public sentiment, and we at Washington will execute that sentiment, even to the wiping out of slavery by this war. But we will do it so that nobody shall have a right to complain."
Mr. Hutchins said, though he had belonged to the Peace Society, its meetings had now become war meetings, and he had found himself praying that the sword be not sheathed while there is a slave in the land.
Rev. Mr. Smith, of Gloucester, said the people were hurrahing for the Union, but they cared little for the slaves. He was never so disheartened as now, in consequence of the hostility of the press and the pulpit to genuine abolitionism. If the slaves are freed in the present war, it will be in spite of the present intent of the Government and the Churches.
Rev. E. Davis, of Fitchburg, on the other hand, saw much of encouragement in the present aspect of the country. If the South-side pulpit had yielded to the public pressure, and to the requisitions of a visiting committee, and had pronounced strongly for the war, so the South-side pulpit would yet yield to the pressure of the people, and when pushed would pronounce as strongly for abolitionism, and we should yet see the miracle made good of South-side Adams and the Senior Pastor of the Old South marching shoulder to shoulder with Wm. Lloyd Garrison.
Lewis Tappan said that there was a constant progress in the anti-slavery cause. This cause stands better to-day than ever before. The speaker was afraid there would be peace before the war had done its work. The insults which the South heap upon the North are the most pleasing items of news that he reads in these days. These insults will spur up the North to their duty. He hoped the rebels would not back down, till the work of liberating the slaves was done. He feared that the action of the North was occasioned by an insult to our flag, and not by love to the slave and the spirit of the Gospel. He hoped that President Lincoln would proclaim liberty to all the slaves in the country, and that he might live as long as Methuselah to enjoy it.
These were glorious days. God was moving, and even Gen. Butler was at last converted. He had corresponded with Gov. Andrew in reference to the General's returning slaves in Maryland, and His Excellency informed him that he had told Gen. B. it was a great military blunder, and must not be repeated. And now we learn by telegraph that Butler refuses to return fugitives, and declares them contraband of war. He received every insult and aggression of the South upon the North with joy, because it gave strength to the anti-slavery sentiment. When 20,000 of our young men have been slain, the North will understand what they are fighting for, and his prayer was that war may continue till the North is converted.
If Everett and Dr. Adams were South, they would be Secessionists,-it is the flag they now care for, not the slave; when the first-born of every family shall have been slain, people will then say it is best to let the slaves go.
Mr. Fee said he approved of the resolution. The people not only look to us for light in respect to the evils of slavery, but they also look to us for light as to the way in which slavery is to be abolished. Ideas govern the world. Let us get before the minds of the people the idea that the President or Congress can legitimately abolish slavery, and that sin will lie at the door of the people, unless they urge the exercise of this power, and then the power will be used, and that right speedily.
After further discussion, the Resolution was unanimously adopted.
Rev. Mr. Webster moved the adoption of this expression of the judgment of the Society upon the “Slaveholding Heresy":
Resolved, That if the helpless slave be the least of Christ's human brethren, and so His appointed representative 
<c04>
on earth, then to hold him as property is to ignore if not to deny his human nature, and is a practical denial, therefore, of Christ's human nature also, in the person of His representative, and, like the denial of his divine nature, it is a virtual abjuring of the Christian religion, and the very worst form of infidelity.
There being no time for discussion, this was left to the Executive Committee to be again reported, together with a resolution to the effect that measures be taken to secure a register of all those churches which, by their action, have withdrawn, or shall withdraw their fellowship from slaveholders.
The Society then adjourned to the public meeting for addresses at the Temple in the evening, when the following Resolutions were submitted by the Secretary:-
1. Resolved, That the Church Anti-Slavery Society has heard, with deep regret, that the United States officers in command of Forts Pickens and Monroe have been gratuitously forward in sending back to their masters, slaves which had escaped and fled to those forts for protection, and that Gen. Butler offered to employ the troops of Massachusetts in keeping down the slaves of Maryland.
2. That we take occasion to declare-as representing no inconsiderable portion of a generous people who have sprung to arms, with a unanimity little short of miraculous, in defence of the Government-that if such things have been done, or shall be done in the course of this war, by permission of the powers that be, it is a hazardous experiment to try, with an indignant people, whose experience of the foul spirit of slavery in this war is fast bringing them to the stern resolve that slaveholding shall cease at once and forever from the country, which it has so long cursed.
3. Resolved, That we deem it important for the General Government to bear in mind, that the millions of the Free States who offer themselves and their money, who are willing to sacrifice and to suffer in maintaining the integrity and freedom of our country, are not so doing for the purpose of enabling the rebels to hunt or to hold their slaves; that conjointly with this war, forced upon us by nothing but slavery, the slave-catching vocation of the Free States must come to an end; and the sooner, therefore, this fact is seen and acted upon by all our authorities, civil and military, the better and safer will it be both for the Government and the people.
4. Resolved, That we deem it of the utmost importance that the colored population of our land, whether free or slave, be made to understand distinctly, that the North is now their friend, and that they are to be benefitted by the success of the Free States in this righteous war; and we hold it to be strictly true, as presented by one of the leading minds of the country, that, let the colored race become convinced, by the action of our troops or of our civil authorities, that we are indifferent or hostile to their elevation; or let the fear prevail with the slaves-confused as they are likely to be, by what is transpiring-that if the North shall succeed, then slavery will still be perpetuated, only with the changes of ownership, the Southern boast that slaves will fight for their masters and their homes will then, almost certainly, be made good. 
5. Resolved, That, in our judgment, the guiding star, through the war into which we have been forced, is the purpose of God in regard to slavery, as made known by His word, His spirit, and His providence; and if our Government be still dreaming that this struggle can be successful, while the laws of Jehovah are ignored, and His command, ”LET THE OPPRESSED GO FREE," is disregarded, then there is preparing for us a terrible awakening.
Another resolution of the series quotes at length from the celebrated speech of John Quincy Adams in 1842, and declares with confidence that, in the order of Divine Providence, the time has come for the people and the Government to avail themselves of the rights of the war power, as argued by John Quincy Adams, and to declare an act of emancipation, as the only means of averting the horrors of a wide spread and most bloody servile insurrection.
Rev. Elnathan Davis, of Fitchburg, spoke to the resolutions-mainly to the first, in reference to Gen. Butler, and then in regard to the time-serving of ministers and of the religious press.
Rev. A. F. Bailey, of Marlboro', regarded the war as an old affair, after all; it had been smouldering for an entire generation-for thirty years, if not more, it has been waging; and if it be not a war against slavery, we construe it to be such by our faith in the God who ruleth the hearts of princes and law-givers. The Church, he held, had been, thus far, the bulwark of slavery. Now it should do its duty; and the ministers that had been so long and so ultra conservative, in Methodist phrase, should come to the mourners' bench, and make a clean bosom of their sins. He believed that Abraham Lincoln would be found true to Liberty, and that brother Garrison would prove to have not spent thirty of his best years in vain. (Applause.)
Rev. J. A. Thome, of Cleveland, Ohio, a native of Kentucky, a son of a slaveholder, was the next speaker, and entered his solemn testimony against the brutalizing tendency of slavery, not upon slaves only, but upon the masters and their families. He alluded to a visit of his to this city thirty years ago. Ever since then, he had been a true anti-slavery man. Some men think that slavery is the greatest evil next to sin. But slavery is sin, and should be opposed by every possible means.
Rev. J. G. Fee, of Kentucky, who emancipated his slaves, and has fought slavery ever since, said that it is the inspiration of the hour that slavery must die. The religious sentiment is about to decide the question which politics has failed to decide.
The resolutions were adopted, and the meeting closed with the benediction, after a collection in aid of the Society.
CHURCH OF THE PURITANS.
I find in the Journal of Commerce a full report of an ex-parte Council, called by a minority of the Church of the Puritans in New York city, with the hope to obtain either a removal of the pastor, Rev. Dr. George B. Cheever, or a statement of the opinion of the Council in some manner unfavorable to the church.
There are twenty specifications in the statement of grievances set forth by the Council as the ground of their action. The last of these, which probably comes as near the root of the matter as any of the others, is as follows:-
"20. That the church, in its public documents and in the general style of remarks in its meetings, has characterized its sister churches and their pastors, who did not approve the special measures and peculiar speech of its pastor, as friendly to slavery, or unfaithful in bearing testimony against it."
From the “Result" arrived at by this Council- which is merely a statement of their opinion, having no ecclesiastical force whatever-I copy the following paragraphs, embracing the principal points in question:-
"It will be well understood by all Congregationalists, that the only action which the Council can take concerning the withdrawal of fellowship here mentioned, is of an advisory character. We can give our opinions, and the reasons for them. But it will remain for each church to determine for itself, in view of all the facts, whether or not it will adopt our opinions and follow our advice.
The Council, of course, does not assume to act for 'the Congregational body.'
We see but one course left for our churches. We must withdraw from this church, which has virtually withdrawn from us. We must not allow ourselves to be held responsible any longer for the conduct of a church which rejects our principles, spurns our advice, and refuses to redress the grievances of brethren whom we honor and love.
We, therefore, recommend to the churches of the Congregational order that, in such way as shall be accordant with the principles of our platforms and usages, they withdraw from the Church of the Puritans the fellowship of the churches, until it shall recede from its present position, and give evidence of a return to the spirit of Christ, and the order of the Congregational churches.
<c05>
In respect to the aggrieved members, the Council do, notwithstanding the action of the Church of the Puritans, recognize them as worthy members of the body of Christ; and recommend that, with others who may associate with them, they either be constituted in due form a distinct church, or received into sister churches, as they shall prefer. And the scribe of this Council is hereby authorized to give certificates of good standing to such of them as shall apply to him for the same previous to December 1,1861."
One of the members of this Council is Rev. Joseph P. Thompson, pastor of the Broadway Tabernacle in New York city, and one of the Editors of The Independent.
The Journal of Commerce represents that the complaining minority, seventy in number, will probably unite in forming a separate church-C. K. W.
JAMES BUCHANAN.
It appears that Mr. James Buchanan, in a letter to the National Intelligencer, a la Pittsburg letter, has lately been descanting upon the sacredness of military oaths. He says, ”Besides the solemn sanctions of religions, there is superadded the highest appeal to personal honor.” Would it not have been far more apropos for J. B. to have discoursed upon the nature of a presidential oath?-as the good book says, ”Judge not, lest ye be judged." In his apparent self-satisfaction, perhaps he could have enlightened his successor upon that subject, and pointed out to him how contrary to the sacredness of the oath, and very wicked, ”coercion" is, and how far more consistent with the nature of that oath was his own course, in allowing traitors and rebels, with impunity and without objection, to steal the public money, the forts, arsenals, navy yards, mints, custom-houses, and to fire upon the national flag, and in encouraging lawless border-ruffian mobs to engross the ballot-boxes in the free territories, rather than to protect bona fide, industrious citizens in their constitutional rights-the history of Kansas being but the inception of the present rebellion. Could not this same very conscientious James Buchanan have told that self-willed Abe Lincoln, that the only true construction of a sacred presidential oath is to give up every thing into the hands of traitors, not excepting our bodies and souls, if required to be made slaves, or if we must separate, ”shake hands with them, give them the most tearful adieus, and then bid them God speed”? By such a version, he could tell Abraham that a war might have been prevented.
But the sagacious J. B. discovers himself to be a prophet after the fact, lie says-" I often warned Southern gentlemen that this would be the inevitable result." With such acknowledged insight of consequences, was there ever such an instance of stubborn, ”masterly inactivity" as J. B. displayed towards the OFFENSIVE CAUSES of these ”inevitable results"? Can it be accounted for but by the above original construction of a presidential oath? or must we be so uncharitable as to say, his whole course, from beginning to end, exhibits a complete sympathy with these causes, by the yielding up of everything to Southern rebels, with a few harmless warnings, and even to the utter denunciation of all Northern loyalists who were in favor of a vigorous enforcement of the laws and protection of government property,-all of which evinces an obsequiousness too complacent and benign to be anything else than sympathetic guilt.
To crown this second freak of moralizations, J. B. has the sublime coolness to tell us that the people of the North never were aroused until that shot was fired (at Fort Sumter). What was the mighty revolution of the 6th of November, but the determined uprising of an outraged people, brought about by that aggressive measure, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, under the deceitful pretence of unconstitutionality, but for the sole purpose of extending slavery into the free territories, from which resulted the terrible wrongs of Kansas? The North never before aroused! Why, it was the mighty stirring up of the Northern people, which he has ever heretofore condemned, and tried by every prejudicial word to repress, justifying the South in every position, and blaming the North because of her final awakening to a just sense of her invaded rights, of the unscrupulousness of Southern demands, and the barefaced dishonesties and corruptions of his own rotten administration. And now, hors du combat, with seeming childlike innocence, he tells us, ”the North never were aroused until that shot was fired; he had often warned Southern gentlemen," &c.! “O, consistency, thou art a jewel!" But, in the present case, his duplicity is too glaring to be mistaken. In a word, James Buchanan's letter on the sacredness of military oaths can only be ranked in consistency with his famous Pittsburg letter, moralizing on the iniquity of using official positions for electioneering purposes, of which his own administration presents a most illustrious example.
OBSERVER.

Selected Articles.
ANNUAL EXHIBITION OF THE SCHOOL OF DESIGN FOR WOMEN.
NEW YORK, May 22, 1861.
Last evening, I turned aside out of Broadway, from the heavy, measured, impressive tramp of citizen soldiers, armed ”in the defence of Right," and made my way into the ”Cooper Union," to be one of a large multitude who were in attendance upon the Annual Exhibition of ”The School of Design for Women." In the rooms and spacious gallery and halls there were many drawings of ”the human face divine," landscapes, sea views, trees, fruits, flowers,-and the highly creditable exhibition gave evidence that the young women who are pupils in this school have been no idlers with the pencil and brush, and with the chisel of the sculptor. There were specimens of drawing and painting that would be creditable in any exhibition, and these are the work of the delicate hands of our daughters. I do not know that language can express the good that this ”School of Design for Women” is accomplishing. Here women and girls, from any part of our land, can come, and without money or price enter the school, and receive the best of instruction in the art of drawing, painting and engraving, if they intend to become ”teachers, or to pursue art as the means of earning a livelihood."
The number of pupils on the 1st of July last was 168. ”The advisory council of ladies" take great interest in this department, and give to it their special attention and efficient aid. This ”Advisory Council" numbers among its members, Mrs. Aham S. Hewitt, the only daughter of Mr. Peter Cooper, Mrs. V. Bottanee, Anna C. Lynch, Mrs. Richard Hildreth, Mrs. R. Ogden Doremds, Mrs. C. M. Kirk-land, Mrs. Hamilton Fish, &c. What a field of more than world-wide usefulness is here for such women! Their kind words-their tender encouragement-their gentle care of young girls, struggling with life in its low estate, in their endeavor to become useful, and to make themselves independent, is everything. Were it only for this ”School of Design," the ”Cooper Union" would be worthy of all praise, and its generous founder entitled to the gratitude of all coming generations.
But this is only one of its instrumentalities, as there are classes in mathematics, chemistry, architectural drawing, mechanical drawing, free-hand drawing, and vocal music, and vocal physiology. The expenditures for the year 1860 were $30,800, and the receipts $31,529. Number of pupils in mathematics 340, in chemistry 240, architectural drawing 144, mechanical drawing 170, free-hand drawing 139. Number of pupils under 20 years of age, 422; number of pupils 20 to 30 years of age, 452.
The amount expended during the year for instruction in the night classes, independently of apparatus, furniture, and lighting, was $5591. This ”night instruction" is worthy of all commendation; as it affords opportunity to youth whose occupations do not allow them to attend during the day, to go through a thorough course of study. 
The free reading room is open from 8 A. M. to 10 P. M. The expense of this room during the year was $3500, and the number of persons who enjoyed the privilege of free reading about 5100 per week. The library now contains 4000 volumes. 
It is a real pleasure to pass through the several departments in the ”Cooper Union."-Correspondence of the Traveller. 
<c06>
WAS THE CAPITAL THREATENED?
THE QUESTION ANSWERED.
Notwithstanding the constant reiteration from some sources South, that they had never designed an attack on Washington, the Richmond Whig of the 22d ult. had the following:-
"We are not enough in the secret of our authorities to specify the day on which Jeff. Davis will dine at the White House, and Ben. McCulloch take his siesta in Gen. Sickles's gilded tent. We should dislike to produce any disappointment by naming too soon or too early a day; but it will save trouble if the gentlemen will keep themselves in readiness to dislodge at a moment's notice! If they are not smitten, however, with more than judicial blindness, they do not need this warning at our hands. They must know that the measure of their iniquities is full, and the patience of outraged freedom is exhausted. Among all the brave men, from the Rio Grande to the Potomac, and stretching over into insulted, indignant, and infuriated Maryland, there is but one word on every lip: 'Washington'; and one sentiment on every heart: vengeance on the tyrants who pollute the capital of the Republic!"
Major Ben. McCullough has organized a force of five thousand men to seize the Federal Capital the instant the first blood is spilled. The Montgomery Advertiser says this intelligence is from a Virginia gentleman now in Washington City, who had it direct from McCullough's own lips-Vicksburg (Miss.) Whig, April 20.
The capture of Washington City is perfectly within the power of Virginia and Maryland, if Virginia will only make the proper effort by her constituted authorities; nor is there a single moment to lose. The entire population pant for the onset. There never was half the unanimity among the people before, not a tithe of the zeal upon any subject that is now manifested to take Washington, and drive from it every Black Republican who is a dweller there.
From the mountain-tops and valleys, to the shores of the sea, there is one wild shout of fierce resolve to capture Washington City, at all and every human hazard. The filthy cage of unclean birds must and will assuredly be purified by fire. The people are determined upon it, and are clamorous for a leader to conduct them to the onslaught. That leader will assuredly arise; aye, and that right speedily-Richmond (Va.) Examiner, April 24.
We understand that Duncan K. McRae, Esq., who came here last night, bears a special order for one regiment of North Carolina troops to march to the city of Washington. They are to be ready in forty-eight hours from the notice. This is by order of Governor Ellis.
To have gained Maryland is to have gained a host. It insures Washington City, and the ignominious expulsion of Lincoln and his body-guard of Kansas cut-throats from the White House. It makes good the words of Secretary Walker at Montgomery, in regard to the federal metropolis. It transfers the lines of battle from the Potomac to the Pennsylvania border-Goldsboro' (N.C.) Tribune, April 24. 
North Carolina will send her full quota of troops to unite in the attack on Washington City. Our streets are alive with soldiers and officers, many of the latter being here to tender their companies to the Governor. Washington City will soon be too hot to hold Abraham Lincoln and his government. North Carolina has said it, and she will do all she can to make good her declaration-Raleigh (N.C.) Standard, April l4. 
With independent Virginia on one side, and the secessionists of Maryland (who are doubtless in the majority) on the other, our policy at this time should be to seize the old Federal Capital, and take old Lincoln and his Cabinet prisoners of war. Once get the heads of the government in our power, and we can demand any terms we see fit, and thus perhaps avoid a long and bloody contest-Eujaula (Ala.) Express, April 25.
A correspondent writing from Georgetown, S. C., under date of April 26th, makes inquiry about a report that had got afloat there, that three regiments of troops had left North Carolina to join Lincoln. What an idea! When North Carolina troops join Old Abe, it will be at the point of the bayonet, and he at the sharp end. When North Carolina regiments go to Washington-and they will go-they will stand side by side with their brethren of the South. What fool could have put in circulation such a report?-Wilmington Journal, April 27.
The government of the Confederate States must possess the city of Washington. It is folly to think it can be used any longer as the head-quarters of the Lincoln government, as no access can be had to it, except by passing through Virginia and Maryland. The District of Columbia cannot remain under the jurisdiction of the United States Congress without humiliating Southern pride and defeating Southern rights. Both are essential to greatness of character, and both must cooperate in the destiny to be achieved-Milledgeville (Ga.) Southern Recorder, April 30.
L. P. Walker, Secretary of War under Jeff. Davis, made the following boast, on the reception of the news of the attack on Fort Sumter:-
"No man could tell where the war this day commenced would end, but he would prophesy that the flag which now flaunts the breeze here would float over the dome of the old Capitol at Washington be fore the first of May. Let them try Southern chivalry and test the extent of Southern resources, and it might float eventually over Faneuil Hall itself".
Jefferson Davis announces now that he will dine at the White House in Washington on the 4th of July. He may ”hang-out" there-no telling-Prentice.

A REMARKABLE STATEMENT.
We find this remarkable paragraph in the editorial columns of the Rochester Union:—
"This great and long-standing conspiracy was well known in its outlines to Mr. Buchanan himself. We heard from his own lips, previous to his entering upon the duties of the Presidency, that he had been reliably informed, (we think he said by Gov. Wise.) that the officers of the army and navy had been polled on the question whether, in case of a rupture between the two sections of the Union, they would respectively go with the North or the South; and that nearly every Southern man answered that he would adhere to the section which gave him birth, Here we have proof, not only that this conspiracy had assumed its present determinate shape five years ago, and only waited for opportunity, but that Mr. Buchanan was perfectly well aware of the fact at the very time when he took some of the leaders into his Cabinet, and when he was passively aiding Cobb, Floyd, Thompson and Toucey, in their plans to cripple the Federal Government, and assure the success of the rebellion."

FIRST BLAST OF THE NORTHERN BUGLE
We plead guilty to the charge of having, in times past, talked confidently of and trusted implicitly in Northern conservatism. The fact is, the professed advocates of that particular is expressed themselves habitually so warmly in favor of the South, scouted so loftily the idea of coercion, and advocated with so much apparent sincerity a system of conciliation and concession, that thousands of Southern men were completely deceived. There is no doubt whatever that an opinion prevailed among us, that if Lincoln should attempt to make war upon the South, the conservative element in the North would overwhelm his Administration, and by timely diversions would extend aid and succor to us. It was thought that thirty thousand anti-Lincoln majority in New York city would act substantially with the South, or, at all events, would exhibit its genuine sympathy with that section by declining to take up arms in behalf of the Federal Government. There were not wanting among us, too, numbers of shrewd and experienced citizens who calculated largely on the commercial ties and identity of interests between the South and West, and who believed that ultimately Ohio, Indiana, and other States in that quarter, would be glad to unite their destinies with those of a Southern Confederacy. How the first blast of the Northern bugle has blown away these bubbles of the imagination!-New Orleans Bee.
