THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.

ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance, 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 38.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1864.
WHOLE NO. 1754.
<c01>

Refuge of Oppression.
PEACE OVERTURES. 
We are sorry to see that a large class in the community-smaller here, however, (and we thank God for it,) than in almost any other place in the country –who to all talk of adjustment, have but one answer, and that a senseless one-"they will make no terms but independence." There are many men, reasonable upon other topics, who will not consent to reason on this; and there are many men-pious, Christian, forgiving, Bible-loving, at all other times, who, at the mention of peace with the South, will torn up their noses and snuff the very air for more blood. Destruction, extermination, damnation, are all the words they have for the rebels. Let us say a word here. They tell us-"Jeff. Davis has declared for independence, and he will have that or extermination; there is no peace but in the subjugation of the South." Possibly it is so; but it would be better to let Jeff. Davis say it in some official form. We don't want to decide such a question, involving immense property, and the lives and happiness of thousands of people, upon a newspaper report, or upon the say-so of some straggler from Richmond, some intelligent deserter, or some reliable contraband. When he proposes to speak to us directly, as he did through Alexander H. Stephens, Vice President of the Confederate States, or through messengers? claiming some authority, why not give them audience? Why not let them speak? Why, after we have slammed the door in their faces without listening to a word, turn round and say," they will make no peace that is honorable to us." For one, we don't believe a word of it; and you have given us no evidence of it. Suppose you quote Jeff. Davis’s words, still it would not convince us, any more than Mr. Lincoln's words, that he will receive no propositions for peace without an abandonment of slavery, convinces us that that is the only ground on which the North will settle. We know better; and we have just as good reason for our opinion as Mr. Lincoln or anybody else.
The North is to-day willing and desirous to settle upon other terms; and Mr. Lincoln in this does not represent the loyal States; and if favorable propositions are offered the people, and Mr. Lincoln adheres to his letter-"To whom it may concern"-we shall see in November whether that is the opinion of the Northern States or not. So we believe, at the South, propositions for peace being made there, and Jeff. Davis adhering to the ultimatum of independence, he would find himself overthrown by a counter rebellion. But the Richmond Sentinel, understood to be the organ of the Davis government, does not indicate that he would hold to that. Here are its words: "We of the South consider independence as the great and first object of the war, and that separation is essential to independence: yet we shall be willing to listen to the other side." The Sentinel says further: "You may offer us something that will secure our equal rights within the Union. We don't say it would satisfy us, but the subject is worthy of consideration." This is going as far, for opening negotiations, as anybody could expect them to go; and this is as official as anything we have. 
For ourselves, we have never had a taste for war, and least of all for civil war-for war with our own kith and kin, with those to whom we are brothers, from whom we should expect only kindness, and to whom we should return only love. If war came, it was apparent that it must end in compromise, which could be made better before war than after it, or in subjugation; and the subjugation of one-third of these States would be the abolition of Republican government in the whole of them. This is too clear to need an argument. Therefore we preferred originally the Douglas platform, which, strictly adhered to, would have removed all conflict between the free and slave States. Afterwards we favored the Crittenden compromises, not doubting all the time that the administration would admit of some compromise before war should come. When war did come, our plan would have been to do as we did in Mexico, send Commissioners of Peace with the army, to offer a termination of this ruinous strife with every battle: and constantly we have hoped that Richmond might be captured, not that it would make us materially stronger, or the rebels greatly weaker-for we do not think it would have that effect-but that it would open the way to an armistice to be followed by peace; and so we remain to-day, desiring peace and union above anything else earthly. When the people-such a nation, the hope of freedom and of man everywhere-are suffering; when households are impoverished-men, women and children, by thousands, made homeless wanderers and threatened with sarvation; when hecatombs of lives have been sacrificed, and there is a corpse in every dwelling, and a funeral procession at every door-way; when liberty and Union are in greater peril than ever; if there be a chance for peace and reconciliation, be it ever so small, we deem it the duty of the government and of every individual to give that subject a fair consideration. It does not matter which side it comes from, or through what channels, if peace can be had on fair terms, it is nothing but the grossest corruption, and the most brutish depravity, that will prevent its consummation.
We do not fear that any party in the North will accept of terms that do not include the Union. There may be a very few men in each political party, and we would not say where the most numerous, who would favor disunion; but they are so few as to have no power or influence. All would see that a settlement by division would be but the beginning of greater troubles, and the absolute destruction of the party that suggested or permitted it. What we want to reach now is a state where the North and the South will consider and discuss the matters at issue, and if possible return to the old Union; or if not, make such amendments as the necessities of the case require. To that we must come at last, as Mr. Lincoln said in his inaugural, and we might as well come to it to-day, without further waste and bloodshed, as at any time, and whenever we do reach that condition, we have no fears for the final result. We shall all return to our first love, and so much wiser and better, that we shall no more hear of rebellion while one person who has seen this lives to tell the horrid story.-Newburyport Herald.

A LOOK BACKWARD.
Some of the more venturesome radical papers, in the backwoods chiefly, seek to stay the public indignation against Mr. Lincoln's ultimatum, by the old cant talk and twaddle about the Slave Power, and the way it ruled the country. They have a curious imagination on this subject. They seem to think that Slave Power a gigantic tyrant, which once ate the small children of abolitionists, and otherwise tortured the land. They warn the people that any settlement of the war without abolition will give us the old Union, in which slavery will have some of its old power, and control politics to a certain extent.
<c02>
It may be true, or it may not be true. But pray, what harm would it do if it should happen to be true? Answer the question fairly. We have had three years of government during which the much abhorred "Slave Power" has been absolutely excluded from all share in it. Has the government been any better? Has the country been any more prosperous? Have the people been happier? Have you made politics any more pure? Have officials of your new party stolen any Jess? Have fraud, corruption, robbery, plunder of the public treasury, disappeared from the land under a pure anti-slavery rule? We don't ask anything about the war, but we respectfully demand whether the anti-slavery Administration has improved on the so-called pro-slavery power which preceded it, by giving us any more honest, economical, or moral rulers than we had. The question is a fair one, and we defy any supporter of this Administration to answer it fairly. "The pro-slavery power was corrupt," you say. Grant it; but your pharisaical anti-slavery power is ten times more corrupt. When the Democrats ruled the land, by means of their bargains with the South, there were robbers in public office. True; and now, when your boasted pure and moral anti-slavery power rules the land, the world groans under the weight of its crimes and shames. Never since there were nations on earth has there been such corruption, robbery, and plunder, as in the anti-slavery party, and among its chief leaders. The war has brought on us swarms like the lice of Egypt, vermin of the vilest kind, professing devout anti-slavery sentiments, and devouring the substance of widows and orphans. The air is foul with their breath. They go along the streets shouting "copperhead, traitor," and make their abolitionism known at the corners of the streets, and especially in the market-places- where they pass their time in schemes for extortionate contracts, and in buying and selling the blood of the American soldier. The newspapers which are loudest and most long-winded in the anti-slavery hypocrisy, are in nine cases out of ten supported by or engaged in contracts, or public offices of some kind, whereby they receive greenbacks as the reward of their virtuous professions. The atmosphere of the anti-slavery party is an atmosphere of plunder. We do not exaggerate. The recent ringing of the ears at the tempest of accusations hurled back and forth by the great men of the party, is abundant evidence of the truth of every word we utter.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce. 

Selections.
AN APPROVING VOICE. 
In the absence of the editor, we venture on the responsibility of laying before the readers of the Liberator an article published, on the 22d of August, in the Newcastle (Eng.) Daily Chronicle. It is, if we are not mistaken, from the pen of the proprietor and editor of that journal, Joseph Cowen, Jr., Esq., of Stella House, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 
The Chronicle is the exponent and advocate of the most advanced and radical opinions in England. Its proprietor is the friend and associate of all the leading Reformers of the United Kingdom. He is the founder and liberal supporter of the North of England Political Union, a body which champions the cause of the working classes, and demands the extension of the franchise to every adult registered male citizen. He is, also, the correspondent, zealous coadjutor, and intimate friend of Joseph Garibaldi, the liberator of Italy. 
Mr. Cowden has for many years been a careful and impartial student of the progress of events in this country. We know he takes a deep interest in the great struggle for universal freedom and republican principles which now agitates America. As will be seen from what he has written, he is a close observer and warm admirer of the editor of this paper, and heartily approves the course he has taken in refusing to be diverted from the main and vital question of the utter annihilation of the Slave Power, and the abolition and prohibition of slavery, by any subordinate issue or personal preference. The commendation and support of such a man are encouraging, and his judgment on the matters referred to will be appreciated by the readers of the article we now reprint.-M. 

WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 
The power of one man in the moral work of the world has never perhaps been better exemplified than in the life and labors of William Lloyd Garrison. Poor, obscure and friendless, he begun, more than thirty years ago, that crusade against slavery which he has never since relinquished, and which is now on the point of culminating in success. Garrison had to contend with not merely evil and the love of if, but with poverty also. Never had any man's labor a more inauspicious beginning. Public opinion was against him, all the political parties were against him, the churches were against him, even trade and commerce were against him. Morality in that day was at its lowest ebb in all the North. Men made a profit of wrong, and the churches kept peace with crime. Evil appeared good, good appeared evil, and society was satisfied. Merchants made cent per cent in the slave trade, priests preached to slaveholding congregations, Slavery sat in Congress and occupied the presidential chair, abolitionism had neither name nor existence. William Lloyd Garrison had greater work before him than even our English abolitionists had; for America had become familiar with slavery, had seen it in the streets and at the auction-mart, and had scarcely an idea that it differed in any respect from any other existing social custom. Slavery was unknown in England, had only a colonial existence, concerned no more than a class; but in America it was part of the social system—all classes had touched the pitch and had become defiled. The vested right in wrong was almost universal; and those who made no profit of the evil thing prudently held their peace for the most part, lest they should lose their personal popularity. But Garrison was neither appalled at the magnitude of the obstacles before him, nor abashed by the contemplation of the insignificance of his resources. He begun his labors with the assistance of a negro boy. He had no money to pay for the printing of his Liberator; and if he had had money, no " respectable" tradesman in Boston could perhaps have been induced to print his paper for him. With the assistance of the negro boy, he printed it himself. For a long time, the profits of the paper were so small-nobody thought in those days of reading an anti-slavery paper-that the editor and his printer lived chiefly on bread and water. "But," said the printer, "when we sold more copies than usual, we bought each a cup of milk." Garrison spoke as well as wrote against the 
<c03>
crime and curse of his country, and the speaking was the more dangerous part of his work. Hissed, pelted, mobbed whenever and wherever he appeared to denounce the great infamy, he carried his life in his hand. It was then as perilous to talk of abolition in Boston as it is to-day in Richmond. Garrison knew beforehand the dangers of the work he undertook. Threats therefore did not appal him; nor did the personal violence he suffered induce him to desist from challenging publicly the popular iniquity. Neither opprobrium nor maltreatment could silence that chivalrous spirit. Presently others as earnest, as daring, and as eloquent as himself joined in his crusade against wrong. After years of toil, the conscience of America became touched, and abolitionism acquired a respectable standing. We all know what is the present position of the Anti-Slavery movement in America. Slavery has been driven South, and has been put upon its defence even there. The change that has been wrought in public sentiment, how much of it is due to the man who began his crusade in the company of a negro boy? When the history of the last thirty years shall come to be written, one of the highest places of honor in it will be assigned to the name of WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 
Garrison denounced slavery and slaveholders in no mincing terms. Slavery was a crime, and he did not descend to speak of it by any milder phrase. Slaveholders were thieves-robbers of other men's freedom-and he did not think it worth while to waste politeness on the worst enemies of mankind. Garrison did not deal in compliments, did not consider proprieties, but spoke out the harsh, honest truth of both the crime and the criminals. Men marvelled much at his daring-some even of his own friends, having respect for established sin, protested and rebuked. "I will be as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice," was Garrison's answer. "I am in earnest-I will not equivocate- I will not excuse-I will not retreat a single inch- and I will be heard. The apathy of the people is enough to make every statue leap from its pedestal and to hasten the resurrection of the dead. On this question my influence, humble as it is, is felt at this moment to a considerable extent, and shall be felt in coming years,-not perniciously, but beneficially,-not as a curse, but as a blessing,-and posterity will bear witness that I am right." Time has already justified the prediction, and Garrison's invective has borne fruit in a million slaves redeemed, in an anti-slavery government, in an anti-slavery policy, and in an anti-slavery war. 
The champion has now his revenge. It is not now objected that he denounces slavery in too harsh a phrase, but that he is mild and tame. But it is not Garrison that has changed-it is the popular sentiment that has been revolutionized. He is still as harsh as truth and as uncompromising as justice. Here is his answer to the new objectors:-"We espoused the Anti-Slavery cause not to be supported by it, not to find employment, but to lay upon its altar all of intellect, heart and soul-all of self-sacrifice and moral power-all of heroic purpose, zealous devotion, and a good example-that we could bring to it. Nor are we conscious of any internal change or external state of things to make us feel or act in any other spirit or from any other motive in the present than in the past." 
But Garrison is accused, not only of falling off in tone, but of receding in principle. What is the ground of this accusation? The charge is founded on the circumstance that the Liberator objects to the candidature of Gen. Fremont, and supports the reelection of Abraham Lincoln. Personally, perhaps, Mr. Garrison would prefer Fremont to Lincoln. But that is not the question. Mr. Garrison may prefer somebody else to either-Charles Sumner or Wendell Philips. Ought he to advocate the election of the man he admires most, regardless of his chances at the poll? The matter to be decided, however, is less who shall than who shall not fill the post of President for the next four years. "The question," writes Mr. Garrison, "whether the loyal sentiment of the country can be more strongly brought out and secured by Lincoln or Fremont, and thus the Government kept out of the hands of its deadly foes-that is the whole question." Admitting that the personal advantage is slightly in favor of Fremont, is it advisable to press forward his claims, and so run the risk of electing a pro-slavery candidate? To divide the Republican ranks is to give a Democrat a greater chance. Fremont is outside the probabilities of success, and his candidature can only injure the prospects of Lincoln and advance those of the Copperhead nominee. For this reason, Garrison supports the re-election of Lincoln. "All personal preferences," he says, "should be magnanimously swallowed up in the absolute necessity of presenting an unbroken front to the common enemy." That the division in the radical ranks is likely to promote the success of the Copperhead candidate is clear from the favor the Democratic journals show to the nomination of General Fremont. Even the slaveholders prefer Fremont to the author of the Emancipation Proclamation. "Any change from Lincoln," says the Richmond Examiner, "will be better for us." When slave-owners and their sympathizers manifest such preferences as these, the wise course is to defeat their wishes. Besides, so far as slavery is concerned-and that is the one vital question to be considered-there is really no difference between the platform accepted by Mr. Lincoln and that accepted by General Fremont. Mr. Garrison moreover maintains that Abraham Lincoln ought to be re-elected in order to vindicate the principle of the right of the people to choose their own rulers. The authority of Mr. Lincoln has never yet been recognized in the South. For the purpose of asserting the authority over all the States which was given him by all, Mr. Garrison advocates a renewed lease of power for the present President. 
This is the position of William Lloyd Garrison. In what respect does it fall short of the position he has held for more than thirty years? Is Garrison less the friend of the slave, less the enemy of the slave-owner, than he ever was? Has he become polite to falsehood? Does he compromise with injustice? In his present attitude there is no sacrifice of principle, no sign of paltering or faltering. It is not he that has come down to the politicians, but the politicians that have come up to him. His present policy, it seems to us, is not only righteous, but prudent and wise. But it is a little annoying to find the courage of a soldier who has stood for thirty years in the breach called in question by men who have only just put on the uniform. Garrison, however, is not the man to be dismayed by ungenerous assaults. He has borne the standard of Abolition in worse times and in fiercer battles, and we are quite sure that the last man to lower or dishonor it, while life and vigor last, will be WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Some of the delegates to the Chicago Convention spoke their minds very freely respecting Gen. McClellan. One said that he was " the assassin of State rights," and another called him "Lincoln's dog." These are evidences of that democratic harmony of which we hear so much. 
<c04>

SLAVERY AND "WHITE PARIAHS" IN THE BORDER STATES. 
The following is from the excellent work of the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, a notice of which appeared in the Liberator a fortnight ago:— 
It is true as to the Border States, where the tilled estates more frequently assume the aspect of farms than of plantations, where the owner and his sons sometimes work along with the slaves, and, even where they do not actually work with them, yet personally superintend their labor so as to recognize and take interest in them as individual human beings, it is true, and should here be stated, as to these States, that the phase of slavery there existing is sensibly modified, and is divested, more by practice, however, than by relaxation of law, of some of its most odious features. On small estates especially, slaves in the Border States often have, by sufferance, a certain amount of property, continue to live, by sufferance, as if legally married, are frequently trusted with important charges, are sent to market with cattle or produce, are consulted in regard to the management of the estate. Under such circumstances, they are greatly improved by coming into daily contact with white persons; and instances occur in which they are treated by the family with as much consideration as if their skin exhibited no tinge of African blood. 
In these States, the chief aggravation of the system is the inter-State slave trade, the forcible separation of families to fill up those melancholy gangs, assorted like droves of cattle, and whose destination is to that mysterious and undefined land, the terror of the border negro, known to him only as "down South."
But even under this comparatively moderated phase of slavery, the inherent injustice of the system exhibits itself in the character of the very indulgences which in other Slave States are forbidden by law. In visiting the colored population of Louisville, this presented itself in a marked manner to the notice of our Commission. 
I found living there many slaves who, as the usual phrase is, had "hired their time." One case was of a slave woman, apparently fifty years of age, named Charlotte. She had been hiring herself for more than fifteen years. She had two children, one thirteen, the other seventeen, both of whom worked in a tobacco factory. Their regular wages were two dollars a week each; sometimes they did extra work, earning more. She hired their time also. For herself and these two children, she paid her owner five dollars a week,-a dollar a week for herself, and two dollars a week for each of the children. She had brought up these children without any aid whatever from her master, feeding them, clothing them; and this she continued to do even now, when her master took their wages. She inhabited with them a single room in a tenement house, about twelve feet square, paying her own rent. She supported herself by washing. A large bed and an ironing-table, which together filled up most of the room, were piled with clothes prepared for ironing when I entered. 
This woman made no complaint, and did not appear to regard her condition as one of unusual hardship. The only thing she seemed to have expected from her master was a little aid in sickness. In reply to a question as to what he did for her, she answered, "My master never gives me anything, not even a little medicine, no more than if I did not belong to him." As her appearance indicated feeble health, I made inquiry on that score, to which she replied that she "was ailing," but that she "managed to keep up enough to make her wages." She added, "I get along well enough and keep the hire paid up; you could not pay me to live at home if I could help myself." I asked her if she had to pay the hire for her boys in any event; and her reply was, "If the boys make more than two dollars a week apiece, I get what is over; if they don't make that, I have to make it good to him; he has got to have it Saturday night, sure." 
Another case was marked by an additional feature. It was that of a slave woman, apparently about thirty-five of age. Coming upon her without any notice of our visit, I found her in a room tidily kept and herself decently dressed. She had been hiring herself for eleven years, at seventy-two dollars a year. Her husband, she told me, (of course he could not be legally such,) was a slave, and was hired by his master as cook in one of the Louisville hotels for three hundred dollars a year; out of this, his master, she said, gave him, once or twice a year, a five-dollar note,-nothing else. There were in the room two bright, intelligent-looking children, one a boy about ten years old, the other a girl two or three years younger. One might go, at a venture, into dozen dwellings of persons of the middle class in fair circumstances, and not find their children cleaner in person or more neatly and suitably clad, than were these two young slaves. I expressed to the mother my satisfaction at their appearance. Her face saddened, and she said, "The white people have two of my children, and that boy is about big enough to go."
I inquired how this was, and she informed me that her master left her children with her till they were about eleven years old, and then took them home to work. Up to that age, she fed and clothed them at her own expense. The last they had taken was a little girl between eleven and twelve years old. Four months ago the mother had gone to the plantation to visit her, not having seen her then for ten months; she had saved a dress for the child, and took it with her. "I knew," she said "that she would need it, but I never expected to find her as bad as she was; I could not help crying when I saw her; she was not dressed as a human creature should be; I took off her rags and washed her. She was serving my young master, and he had whipped the child so that you could not lay your hand anywhere along her back where he had not cut the blood out of her. I did all I could for her, and dressed her, but I could not stay. [Here the poor creature's eyes filled with tears.] I brought back the rags my child was covered with; I have them yet." I asked to see them. She went out, it seemed reluctantly, and brought a small bundle of filthy tatters, which she appeared ashamed that I should see. "If I could only have kept the children," she said; "I would not have cared for all the rest. I liked so much to have them clean and nice." 
This woman made her living, as I ascertained, solely by washing and ironing. She, like the other, had paid her expenses of every kind, the doctor's bill inclusive. 
Truly the tender mercies of slavery are cruel! Under what other system would men, assuming to be gentlemen, commit towards poor, hard-working women such flagrant injustice as this? 
In the first case, the woman Charlotte, in feeble health, advancing in years, with no means of living except labor in washing and ironing, pays to her master two hundred and sixty dollars a year, for the privilege of supporting by such labor herself and her children. The man who received this human rental had literally furnished no equivalent. For more than fifteen years, the woman had not received 
<c05>
from him even a little aid in sickness. The children for whom he now demanded a yearly payment of a hundred dollars each had cost him nothing. For fifteen years the mother had fed and clothed them, cared for them in sickness and in health ; she continued, unrequited, to feed and clothe them still. Who, if not that mother, was entitled to their wages now? Who, except one in whom slavery had blunted every perception alike of justice and delicacy, would consent to receive and to use money coming from such a source as that? 
In the second case, three hundred and seventy-two dollars annually had been paid for eleven years by the woman and him whom she called her husband, the law of the State forbidding that she should be his lawful wife. Four thousand and ninety-two dollars the master had received from them in that time; for which he had rendered nothing except some ten dollars a year in the form of a gratuity to the man. Was this four thousand dollars considered by the master enough to take from these two working-people? The mother, in this case as in the former one, had brought up her children at her own expense, had fed them and had clothed and kept them as any respectable yeoman might have been glad to see his children clothed and kept. Were the father and mother, after the payment of this four thousand dollars, after the care and cost of bringing up these children, suffered to enjoy the comfort of having them with them, and the aid which, as they grew up, they might be able to afford? No. While the children were a burden, that burden was thrown on the mother,-she, too, as in the other case, earning a living as washerwoman. As soon as they were of an age to be of service, they were removed to the plantation. And how treated there? The young girl was taken, neatly and comfortably clad, from her mother's care. One would have thought that the most common regard for decency, to say nothing of justice, would have suggested that the worse-than-orphaned child should have been kept, as the servant of a rich man, at least as reputably as the poor slave-mother had kept her. Yet she was suffered to go about the house, before her master's eyes, in filthy rags. One would have supposed that the recollection of the four thousand dollars received from the hard-working parents might have risen up to save- if Christian feeling could not save-this poor child, deprived of natural protectors, from brutal cruelty. Yet she was treated as no man with the least pretence to humanity would have treated a dumb beast. 
Let no one say that these were cases of unusual hardship. The parties themselves evidently did not consider them such. There was no tone of querulous complaint. The facts came out only in answer to my direct inquiries; and neither of the women seemed to consider herself especially to be pitied. Charlotte thought a little hard of it that her master did not send her medicine when she was sick. The hire of her children did not seem to have suggested itself to her as any injustice. Even the other said she would be willing to part with the children, if she only knew they were well treated. Had she been suffered to retain them, her gratitude to her master for his generosity would, it was evident, have been unbounded. One could see that the four thousand dollars subtracted from her own and her husband's earnings never occurred to her except as a usual thing. 
Both women expressed the greatest satisfaction that they were allowed to hire themselves. It was sufficiently apparent that nothing short of compulsion would cause either of them to return to what they still called "home." What sort of home could that be, compared to which the privilege of hard labor at the washtub, purchased by a weekly payment in money,-coupled in one case with a similar payment for the children and in the other with the loss of them,-was regarded as a favor and a blessing? Let us not imagine that the masters, in these two cases, were sinners above all men that dwelt in Kentucky. They may have been indulgent in their own families, kind to their white neighbors, honorable in their business dealings, esteemed in society. The anomaly is presented of men whose characters in one phase entitle them to be called cultivated and civilized, yet in another-to wit, in their dealings with a proscribed race-exhibiting such utter disregard of the mild graces of Christianity-mercy, charity, long-suffering, kindness, and good will to men-that it is not too harsh to say they live in a state of semi-barbarism. Such results are chargeable far less to the individuals who have thus gone astray than to the system which has formed their character. But a system has lamentably failed that results in the arrest of human civilization and Christian progress, in injury to the national character, and in disregard, under any circumstances, of the natural and inalienable rights of man. 
Nor is the contempt engendered by this system towards those occupying subordinate social positions confined to the colored man. Under slavery, there grows up a class of white, as well as black, Pariahs. A marked feature in Southern society is the temper and demeanor of the wealthy slaveholder towards an indigent portion of his own race,-the "poor whites," as they are called, of the South. Slavery is to them the source of unmingled evil. Labor owned, competing with labor hired, deprives them of the opportunity to earn an honest livelihood. Labor degraded before their eyes destroys within them all respect for industry, extinguishes all desire by honorable exertion to improve their condition. Doomed by habitual indolence to abject poverty, complacently ignorant, vilely proud, it is doubtful whether there exists, in all civilized society, a class of men more deplorably situated. And yet how fiercely have they been brought to fight for the slave masters who despise them, and for the system which consigns them to degradation!*
* While visiting Nashville as commissioner, I encountered a notable specimen of this class I have been describing. 
It was in the office of a gentleman charged with the duty of issuing transportation and rations to indigent persons,-black and white. There entered a rough, dirty, uncouth specimen of humanity,-tall, stout, and wiry-looking rude and abrupt in speech and bearing, and clothed in threadbare homespun. In no civil tone, be demanded rations. While the agent went to consult the Governor, I discovered from the man's boastful manner that he was a rebel deserter, who had "seen as much of fighting as he wanted." When he was informed that all the rations applicable to such a purpose were exhausted, he broke forth: "What am I to do, then? How am I to get home?" 
"You can have no difficulty," replied the agent. "It is but fifteen or eighteen hours down the river [the Cumberland] by steamboat to where you live; I furnished you transportation; you can work your way." 
"Work my way!" (with a scowl of angry contempt.) "I never did a stroke of work since I was born, and I never expect to, till my dying day.”
The agent replied, quietly, "They will give you all you want to eat on board, if you only help them to wood.”
"Carry wood!" he retorted, with an oath. "Whenever they ask me to carry wood, I'll tell them they may set me on shore. I'd rather starve for a week than to work for an hour. I don't want to live in a world that I can't make a living out of without work.”
The insolent swagger with which this was said ought to have been seen to be fully appreciated. All over the man-in his tone, manner, language, and degraded aspect-was stamped his class; the most ignorant, illiterate, and
<c06>
Such a system is fraught with mischief, politically as well as morally. They who violate the rights of one race of men lose a portion of their reverence for the rights of all. It comes to this, that the peculiarities of character stamped, more or less, on every country in which slavery exists, are, in spirit and in practice, adverse not to religion and civilization alone, but to democracy also. No people exposed to the influences which produce such peculiarities will ever be found imbued with a universal sense of justice, with a respect for industry, with a disposition to grant to labor its just position among mankind. Nor can any people subjected to influences so deleterious ever be expected to remain, in perpetuity, contented and happy under republican rule. 
In no sense, then, neither political, moral, or religious, can the experiment of slavery in, these States be regarded in any other light than as an utter failure. 

GEN. SAXTON AND THE COLORED SOLDIERS. 
[The following extract is from an interesting article in the Atlantic Monthly for September, entitled "Regular and Volunteer Officers," attributed to Col. T. W. Higginson.]
The officer makes the command, as surely as, in educational matters, the teacher makes the school. There is not a regiment in the army so good that it could not be utterly spoiled in three months by a poor commander, nor so poor that it could not be altogether transformed in six by a good one. The difference in material is nothing,-white or black, German or Irish; so potent is military machinery, that an officer who knows his business can make good soldiers out of almost anything, give him but a fair chance. The difference between the present Army of the Potomac and any previous one,-the reason why we do not daily hear, as in the early campaigns, of irresistible surprises, overwhelming numbers, and masked batteries,-the reason why the present movements are a tide and not a wave,-is not that the men are veterans, but that the officers are. There is an immense amount of perfectly raw material in General Grant's force, besides the color ed regiments, which in that army are all raw, but in which the Copperhead critics have such faith they would gladly select them for dangers fit for Napoleon's Old Guard. But the newest recruit soon grows steady with a steady corporal at his elbow, a well-trained sergeant behind him, and a captain or a colonel whose voice means something to give commands.
This reference to the colored troops suggests the false impression, still held by many, that special opposition to this important military organization has been made by regular officers. There is no justice in this. While it is very probable that regular officers, as a class, may have had stronger prejudices on this point than others have held, yet it is to be remembered that the chief obstacles have not come from them, nor from military men of any kind, but from civilians at home. Nothing has been more remarkable than the facility with which the expected aversion of the army everywhere vanished before the admirable behavior of the colored troops, and the substantial value of the reinforcements they brought. When it comes to the simple question whether a soldier shall go on duty every night or every other night, he is not critical as to beauty of complexion in the soldier who relieves him.
Some regular officers may have been virulently opposed to the employment of negroes as soldiers, though the few, instances which I have known have been far more than compensated by repeated acts of the most substantial kindness from many others. But I never have met one who did not express contempt for the fraud thus far practised by Government on a portion of these troops, by refusing to pay them the wages which the Secretary of War had guarantied. This is a wrong which, but for good discipline, would have long since converted our older colored regiments into a mob of mutineers, and which, while dishonestly saving the Government a few thousand dollars, has virtually sacrificed hundreds of thousands in its discouraging effect upon enlistments, at a time when the fate of the nation may depend upon a few regiments more or less. It is in vain for national conventions to make capital by denouncing massacres like that of Fort Pillow, and yet ignore this more deliberate injustice for which some of their own members are in part responsible. The colored soldiers will take their own risk of capture and maltreatment very readily, (since they must take it on themselves at any rate,) if the Government will let its justice begin at home, and pay them their honest earnings. It is of little consequence to a dying man whether any one else is to die by retaliation, but is of momentous consequence whether his wife and family are to be cheated of half his scanty earnings by the nation for which he dies. The rebels may be induced to concede the negro the rights of war, when we grant him the ordinary rights of peace, namely, to be paid the price agreed upon. Jefferson Davis and the London "Times"-one-half whose stock-in-trade is "the inveterate meanness of the Yankee"-will hardly be converted to sound morals by the rebukes of an Administration which allows its Secretary of War to promise a black soldier thirteen dollars a month, pay him seven, and shoot him if he grumbles. From this crowning in justice the regular army, and, indeed, the whole army, is clear; to civilians alone belongs this carnival of fraud.
If, in some instances, terrible injustice has been done to the black soldiers in their military treatment also, it has not been only, or chiefly, under regular officers. Against the cruel fatigue-duty imposed upon them last summer, in the Department of the South, for instance, must be set the more disastrous mismanagements of the Department of the Gulf,-the only place from which we now hear the old stories of disease and desertion,-all dating back to the astonishing blunder of organizing the colored regiments of half-size at the outset, with a full complement of officers. This measure, however agreeable it might have been to the horde of aspirants for commissions, was in itself calculated to destroy all self-respect in the soldiers, being based on the utterly baseless assumption that they required twice as many officers as whites, and was foredoomed to failure, because no espril de corps can be created in a regiment which is from the first insignificant in respect to size. It is scarcely conceivable that any regular officer should have honestly fallen into such an error as this; and it is very certain that the wisest suggestions and the most efficient action have proceeded, since the beginning, from them. It will be sufficient to mention the names of Major General Hunter, Brigadier General Phelps, and Adjutant General Thomas; and one there is whose crowning merits deserve a tribute distinct even from these.
When some future Bancroft or Motley writes with philosophic brain and poet's hand the story of the Great Civil War, he will find the transition to a new era in our nation’s history to have bean fitly marked
vulgar. He seemed fitted for no decent employment upon earth except manual labor; and all labor he spurned as a degradation.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. .... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
by one festal day,-that of the announcement of the President's Proclamation, upon Port Royal Island, on the 1st of January, 1863. That New Year's time was our second contribution to the great series of historic days, beads upon the rosary of the human race, permanent festivals of freedom. Its celebration was one beside whose simple pageant the superb festivals of other lands might seem but glittering counterfeits. Beneath a majestic prove of the great live oaks which glorify the South Carolina soil, a liberated people met to celebrate their own peaceful emancipation. They came thronging, by land and water, from plantations which their own self-imposed and exemplary industry was beginning already to redeem. The military escort which surrounded them had been organized out of their own numbers, and had furnished to the nation the first proof of the capacity of their race to bear arms. The keynote of the meeting was given by spontaneous voices, whose unexpected anthem took the day from the management of well-meaning patrons, and swept all away into the great currents of simple feeling. It was a scene never to be forgotten: the moss-hung trees, with their hundred feet diameter of shade; the eager faces of women and children in the foreground; the many colored head-dresses; the upraised hands; the neat uniforms of the soldiers; the outer row of mounted officers and ladies; and beyond all the blue river, with its swift, free tide. And at the centre of all this great and joyous circle stood modestly the man on whose personal integrity and energy, more than any President or Cabinet, the hopes of all that multitude appeared to rest,-who commanded then among his subjects, and still commands, an allegiance more absolute than any European potentate can claim,-whose name will be forever illustrious as having first made a practical reality out of that Proclamation which then was to the President only an autograph, and to the Cabinet only a dream,-who, when the whole fate of the slaves and of the Government hung trembling in the balance, decided it forever by throwing into the scale the weight of one resolute man,-who personally mustered in the first black regiment, and personally governed the first community where emancipation was a success,-who taught the relieved nation, in fine, that there was strength and safety in those dusky millions who till then had been an incubus and a terror,-Brigadier General Rufus Saxon, Military Governor of South Carolina. The single career of this one man more than atones for all the traitors whom West Point ever nurtured, and awards the highest place on the roll of our practical statesmanship to the regular army.
THE DUTY OF THE HOUR.
A LETTER FROM ANNA E. DICKINSON.
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 3d, 1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND: 
You ask me what I intend doing, and how I feel in regard to the Presidential campaign, now fairly inaugurated. From all parts of the country I receive letters containing the same inquiries-by no means put in the same spirit as that prompting yours; letters of warning, entreaty, advice, denunciation, abuse, upbraiding, for having deserted a good cause; for refusing to work with " my party," to swell its triumph next November; for using whatever influence I possess against the loyal representative of the people, who alone had any chance of success; for supporting a "faction" and its candidate, that tend only to the embarrassment, if not the ultimate defeat, of the Union element of the country, by dividing its councils, stirring up strife among its friends, weakening it by dissensions, and consequently strengthening the <illegible> and hearts of its enemies, North and South.
These letters were first an annoyance, then a trouble, finally an absolute persecution.
Therefore, without in the least supposing myself to be a person whose word and work in the world are of special worth or import, may I beg a space in your columns for a public answer, and a little talk that will set at rest all these disagreeable matters? I wish to say:
That my love for the dear cause is as great as ever, (greater it could not be,) my devotion to it as intense as three years or six months ago, and desertion of it impossible; though some so-called loyal men and papers have done their best to drive me from it, by misrepresentations and calumny:
That I have no "party," save that which strives with sword and pen, with blood and treasure, and precious lives, to save this country-a home for the oppressed-and to rebuild the old waste places made desolate by slavery and a traitor's war:
That, as it has been the honor and the privilege of my life to have done what I could with this party in the past, so it would be my everlasting dishonor and shame to refuse now to work with it, whatever work may be proffered or found:
That I wish all people (who care to know) to understand that, when I conclude to desert my post. I shall travel straight to Richmond, and not stop at any half-way station:
That I have never run in favor of the Cleveland Convention and its representative; I am not now; and I never expect to be.
I have never spoken a word in public that would lead any sensible person to so suppose.
Last Winter, believing there were men in the country who would make better Presidents than the one we now have, I strove to build up a public sentiment that would demand and support one of these "better men."
I believed, further, that by postponing the Convention from the 7th of June to the 1st of September, we had much to gain-the nomination of the Copperhead Democracy of the North, the announcement of its platform, the principles (or want of principle) on which it intended to work, its plans for the future; in a word, compelling it to show its hand before the loyalists played a card, and knowing with just what they were to meet and contend.
This was something. Beyond this, the Summer campaigns might not close as they began; and, as on this ending, not this beginning, depended, to a certain extent, the popularity and consequent success of whatever loyal representative might be placed before the people, I thought that no such representative should be nominated till these things should be decided-as a too early decision might end in a late indecision, if not open rupture in the party.
Whatever words I then spoke, I believed to be in the best interests of the country. Personally, I had everything to lose and nothing to gain by the course pursued. I was laughed at, ridiculed, ostracised by people who up to that time had given me naught save most generous help, and over-liberal praise. I found 
“Hard indeed the stranger's scoff, 
Hard the old friends falling off,"
and used sometimes to think, tugging away at my oars, how easy it would be slipping down stream-how weary pulling against the current; yet I felt then that I was in the right, and did not hesitate; I feel now that I was in the right, and do not regret.
That has all passed. Others felt as I. What remains?
Nought save the heartiest union, the most earnest, persevering work-the most determined support of the party represented by Abraham Lincoln, from this moment till election morning!
Either this party must succeed, or the grand cause will fail. 
Either this party must triumph, or the country will be led into an ignoble and deceitful peace, ending by a Union rent asunder. 
Either this party must conquer, or all that has been gained for humanity to-day, for the ages yet to be, will be flung under foot and trampled to death by a man-hating aristocracy, a God-defying Slave Power!
Either this party must win, or the hope of the world will be destroyed, and " governments of the people, by the people, for the people, perish from the earth."
Either this party must control, or Heaven will weep, and Hell laugh aloud, as Liberty, Truth and Justice are swept from the land by men who know only the will of their master, the Evil One, to do his work.
"But," said an earnest Abolitionist to me, a few days since, “I thought thee would not support Abraham Lincoln; I am surprised at thy readiness to work for him.”
“My friend," I answered, this is no personal contest. I shall not work for Abraham Lincoln; I shall work for the salvation of my country's life, that stands at stake-for the defeat of this disloyal peace party, that will bring ruin and death if it come into power,”
"But why not work for some other man in whom thou hast perfect confidence?"
<c02>
“Because all such work does but divide the friends of the Union, and so plays into the hands of its enemies: because, as Burke hath it,' When bad men conspire, the good must combine, else they will fall, one by one, an unpited sacrifice in a contemptible struggle.'" 
" Well, I feel as thee felt before the nomination; I am opposed to Abraham Lincoln; I think it would be wrong for me to do anything to secure his re-election; and I am not willing to do evil that good may come." 
" Does thee approve of war? " I asked. 
" No. Decidedly not! Not in the main, but of this war, I do very heartily approve." 
"Thee does?" 
"Certainly I do.”
"And yet," I said, "we are in it, every day, doing evil that good may come; maiming noble specimens of men, spilling precious blood, offering thousands of dear lives, desolating homes, causing mourning and wailing, broken hearts and darkened hearthstones all over the land, that liberty and free government may be saved, and that this country may remain a heritage to our children, a refuge for the wronged, the down-trodden, the oppressed of all the earth."
"That is very true, very true. I had not taken that into consideration; I will think of that." 
My friends, let us all think of that.
First save the life of the nation; then we can carry our leader to a higher plane, a broader and nobler work than any he has yet accomplished.
The coming election-day will strike a final blow, will lay out cold and dead a struggling, rebellion; or it will pour fresh life and vigor into all its veins, and will send it on its way a giant, conquering and to conquer.
Who, then, can pause or hesitate? 
" One last great battle for the right-
One short, sharp struggle to be free! 
To do is to succeed-our fight 
Is waged in Heaven's approving sight- 
The smile of God is victory! "
Very truly, yours, 
ANNA E. DICKINSON.
-N. Y. Independent. 
FOR PEACE IN AMERICA.
The People of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, to the people of the United States-Greeting: 
We are of the same race, and many of you are our brothers. Can we not, therefore, come to you as peace-makers, and address you as friends? We would ask you, Has there not been of strife and bloodshed, and misery and suffering enough; and is it not time to cease the cruel war in which you are engaged? We believe there is not a Christian man or woman amongst us, whose heart does not respond affirmatively to this question. With this conviction we wish to speak to you as plain men, using plain language. We have admired your free institutions and have gladly witnessed your rise as a people to eminence in wealth and political power. You are of the Saxon blood, and we hoped that you would make the New World renowned for true greatness. You promised to become one mighty people and a great nation, famed for the liberties of its citizens the triumphs of peace, and the conquests of its commerce. We felt that you were doing honor to the "Mother Country." When, therefore, this unfortunate war began, our hearts were more inclined towards you than towards your sister States, because we believed with you that the action of the South was but the work of a faction. The events of the struggle, however, have convinced us that a more united people than those of the Southern States never rose up in defence of their rights.
When you asserted that secession was the work of disappointed ambition, and promised to quell it within sixty days, we accepted your assurances in good faith, and looked for the speedy restoration of peace. We did not wish to see the American Union broken up.
But so far from this promise being fulfilled, (and your efforts to accomplish it have been great,) peace and the restoration of the Union are apparently more remote than ever.
Surely, there must be many now among you who share with us the conviction that it is utterly impossible to subdue the South, or to restore the American Union, as it was in the past days of the Republic.
You have tried sufficiently, and found the gulf between you and the seceded States to widen with the effort that is made to subdue them. 
Is it not time, then, to pause, and after calmly reviewing all that you have accomplished, the distance which you have travelled from your well-known landmarks, and the difficulties and dangers that are yet before you, is not time, we ask, that you should take counsel together as to the best means of restoring peace?
We cannot forget that the question of peace or war was never submitted to you for your serious consideration before hostilities had actually commenced;-that they came upon you little by little;-and that both Government and people found themselves plunged into this fearful contest almost unawares; nor have you as yet had an opportunity of consulting together in General Convention, for the purpose of making known your opinions and wishes about the war or any of the vast issues growing out of it.
The war has changed, (for the present, at least,) the character of your Government. What has become of the freedom of speech, your free press, and the inestimable right of habeas corpus?
What, permit us to ask, are the Southern people doing beyond following the precepts and example taught and practised by your fathers and theirs, when they withdrew their allegiance from the Mother Country, and asserted their right to establish a Government of their own?
The Declaration of Independence, which you hallow and celebrate every fourth day of July, asserts as self-evident, the right of the Southern people to set up a government of their own.
But we would ask, SUPPOSE YOU SHOULD AT THE END OF ANOTHER THREE YEARS AND A HALF, SUCCEED IN SUBDUING THE SOUTH AND RESTORING THE UNION BY FORCE OF ARMS, might you not then find out, when it was too late, that those pillars upon which rests your form of government had been violently torn down, and that your own liberties had been buried in the ruins? If you will run the parallel between the South now, and the Colonies of 1776, and compare the course pursued by the North now, and the Mother Country then, we think you will discover some striking resemblances; and among them, that with you now, as with the Crown then, rests the privilege of giving peace to the American continent.
Why not, then, without further delay, recognize the duty which attaches to your high privilege? We appeal to you in the name of Religion, Humanity Justice, and Civilization, and believe that we shall not appeal in vain.
Peace be unto you.
For an expose of the origin and purpose of this manifesto, see editorial columns. 
STRONG SPEECH OF GOV. MORTON.
At Indianapolis, on the 29th ultimo, there was a grand reception on several returning regiments Governor Morton made a stirring address to the soldiers, in the course of which he discussed the question of an armistice as follows: 
“It requires two parties to make an armistice, and Jeff. Davis has already declared that he demands a withdrawal of our armies from the South a necessary preliminary to any negotiation. Who shall ask for an armistice? Shall our government sue for terms at the feet of the South? Will this audience of soldiers agree to that? [Cries of " No; no!"] but what does an armistice mean? It means to cease operations in front of Atlanta; It means to loose the hold on Richmond; it means to stop Farragut at Mobile. As every one knows, diplomacy takes a great deal of time, and probably at last would fail. Can we spare enough of the weather now left us for military operations to be frittered away in armistice, and then find ourselves carried into the winter, when our campaign must necessarily close? Can we afford that now? But who believes the rebels will voluntarily come back into the Union, and give up those very ideas for which they have suffered the horrors of a long and bloody war? especially, if we are to acknowledge by asking an armistice that we are an able to conquer them?
Can we coax <illegible> back? If we try that, we shall have to agree to pay their war debt; to give a pension to their widows and orphans and maimed soldiers; we shall have to pay the damage that has been done to the Southern States during the war;
<c03>
and more than all, we will have to engraft into our constitution the doctrine of secession. Suppose we succeed. When we come to voting money to pay the war debt of the South, or to pension their soldiers, or to reimburse them for damages, abolition Massachusetts, abolition Ohio, abolition Wisconsin, will tell us,' We do not want an armistice; we wanted to fight this out; but as you have acknowledged secession in your constitution, we will quietly walk out.' In this way the Union would go to pieces, and the country we tried to save, be broken up by the very compromise that was intended to preserve it. We can make no compromise but what will break up the government. The only way to get out of the war is to fight it out. [Applause.] 
Aut these peace men say the North is exhausted. Are we exhausted? The cost of this war is not one-half of the profits of the country. We have never been as wealthy as now, and there are three millions of men in the North that have not yet shouldered a musket in this war. Are we exhausted? General Grant has the rebellion by the throat in front of Richmond, and the General has told a United States Senator that he would not let go his hold, even if New York, Philadelphia and Washington, should be burned. [Applause.] Sherman is all right at Atlanta, and we will crush this rebellion if we are not pulled off by the traitors at the North."
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1864. 
THE VOICE OF JACOB, BUT THE HAND OF ESAU.
The object of this article is to call special attention to a document we have inserted in a preceding column, which purports to be an " Appeal " front " The people of Great Britain and Ireland, to the People of the United States," in favor of "Peace for America." This Bogus Proclamation will, we have reason to believe, be forwarded to this country for publication during the ensuing month. Divested of its surplusage and cant, it reads as follows:-
" People of the United States! Cease the cruel war in which you are at present engaged. There has been enough of strife, bloodshed, misery and suffering. The people of the Southern States are fighting in defence of their rights, and no people were ever more united. Your efforts (and they have been great) to accomplish the restoration of the Union have only placed that object at a more remote distance. It is utterly impossible to subdue the South, or to restore the American Union as it was in the past days of the Republic. The gulf between you and the seceded States widens with every effort you make to subdue them. Take counsel, therefore, together, as to the best means of restoring peace. The war has already changed the character of your government. You have lost the Freedom of Speech, the Freedom of the Press, and the right of habeas corpus. Should you even succeed at the end of another three years and a half in restoring the Union, you will find the pillars upon which the superstructure of your government rests destroyed, and your own liberties buried in the ruins. The people of the South are but following the precepts and example of your revolutionary fathers. Your Declaration of Independence asserts their right to set up a government of their own. The Southern States in their present attitude of rebellion against your Federal Government, and the revolt of the Thirteen Colonies, in 1776, are parallel cases. You may discover striking resemblances between them. The British Crown, at the end of seven years, made peace with the Colonies, and recognized their independence. You should now make peace with the Southern States, and recognize their independence. This is your bounden duty-this is your high privilege. In the names of Religion, Humanity, Justice, and Civilization, we call upon you to adopt this course. We believe we shall not appeal in vain."
Knowing something of the origin, inspiration and purpose of this singular document, and being desirous that the people of the United States should give it, on its formal arrival, the reception it merits, we deem it right to supply some information respecting the manner of its concoction, and the means which will be taken to usher it into daylight with the apparent paternity and sanction of a portion of " the people " across the water.
Be it known, then, that this spurious, peace-mongering manifesto-notwithstanding its honied phraseology-is not an emanation from that respectable and truly Christian body, "The Peace Society of Great Britain." The members of that Association, while imbued with the spirit, and animated by the principles of peace," and while earnestly desiring a speedy end of the devastating and bloody war that afflicts this continent, are, nevertheless, the conscientious and determined enemies of slavery, which they regard as the meanest, the guiltiest, and the most horrible of all the forms which war has ever assumed. These good men counsel "peace," not because they do not loathe, abhor, and utterly condemn slavery, but because they deem war, whether offensive, defensive, or for what- ever object, forbidden by the spirit and maxims of the New Testament, and, therefore, unlawful.
Neither is the document which, in due time, will come " greeting," as from " friends and brothers " on the opposite side of the Atlantic, to those in this country who are maintaining a life and death struggle with the arch foes of " Religion, Humanity, Justice and Civilization," both North and South, the offspring of those in Great Britain who desire " peace" because they are penetrated with a genuine sorrow, in view of the " strife, bloodshed, misery and suffering" which have already characterized the war, and threaten to be indefinitely prolonged, and who consider that the end sought to be achieved, however just and desirable, may be too dearly purchased. Such persons have had no share in the origination of the present " Appeal;" they have never been consulted; and are, according to our information, as yet ignorant of its existence.
From what source, then, does this expostulation flow? Who are the would-be "peace-makers?" We answer: This precious document has its origin in the secret councils of the secessionists and copperheads of England-in close understanding, fellowship and conspiracy with the traitors of Richmond, and the Woods, Vallandighams, Seymours, Kendalls and Pendletons of the North. These words of meekness and mercy, uttered in the voice of Jacob, but written by the hand of Esau, are intended to forward the cause of those who, at Chicago, shouted "Down with Lincoln by ballots or bullets"-“The election of our candidate, or a civil war at the North”-“Cut the throat of every-Lincolnite," &c., &c. In a word, this sanctimonious appeal in behalf of peace, which is hereafter to be promulgated in America, as containing the spontaneous aspirations of friends and brothers, is neither more nor less than the device of wicked men, who are seeking to overthrow the administration of Mr. Lincoln, that they may substitute one that shall reinstate a slaveholding oligarchy in the government of the country.
This illegitimate and hypocritical "Appeal”-conceived and brought forth by the foreign agents of Jefferson Davis and his copperhead allies, and carefully manipulated by the chief men of the " Southern Independence Association" in England, will be introduced to public notice by means the most surreptitious, circuitous and deceptive. Though begotten in England, it will be carried across the St. George's channel, and will make its first appearance on the shores of the Emerald Isle. This course will be taken in the belief that, in Ireland, it will be more likely to find immediate acceptance; and because, being brought to light there, its, real authors and promoters will remain unknown and unsuspected. Certain ministers of religion will be found to read said "Appeal" from their pulpits, and to recommend it for signature to their congregations. Measures will be taken that from the pulpit it may find its way into the columns of the Irish press, where it will receive copperhead commendation. It will then be brought back to the land of its nativity, where its pro-slavery and secession friends will obtain for it all the support they can; and it will finally come to the United States, preceded by a flourish of trumpets, to be proclaimed as the voice of the people of Great Britain. We trust, however, that ere it reaches these shores,
<c04>
its origin, character, and real purpose will be so well understood, that the friends of " Religion, Humanity, Justice and Civilization " will be prepared to reject it with indignation and contempt, and to brand it as an imposition- “a delusion, a mockery, and a snare." 
This document, it will be seen, is a strange mixture of assertions and interrogations, used for the purpose of making statements which the writers knew perfectly well were contrary to the facts of the case.
" When the war began," say they, "we were more inclined to the North than the South." This assertion, as far as the prime movers of the Appeal are concerned, is not true. They were, from the beginning, secessionists-the enemies of the North, and the friends, allies and agents of the Richmond conspirators.
The people of the South are represented as having "risen up in defence of their rights.” No men knew better than the concoctors and manipulators of this Appeal, that, (in the language of Vice President Stephens,) the slaveholding oligarchy of the South, in the" height of their madness, folly and wickedness," rose in rebellion to overthrow "the best and freest government-the most equal in its rights, the most just in its decisions, the most lenient in its measures, the most inspiring in its principles to elevate the race of men, that the sun of heaven ever shone upon."
" It is utterly impossible to subdue the South," say the mendacious framers of this fraudulent paper; knowing, at the time they wrote the words that Island No. 10; Fort Donelson; Hilton Head, Beaufort and a large part of Florida; Forts Jackson and St. Philip; New Orleans; Port Hudson; Pensacola; Norfolk; Nashville; Vicksburg; Chattanooga; Dalton; Atlanta; Fort Gaines; Fort Morgan, and a host of other strongholds of the rebels had been taken, and were lost to the Slave Power forever.
Another assertion, shamelessly false, is, that " the Declaration of Independence asserts the self-evident right of the South to set up a government for themselves." The truths asserted by that great charter of American liberty are these: first, that men are created equal: second, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights: third, that among these rights are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness: fourth, that to secure these rights governments are instituted among men: fifth, that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed; and, sixth, that when any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to abolish it.
The object of the rebel conspirators of the South was the overthrow of these principles. The traitor at this moment next in rank to the desperate chief of the Southern Confederacy has distinctly and authoritatively repudiated the ideas promulgated in the Declaration of Independence. He has branded them as " fundamentally wrong." Here are his words:- “ Our government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundations are laid, its corner-stone rests, upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery is his natural and normal condition." The statement, therefore, that the Declaration of Independence asserts the right of the South to set up such a form of government as that which they are seeking to establish is contradicted by the rebels themselves.
That " there are striking resemblances between the slaveholders' rebellion of 1861 and the struggle for independence in 1776, and that the South are following the precepts and example of the Fathers of the Revolution," is another of the falsehoods which the people of England are called upon to endorse. What resemblance, we ask, is there between the principles contended for by the patriots of '76, and those enunciated by Mr. Stephens in 1861? The men of '76 contended for liberty based upon equality. The men of '61 declare that the doctrine of equality was " an error," and that they are contending for slavery, based upon what they call " the great physical, philosophical and moral truth-the subordination (or slavery) of the inferior to the superior race." The revolutionary fathers taught that established governments should not be changed, save when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object, evinces a design to reduce the people under absolute despotism. That then, and only then, it is their right and duty to throw off such government. “Such," they say, "has been the patient sufferance of these colonies. To prove this, let the facts be submitted to a candid world." And they then proceed to recount a long list of grievances, not one of which, as the authors of the appeal well know, can with justice be alleged by the South. What audacity, then, to speak of " a parallel," and of " striking resemblances " between the rebel States now and the colonies in '76; and to recommend to the North the " duty " and the " high privilege " of pursuing towards the rebel States the course which the mother country adopted at the close of the seven years' war!
The people of the United States are asked if there has not been strife, bloodshed, misery and suffering enough. They answer, Yes; and woe to those by whom they have been caused! Woe to the men, who, that they might carry out their diabolical design, to found an empire upon the enslavement of a helpless race, 
" Cried havoc, and let slip the dogs of war"!
To the slaveholding traitors of the South, rather than to the loyal and patriotic people of the North, attach the infamy and guilt of that bloody strife which copperhead peace-makers hypocritically profess to deplore.
"Is it not time to cease from this cruel war?" The answer of the American people is, No; not until that declaration of human rights which has been trampled upon is vindicated by the sons of those who published it to the world. Not until the Constitution, purified from its pro-slavery compromises and guarantees, is reestablished, and is respected and obeyed wherever it has aforetime asserted jurisdiction. Not until the Union, sundered by slaveholding traitors, is restored in all its former extent, and more than its original integrity, and is based upon the principles of universal and impartial liberty. Not until the Proclamation of Freedom, which has pledged the honor and arms of the nation to maintain the liberty of more than three millions of the native-born people (and now citizens) of the country, is carried out in the fullness of its spirit and the exactness of its letter. Not until Abraham Lincoln, who was fully and constitutionally elected President of the United States, is, in fact, as well as in name, the recognized Chief Magistrate in every State and Territory belonging to the nation. Not until the flag which was struck down on the 14th of April, 1861, has been replaced, and floats in honor and triumph, without a rival, from sea to sea, and from the lakes to the gulf.
"Is it not time to take counsel together, as to the best means of restoring peace? " The loyal and patriotic people of the United States have already taken counsel together, and have unanimously resolved, that the best means of restoring peace is " to lay aside all differences and political opinions, and to do every thing in their power to aid the Government in quelling, by force of arms, the rebellion now raging against its authority, and in bringing to the punishment due to their crimes the rebels and traitors arrayed against it;-to seek the utter and complete extirpation of slavery from the soil of the Republic;- to uphold and maintain the Proclamation of Freedom, and to promote such an amendment of the Constitution as shall terminate, and forever prohibit, the existence of slavery within the limits or the jurisdiction of the United States." Such are the measures by which the people are seeking to secure an honorable, just and lasting peace.
"What has become of the freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and the right of habeas corpus?" These questions are quite superfluous, as they are precisely those which are being continually asked by the copperhead demagogues and journals of this country. The answer is, that Mr. Vallandigham and his <illegible> not only enjoy liberty, but are permitted to indulge the utmost license; and not content with plot
<c05>
ting sedition in secret places, go up and down the public streets uttering treason, vainly seeking to provoke arrest, in order that they may have an opportunity of complaining that the liberty of speech is denied. The " character of the government" is in no other respect "changed," than that it allows these ravings to go unpunished. The impunity which such men everywhere enjoy under the protection of the Constitution they are aiming to destroy, demonstrates at one and the same time the utter groundlessness of the charges preferred against the Administration, and that the Union, in the element of moral stability, is stronger than the element of treason by which it is assailed.-G. T.
McCLELLAN'S LETTER. 
In another column may be seen Gen. McClellan's letter accepting the nomination of the Chicago Convention. The writing of this letter must have been felt to be a difficult task. The inefficiency, or, more accurately speaking, the inaction of Gen. McClellan for a long period, during which he had charge of the armies in the very centre of the war, was attributed by some to want of military capacity, by others to want of will to overcome the enemy. His friends defended him against both charges, alleging that he was the ablest of our Generals, and that he was doing everything in his power for the overthrow of the rebellion. Now, those same persons have made him their candidate for the Presidency, on the express ground that they wish the rebels conciliated, not conquered. For two years they supported him as having the arm and the heart of a thorough warrior, claimed his continuance at the head of the army on that ground, and held up their hands in amazement at the audacity of those who judged him otherwise. Now, when their thoughts, they must confess, are turned on peace, they select this same determined fighter as the person best fitted to carry out the peace programme. These two things don't hang well together. The terms of acceptance of such a proposal from such people must have been hard to express in a decently plausible fashion. In fact, he has not made them plausible. Let us look at some of the particulars. 
"The preservation of our Union," he says” "was the sole avowed object for which the war was commenced." Whoever accepts this proposition not only accepts a false statement, but ignores a truth which it is essential to McClellan's purpose to keep out of sight. The destruction of our Union, not its preservation, was the avowed object for which the war was commenced. The rebels began it; they began it for that purpose, and have continued it for that purpose; and the last utterances of their leaders show an unshaken persistence in that design. When we adopted our war measures in defence, no doubt, the object was the preservation of the Union thus assailed; and this has continued to be our immovable purpose. And Gen. McClellan unites in this purpose, if the repeated declarations of this letter are to be trusted. " The Union," he says, " is the one condition of peace.”-" The Union must be preserved at all hazards."-The reestablishment of the Union in all its integrity is, and must continue to be, the indispensable condition in any settlement." 
The formal statement of both these sides, Rebel and Union, showing that the two parties, from the beginning to the present moment, have pursued purposes diametrically opposite and irreconcilable, shows also the absurdity of Gen. McClellan's claim that had the war been conducted " only " for the preservation of the Union, " the work of reconciliation would have been easy." To say that reconciliation was easy or possible during the continuance of such conditions is absurd. To say that the war has been perverted, by the Administration, to other purposes than the reestablishment of the Union, is false.
Gen. McClellan is now the candidate of the unconditional Peace party. Portions of his letter, it is true, squint in the direction of war, else he must have lost the votes of the War Democrats, and lost also the election. But he gives in his adhesion to the Peace party in this paragraph:-
"The Union was originally formed by the exercise of a spirit of conciliation and compromise. To restore and preserve it, the same spirit must prevail in our councils and in the hearts of the people."
The very next sentence of the letter, however, declares that "the reestablishment of the Union, in all its integrity, is, and must continue to be, the indispensable condition in any settlement." From these two things, combined with Gen. McClellan's intimation that the present Executive has erred in not conducting the war solely for the object last mentioned, we get his decidedly original idea of the judicious method of conciliation, namely: Confine yourself to the one point in which your purpose is diametrically opposite to that of your antagonist.
In fact, a good deal of this letter is suited to remind us (as far as self-contradiction is concerned) of the rallying-cry of the party to which the author has now joined himself, recorded in Book first of The New Gospel of Peace, as follows: " Peace and Free Speech, and Death unto him that sayeth to the contrary."
With all his faults, however, Gen. McClellan is not so lost to shame and decency as to ignore the strong probability of failure in that movement of conciliation which is the chief purpose of his party, and of the fact that, in the event of such failure, the nation must maintain such Union with force and arms; that is to say, must continue to use the very means of which the Peace party now complain. Here are his words:-
" If a frank, earnest and persistent effort to obtain these objects [the voluntary return of the seceded States and the reestablishment of the Union] should fail, the responsibility for ulterior consequences will fall upon those who remain in arms against the Union. But the Union must be preserved at all hazards."
In short, if such conciliation as can go hand in hand with point-blank refusal of the one chief demand made by the rebels shall not avail, Gen. McClellan admits that we must continue to fight. No wonder that the more determined of the Peace men already object to his letter. The wonder is, that McClellan, adhering (as so many expressions in his letter show) to the maintenance of the Union as indispensable, should consent to be the candidate of men who show themselves so ready to relinquish it.
Another passage (the last I shall refer to) in Gen. McClellan's letter shows his thorough agreement with the Peace party in one of the purposes which they have warmly at heart, the reestablishment of slavery. He says- 
"When any one State is willing to return to the Union, it should be received at once, with a full guarantee of all its constitutional rights."
I will not dwell here upon the enormous folly, implied in this sentence, of consent that any rebel State, on becoming satisfied that the plan of forcible secession is a failure, and that the pursuance of it by arms must lead to utter rain, may at once resume its place in the line of honest and loyal States, and send the civil and military leaders of the rebellion to be its Senators and Representatives in Congress. Passing by the audacity and impudence of this feature of the plan above mentioned, I will notice briefly the continued maintenance of slavery which is equally included in it, and which, in the mouths of slaveholders and their apologists, forms the chief meaning of the phrase, " constitutional rights."
Slavery is not destroyed. Even if the rebellion and the schemes of the Peace party fail, and if the plans of the present Executive go on triumphantly as at present, slavery will only continue gradually to <illegible> extinction for some time yet to come. Even Mr. Lincoln, whom the rebels and their Northern friends falsely call an abolitionist, shows no disposition to interfere with the " property " of loyal slaveholders. How long the lingering decay of slavery may last, and what intermediate state may be enforced upon the ex-slaves in place of freedom, are matters very much in Mr. Lincoln's power, and very largely dependent on his choice, if a new term of power
<c06>
SEPTEMBER 16.
shall be given him. But, if the McClellan party shall conquer, that power will be in the hands, not of a half-friend of freedom, but of a thorough partisan of slavery.
The thing proposed by that party which, with <illegible> effrontery, calls itself the Democracy, and equally by McClellan, if he shall be made President, is to reinstate slavery in all the States where it formerly prevailed, and with it the assumption that people of color are an inferior class, and must hold a subordinate position, even when circumstances make <illegible> technically free. This theory, and a practice corresponding with it, are to prevail and rule throughout the South, as soon as conciliation with the rebels is effected. Of course, whenever this point is gained, and the advocates of it have seats in Congress from every Southern State, not only will slavery be reinatated there, but the question will again arise of extending it into the Territories. The adverse legislation of the last three years is not a finality. The Constitution is as open to "amendment" (forgive the desecration of the word) on the side of slavery as of freedom. In short, the success of this policy would be the renewal of that contest which has been going on for a quarter of a century, to decide whether free representative government or oligarchic despotism shall bear <illegible> over this continent. This struggle, in the future as in the past, must constantly tend towards war and division. So no prospect of permanent peace opens to us from this quarter. This nation cannot possibly have peace, still less prosperity, until slavery shall be utterly annihilated.
No lover of freedom, therefore, no advocate of the rights of man, irrespective of color, can vote for McClellan. But for whom, then, shall such a person vote! A recent mournfully instructive fact makes it doubtful whether I have not said too much in speaking of Abraham Lincoln as "a half-friend of freedom."
About a week before this letter of McClellan was written, Secretary Seward made a speech at Auburn, N.Y., in defence of the President's policy, and in answer to objections made against him. The portion of that speech which relates to the subject of slavery may be seen in another column; but one paragraph of it is of significance enough to be reproduced here. It is as follows:-
"When the insurgents shall have disbanded their armies, and laid down their arms, the war will instantly cease-and all the war measures then existing, including those which affect slavery, will cease also; and all the moral, economical and political questions, as well questions affecting slavery as others, which shall then be existing, between individuals, and States, and the Federal Government, whether they arose before the civil war began, or whether they grew out of it, will, by force of the Constitution, pass over to the arbitrament of courts of law, and to the councils of legislation."
Think, for a moment, of the immense significance of this paragraph. Think what is implied in the public admission, by Mr. Lincoln's Secretary of State, that, as soon as the rebels shall have laid down their arms, all the war measures which have interfered with slavery will cease, and all questions between inhabitants of the Southern States, as well those relating to slavery as others, will at once pass over to the <illegible> of courts of law and councils of legislation!
Does the plan of the Peace party itself provide more thoroughly than this for a resumption of slavery! We know what the courts of the Slave States are, in regard to that system. We know what the Supreme Court of the United States is. We know what very small chance a Southern negro has of getting justice through legal process. If President Lincoln consents by silence to this semi-official statement of the policy of the government, can any friend of freedom vote for him? If he shall retain Mr. Seward as his Secretary after this disclosure, can any friend of freedom trust him?-c. K. W.
ANTI-SLAVERY PROGRESS.
The following is extracted from the columns of the Alliance News, an ably conducted and widely circulated English journal, (and the organ of the United Kingdom Alliance,) devoted to the advocacy of the legislative prohibition of the traffic in alcoholic beverages.
"A very interesting letter from Dr. George Thompson has been received by the Secretary of the Alliance:-‘I love (he says) to get above the smoke of the battle and the clash of arms, that I may contemplate calmly the results of the conflict which slavery has provoked. But a few years ago, the slaveholding oligarchy of the South claimed, and exercised, dominion over more than a million of square miles of territory, and asserted their right to carry their <illegible> system into a region of still greater extent. Today, the territory in the possession of the rebels is less than half a million square miles, and that they hold dependent on their ability to resist, by force of arms, a vastly superior power. As for the far-stretching territories of the northwest, they, thank God, are forever rescued from the pollution and curse of slavery, and are offered as a free gift to the toilling freemen of the world at large. This consecration of the territories, by an act of Congress, to free labor is a measure the importance of which cannot be overestimated, the value of which is incalculable, and the blessed effects of which will reach through all coming time. Kansas, the scene of bloody border ruffianism, is a free and loyal State. Nebraska, Colorado, and Nevada, will soon be brought into the Union. Idaho, Montana, Dacota, and Arizona are in course of organization. Western Virginia is a grand free State, and will be one of the gems of the gems of the free western empire. Missouri is now a free State. Maryland, by her own act, has repudiated slavery, and has commenced a career of prosperity and power. Kentucky it in a transition state; the battle for freedom has be gun, and the triumph of right is certain. Louisiana, the worst of all the slaveholding States, has adopted a Constitution that abolishes slavery. Tennessee will presently be free from slavery; so also will Florida and Arkansas. Look at the District of Columbia, the national territory, and the seat of Government; the slave trade and slavery abolished; the public conveyances free for all, without distinction of color; the presidential grounds-the gardens around the White House-filled with the children of colored schools on the 4th of July, and Abraham Lincoln mingling in the festivities; the African slave trade rigorously enforced; a treaty with Great Britain establishing a mutual right of search; the inter-state slave trade prohibited; the independence of Hayti and Liberia recognized, and the representatives of those States welcomed to Washington; every trace of every Fugitive Slave Law utterly obliterated; the infamous Dred Scott decision reversed, and the citizenship of the colored man established; the colored man declared eligible as a witness, and competent to sue and be sued in the courts of law; three millions and a quarter declared free by the proclamation of Jan. 1, 1863; the enrolment in the service of the United States of 150,000 negroes, and the emancipation of their wives and children; the establishment of free labor plantations in North and South Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Arkansas; tens of thousand of emanicipated children and adults under instruction in schools, established in States the slave laws of which made it punishable by imprisonment and death to teach a colored immortal how to deciphel a verse of the sacred Scriptures; two thirds of the Senate, a majority of the House of Representatives, the Legislatures of the free States, the Cleveland and Baltimore National Conventions, and the loyal people universally, in favor of an amendment of the Constitution to abolish and prohibit slavery forever within the limits of the jurisdiction of the United States; no State to be hereafter admitted into the Union with slavery; no slave to be ever employed in the service of the United States. If I were not forced to break off here, I would add to this enumeration of the things which have been done within the last three years, some remarks upon the <illegible> change which has been wrought in the public sentiment of the Northern States. The nature of this change, however, may be inferred from the imperfect list I have given above. What remains to be done will surely be accomplished, and that which has been done calls for joy and thankfulness.'
Mr. Garrison passed last week with his friends Hon. Gerritt Smith and Rev. Samuel J. May, at Peterboro' and Syracuse, N.Y. He is spending this week at Auburn, and will probably return to his post on Saturday.
It is now reported that Gen. Butler's <illegible> at Dutch Gap, by which our ships will avoid six or seven miles of the James river, specially guarded by intrenchments, torpedoes and obstructions, is at last successfully accomplished.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XVI.
NEW YORK, Sept. 8, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The devil, who is always an ass, was never more so than at Chicago. The Convention of domestic traitors, under the marshalship of that eminent Friend (of rioters) Horatio Seymour, assembled at a moment when the loyal party was on the brink of a division. It was in the power of these desperate schemers to have cloaked their reactionary designs beneath a platform full of the sound and fury of war, but signifying nothing. Instead, they chose to imitate those women of the East who uncover their bodies to conceal their faces: they declared for an immediate suspension of hostilities, and nominated a General of the Federal army, ready and liable at any moment to reengage in this “bloody and fratricidal war.” Their nakedness is apparent to the dullest vision, and those who believe that the nation's part in the battle is either just or inevitable, will rate as public enemies the hypocrites who mean surrender when they call for peace. Sensible men perceive that the Chicago platform is not the programme of success at the polls, and the fear which was sincerely entertained, that Mr. Lincoln might be defeated if the war Democrats dictated the professions of their party, is of course dispelled. It is clear now that that party is but the refuse of the corruption engendered by slavery -a scum of unscrupulous and lawless knaves, and of ignorant tools not yet reached by the spirit of our free institutions. On the unclouded issue of succumbing to Richmond or of taking it, there is no ground for alarm lest the people err in their decision. And this is the reason why the Buffalo Convention vanishes into the impalpable ether, and the most radical Republicans lay aside the hope and the thought of supplanting Mr. Lincoln. The loyal party is again a phalanx. The Tribune, the Evening Post, all the prominent journals whose lukewarmness has been conspicuous since the Baltimore nomination, now that the possibility and necessity of a reversal are taken away together, have come out squarely and unmistakably for the reelection. For a couple of months, the political contest will be waged in earnest, and blows which have heretofore been given with impunity will now be answered with blows as vigorous.
The bid of the baser portion of the Fremont party for the favor of Chicago was met as it deserved, by humiliating neglect. Not a lisp of the Pathfinder from those who had patted him and deceived him with transparent cajolery. They used him as a weapon of assault upon the Administration, and as a wedge to split the loyal populace of the North; when they found him of service in neither capacity, they abandoned him to his own reflections, (ahi fiera campagnia!) Two women grinding at a mill-the one shall be taken and the other left: twin cherries hanging on a single stem-the one was taken and the other left. Is there not some fatality in the connection between McClellan and Fremont? Consider how each prevented the recall of the other to active service in the field-cushioning respectively the pressure of the radical and the conservative elements which contended for their return. To-day they jostle each other in the race for the White House. And as in the first instance, the Administration dexterously played one against the other, so now the people, arbiter of Cleveland and Chicago, will deny admission to both, and renew their companionship in misery. I say this on the assumption that McClellan will accept the leadership tendered him, but his acceptance is by no means certain. As I write, he has given no sign of his intention. He may refuse. Will it be virtue, or because he hesitates to follow Fremont's example, (there they cross again!) and resign his office in the army? A delicate sense of honor, not less than of consistency as the candidate of a peace party, would induce such a course, but it is far from apparent that he would gain by the exchange. A defeat at the ballot-box would only confirm his unlucky reputation as a General, and his pocket would most assuredly miss the salary he abandoned for one he could not clutch. Still, whatever his motive, his withdrawal would foreshadow the doom of the peace faction. Already staggered by the fresh successes of our arms, which render their propositions for an armistice ridiculously untimely, they would present the spectacle of a party without a chief, without a principle, and without a hope. The block and headsman are ready for such a monster.
Your Senator, Henry Wilson, was right the other day in affirming the impersonality of the coming controversy. It is between ideas, not men. None so blind that he cannot see this; none so witless that he cannot be made to understand the opposing claims of liberty and slavery. Therefore there is no need to <illegible> ourselves by undeserved praises of Mr. Lincoln, nor, equally, to waste our strength in exposing the hero of the Chickahominy. The life or death of the Republic, in the overthrow or the continued existence of slavery, is the line on which the conflict may be fought to a decisive end. Here is food in plenty for the speeches of all who take the stump or the rostrum during the present canvass. "A house divided against itself cannot stand." Shall the continent be all free or wholly slave? Make the issue plain, and honest minds will gravitate to the right side inevitably. The Tribune acts wisely in advertising a pamphlet which will distinctly and forcibly set forth, mainly in their own terms, the avowed aims of the two great parties. Were our adversaries sincere, they would subscribe to the Tribune fund, but they will not. The servants of the Prince of Darkness have no fondness for the light. Their platform is a tissue of lies, and our veracious Governor is responsible for having preceded it with a very pernicious example. To be sure, the resolutions and the speech of the President of the Convention did not always harmonize, perhaps because the conspiracy of false witness was not complete. Neither were the resolutions concordant in themselves, as has been usually observed of the sayings and doings of these doughty men of peace. Once more let attention be called to the assertion of the States' right doctrine, in the resolutions and in the speech; and compare these ex-tracts-from the latter:-
”In the political contest in which we are engaged, we do not seek partisan advantages. We are battling for the rights of those who belong to all political parties. We mean that their right of speech shall be unimpaired, although that may be used to denounce us,” etc.
From the former, in case the Government, as it has several times, shall protect the polls from mob violence, and illegal ballots thrown by undisguised rebels and traitors:-
“The repetition of such acts will be held as revolutionary, and resisted with all the means and power under their control.”
A party which thus announces its intention to revert to border-ruffianism as a desperate and final resort, is not so much to be feared as it is to be watched. Undoubtedly it will employ "all the means and power under its control" to defeat the lawful expression of the will of the majority- in other words, to inaugurate a minor rebellion in the image of the greater. History, however, will approve the apothegm that revolutions never go backward, and it will be recorded of the American people that they suppressed the most formidable and extensive civil war ever known on earth, crushing the enemy in the field, and binding his <illegible> at home; that they cheerfully incurred and afterwards honored the debt of this great travail; that the length of the war did not dishearten them, nor swerve them from their purpose, nor incline them to listen to the delusions of compromise and submissions; above all, that, accustomed and in a measure hardened to a state of war and its effects, they preferred in the midst of it to reelect a civilian President, rather than accept either of two military nominees, or any one of a hundred loyal chieftains who had deserved well of the Republic. So much for our fidelity to the Democratic idea.
The Hon. Reuben E. Fenton was nominated yesterday at Syracuse, by a very handsome majority, to succeed Horatio Seymour as Governor of the Em-
<c02>
pire State. The days of the present incumbent are numbered, for New York has repented of him in sack- cloth and ashes, and she will as little repeat her folly of two years ago as she will desert, the cause of the 
Union in November. M. DU PAYS.

LETTER FROM GEORGE L. STEARNS.
BOSTON, Sept 12, 1864. 
Editor of the Liberator:
SIR-I notice in your last paper the following paragraphs:-
"We publish elsewhere a singular correspondence between several worthy radical gentlemen and Mr. Fremont. It is sufficiently ludicrous to see the way in which Mr. Stearns and his comrades seek to elevate the Fremont movement into importance by gravely proposing the withdrawal of Mr. Lincoln, and, as an offset and sort of quid pro quo, the withdrawal of the infinitesimally small claims and chances of Mr. Fremont. It seems, however, that the latter is disposed to carry the joke still farther, and accordingly, with all the soberness in the world, he declines to withdraw his name, but proposes a new Convention.
This would be all very good and refreshing as matter of joke in this warm weather, if the election of a President for the next four years were not so serious a matter. We cannot bear such trifling at the hands of men who ought to be earnestly at work supporting the chosen candidate of the loyal men of the country. The party represented at Baltimore and the party to be represented at Chicago are the only parties whose candidates demand any man's serious attention. Indiscreet, discontented, and ambitious persons,-the disloyal and the factious, may increase or lessen the chances of one on the other of these candidates by the course they may pursue. They can do nothing more. This is the simple matter of fact.
Mr. Lincoln was the choice of a Convention fairly representing the loyal men of the country. He is supported with enthusiastic approbation by the great body of the loyal people of the country. It is mere folly and factiousness in loyal men to promote the disorganization of the Republican party and the success of their opponents, by attempting to spread the impression that Mr. Lincoln is to be abandoned, or by doing anything but striving earnestly to secure his reelection.-Boston Daily Advertiser."
I did not see this in the Daily Advertiser, and should not have taken the trouble to reply to it if I had; but as you have copied it, I wish to say a few words.
I have not taken an active part in this controversy between Abolitionists as to Mr. Lincoln's fitness or unfitness for office, confining myself to an expression of my opinions in private conversation, which are, that Mr. Lincoln is unfitted by nature and education to carry on the government for the next four years. Neither have I been a partisan of the Fremont movement. He is not my candidate for the Presidency. My opinion of Mr. Lincoln I know is extensively shared by the leaders of the Republican party, who a week before the capture of Atlanta despaired of his reelection. I presume you know as well as I do, that measures were then being taken by leading Republican members of Congress, and editors of the most influential Republican newspapers, to induce Mr. Lincoln to withdraw from the canvass, and allow them to make a new nomination, as the only means of saving the party from annihilation. This measure was defeated by the capture of Atlanta and the traitorous character of the Chicago platform, which combined to raise the hopes of the Republican party, and caused them to adhere to Mr. Lincoln. The letter to General Fremont was written, not in his interest, but to pave the way for a similar demand on Mr. Lincoln; which there is little doubt would have been successfully made by his leading supporters, but for the triumph of our arms at Atlanta.
From the beginning of the war, my sympathies have been with those who have struck the hardest and most direct blows at the rebellion. This is my idea of anti-slavery work. Crush the rebellion, and God will take care of the negro.
Respectfully, GEORGE L. STEARNS.
ADDITIONAL WORDS OF CHEER.
LEXINGTON, Sept. 5, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON- I have been a subscriber for your paper for almost thirty years, and a constant reader. I cannot bear the idea that its life should be endangered by your fidelity to the noblest convictions of duty. My circumstances will not allow me to do much to sustain it, but I gladly provide a substitute for one of your subscribers who has fallen off.
I enclose three dollars for one year's subscription to the Liberator, which you will please send to Edward G. Stetson, Port Royal, South Carolina.
Very truly, yours, C. STETSON.
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 6, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.:
DEAR FRIEND-Enclosed please find six dollars for two copies of the Liberator for one year. Send one copy to Headquarters Camp Wm. Penn, the other to the Hospital for sick soldiers at the same place. 
I have been very much interested with your attitude respecting President Lincoln, &c., and appreciate the old Liberator more than ever for the service it has rendered the cause of Freedom in this particular; and I am sure your subscription list w ill not be allowed to diminish just at this juncture, when it is rendering such valuable service in the good cause. To aid in the work, therefore, I shall look around and see where I may send it occasionally to advantage.
Yours, truly, WM. STILL.
BOSTON, Sept. 2, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR,-Enclosed please find three dollars for The Liberator one year from date. Your course in our national affairs meets my hearty approval, and I hope other gentlemen may come forward with their three dollars, and sustain you in your honest endeavors.
Yours, very truly, D. ROBINSON, JR.
BOSTON, Sept. 3d, 1864.
MR. GARRISON,-Please send The Liberator to 13 Federal street, and oblige a friend.
RUFUS GIBBS.
P. S. I begin where Mr. Emerson leaves off; and for the same reasons. R. G.
ENGLISH SYMPATHY ACKNOWLEDGED BY
THE PRESIDENT.
The following letter has been addressed by the American Minister in London, to the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society:-
LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES, LONDON, Aug. 19, 1864.
SIR,-I am requested to inform you that the Resolutions passed by the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, on the Fourth of July last, which I had the pleasure to transmit to the President of the United States, have been received by him with the most grateful satisfaction.
If there were need, the sympathy thus manifested in quarters so evidently disinterested and just, would inspire the Government and people with new resolution to rescue their institutions from the dangerous abyss which American slaveholders, aided by malevolent spirits both abroad and at home have conspired to open before them.
Believing that in perseverance they are promoting the ultimate interests of the human race everywhere, they draw satisfaction from a cheering recognition of their labors from all worthy sources.
I have the honor to be your obedient servant,
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.
JOHN H. ESCOURT, Esq., Chairman, &c.
MR. THOMPSON ON CAPE COD. On Sunday, the 4th inst, Mr. Thompson delivered an address to a crowded audience in the town of Harwich, and on Thursday, the 8th, lectured before a numerous assembly in the Agricultural Hall in Barnstable. Mr. Thompson has received numerous invitations to visit the Cape, and lecture in the various towns in that part of the State.
<c03>
FREDERICK DOUGLASS ON PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
The secessionist newspapers in Great Britain are publishing with exultation a letter recently addressed by Mr. Douglass to an English correspondent, who had assisted to send out a box of clothing for the use of distressed freedmen in the District of Columbia. The following is an extract from that document:
The more you can say of the swindle by which our Government claims the respect of mankind for abolishing slavery-at the same time that it is practically re-establishing that hateful system in Louisiana, under General Banks-the better. I have not readily consented to the claims set up in the name of anti-slavery for our Government, but I have tried to believe all for the best. My patience and faith are not very strong now. The treatment of our poor black soldiers-the refusal to pay them anything like equal compensation, though it was promised them when they enlisted; the refusal to insist upon the exchange of colored prisoners, and to retaliate upon rebel prisoners when colored prisoners have been slaughtered in cold blood, although the President has repeatedly promised thus to protect the lives of his colored soldiers-have worn my patience quite threadbare. The President has virtually laid down this as the rule of his statesmen: Do evil by choice, right from necessity. You will see that he does not sign the bill adopted by Congress, restricting the organization of State Governments only to those States where there is a loyal majority. His plan is to organize such Governments wherever there is one-tenth of the people loyal-an entire contradiction of the constitutional idea of Republican Government. I see no purpose on the part of Lincoln and his friends to extend the elective franchise to the colored people of the South, but the contrary. This is extremely dishonorable. No rebuke of it can be too stinging from your side of the water. The negro is deemed good enough to fight for the Government, but not good enough to vote or enjoy the right to vote in the Government. We invest with the elective franchise those who with bloody blades and bloody hands have sought the life of the nation, but sternly refuse to invest those who have done what they could to save the nation's life. This discrimination becomes more dishonorable when the circumstances are duly considered. Our Government asks the negro to espouse its cause; it asks him to turn against his master, and thus fire his master's hate against him. Well, when it has attained peace, what does it propose? Why this, to hand the negro back to the political power of his master, without a single element of strength to shield himself from the vindictive spirit sure to be roused against the whole colored race."
LORD PALMERSTON ON THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
The Prime Minister of England, in an address delivered to his constituents, in the town of Tiverton, on the 23d of August, spoke as follows in reference to the policy of the British Cabinet on the question of the slaveholder's rebellion in the United States:-
“Then there was the American civil war. There is much diversity of opinion as to the merits of the contending parties. Some are for the North on the ground of their hatred of slavery. Some are for the South on the ground of their love of freedom and independence. We might have been involved one way or the other if we had listened to many of those who urged different courses of action-we might have been involved in the quarrel; but I believe the country is glad we have abstained from taking that course. (Cheers.) We could have had nothing to gain, and we should only have added thousands of our own sons to the hecatomb of victims which that calamitous and bloody slaughtering war has sacrificed. (Cheers.) We may hope that time and reflection-and recent advices from America show some favorable symptoms-we may hope that time and reflection, and the fact of immense losses which have been sustained, and the slight hopes of success which appear on the part of the North-we may hope that many months will not elapse before some progress will be made towards healing that tremendous breach which now exists. (Cheers.) But of this I am convinced, that if we had yielded to those who, from the purest motives and from a sincere conviction, urged us to interfere to offer our mediation to endeavor to reconcile the quarrel between the parties before the parties were ripe for our adjustment, we should not only have failed in accomplishing that object, but we should have embittered the feelings between that country and this, and have rendered the future establishment of good relations between us and themselves less easy and more difficult. (Hear.) Therefore I think our neutrality was wise, and I am sure that it is appreciated by the country at large.”

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
"THE NEW GOSPEL OF PEACE, ACCORDING TO ST.
BENJAMIN. Book Third. Sinclair Tousey, New York: 1864."-pp. 47.
We have now the third part of this very ingenious and amusing, and in the main accurate, satirico historical work. It brings the sketch of the war down to the destruction of the pirate Alabama, which was commanded, the author tells us, by "one named Raphael (not the angel.)" To give an idea of the style of the work, we copy a short passage relating to events of recent occurrence.
"And Ulysses, after he had threatened to take the chief city of the Ephephvees from the north side thereof, marched suddenly to the river called Djeemz, and attacked the city upon the south side.
Then said all the men who would have had Litulmak the Unready made chief ruler, Lo, Ulysses doeth that which Litulmak hath done before him. (For Litulmak had also marched to the Djeemz, with Robbutleeh hard after him.) And they glorified the wisdom of Litulmak.
And it was told unto Abraham that the Kunsuvvutivs and the Kopur-hedds said thus. And Abraham answered and said, They speak truly; for both Litulmak and Ulysses did go from the north side of the city of the Ephephvees unto the river Djeemz. And this remindeth me of another little parable.
Two men entered into an house; but they entered it not together. And both of these men went out of that house; but they also went not out together.
And the first was thrust out by the neck and shoulders, and was beaten until he was half dead. But the last went out because he would go, and they that were in the house were not able either to stay him or to follow him.
Judge ye now, therefore, which of these men was like unto Litulmak, and which was like unto Ulysses.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for September has the following table of contents:- I. Anti-supernaturalism in the Pulpit. II. Carolina Coronado. III. American Art and Artists. IV. The Bible and Slavery. V. The Religious Lesson of Religious Controversy. VI. The Two Carlyles, or Carlyle past and present. VII. The Brothers Grimm. VIII. American Expositions of Neutrality. IX. Review of Current Literature.
The fourth article is founded on the contrasted position of two recent works on Slavery; one for it, by the Right Rev. John Henry Hopkins, Episcopal Bishop of Vermont, the other against it, by Prof. Goldwin Smith, of Oxford, England.
A writer in the New York Sunday Mercury announces the following scheme as the result of conferences between the rebel commissioners and certain Democratic leaders at Niagara Falls. This plan of reconstruction, the writer says, was tacitly agreed to by the National Democratic Convention at Chicago:-
"It was, that what was once the United States be divided into five separate confederacies, each independent of the other in the management of its local affairs, yet bound to each other in certain respects. These confederacies, as divided, were to consist of the following States:-
1. The Cotton and the South Atlantic States.
2. The Trans-Mississippi States.
3. The States of the Great Northwest.
4. The Middle States.
5. The New England States."
It remained a question, with the authors of this hopeful scheme, whether to admit New England, as above, to the proposed Confederacy of confederacies, or to leave her out in the cold altogether.
POLITICAL. The daily press informs us that the Maine State election has given a triumph to the Administration; that Governor Cony is reelected by a large majority; that the whole Union Congressional ticket is elected; that the Legislature is four-fifths Union; and that copperheadism there is completely crushed out.
The returns from the Vermont election also indicate large Union gains. Smith's majority for Governor will be far greater than last year. Union members of Congress are reelected by large majorities. The State Senate is said to be unanimously Republican; and the House, it is thought, will not contain, over twenty Democrats.
<c04>
SPEECH BY MR. SEWARD.
The Albany Evening Journal of Tuesday, contains a speech made by Mr. Seward at Auburn, on Saturday, in response to a call from his fellow-citizens who were engaged in celebrating the victories of Farragut and Sherman. After commenting on the importance of these brilliant achievements and the gallantry of those engaged, Mr. Seward spoke of other topics, in the course of which he made the following statement, respecting the effect of a re-union of the States upon slavery.
"The chief complaint against the President is that he will not accept peace on the basis of the integrity of the Union, without having also the abandonment of slavery. When and where have the insurgents offered him peace on the basis of the integrity of the Union? Nobody has offered it. The rebels never will offer it. Nobody on their behalf can offer it. They are determined and pledged to rule this republic or ruin it. I told you here a year ago, that practically slavery was no longer in question-that it was perishing under the operation of the war. That assertion has been confirmed.
The Union men in all the slave States that we have delivered are even more anxious than we are to abolish slavery. Witness Western Virginia, Maryland, Missouri, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Arkansas. Jefferson Davis tells you in effect the same thing. He says that it is not slavery, but independence and sovereignty, for which he is contending. There is good reason for this. A hundred dollars in gold is only a year's purchase of the labor of the working man in every part of the United States. At less than half that price you could buy all the slaves in the country. Nevertheless, our opponents want a distinct exposition of the President's views on the ultimate solution of the slavery question.
Why do they want it? For the same reason that the Pharisees and Sadducees wanted an authoritative resolution of the questions of casuistry which arose in their day. One of those sects believed in a Kingdom to come, and the other altogether denied the resurrection of the dead. Nevertheless, they walked together in loving accord in search of instruction concerning the spirit world. ‘Master,’ said they, ‘there was a man of our nation who married a wife and died, leaving six brothers. These brothers successively married the widowed woman and afterwards died. And last of all the woman died also. In the resurrection which of the seven shall have this woman to wife.’
Now what was it to them whether one or all should have the woman to wife in Heaven. It could be nothing to the Sadducees in any case. What was it to any human being on this side of the grave? What was it to any human being in heaven except the woman and her seven husbands-absolutely nothing. Yet they would have an answer. And they received one. The answer was that while in this mortal state men and women shall never cease to marry and to die, there will be in the resurrection neither death nor marrying or giving in marriage.
Although altogether unauthorized to speak for the President upon hypothetical questions, I think I can give an answer upon the subject of slavery at the present day- an answer which will be explicit, and I hope not altogether unsatisfactory. While the rebels continue to wage war against the government of the United States, the military measures affecting slavery, which have been adopted from necessity, to bring the war to a speedy and successful end, will be continued, except so far as practical experience shall show that they can be modified advantageously, with a view to the same end.
When the insurgents shall have disbanded their armies, and laid down their arms, the war will instantly cease-and all the war measures then existing, including those which affect slavery, will cease also; and all the moral, economical and political questions, as well questions affecting slavery as others, which shall then be existing, between individuals, and States, and the Federal Government, whether they arose before the civil war began, or whether they grew out of it, will, by force of the Constitution, pass over to the arbitrament of courts of law, and to the councils of legislation.
I am not unsophisticated enough to expect that conspirators while yet unsubdued, and exercising an unresisted despotism in the insurrectionary state, will either sue for or even accept an amnesty based on the surrender of the power they have so recklessly usurped. Nevertheless, I know that if any such conspirator should tender his submission upon such terms, he will at once receive a candid hearing, and an answer prompted purely by a desire for peace, with the maintenance of the Union. On the other hand, I do expect propositions of peace with a restoration of the Union, to come not from the Confederates in authority, nor through them, but from citizens and States under and behind them. And I expect such propositions from citizens and States to come over the Confederates in power, just so fast as those citizens and States shall be delivered by the Federal arms from the usurpation by which they are now oppressed. All the world knows that so far as I am concerned, and I believe so far as the President is concerned, all such applications will receive just such an answer as it becomes a great, magnanimous and humane people to grant to brethren who have come back from their wanderings, to seek a shelter in the common ark of our national security and happiness.
The sun is setting. So surely as it shall rise again, so surely do I think that the great events we have now celebrated prelude the end of our national troubles, and the restoration of the national authority with peace, prosperity, and freedom, throughout the whole land, from the lakes to the gulf, and from ocean to ocean."
CHARACTER OF THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT. Mr. Charles Gilpin, M. P. for Northampton, (Eng.) a member of the Society of Friends, nephew of the late Joseph Sturge, and Secretary of the Board for the administration of the Poor Laws in England and Wales, in an address lately delivered before his constituents, said:-
"I am not ashamed of having been a member of an Administration, and you may not be ashamed for me, of which one of its leaders is the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the master mind of the House, who, in addition to the various claims that he has upon the gratitude and upon the recognition of the people of England, has added this last claim-many will say the claim that swallows up all others-viz., that of taking the working classes by the hand, by recognizing them as men who are unwisely deprived of the franchise-which is their right; and declaring, in no ambiguous terms, his readiness to give hundreds of thousands, who are not now possessed of the franchise, that franchise which he believes, and which we believe, which he knows, and which we know, to be not merely their privilege, but their right. I am not ashamed of having been and of being a subordinate member of a Government who lent the influence of their name and character to that noble representative of the people-Richard Cobden-and through their influence brought him in communication with the Emperor of France, by means of which he was enabled to carry still further on the glorious work to which he had before set his seal some thirty years ago."
ARRIVAL OF M. AUGUSTE LAUGEL.
Among the passengers who arrived by the Europe was M. Auguste Laugel, a gentleman who has done for our country in France the same good office which Prof. Goldwin Smith has rendered it in England. M. Laugel is prominent among that accomplished class of writers who have made the Revue des Deux Mondes a leading organ of opinion on the continent, and his series of elaborate and brilliant essays in that magazine upon the American question will henceforth entitle it to a new share of regard with an enlarged transatlantic circle. Since the volume of De Tocqueville, no French writer has excelled M. Laugel in the wide extent and singular correctness of his knowledge of the issues that have divided American parties, or in the philosophic acuteness with which he has traced the working of the causes that led to the rebellion, and developed the character, progress and probable results of the grand contest.
For this familiarity with the history, geography and institutions of the United States, the want of which is so constantly felt by Americans in reading the works of English and continental commentators on the war, M. Laugel is doubtless indebted in great part to the fact that he has an American wife-the daughter of the late Henry G. Chapman of Boston. He is the son of a French officer, and has himself attained distinction in Paris as Professor in the Ecole des Mines; but being an ardent Orleanist in his sympathies and principles, he has recently resided in England, where the Count de Paris and the Duc d'Aumale have now their homes. M. Laugel is accompanied by his family.
Those who know the ceaseless activity of he secession emissaries In France, in misleading the European press on every point connected with the rebellion, and thus preparing the way for French intervention, can readily appreciate the importance of the aid afforded us by the Revue des Deux Mondes, speaking with an ability and authority universally recognized, and addressing with undoubted facts and the calmest arguments the judgment and sympathies of the leading minds of Europe.-N. Y. Evening Post.
Of one hundred and sixty-three persons, the officers and crew of the Kearsarge, only eleven were foreign born. As the Alabama sunk, not a single cheer arose from the victors. The order was given, "Silence, boys!" and in perfect silence she sank to her last resting-place.
<c05>
GEN. MCCLELLAN'S LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE.
ORANGE, (N. Y.) Sept. 8, 1864.
GENTLEMEN-I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter informing me of my nomination by the Democratic National Convention, recently assembled at Chicago, as their candidate at the, next election for President of the United States.
It is unnecessary for me to say to you that this nomination comes to me unsought. I am happy to know when the nomination was made, the record of my public life was kept in view.
The effect of long and varied service in the army during war and peace has been to strengthen and make indelible in my mind and heart the love and reverence for the Union, Constitution, Laws and Flag of our country.
Impressed upon me in early youth, these feelings have thus far guided the course of my life, and must continue to do so to its end.
The existence of more than one government over the region which once owned our flag is incompatible with the peace, the power, and the happiness of the people.
The preservation of our Union was the sole avowed object for which the war was commenced. It should have been conducted for that object only, and in accordance with those principles which I took occasion to declare when in active service.
Thus conducted, the work of reconciliation would have been easy, and we might have reaped the benefits of our many victories on land and sea.
The Union was originally formed by the exercise of a spirit of conciliation and compromise. To restore and preserve it, the same spirit must prevail in our councils and in the hearts of the people.
The reestablishment of the Union in all its integrity is, and must continue to be, the indispensable condition in any settlement. So soon as it is clear, or even probable, that our present adversaries are ready for peace upon the basis of the Union, we should exhaust all the resources of statesmanship, practised by civilized nations and taught by the traditions of the American people, consistent with the honor and interests of the country, to secure such a peace, reestablish the Union, and guarantee for the future the constitutional rights of every State. The Union is the one condition of peace. We ask no more.
Let me add what I doubt not was, although unexpressed, the sentiments of the Convention, as it is of the people they represent-that when any one State is willing to return to the Union; it should be received at once with a full guarantee of all its constitutional rights.
If a frank, earnest, and persistent effort to obtain these objects should fail, the responsibility for ulterior consequences will fall upon those who remain in arms against the Union. But the Union must be preserved at all hazards.
I could not look in the face of my gallant comrades of the army and navy, who have survived so many bloody battles, and tell them that their labors, and the sacrifice of so many of our slain and wounded brethren had been in vain; that we had abandoned that Union for which we have so often perilled our lives.
A vast majority of our people, whether in the array or navy, or at home, would, as I write, hail with unbounded joy the permanent restoration of peace on the basis of the Union under the Constitution, without the effusion of another drop of blood. But no peace can be permanent without union.
As to the other subjects presented in the resolutions of the Convention, I need only say that I should seek in the Constitution of the United States, and the laws framed in accordance therewith, the rule of my duty and the limitations of executive power, endeavor to restore economy in public expenditure, reestablish the supremacy of law, and by the operation of a more vigorous nationality, resume our commanding position among the nations of the earth.
The condition of our finances, the depreciation of the paper money, and the burdens thereby imposed on labor and capital, show the necessity of a return to a sound financial system; while the rights of citizens and the rights of States, and the binding authority of law over the President, army and people, are subjects of not less vital importance in war than in peace.
Believing that the views here expressed are but those of the Convention and the people you represent, I accept the nomination. I realize the weight of the responsibility to be borne should the people ratify your choice. Conscious of my own weakness, I can only seek persistently the guidance of the Ruler of the universe; and relying on His all-powerful aid, do my best to restore the Union and peace to a suffering people, and to establish and guard their liberties and rights. I am, gentlemen, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
GEO. B. MCCLELLAN.
To Horatio Seymour and others, of the Committee.
IMPORTANT LETTER FROM GEN. GRANT- HIS VIEW OF THE CRY OF "PEACE!"
WASHINGTON, Sept. 8, 1864.
The following is an extract of a letter from Lieut. Gen. Grant, dated "Headquarters of the Armies of the United States, City Point, Virginia, August 16, 1864":
"HON. E. B. WASHBURN:
DEAR SIR-I state to all citizens who visit me, that all we want now to insure an early restoration of the Union is a determined unity of sentiment in the North. The rebels have now in their ranks their last man. The little boys and old men are guarding prisoners, guarding railroads and bridges, and forming a good part of their garrisons for intrenched positions. A man lost by them cannot be replaced. They have robbed the cradle and the grave equally to get their present force. Besides what they lose in frequent skirmishes and battles, they are now losing from desertion and other causes at least one regiment per day. With this drain upon them, the end is not far distant, if we will only be true to ourselves. Their only hope now is in a divided North. This might give them reinforcements from Tennessee, Kentucky, Maryland and Missouri, while it would weaken us. With the draft quietly enforced, the enemy would become despondent, and would make but little resistance. I have no doubt but the enemy are exceedingly anxious to hold out till after the Presidential election. They have many hopes from its effects. They hope a counter revolution. They hope the election of the peace candidate; in fact, like Micawber, they hope for "something to turn up." Our peace friends, if they expect peace from separation, are much mistaken. It would be but the beginning of war, with thousands of Northern men joining the South, because of our disgrace in allowing separation. To have peace on any terms, the South would demand the restoration of their slaves already freed. They would demand indemnity for losses sustained, and they would demand a treaty which would make the North slave-hunters for the South. They would demand pay, or the restoration of every slave escaping to the North.
Yours, truly,
(Signed,) U. S. GRANT."
AMERICAN ART. Facsimile copies of two of Brackett's paintings of American game and fish, have just been published by J. E. Tilton. These copies are not engravings, or photographs, or colored lithographs, but such exact and careful imitations of the original as to almost defy detection, being carefully made and prepared for framing exactly like an oil painting. But it is not the successful imitation alone which constitutes the chief merit of these pictures. They are of a character such as has long been needed, viz: a good, appropriate game picture for an American dining-room. In these paintings we have a string of American fish, such as every school-boy who has handled a rod and line will recognize, and a bunch of game-birds, such as can be found in any of the woods within two or three hours' ride of our large cities-pictures that Americans will recognize, and not some of those curious designs of the air and water that figure in the productions of foreign artists, requiring a European or African traveller to describe them. The public will find it worth while to inspect these pictures, which are on exhibition at Messrs. Tilton & Co.’s store, 161 Washington Street. They are furnished to subscribers at fifteen dollars a pair.-Boston Bulletin.
WHY VALLANDIGHAM WAS NOT RE-ARRESTED. Speaker Colfax, in a recent speech in Peru, Ind., says the following is the reason why Vallandigham was not arrested when he returned from banishment:
When Mr. Vallandigham returned, it was very natural that the first place he went to should be a democratic convention. He thought Mr. Lincoln would arrest him. Mr. Lincoln knew the fact that at that time there was a secret organization in the Northwest, the details of which be may not have been familiar with; but he knew the intention was to make Vallandigham's arrest a pretext for lighting the torch of civil war allover the Northwest. Anxious to preserve the peace at your own homes, Mr. Lincoln passed over the return of Vallandigham.
NEW ORLEANS, Aug. 24. By the surrender of Fort Morgan we have 600 prisoners, 60 pieces of artillery, and a large quantity of material. In the twelve hours preceding the surrender about 3000 shells were thrown into the fort.
The citadel and barracks are entirely destroyed, and the works generally much injured. Many of the guns were spiked, their carriages burned, and much of their ammunition destroyed. The loss in the army was one man killed and seven wounded.
(Signed) E. R. S. CANBY, Major General.
The Chicago Convention resolved that McClellan's first act, after his election, should be the freeing of "Lincoln's captives." Will they not wait until after his inauguration.
<c06>
A CALL
FOR A NATIONAL CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS OF 
THE UNITED STATES.
FELLOW-CITIZENS: The present state of our country, together with the claims of humanity and universal freedom, and the favorable developments of the Providence of God, pointing to the liberation and enfranchisement of our race, demand of us to be united in council, labor and faith.
The nation and the age have adjudged that the extinction of slavery is necessary to the preservation of liberty and republicanism, and that the existence of the Government itself is contingent upon the total overthrow of the slaveholders' oligarchy and the annihilation of the despotism which is inseparably connected with it.
Brethren, the present time is immeasurably more favorable than any other period in our history to unite and act for our own most vital interests. If we are to live and grow, and prove ourselves to be equal to the exigencies of the times, we must meet in council, and labor together for the general welfare of the people. Sound morality must be encouraged; education must be promoted; temperance and frugality must be exemplified, and industry, and thrift, and everything that pertains to well-ordered and dignified life, must be exhibited to the nation and the world. Therefore, the strong men of our people, the faithful and the true, are invited to meet in a National Convention, for the advancement of these objects and principles, on Tuesday, the 4th day of October, A. D. 1864, at 7 o'clock, P. M., [place will be named at an early day,] in the city of New York.. The progressive and liberty-loving people of the loyal States are invited to send delegates, properly and regularly chosen. Let them come from the cities, towns, hamlets and districts of every section of the country, and lay the foundation of a superstructure, broad and deep, which in the future shall be a stronghold and defence for ourselves and our posterity.
[Signed by Henry Highland Garnet, Washington; Robert Hamilton, New York; Amos G. Beman, Jamaica; William Rich, Troy; J. W. Loguen, Syracuse; Wm. H. Johnson, Albany; J. W. B. Smith, Williamsburg; Louis H. Putnam, Brooklyn; Moses Viney, Schenectady; O. C. Gilbert, Saratoga Spa; Geo. Weir, Jr., Buffalo; George H. Washington, George Henry, John T. Waugh, James Jefferson, Providence; Peter H. Nott, Hartford; Robert J. Cowes, New Haven; Jno. F. Floyd, Middletown; Abraham J. Morrison, New Milford: Charles Lenox Remond, Salem: Alexander W. Wyman, William E. Matthews, H. H. Webb, Baltimore: J. D. Harris, M. D., Portsmouth, Va.: Sampson White, Hiram H. Arnold, Alexandria: James Lynch, Abraham Murchison, Jacob Robertson, Beaufort, S. C.: Charles Heads, Vicksburg, Miss: Wm. Steward, Florida: Clinton B. Pearson, Newbern, N. C.: A. H. Galloway, Beaufort, do.: J. W. Ellis, Adrian, Michigan: James L. Campbell, Saginaw, do.: Joseph Ferguson, M. D., Detroit, do.: L. Gross, John Waugh, Uniontown, Pa.: Hiram S. Fry, Grayson S. Nelson, Reading, do.: Wm. H. Riley, Alfred M. Green, Ebenezer D. Bassett, Philadelphia: Peter D. Hedges, Newark, N. J.: Joseph H. Barquet, Illinois: Ransom Harris, Alfred Menefee, Peter Lowry, Nashville, Tenn.: and many other representative colored men in the various States.]
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SEVENTH SERIES.
AT MUSIC HALL.
OPENING ADDRESS BY
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, ESQ.,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 11, 1864. 
To be followed on successive Tuesday Evenings by,
Oct. 18-OCTAVIUS B. FROTHINGHAM.
Oct. 25-ANNA E. DICKINSON.
Nov. 1-OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Nov. 15-DAVID A. WASSON.
Nov. 22-To be announced.
Nov. 29-CHARLES G. AMES.
Dec. 6-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Dec. 13-JACOB M. MANNING.
Dec. 20-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
ORGAN CONCERT each Evening at 7 o'clock.
W. EUGENE THAYER, Organist.
Tickets admitting the bearer and Lady to the Course at $3 each.
Tickets admitting one person to the Course, at $2 each.
Checks for SEATS RESERVED TILL 7 1-2 O'CLOCK, $1 50 additional for each seat.
For sale at Oliver Ditson & Co's, 277 Washington street; John C. Haynes & Co's, 33 Court street, John S. Rogers's, 1071 Washington street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office.
Checks for Reserved Seats for sale only at Oliver Ditson & Co's, and at John S. Rogers's.
Only an average quality of seats will be reserved, (the east section of the hall,) leaving the same quality of seats (the west section) for those who do not purchase reserved checks. Sept. 16.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Weymouth, Sunday, Sept. 25, at half-past 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M.
Subjects-"Love your Enemies"-" The War a Crime and a Blunder."
OBITUARY.
ELIZABETH H. WHITTIER, sister of John G. Whittier, died at their residence in Amesbury on the 3d inst. Miss Whittier's name has long been known as that of a devoted friend of the colored race. Like her brother, she was born a poet, and the few pieces of hers which she has permitted to appear in print, are marked by rare grace and felicity of thought and expression, and deep and tender feeling. She has always lived in great retirement, the delight of her friends, who saw in her not only high poetical gifts, but an elevated and almost perfect character.
Young Ladies' Boarding-School.
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding- School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of October, 1864.
“ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M., for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Phillips’s Academy, Andover, Mass., will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR. THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. Lewis's special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training.
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to Dr. DIO LEWIS, Lexington, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8.

MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES
NEWBURG, N. Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 21. Aug. 26- 2w 

MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies,
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested.
July 8. 3m

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
Sep 12. tf
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. tDec. 1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
WAITING FOR THE HOUR.
BY MRS. P. A. HANAFORD.
[Suggested by W. J. Carleton's picture, entitled "Waiting for the Hour," representing slaves waiting for the time to come when the President's Emancipation Proclamation should be in force.] 
They wait! Long, weary years have passed,
And Liberty seemed far;
Lo! bright upon their future path
Now beams the Polar Star.
God from on high His ear hath bowed, 
His the Redeemer's power,
With rev' rent joy and holy hope
They're "waiting for the hour." 
That hour! the bell of Liberty
May ring it out with joy, 
When midnight stars shall sound it forth
In th' belfries of the sky.
The hour of Freedom! well may he
Who holds Time's measure there,
Intently on the hour-hand gaze,
Still "watching unto prayer" 
Long had his voice proclaimed the hope
The symbol-anchor tells, 
And yet, he listens, half afraid
To hear the chiming bells
Which tell that Freedom's hour hath dawned,
The long, sad night is o'er, 
The chains and fetters, woe and sin 
Of slavery are no more.
Shout, friends of Liberty, aloud!
Shout with a mighty tone! 
Sing, angels in the upper world, 
A song of Freedom's own! 
Now stripes and bondage are exchanged
For peace and quiet homes,
Where no slave-driver's voice is heard, 
And never bloodhound comes. 
Oh, artist! on whose canvass glows
This picture grand and high,
Hast thou not won by work like this
The "Well Done" of the sky? 
And yet no pen can write the hopes, 
No pencil paint the joy, 
In all its fullness, which they knew 
To whom this hour was nigh.
They wait! yet while we look, the hour 
Comes with its blissful freight; 
Fling out the Stars and Stripes, a sign
They may no longer wait. 
Shout Lincoln's name, with blissful tears,
Pray for him, day by day, 
And, through all coming time, look back 
With joy to "Sixty-three." 
Reading, Mass.
Everett's Oration on "The Uses of Astronomy." 
The watch-key was in form of an anchor. 

WAITING. 
Down on the beach where the surges rise,
And flaunt their spray at the muttering skies, 
A woman waits with fearless eyes. 
The wind breathes out in his northern might, 
A thousand wails through the rayless night, 
And the sea-gull screams in his blinded fright. 
There is only hope on her chill white brow—
And only love, in her eyes' deep glow— 
And only faith, in her heart below. 
Who shall tell what the waves may bring? 
Whether a wreck or a buoyant thing, 
To the faithful heart—a bliss or a sting.
The Nation waits, while its quivering life
Throbs 'neath the sweat and the blood of strife— 
The traitor's gun, and the brother's knife. 
And homes are dark—while a soldier train 
Bears down from the heights to their graves in the plain,
The strength and the "Beauty of Israel, slain." 
And Freedom is waiting—her own holy hand 
Has broken the curse and the night of our land; 
The wrecks of her folly lie strown on the strand. 
Upward she looks through the dusk of the grave; 
Redeem her, O God! redeem her and save! 
By the life of her faith! by the death of her brave!
O, weary one! thou hast labored long,
And prayed that all these clouds of wrong
Might, lifting, leave thee pure and strong. 
Be not dismayed—but wait and see
The emerald gate swing back for thee, 
How strong thy patient love may be. 

THE FUGITIVES. 
BY J. M. FLETCHER. 
Under the cover of darkness, 
Watching with lynx-like eyes, 
Parting the tangled brushwood, 
Boldly they seek the prize, 
Swift, for the boon is Freedom, 
Urging them on to speed, 
No matter how they suffer, 
No matter how they bleed. 
Far from the highways keeping,
Living as best they can, 
Famine so grim and ghastly, 
Fearing far less than Man; 
Into the swamps and marshes, 
Fleeing from danger's track, 
On to the goal they journey, 
Never once turning back. 
Hunted with guns and sabres, 
Little their eyes can sleep; 
Fainting and drooping and bleeding, 
Steadily on they keep, 
Watching the North Star's glimmer 
Down through the gloom of Night, 
Praying for strength to struggle
On in their feeble flight. 
Is there no sigh of sadness 
When from the slaver's lash 
Into the wilds and thickets 
Some of their victims dash, 
Braving the scourge and rifle, 
Fleeing to swamps and caves, 
Dwelling with poisonous reptiles
Rather than live as SLAVES! 
Oh! to the Freedom-loving, 
Oh! to the hearts that feel, 
How in their simple sorrow 
Stories like these appeal! 
Is there no love of pity 
Left in the Nation's breast, 
That, for the love of FREEDOM,
Man should be so oppressed? 

SEPTEMBER.
O, golden autumn morn! thy balmy breath 
Comes freighted from the fields of ripened grain,
<illegible> with sweets to steal away my pain, 
With whispered anthems for the summer's death.
There is a breathless stillness all around; 
A rare and wondrous silence, such as waits 
Some new-born angel by those pearly gates
Where streets of gold and bowers of bliss are found. 
The great waves of the grand old ocean swell
With a hushed murmuring against the shore; 
And <illegible> heart a peace unknown before
Thrills me with joy, whose depths I may not tell.
The light wind plays along the waving fields,
And the tall grasses bend to meet it there;
And I am happy! far-gone all my care—
My soul to heaven its grateful homage yields.
-Knickerbocker.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE LATE JOHH HOPPER. 
ADDRESS DELIVERED AT HIS FUNERAL, 
BY REV. O. B. FROTHINGHAM. 
Mr. FRIENDS: A sadder service than this I have never been called to; the funeral of one foremost among my truest, most constant and dearest personal friends, among the most affectionate and faithful of my parishioners. And yet, never came I to a service of this kind with a more serene faith, a more unclouded hope, a more entire satisfaction, as I review the life of my friend, and invite the All Holy and All Searching eyes to look down into my heart as I speak about it. It is just one week to-day since, on the eve of leaving town for the Summer, I was in his office, to have some friendly talk with him before I went, and never did he seem stronger; never more cheerful, never more vital, never more affectionate, never more interested in all that was going on in the social and humane world than then. The day before yesterday, at Cambridge, a dispatch was put into my hands saying that he had gone. Overwork, overmuch care, overmuch anxiety, exposure to the terrific and tropical sun of this season had worn too much upon the strength that had been spent so freely before, and had hastened the attack which might have come sooner or later, but which none of us supposed could come so soon. In a moment, as it were, in the twinkling of an eye, as he had spoken two or three endearing words to his little boy, he fell back and was a dead man. And yet we must not think even so sudden a death as this premature or unexpected. Nothing in Providence is premature, nothing under Providence is unexpected. God always foresees. God always anticipates. For everything there is an immediate cause, and a cause behind the cause, and another cause behind that, and when our friend came into this world, doubtless the sealed orders for his departure were deposited in his heart. He always wished to go as he went; he always believed that he should go as he went; be always said that with his earnest and ardent and fervid nature, such an end was the most likely. In fact, for some years past, he had been ready. More than once he had said to me, "My friend, he is no wise man that does not know and surely feel that any day and any hour his hour may come. There is no security in apparent health, there is no security in apparent vigor; we do not know, any of us, from what quarter the stroke may come, but it may come at any moment"; and he was ready. And yet how hard to believe that he would meet with a sudden death, how hard to believe that he could meet with any death; so vital, so intense, so full of energy, so restless, so impatient, doing everything that was required of him and doing a thousand fold more, his energy running out in a thousand unexpected channels. It seemed to me as if he never could be tired, it seemed to me as if he only cast off his superfluous energy; he must walk when others would ride, and run when others would walk. Did you come to him for advice, instead of giving advice, he undertook to do your work; did you ask him to do a little thing for you, he did a great thing for you; did you ask him to do you a little favor, he conferred a great obligation without thinking of it. He was ready to do his own work exactly, punctually, point by point, down to the minutest detail, forgetting nothing, slurring nothing, and then he was ready for your work, my work, or any other that was to be done. It seemed to me as if there was no exhausting his power. I sometimes wondered whether he ever slept. So overpowering was this energy that he would even overflow his friends with his activity, and there was somewhat that was absolutely overbearing and tyrannical in his good will. He could scarcely allow you to take your work out of his hands; he was so anxious to do you a service, that he would almost consider it a wrong for you to do your own work in your own way. And yet I have never known a man whose respect for the individual character of each one of his friends was so clear, so true, so firm, and constant; never did I know a man whose activities seemed so to overflow and bear away the individuality of his friends, who so indignantly resented the least intrusion upon that most sacred and solemn part of every man, which is his own holy personality. Here is one key to some most important secrets of his character. He knew a true man; he honored the man who was sincere, who was self-centred, who stood by himself, who took no man's word and the word of no number of men against his own soul. He honored the man, and he honored the woman, who, independent, free, brave, dared to stand aloof and work alone, and live alone; would take obscurity, would take poverty, indignity, persecution, scorn, without flinching and without complaint. He had no end of respect and love for such a person, and no end of hostility, aversion, and scorn, and antipathy toward everything that hampered, and thwarted, and limited, and cramped, that interfered with the true action of the individual human person. He had no patience with limitation or constraint; he demanded that the man should be free in every faculty, in every part of his nature, from the top to the bottom. He believed in individual freedom to grow to its span, to develop, to live; and so how he hated all exclusiveness, how he hated all narrowness, all impinging prejudice, all monopolies! How he hated everything like servility, how he hated all those institutions that took the individual out of himself, and sank him in the mass of the people! How he abhorred, with the whole power of his nature, slavery of all sorts, for all sorts of men, simply because it limited their faculties and bound them down to another will. Not only had he inherited from his great and noble father that hatred of the institution of slavery to which he was true to the end of his life, but it was born in him, bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh, and soul of his soul; and when this war broke out, he at once, and with all the ardor of his impetuous nature, with the fullness of his conviction, the weight of his will, the capacity of his intelligence, and the warmness and fervor of his heart, entered into it as if it was the cause of every woman and child in the land. Not of the small or great men, of the white or the black, but of every individual human creature in all this country, he believed that this was the battle. He only knew how freely he opened his purse and let the contents flow out. I know, as some of his intimate friends know, how he worked in unnumbered ways; how, through scores of invisible currents, the stream of his bounty flowed out to the needs of the sick soldier in the hospital and to the well soldier in the camp; how for all sorts of provisions for our army he was giving, giving all the time; how in the darkest hour he had full faith; how he gathered himself up in the strength of his own heart, and with a stern and manly patience bore the brunt of the storm. 
And while he thus resented all attempts upon the sanctity of the individual person, he had no toleration for that class of men who allowed their own individuality to be bought, to be put up in the market. Above all, he hated the Pharisee. Love as much as he did human nature, that love became an inverted love, and turned into scorn and wrath, a holy and a grand, a heavenly and a Christian wrath, when he thought of the Pharisee. The man who set himself up before his fellows, the man who put his fellow under his heel, the man who said, "I am greater than you, I am wiser than you, I am better than you, I am more virtuous than you, I am holier than you," the pretender, the sham, the man of hollow and glittering outside, he spoke of in words so large that his mouth could not frame them into articulate speech, and his lips became dumb and palsied when he spoke of such. I know he was sometimes inclined to suspect Phariseeism where it was not, and to judge a little harshly of some men who were better than he thought; but I remembered that he had been trained in a very hard school, and that he had seen human nature in its most repulsive form, and if any man had any right to doubt, it was he who had been brought up to the sight of sin and misery, and guilt and turpitude. He had seen human 
<C03>
nature falling and disgracing itself utterly, and when I heard him sometimes pour out his most scathing wrath, I could only sit dumb, and wish that I had ever loved enough to give me the privilege to be so grandly angry as he was. 
In my friend I found what is so very rare in this world, a profound respect and admiration and love of human nature—of simple, pure, unadorned human nature. Not of this class of men nor of that class of men, nor of this sort of woman nor of that sort, but of man and of woman, and of that which is deeper than man and woman—humanity, the common God-born, God-given nature that is the sanctity and blessedness and hope of us all. He saw that, he saw it always, he revered it, he honored it, he went down on his knees to it, he loved it, he poured out his blessings freely upon it. No color of the skin, no color of the coat, no color of the human circumstances, no guise or disguise of fortune, ever concealed from that man's eye the deep humanity of the parson's nature. It is easy for us to see what passes for human nature in the great, in the noble, in the wealthy, in the cultivated. He was less likely than most, perhaps, to see it there, but he saw it where only one in ten thousand men or women ever succeed in seeing it; he saw it in its rags; he saw it in the poor man; he saw it in the black man; he saw it in the unfortunate; he saw it in those who were the scorned and spurned of the world; he saw it in the outcast, in the distressed, in the squalid. Never, as long as I live, shall I forget—never, as long as you live, will you forget, you who knew it—how he took that little boy, that little, crooked boy, away from Randall's Island; that little outcast boy, that little weed, that miserable little rag of humanity—how he took him into his house and home; how he honored him and respected him there; how he sheltered him and covered him up from all disgrace; how he would allow nobody inside or outside his house to look upon that poor little boy as other than God's child, in the full image of God; how he gave him everything he could have, everything he could enjoy; how he put him in the way of every privilege; how he lavished upon him the wealth of his heart; and now this afternoon we shall lay our brother in the grave, with that little boy, and he will be taken into the kingdom with that little boy in his bosom. Oh, my friends, I would rather go into the Great Presence holding such a little crooked boy in my hands, than I would go clothed in all the whiteness of the angels. But it was not the unfortunate only; he loved the vicious only more than he loved the unfortunate. He saw the woman in the Magdalen; he saw the man in the thief, who had everything against him, and all the accidents of his own nature also. He would take the boy up out of the gutter, send him to school, give him an education, put him in an office, and further him in life, and never say a word to him afterward about it. He believed in man and woman; he believed that the Divine Spirit came to human nature in man and woman; he truly believed that there was that in the lowest, and poorest, and vilest, as we call them, of men and women, that, if opened freely to the light and air and the touch of God's spirit, would revive and save them, and bring them into peace. He had full faith in God's will: he believed that if we could but love God's children with but one-thousandth part of the love that God has for these children, this world would be an Eden. And what power of love the man had! How it welled out of him, how it overflowed! All his friends he made angels, and loved them as if they were. All whom he loved he glorified, and then made them glorify themselves. One was always inclined to hide his head when John Hopper spoke about him, and yet one always went away lifting his head a little higher, because he thought that John Hopper honestly and earnestly and sincerely could speak so about him. 
Freely he cast his bread upon the waters, upon all the waters, not asking whether it were likely to come back to him in many days or not, and some of it never did come back. Of course, a great deal of that bounty was lavished upon unworthy objects, and a great deal of that precious elixir sunk into sand; but he never would concede that a single drop was lost, or could be. He believed that what was done with a true spirit, and what was given out of a true heart, did its work, and went to its place, and I believe so too. But the dear God, when he gave this man his large, rich, wealthy heart of love, gave him also a subtile discernment and power of seeing into men and their motives which saved him from any fatal error, or any fatal misbestowment of his gifts. Well did that man see whether it was worth his while to give his love or to withhold his love; and I believe in the whole course of his experience, lavishly as he bestowed himself, he seldom bestowed himself utterly unworthily. Oh, what love it was! Well may I say it here, for here are men and women of all conditions, and poor men whom he has helped, and rich men whom he has befriended; here are the educated, the wise and the simple; here are those who basked in the warm sunlight, here are those who felt the ardor of his spirit, and here are those whom he took up in his arms when they were feeble and poor, and gathered them into his bosom. And, outside, what multitudes there are off at the very confines of our country, off in California, off in the West, down in the armies, down here in the low places of our city, men and women, each one of whom could tell his or her story about John Hopper's goodness, fidelity and principle. Of course, he had his prejudices—all strong men have; of course, he had his antipathies—all strong men of deep convictions have; of course, he had his enemies—all good men have; and I think he made his enemies by his firmness, by his constancy, by his outspokenness, by the unqualified and stern way in which he fought for the truth unto death, and faced all those that stood in his way. 
Well, he is gone, and we shall never more hear that firm step or see that sturdy figure on the street; and the poor can no longer come to him, and the weak can no longer take his hand. How many will feel that they have lost their only friend! How many will feel that their strengthener, that their guide is gone! But, my friends, God never taketh away; He always giveth. The Old Book says: "The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away." I would mend it by saying, the Lord giveth, giveth, giveth. He takes away a form, and gives a spirit; He takes away the presence, and gives a memory and a hope; He takes away a friend, and gives an angel; He takes away the support of an earthly home, and gives the pledge of a heavenly one beyond it; He takes away the objects of time, and gives eternity; He takes away the uses of the material and of the fleshly, and gives the great hereafter of blessed life; He takes one who walks by our side—He gives us a spirit that is with us here, everywhere and every day, that never leaves the door, that is always sitting in the chair, that is always filling the chamber, that is always bestowing gifts. The Lord takes away the dust, the form, the touch, the embrace, and gives to us the whole human nature, a fresh revelation of power, and truth, and greatness, and goodness, that was concealed from us by this fine transparency of the flesh. God gives us Death— the great revealer, the great restorer, the true and beautiful friend, who tells us what our friends were, and how dear they were, and how good and how blessed they were, and awakes in our hearts that dear, deep longing which is the earnest of the immortal life. And now that my friend has gone, he has not gone; I shall never see him more with my eyes, but I shall always see him with my spirit; I shall never touch him with my fingers, but I shall always touch him with my faith; I shall never ask his advice, but I shall have that spirit of his with me which will be better than his advice. We speak of immortality; there are many immortalities. For such a man as he, immortality is not on the other side the grave; it is on this side. An immortality in the heart of his wife and of his child, and of his brother and sister, and of his nieces, and all those who loved him and depended upon him; an immortality in the love of those into whom he has put his love, in the memory of those whom he has helped, in the virtue
<C04>
of those whom he has adorned and kindled, an immortality wherever he has lived. That life does not go out; on the contrary, it stirs in the spots where he worked, the places where he enjoyed, the world he loved. And there is his own personal immortality, we believe that, too. All our modern thought, all our modern study, goes to deepen more and more the natural conviction that this individuality of ours is imperishable, that this personality of ours can never die. No, it is not tradition any more, it is not something we read in an old book, it is not something that we take by the eye of faith; science with its inexorable laws is coming forward now, and I believe will indeed bring to full demonstration the old faith in a personal immortality. I believe it. He has left himself here, he has taken us away with him to the beyond. Nothing that has truly lived perishes; there is no death to truth, to wisdom, to aspiration; there is no decay to love. It may take a hundred forms, but it will preserve a strong consistency, and the root that is planted here in the earth will grow and grow until it puts on immortality. It may ripen here, but it will flower in the great world that is to come. Let us not think that God dies when our friend dies, or that the hand of Providence is closed when our friend's hand drops. Dear friends, let us not be so short-sighted and foolish as to imagine that, outside the horizon that bounds our eyesight, there is no eternal law, no infinite spirit, no endless love, no perfect goodness, no never-ceasing thought. Out of that hand of God we can never drop; if our bark sink, 'tis to another sea, and that sea is the ocean of Divine immensity. Let us, O friends, with manly heart, with cheerfulness, with joy and triumph, stand by the remains of our dearly beloved brother. If he was brave, let us be brave; if he was true, let us try to strengthen ourselves; if he has helped us, let us return the grace by helping our brother as he helped us; and may the spirit that went with him to the end, go also to the end with us, that we, too, may meet the inevitable hour and say it is blessed. 

THE "PEACE PARTY."
FRIEND GARRISON:—The constantly crowded condition of thy columns has often deterred me from offering any thoughts for publication, but the peril of true peace principles under the shadow of the "Peace party" of our land impels me once more to offer you a few lines. 
"Wo to them that sew pillows under all arm-holes, and cry Peace, Peace, when there is no peace." If such was the denunciation against those of the darker ages of olden time, who only cried Peace when there was no peace, what must be the decree concerning those of our day who cry "Peace, Peace," not only when there is no peace, but when they do not even mean peace, but the subversion of authority, and the acquisition of power to themselves and their allies, whereby they can, for the present, put an end to the death grapple between Liberty and Slavery, by exalting the latter into dominion, that the oppressor may have the semblance of peace in the possession of his human chattels, and they (the peace -crying demagogues) receive at his hands the loaves and fishes of office, and find means to fill their coffers with unrighteous gain, both from the labor of slaves and by clutching the public funds, as some of their illustrious predecessors have done? Not only are they indifferent to the peace of the slave and the rights of his race, but they are not at peace in themselves with God,—as evinced by the spirit they manifest,—nor with their neighbors, unless they join with them in preparing to carry out their designs upon the Administration and the negro, by resisting unto blood those who stand for the rights of the colored man, and plead for the exercise of justice in the councils of the nation, and are in their various methods striving to enforce the submission of the wrong to the right. 
So transparent is the spirit of violence in these "Peace" agitators, that those in open rebellion against the government and the rights of man pronounce them cowards if they do not cause blood to flow around their own doors, rather than fail in their determination to "dethrone the tyrant Lincoln." The evidence of this warlike spirit of the present Peace party is before the public in the plots, secret organizations, and hidden munitions of war that have been discovered. 
But my object is not so much to denounce those in whom the war spirit, in its rankling against the levelling principle of justice to all, finds utterance in the hypocritical cry of "Peace, Peace," as to warn the true peace men, and those who desire to remain such, against the snare thus artfully set for them, by those who hope, by quoting Jesus as in favor of loving enemies and "overcoming evil with good," to draw his real followers into their ranks as packhorses to bear them into power. Let us, then, who have seen the excellence of "true Christian non-resistance," beware of these devices, and remain steadfast in the faith of its all-sufficiency, as being the only might that will ultimately make all right. Let us rest in the consciousness that the nation is our witness, that, for thirty years, we have openly borne testimony against the cancerous incubus on the body politic, slavery; and not only warned the nation of an approaching calamity as its legitimate culmination, but also failed not to enter our protest against countenancing an assault upon it by violence and blood; showing the safer way of righteous legislation and just administration, and are therefore clear of blood-guiltiness in the present fearful struggle. Those, therefore, who in days past have opposed our measures and refused to lend us moral and civil aid, knowing our principles, have no reason to expect or right to demand our active <illegible> in the prosecution of those means for the suppression of this gigantic rebellion, through the removal of slavery, which they know our principles forbid. But they, having chosen their own course to the present crisis, have both of those enemies on their hands to be suppressed and eradicated in their own way, or let the nation perish, as it cannot stand without the suppression of the former, and that can not be done without the destruction of the latter. Neither could the present calamity have been averted but by the removal or circumscribing of its procuring cause, by just legislation and more humane administration. 
If any complain that we are not doing our part in the great struggle for the completion of what we long since began, while we refuse to join in or support the combat, we will remind them that, if we live to our principles, or die for them as martyrs, the influence of our life or death will be worth more to the nation, in elevating again the moral and Christian standard, when the clash of arms shall have ceased in the land, than our active <illegible> in mortal combat would have been to those who remain after its close. If (as many have who stood on half-way Christian ground) all go over to the battle-field, or advocate the warrior's mode of disposing of enemies, where shall be found the moral influence and Christian example needful to bring back the people from that measure of depravity and hardness of heart which the strife of blood will have generated, and introduce them into that kingdom of righteousness and peace which is "not of this world," and whose subjects, therefore, cannot fight? The condition of such subjects and of our land in these times are strikingly set forth by the prophet Isaish, chapter 26, verses 20 and 21: "Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers and shut thy doors about thee; hide thyself, as it were, for a little moment, until the indignation be over past. For behold, the Lord cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain." The Christian's "chamber of retirement" is a consciousness of God's approving presence. 
Thine for truth, liberty and peace, 
SAMUEL KEESE.
Peru, N. Y., 9th, 5th mo., 1864. 
Virginia's war-made widows and orphans already number 60,000.
<c05>
A FREEDMEN'S VILLAGE.
THE SETTLEMENT AT ARLINGTON HEIGHTS.
A writer in the Washington Chronicle thus describes the Freedmen's Village, established at Arlington Heights, near Washington:—
"Passing over Aqueduct Bridge, and noticing the accommodations for sharpshooters which beset its entrance and exit, going by government farms on which "Do not trespass" is conspicuously announced, and leaving behind a cemetery of soldiers' graves, in which the slabs seemed almost numberless, you come at last to Freedmen's Village. The approach is very unostentatious, and is made by a rather steep hill. The headquarters may be reached through Augur street, (for Freedmen's Village is divided into streets,) leaving Rucker street forking out on the left. One of the first objects of inquiry here is the tailor's shop. Here eighty-seven women are at present on the time-roll, of whom ten or twelve have learned the use of the sewing machine. Its busy click can be heard before the threshold is passed. The interior of the tailor's shop presents a novel and strangely interesting, if not very animated scene. The cleanest of clean wooden bencher are arranged along the oblong room, and are occupied by women whose fingers are busy, and whose tongues, in low tones, keep pace with the nimbleness of their thimbles. The duty of these women is to keep a constant supply on hand for those who shall from time to time be added to the Freedmen's Village. They commence their work at six in the morning, and continue it until noon. Then they have a recess of two hours. Commencing at two o'clock again, they break off at five. The present superintendent of the tailor's shop has been there eight months, and at the time he began, only four girls were employed there. The number has reached as high as one hundred and forty. A monthly report is always prepared and handed in. After their day's work is done, they attend evening school, which, in winter, is held from half-past six until eight in the evening, and in summer from seven until eight. The term during which they thus attend begins about the first of September, and closes the last of July.
Leaving the tailor's shop, the 
SCHOOL-HOUSE 
is next reached. Unfortunately, we arrived about an hour late. The children had been turned loose from their studies, and were playing in groups around their new-found homes. The school-house is a one-story frame-building, capable of holding quite a number of scholars. Benches were placed at regular intervals throughout the room, and everything is neat in the extreme. Coal-oil lamps are suspended from the ceiling and fastened to the walls, affording ample opportunities for illumination. Windows opening upon all sides render the ventilation perfect. The attendance used to number between five and six hundred. It amounts now to about three hundred and fifty, there being at least one thousand children in the village. The school was organized on the 7th of December, 1863, and the ages of the children extend from five to fourteen. The evening school, during its session, is held only three evenings in the week—Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The teachers include one gentleman superintendent and three lady assistants, who are assiduously devoted to their vocation, and who have been singularly successful, in it. The colored children, whose welfare they so unremittingly consult, are educated precisely in those branches in which white children are instructed in our primary schools. The school already has two classes in geography, and three in arithmetic. Writing on slates is being cultivated, though the deeper mysteries of copy-books have not yet been ventured upon. The school, we are told, compares favorably with those at Fortress Monroe, Portsmouth and Norfolk, and the educational and religious influence exerted over it is due to the American Tract Society at New York. Order among so large a body of children being indispensable, the strictest decorum is therefore observed. In the fall, the school will probably he enlarged so as to accommodate eight hundred children. 
THE HOME FOR THE AGED AND INFIRM 
contains a number of occupants whose histories would doubtless prove absorbingly interesting did their infirmities and age permit a relation of them. As it is, these old and feebled but enfranchised slaves do little and say less—at least, to the stranger. Some sit upon their beds, gazing vacantly before them; some look lollingly out of the window, watching the distant sunset; some are basking themselves in the sun and snoozing in comfortable and self-congratulatory style. These dwellers in Freedmen's Village, the halt, the lame, the maimed and the blind, with all the experiences which they bear within their bosoms, carry those experiences silently along with them, and do not speak of them often to any living soul. In the women's department, the scene is less lifeless, as it always is where women are. There the needle is busy and the voice is not dumb. The eye sparkles yet, and the tones of the voice sound cheerily, and the bearing is blithe and possessed of vigor yet. In this home are sixty-five inmates. As we leave it, it is bathed in and lapped by the golden waters of the sunset. Poor and abject and despised as those withered forms are by those who will not recognize in them a soul, it is glorious to think that, even if they do languish, they are languishing on a soil of liberty. They have lived the lives of slaves, but they will die the deaths of freemen. 
THE HOSPITAL.
Hospitals are always sad scenes to visit, and the Freedmen's Village hospital is no less sad than many others. A hospital is absolutely necessary under present circumstances. The village contains between sixty and seventy buildings, each building containing four tenements—one in each corner. The accommodation which a hospital affords is of course not practicable in this contracted space. The cases on hand at present are those of dropsy, intermittent fever, chronic peritonitus, scrofula, pneumonia, frost bite, typhoid fever and consumption. Two deaths occurred on Wednesday evening—one from paralysis and the other from chronic diarrhoea. Sad as the Freedmen's Village hospital is to visit, it would be sadder for its occupants to die in bondage than as they now die. No matter how tenderly they might have been cared for by kind masters and tender-hearted overseers, they see and feel, in their present condition, that events are working round to the restoration to liberty of their people as a people. Situated as they are, the least intelligent among them perceive in this new aspect of affairs an augury for good for the future. 
ARLINGTON HOUSE. 
Through thick woods, spotted here and there with tents which glitter brightly in the light which pounces through the boughs upon them, Arlington House is approached. At intervals along the route men are carpentering, and applying to various purposes the timber which lies ready to their hands, and, at certain points, the scene resembles the preparations for a camp-meeting. Proceeding further through the romantically-leafed woods, the old mansion of General Lee is at length gained. The first thing that meets the eye is the highly satisfactory announcement, "No admittance except on business." Our purpose being business, we, of course, expected entrance. Captain F. B. Miller, who, we were informed, occupies this building as his headquarters, not being just at hand, the individual upon guard said that he had orders to let no one pass, and likewise referred us to the sexton. By the time the sexton was found, however, it was too late to explore the interior of Arlington House. The back view is not very inviting, but the front is most imposing. Eight massive marble columns give it a severe and almost antique aspect. But it is grandeur in decay. Arlington House is at present a sad sight to behold. Its 
"Is the loveliness of death,
Which parts not quite with parting breath." 
The portals are no longer flung wide open from that capacious, chaste and beautiful portico. The windows which overlook the semi-circular lawn, fringed with dark-dyed <illegible, and sloping down toward the glittering Potomac, are shattered, and the birds which have built their nests upon the cornices, wing their way and twitter through the deserted corridors. No flag streams from the lofty staff rearing itself so grandly from the midst of the full-grown sward, and almost directly confronting the Washington Monument. A portentous stillness seems to brood around, as though in every tree there was a still small voice, which could not be distinctly heard, and as though the imagined murmur of the distant river meant something more than it could say. This house and these grounds will soon have become 
<C06>
converted to far different uses to those for which their late proprietor intended them. The interior of the mansion is to be remodelled so as to correspond in its purposes with the cemetery which will surround it, and some of the estate is already occupied as a burial-ground, known as the National Cemetery. This cemetery is at present divided in to the upper and the lower yard. The upper yard contains fourteen hundred graves, and the lower twelve hundred. These graves are marked with wooden slabs, with the exception of one marble slab in the upper and one in the lower yard. As we passed by it, a cortege of five ambulances, containing nine coffins, moved by. Some of the <illegible> were draped with our colors. The cemetery is as yet enclosed with a wooden fence. A man whom we passed upon the road said it was worth three hundred dollars to see the front of Lee's old house, and further remarked that he thought lee would give that himself to see it. Leaving the full graveyard, the empty mansion, the next proceeding is to make straight for
MASON'S ISLAND,
which is approached through a very stony bypath and a sepulchral tunnel. At the time of the late raid, every man and boy on Mason's Island was summoned forth, and a fort was thrown up, which was called Fort Greene. A detachment of the Veteran Reserves guards the island now, and no one is admitted to it without a pass. Mason's Island is, indeed, nothing more than a hiring-out depot. It is difficult to induce any of the inhabitants of Freedmen's village to leave that place and to settle here. They grow attached to one spot, and love to remain in it. Mason's Island was applied to its present purpose on the 13th of last month, and between then and now a vast amount of labor has been accomplished. Before that time, it was occupied, it will be remembered, by conscripts and negro regiments. The colored people here at present live in barracks, and a very strictly organized system is maintained. Separate barracks are assigned to the single women, to widowed women with families, to married women and their families, and to single men and boys. Very few single men are on the island, as they are disposed of as fast as they arrive.
During the month of June, the hiring out was carried on at the rate of eleven persons per day. The terms for which this arrangement is effected of course vary. Children are hired out until they are of age. No men, we understand, are hired out unless with their families, and then for a year's time. During the present month, the number hired out nearly doubled that of last month. There is but little sickness among the population at present. The hospital, by-the-by, is absolutely a model one. Not only is it perfectly neat, and sweet and clean, and splendidly ventilated, but the care bestowed upon the patients is tender and soothing, and every appliance which can be seized upon to beguile the hours of illness is instantly employed. The number of cases at present amounts to thirty. There have been as many as twelve hundred inhabitants of Mason's Island at one time, though only seven hundred are there now. All the old and infirm are sent to Freedmen's Village, where, as we have elsewhere indicated, they are well taken care of.
No regular system of labor is observed at Mason's Island, and all the policing is done by the people themselves. The camp is supplied with cows which hail from rebeldom. Fifty families are furnished with milk every day, and the hospitals are furnished likewise with ten gallons daily. The hiring out is said to be more encouraging than ever before. The old Mason mansion meanwhile is almost out of sight of these camp and hospital scenes. Its flight of steps is surmounted by pillars, and as you approach it, sassafras trees bloom upon the right, and mahogany trees spread themselves on the left. Peach and pear orchards infuse into the atmosphere a faint agreeable odor, and the Chinese arborvitae and a number of rare and curious flowers mingle their sweet breaths together. The river flows serenely by, and the ebb of its waters can be described through the dark border of woods along the shore, and round the edges of the steep slopes. On the one side of the house is a piazza, which was anciently used as a dancing saloon, but which is now used as a Sunday school and place of prayer-meeting. Here, on the Sabbath, a white preacher holds forth in the morning, and a colored man in the afternoon.
As you stand upon the steps of the house, you see an incessant stream of colored women and children coming up from the barracks below. Every one carries a bucket or a butter-kettle with him, and approaches the exhaustless well, which yields pure cold water. This stream continues unceasingly from sunrise until night, and one almost thinks he realizes the idea of life in the South. But, however unreal that idea may be, one cannot survey this sunset scene on Mason's Island, or remember the sister scenes at Freedmen's Village, without remembering that the landscapes of the South, which the presence of the slave made so picturesque, are blotted out forever, and that a happier and holier prospect will succeed them."
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parities.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston.
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—ly
The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail-—paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING, 
15 Leight Street, New York. 
July 15. 3m
Portrait of Mr. Garrison.
JOHNSTON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD.
Subscription received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29.
Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's Pen-and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00 A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver St., New York, 119 Market St., Phila.
August 19.
