THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 1. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1717.
Refuge of Oppression
<c01>
NIGGEROLOGY
"Tis true, and pity it is "this true," that the Puritans. So wedded as they are to the absurd idea of negro equality, can never be cured of this unnatural caprice, and that the lessons of the hour, which are operating so beneficially all over the country, remain utterly unheeded in New England. This is a lamentable fact. Nearly two years' experience of the operations of this delusion merely induces the Yankee to " lay the flattering unction to his soul" that he can change the Ethiopian skin, and make him the peer of white men! What folly, what madness, what iniquity! Everybody beyond the circle of these fanatics knows and feels that this monomania has alone caused our deplorable national???? and yet, instead of acknowledging their errors and retracing their steps, these blind zealots madly pursue their will O'-the-Whisp of Emancipation. Equality, &c.
Mr. Frank Bird is a fair type of these enthusiasts. He may be a good business man, but sure we are that he will never be a statesman. He may excel in the manufacture of paper, but certain it is that, beyond Yankee land, he can never manufacture, on paper or otherwise, that reputation as a public man which comes from practical common sense. He has just been elected as a reward for his endeavors to introduce into Massachusetts several thousand contrabands from the Southern border, in order to degrade and cheapen the price of labor. All this might be regarded with indifference, were the fanatics to confine themselves to their chosen task; but, to secure the countenance of their roundhead brethren, they must needs institute comparisons between the negroes and Irishman. Mr. Bird, to bolster his preposterous notions, prints, in the Transcript of last Friday, a letter from "a gentleman of the highest intelligence and character," from Fortress Monroe, the pith and meaning of which is contained in this delectable extract:-
"The colored people are as active and industrious and capable as the Irish. The are much more easily managed, and as the Irish are at the North and the negro in the South, each in their more native latitude, so let it be."

We hear continually of the comparative insignificance of the slaveholders; but, in point of fact, they far more truly represent the opinions of the whole fifteen Southern States than the Black Republicans of New England do those of the Free States; because these six. States contain much less than two millions inhabitants, radical, conservative, Irish, niggers, and all; and no sane man will undertake to say that the nonsense contained in the above paragraph could receive from the twenty-five or thirty millions of the people besides, any other reception than well-merited derision or contempt. Where else, on the surface of this globe, can individuals found so stultified as to compare an Irish-man to a negro? If the latter be as "capable" as the "Irish" pray why not as much and more so than the fanatical, amalgamation-hunting, dollar-worshipping, atheistically Yankee? The idea of the Irish being her "in their more native latitude," is, considering everything, most decidedly rich! Worthy only the logic of those disturbers of order, good government, and every social relation.
This wiseacre says:-
"If the Irish are not blinded to their own interests, they will go as a body, all over the land, for universal emancipation."
However much Mr. Bird and his colleagues in this bad business may pride themselves on their superior mental (?) endowments, the Irish, thank God! Have too much self-respect to "go" for anything that will place a negro on the same grade in the labor-market with themselves. What a cause congratulation to the poorest white is the reflection that, unlike the inferior negro race, he is at liberty to remove with recover his inclination or interests may prompt him! But to "go" for the emancipation of four millions of helpless slaves, without the least regard for their immediate or remote welt-being, is a thought worthy altogether of those impracticable ideologists who are ever pursuing some silly phantom, whose notions of government could not last, if once tried, for twenty-four hours, and whose only strength consists in mutual admiration, and for all else inextinguishable animosity. Oh! New England! verily it is high time you un-learned the teachings of Old England of three centuries ago!- Boston (Irish Catholic) Pilot.

RADICALISM IS DOWN.
The honorable terms that Radicalism suicidally insists on are, not submission to the national authority, not a return to the fold of the Constitution, not the Union of coequal States, but submission to the Liberty Party Abolition platform: equality for the negroes; and failing in agreeing to this, Radicalism decrees desolation, cities sowed with the salt of extermination! Such terms as these-such as the bloody, vulgar Chandler, of Michigan, and the impudent Wade, of Ohio, and the whole criminal set talk of, are nothing less than eternal war! As we read the terrible appeals of Radicalism,-made, too by parties who are greedily grabbing all they can get from the public crib-whose pockets are lined with the fruits of corruption as their hands are red with the blood of brethren-we involuntarily ask-where is the old virtue and old patriotism and the old intelligence of majorities in Massachusetts? Has Christianity fled to brutish beasts? Does New England expect to subjugate the great West to her Abolition programme? We are committing suicide every hour in urging such on infernal policy.
Let patriots be of good cheer. The day of reckoning is coming, when rascality will be fully unveiled. The country, even now, is saved? Saved by the noble conservative host who have come to its rescue-saved by the union between the true men of the Middle States, the Border States, and the West. The Nashville Patriot has the right of it. The moral of the elections-that involuntarily brings out the all hail from Tennessee, and other States, now coming is in a swelling tide-is that Radicalism is down. Unhappily, time is yet to elapse before the Patriotic voice of the People, irrespective of party, can, under our system, fully operate-but it can be heard! It is as permanent as right and truth, and is irrevocable. It will not be without effect. It is for the Union as it was-for the Constitution as it is. The noble majority who have declared this, assuredly will go on increasing-will brand as traitors all who talk about the Constitution being no better than useless parchment, and war against the Union as it was.–Boston Post.
The democratic professions of the Pose are as impudent and hollow as are the virtuous protestations of a profligate night-walker before the police court. 
<c02>
Selections.

THE VOICE OF THE UNION EXILES.
The Union exiles who have escaped from the terrors of Rebeldom, held a meeting in Cooper Institute, York, Which was attended by a vast assemblage of people. The principal speakers were Hon. A.J. Hamilton, of Texas, T. J. Boynton, of Florida, Rev. W.B. Carter, of Tennessee, and Rev. Mr. Hoye, of Mississippi.
Mr. Hamilton scouted the idea that peace would be secured by compromise. He said:—
"The Southern Union men spurn all such offers of compromise as I do here to-night; they spurn the sympathy of a man who proposes to relieve them by tendering the olive branch. Above all, I do not want the aid and sympathy of a man who thinks that the war must be carried on in such a way as still to preserve the cause of the war. How then are we Abolitionists? I intend to contribute my humble efforts to pull Slavery up by the last roots. [Cheers, loud and continued.] I know that Slavery must perish in order that Liberty may survive. [Great applause.] I know tint the manacles must fall from the fettered limbs of the black race on this continent, in order that the white man may not be manacled. We, therefore, again spurn the sympathy of any man who talks about the Union as it was, if he means lo say that we are to go back to the condition that preceded this Revolution. This will not be the Union our fathers intended it to be, until the cause of this Rebellion has been swept from the land. [Cheers.] You may imagine from this that I have some idea that the President's Proclamation is a pretty good thing. [Applause.] If there has been one solitary step taken in the right direction by the President, it is the issuing of the Proclamation of Emancipation." [Tremendous applause.]
Rev. W. B. Carter, of East Tennessee, was the s next speaker. In the course of his speech he said: 
Being a slaveholder himself, he could have remained South by staining his soul with treason— [applause]—but God forbid that he or his children should ever be victims to that! He did sometimes like to hit the copper-heads. [Cheers.] He hated; the serpent whenever he saw it, North and South. [Applause.] While he hated treason South, he hated treason North, for while there might be some apology for it South, there was not the least shadow of apology for it North. He wished to remind the editors of New York, and he did it for a practical purpose, that of all the helps which Secession received in the South two years ago, none was greater than that from a certain class of the Northern press. ["Herald!" "Herald!" "Express!"] Mr. Carter continued: You know them better than I do, gentlemen. In those papers we found the very arguments which Southern Rebels use against us. What was the character of those arguments? Eternally prating about Southern rights and Northern aggressions. And that is who your papers are doing now. I beg these editors, for the sake of our common country, for the sake of the weeping and perishing thousands of loyal men in the South, to cease traducing their own Government, and to sustain that Government. I want these editors and these confounded politicians to tell me what rights I have lost. Did you ever see them? Did you ever hear them? Did you ever taste them? Did yon ever smell them? [Laughter.] If any of these Northern men have found any of my lost rights, I wish they would return them. I am conscious of having lost rights, but not through my government, but through this accursed Southern Confederacy. [Applaues.] I have lost the right of seeing my wife and little children. I have lost the right of abiding beneath my own vine and fig free. In short, I have lost the right to be in my own country a freeman. I will tell you how to give me back those rights. Crush the accursed Rebellion against the Government." 
Mr. T.J. Boynton, of Florida, followed in a Stirring speech. He Said:-
In this struggle I am for no party—rather I am for that party or that organization or that man who shows most energy in the prosecution of warlike measures, who gives the hardest blows and deals heaviest and oftenest. [Applause.] I am against the party which forgets the perils of the nation, and strives for personal and party aggrandizement; and which having sent its brethren into the field to be decimated by Rebel bullets from the front, now din" after them the poisoned arrows of a worse than Parthian retreat by talk of compromises and conventions. I cannot enough impress upon you the folly of half measures. The shortest way to the end of the matter is through and over the Rebellion. Circuitous paths end in bogs and quagmires. A good rule for voting is "for the man the Rebels hate the worst." The difference between a rebel and an anti-coercionist or a conventionist is not measurable. Things which an- equal to the same thing are equal to each other. [Applause.] Courage will vanish from the hearts and strength from the arms which support the rebellion just in proportion as they see that uncompromising Union men are supported and, elected in the loyal section. I have no words to express my contempt for the man who proposes, in any event, to let the Rebels go. Let Secession go! ay, go—down to hell, and say, I sent the thither, is the language I would recommend. [Applause.]— Just a word about the Proclamation. We accept it as the conclusion of the inscrutable, irrefragable, and, inexorable logic of events. [Applause.] We would guard the Constitution, and to do so most effectually we would save the nation. Does not the spirit of the Constitution abide in the body of the nation? Do the souls remain on earth after the bodies are dead? Save the nation if you would save the Constitution. Has the President shown haste to exercise doubtful powers? Did he not for a long time propose to save the Government and Slavery too? Does he not now propose to do so if the Rebels will lay down their arms? Is it not lawful to save the nation at any expense? Is there any phrase in the Constitution" which can be tortured into the intendment that Rebel soldiers have a right to be support-t-d by slaves or anybody else? If it is lawful to shoot Rebels in the field, is it less so to kick from under them the prop which feeds and clothes them in the field?
Rev. Mr. Hoye, of Mississippi, who has suffered great persecution, also spoke with great earnestness, and having given an interesting narrative of his sufferings and escape, be said:—
I appear before you, as your President has said, from the repudiating State of Mississippi. I will tell you how I pot here; I came on the underground railroad. [Cheers.] I was seized by the rebels, heavily ironed, and placed with eighty others in a Southern dungeon. I remarked to General Jordan that I bad heard that iron was scarce in the South, but they had given me a large supply of it. [Laughter] My crime was, that I bad used seditious language, or, as they term it there, I bad talked Union talk. While
<c03>
I was in that prison, numbers of us were led out And shot. At first they supplied coffins for those who were shot, but the great number of executions prevented the supply of coffins: so they dug a hole in the ground, and made them sit down on the brink of I the hole, and there was a certain number of soldiers, who advanced, and fired three balls into the brain! and three into the heart; and this was the mode of j execution. I was to be suspended between heaven and earth as an arch-traitor. because on various occasions I had expressed my sentiments fully. I had charge of churches when the rebellion broke out, and I had preached a sermon in which I had told my people to oppose the rebellion by talking against it, by writing against it, and, if necessary, by fighting against it. I was incarcerated: in company with a friend. I made an attempt to escape; my friend I got away, but I was re-arrested. They sent after me with BIOODHOUNDS –YES BLOODHOUNDS; they' hunt the Union troops now with those animals. The second time I was more successful; I went of in a I south-west direction, opposite from my home, in order to escape the blood abounds, and I did not leave a single article of clothing, through fear that they would get my scent. I knew that if I got away out of the town of Tupelo, which was surrounded by the rebel camps, I could get aid from Union men. My fallow-prisoners labored all day to set my chains in such a condition that they could be slipped off. I! had to carry the iron bands with me till I could get among friends.
After I escaped, I was compelled to live mostly upon green corn and bad water; and when I reached; the Union lines, I was in the condition of a skeleton, and-I have not got over it; my constitution was shattered—and all this for being a Union man. Some days after my escape., I was compelled to go to a house; I was becoming very faint, and it required perhaps an hour to go a quarter of a mile; I went to one house, and 1 noticed that there were some slaves about it. I went away, knowing that, where there were slaves. the masters are Secessionists. 1 might as soon have walked into Tupelo. If I could have seen the slaves alone, I would have trusted myself with them. 1 found another house where there were no slaves. The man was a man of Herculean frame, and I said, in the course of conversation, that the Yankees were overrunning all the country, and every man that was able to fight was needed in the army, and asked why wasn't he there? His wife gave me her mind very freely. She said he was not there, and he wasn't going there, and she gave her opinion of the Conscription law. Then I told them my condition, and they gave me food. I never liked corn-bread very much, but the corn-bread that they set before me was the sweetest morsel that I ever tasted. A chicken was killed, and I devoured nearly the whole: and while I was sitting eating, 1 heard a little girl in an adjoining room say that she had been able to get only a wing, and that I was a horse to eat. I must not name this man; it would draw upon him the persecutions of the traitors. He said that he did not know the route to Rienzi, but he I knew a man who did, and who would show me. He concealed me in a thicket, and brought this man to me. The man said: " I'll do all I can to get you to the Union lines; you must go to that house in the distance, and stay all day. I would like to have you in my family, but it might get out. I've a large j family, and most of 'em are gals, and ye know gals will talk." [Laughter and applause.] That may not be true of the New York "gals," but it is true of them down there. I thought this a sufficient excuse. At night he came with two horses, and conducted me to a point eight miles distant, to his! brother-in-law's, and he asked him to conduct me to the Union lines. His brother-in-law was a Union man; he bitterly denounced Secessionists. He told! me, while there, that there was a gentleman by the name of Newman who "talked Union talk," as they called it—told of his love and devotion for the Union. The cavalry went and arrested him, and there was a difference of opinion among them; some were in favor of shooting him, and some were in favor of hanging him; but they finally got scalding water, and scalded him to death. [Sensation.] Then they hung up the body, and put a label on it, saying that any man who took down the corpse should be served in the same way. My friend and his friends took him down and buried him, and in after time there will be a monument raised to his virtues. My friends conducted me to the Union lines.
I had travelled before only during the night, but we had to travel during the day, because there was a great storm, and it was dangerous to cross to Tallahatchie during the night. At a place called Davis's Mill, we found five or six rebel soldiers; they inquired where we came from. He said we were, in hunt of oxen, and asked them if they hail seen a black ox and a pied ox. They had not. They said I looked as thought I had had the fever and ague for! a year. He told them that I had come from Alabama, and my folks thought I was almost gone of consumption. This satisfied them, although it was: not strictly in accordance with the rules of veracity. When I got in sight of the Star Spangled Banner, my feelings may be more readily imagined than described.
Now, I will say a few words in answer to questions that have been asked me since I came North. With regard to this Proclamation, about which we have heard so much, I believe it is right, and for these reasons: When 1 was among the soldiers of the Rebel army, I found that they employed slaves. They had slaves as sappers and miners, as cooks, as teamsters, as artisans, in the blacksmith's shop, making swords and knives to cut the throats of the Union troops, and all this by compulsion; and I think it strange indeed if we should not divert this labor from that channel. [Great applause.] They do not object to it, and why should we? Another reason why I think this slave labor should be diverted is this: Tallahatchie County, Miss., has but 5.50 voters, and it sends 600 soldiers to the Rebel army. They have 15.000 or 20,000 slaves, and these slaves are at! work in the fields, producing the hog and the hominy of which you have heard so much. If these slaves were liberated, these 600 men would be compelled, almost to a man, to go home to produce that hog and hominy which is necessary to the support of themselves and their families. I am asked if I believe that this proclamation can be carried out. Yes, I believe it can be carried out, just so sure and just so long as negroes have legs. [Laughter and applause.] For they will escape to the Union lines at every opportunity. They came into the Union lines long ago, but. they learned it was the policy of the (Government not to receive them. It was opposed to the views of the Generals, and Gen. Nelson, and Gen. Wood, and Gen. Ammon, have tied up negroes, and whipped them, and sent them back. This I have known to be the ease, and hare seen to be the case. One of them has gone to his reward. I am stating things now that I know to be true; that I have seen with my eyes.
We are often asked this question: "Will the slaves make good soldiers? Are they sufficiently intelligent? Let me tell you that the slaves are more intelligent than the poor whites in the South. Why, I went into a house not three months ago, and there
<c04>
Was a lady belonging to this class of sand-hillers, and I remarked, by way of passing the time, as I was waiting for her husband, that there was the picture of the Presidents. "Yes" said she; "them's the picture of the Presidents, and some of 'em must be gettin' mighty old by this time, if they ain't dead." [Prolonged laughter.] I remarked, in addition, that that one at the head was General Washington. "Yes," said she, I've heern of him ever since I was a gal; I wonder if he's dead yet? "I told her that I had seen an account of his death in the papers. [Continued laughter.] There were two families in Tishamingo County who were going to move, one to Texas and the other to Arkansas; but the wife of the Texas man wanted to go to Arkansas, and the wife of the Arkansas man wanted to go to Texas. The men were out hunting one day, and were thinking about it, and at last they agreed that to trade would be a good plan. As I am relating the matter just as it occurred, I shall have to relate the express words: One of the women was old, and the other was young. "Neow," said one. "if you had an old mar', and I had a young filly, you wouldn't want to trade even, would ye?" " [Great laughter] The other agreed with him, and so they compromised the matter by the one who possessed the old wife giving a double-barreled shot-gun, and eighteen dollars to boot. He paid the eighteen dollars, however, in coonskins, and things of that sort. Now. this is the condition of the poor whites in that vicinity. The slaveholders rule them.
Then, again, there is the question about whether the negroes will fight against their masters or not. The negroes are a very kind people, and they are possessed of a very great deal of piety—indeed, I believe that the real piety of the South is ensconced in the. bosom of he slave population of that country—and they would not wish to destroy their masters, however they might abuse them or whip them. But every man in the South is not the master of every specific negro in the South; that negro would not fight against his master, but he would fight against every other master in the South. I have relatives in the South; I unfortunately have three brothers-in-law, officers in the rebel army. If I knew I was aiming at one of them, I would not shoot; but I would fight willingly, and if, in fighting, I should kill one of them, 1 should do it with a good conscience.
I have been asked—Will there be insurrections?; I say not, as long as the negroes can run away; so; long as they can run and find protection, there will be no insurrections. But there is great alarm in the South, through fear that there will be insurrections.! I attended the Synod of Mississippi in October last at Natchez, and I was told that fifteen negroes had been hanged there for fear of insurrection. Others said it was not true, and that they were hanged upon irresponsible statements of irresponsible persons. While I was in Macon last Summer, six negroes were executed, and one was burned in the streets.
When I was at that Presbyterian Synod, I preached to a large congregation of slaves; it was the largest congregation I ever spoke to in my life, with this exception. With one exception, that of the minister who sat beside me, they were all slaves, yet one third of them were whiter than I am; so that slavery is not confined to color, because you often see red-haired and blue-eyed slaves. Another question is, will they come North? I would reply to this, that if freedom is proclaimed South, they will not come. North, because they love freedom, but they hate slavery. They would prefer to go South. I saw a certain suggestion in the papers to give them the State of Florida. I was glad to see it; let them have that beautiful territory of Ponce de Leon, so graphically alluded to. If, however, they come North, I have no objection; I have lived among negroes, and can again. but let that matter be decided hereafter.
The causes of the Rebellion have been set forth; I need not say anything in regard to that. The only other question I have been asked is this: Will there be harmony of feeling between the Southern and Northern States hereafter? I say there will not so long as this institution of slavery exists. [Loud applause.] But let that institution be eradicated, and there is no obstacle to harmony.
Parson Brownlow, in a recent speech at Grand Rapids, Michigan, made the following allusion to the Emancipation Proclamation:—
"I am here to-day for the purpose of endorsing Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, (applause.) for this reason—that it will unite the North; and you haven't been united and rebels have: because the rebels have no principle at stake; and when you put them to the wall, they intended to have issued a proclamation of universal emancipation,: and then demanded the protection of England and France; and I am glad that Old Abe has taken the wind out of their sails. (Applause.) Slavery is a gone-up institution. This war will make it so. There cannot be a man with a thimble-full of brains, (laughter.) who does not know that it will put down the institution of slavery. They will go down. I can better illustrate it by giving a homely anecdote from the West. Two of my neighbors went out hunting, and one of them took a dog; and he hadn't gone far when he found a skunk. He ran the skunk into a hollow log. He was ignorant of the properties of the essence pedler. He soon had to evacuate. The other neighbor came up, and from the state of the atmosphere, knew how matters stood. Said he. 'Neighbor, have you killed it?" Killed the devil! Let the d—d thing alone, and it will stink itself to death.' (Laughter.) By the time this war is over, slavery will have stunk itself to death."
He also directed a shaft at the sympathizers with rebellion in the Northern States:—
"I am ashamed, mortified, vexed, that, while this is the spirit of the rebellion all over the South, of murder and destruction, I find a set of men, born and educated here in the North, owning property here, so mean, so unpatriotic, so God-forsaken, heaven-daring; hell-deserving, and so infernally contemptible as to sympathize with this infernal rebellion. If there is a Northern citizen in this audience who sympathizes with this rebellion, permit me to say to you that you are a thousand times meaner, dirtier, uglier and more rascally than any Southern secessionist on earth. You are complaining about the war tax, complaining against some of our Generals, and you should be- taken out by some of these soldiers and rode on a fence-rail until you are dead. If I owed the devil a debt, and had given him my bond to pay him a dozen of the meanest men to be found, I would turn over to him twelve Northern sympathizers, and get a big premium from the old fellow."
Such is the voice of the Union exiles from the rebellious South; such is their testimony as to the necessity of removing the cause of the Rebellion and to the justice and propriety of the President's Proclamation; such are their earnest appeals for the vigorous prosecution of the war against Treason; such their earnest remonstrances against compromises and half-way measures.
<c05>
THE FORTRESS MONROE CONTRABANDS
Governor Andrew's letter to Major Bolles, declining the proposed transfer of contrabands front Fortress Monroe to Massachusetts, has been published. It is suspected that Major Bolles, who comparatively fresh from Massachusetts politics proposed to make a little democratic capital out of this affair; but the attempt has failed signally. Indeed, the Governor's letter is an excellent document for use in replying to the insane clamor as to the intended or expected removal of free blacks to the North. After urging that, if Fortress Monroe is threatened by the enemy, General Dix would find the blacks an important reserved force for its defence, Governor Andrew proceeds as follows:—
"Contemplating, however, the possibility of their removal, permit me to say that the Northern States are, of all places, the worst possible to select for an asylum. These poor people, afloat upon the world, are inhabitants of a Southern climate, and have habits, and are subject to needs and to peculiarities of physical constitution accordingly. Where, then, is the prudence or the humanity of subjecting them at once to the rigors of our northern sky, in the winter season, with the moral certainty of inflicting extreme suffering, resulting probably in disease and death? If their removal is definitely determined upon, I would take the liberty of suggesting for the asylum some Union foothold in the South—as Hilton Head—where they could retain their health, be trained as soldiers, and their labor be rendered; economically available. For them to come here for encampment or asylum would be to come as paupers and sufferers into a strange land, and a climate trying even to its habitues, as a swarm of homeless wanderers, migrating without purpose, and not to the wilderness where the strong arm would suffice for maintenance, but to a busy community where they would be incapable of self-help—a course certain to demoralize themselves and endanger others. Such an event would be a handle to all traitors and to all persons evilly disposed. We should be told that the experiment had been tried and had failed; that the negroes were proved worthless, and incapable of taking care of themselves, when the truth would be that we had pursued the plan most eminently calculated to disable and corrupt them. I meet with pleasure the motives of humanity which I have dictated your proposed plan; but from the very same feelings I must consider the plan mistaken. It is precisely because I do not wish the negroes to suffer; precisely because I would save their wives and children from perishing; precisely because I do not wish their new freedom to become license, corruption and infamy, that I respectfully decline to aid or countenance your plan or their transportation to the North.
Inasmuch as the letter of Major-General Dix is accompanied by a copy of a letter from the War Department granting permission to correspond concerning the plan proposed, I deem it incumbent upon me to state that I have, since receiving your letter, conferred with the Department upon this subject, and I am sure that there is not any difference of opinion between the Department and myself thereon; nor do I find there the existence of any such apprehensions regarding the safety of Gen. Dix's position as you seem to entertain.
I ought to add that, even were my views coincident with your own. I am, under the law, absolutely powerless in my official capacity to promote them."

THE REASONS WHY.
The loyal people of the United States have sacrificed enough men and treasure to have put an end to the rebellion months ago. Still, that ardently wished for result seems to lie further off now than at the beginning. The North, with greatly superior numbers and wealth, with vastly greater resources of art, mechanism and manufacture, is held in check—is baffled, confounded, and held up to the derision of the nations.
Why is it so?
An indignant and suffering people arc told it is because the military commanders are not properly reinforced, or because the troops are not properly I fed, clothed and equipped. Some ignorant and credulous persons have been deceived by this clamor, but no man of sense and information believes one word of it.
The Federal cause is not triumphant simply because the Generals who control the armies do not desire it should be!
Shortly after the rebellion commenced, Mr. Richardson, of Illinois, and other prominent locofocos in Congress, demanded that they and their friends should be appointed to high military positions. The President yielded. He argued that, as it was not usual or politic for an Administration to appoint its opponents to high civil trusts, it was fitting he should mark his appreciation of locofoco professions of loyalty by conferring abundant military honors on those who made them. Accordingly, of the three hundred and forty new Generals created, over three hundred are locofocos!
The armies of the Union hare not succeeded in extinguishing the rebellion, because the Generals by whom they have been led have not desired that result.
What would have been said by the patriots if the Continental Congress, in 1776, instead of giving the command of the armies to Washington, Wayne, Lincoln, and that class of men, had promoted the tories to the Generalships? The indignation of the patriots would have been both hot and sharp. They would have given up in despair of ever establishing the independence of the colonies.
President Lincoln has been guilty of this folly. In this vast emergency, when acts of Congress signify comparatively little, when executive proclamations are simply blank cartridges, when battles alone are decisive, the President has surrendered the command of the armies to men whose ideas are not his ideas, whose plans are not his plans, whose hopes are not his hopes, whose ends are not his ends. He has superadded to this folly, another of not much less magnitude. He has joined with these locofoco Generals in proscribing and banishing from independent commands, every General whose ideas, plans, hopes and aspirations are substantially his own. Under such circumstances, it is not singular that his repeated and positive orders for vigorous and decisive movements are unheeded. The only singularity is that the President, after making over the direction of the armies to the locofocos, should expect to have the rebellion crashed out.
What do these locofoco Generals mean?
Clearly, they do not intend that the North shall be overrun, any more than they design the South shall be vanquished. They mean to protract the straggle, to exhaust the resources and the patience of the loyal States, and so force a compromise. They are acting in concert with Northern locofoco politicians, whose sympathies are undisguisedly in favor of the rebels.
If the President bad been wise—if he bad kept the military power in his own grasp, by confiding
<c06>
the chief commands only to men whose views were coincident with his own—the war would have been ended months ago; thousands of lives and millions of treasure would have been saved, and the country to day would have entered upon a career of increased prosperity, usefulness and renown.
We do not mean to be understood as alleging that every locofoco General involved in the conspiracy which undoubtedly exists to deprive the national standard of conclusive triumphs. We gladly concede that some of them have risen above party prejudices, passions and aims and are most anxious to make short work with the rebels. But these men constitute a meager minority of the whole, and occupy positions in which their splendid patriotism is comparatively unavailing
The army of the West and the army of the Potomac have accomplished little this summer and fall, because it has been the programme of their commanders that little should be accomplished. The allegation that the Federal forces are outnumbered is a lie, or is only true of particular fields where the Generals in command design to give the rebels the advantage. The pretence of insufficient supplies is false, and would be inadmissible if true. Jackson contrives to net on tolerably well with a deficient commissariat. So could McClellan or Buell, if either had a mind to. Their hearts art not in the work. Their sympathies are all on the other side.
We had written thus far before receiving the news of McClellan's removal, or Halleck's report as to the cause thereof. That report, and the removal based on it, confirm many of the suggestions thrown out above. For months, many of our readers have thought our judgment of McClellan harsh. Few of them, we think, are of that opinion now. The verdict of history will show our judgment to be lenient.
General McClellan has been removed from the command of the army of the Potomac. His successor is General Burnside.
The removal of McClellan was caused by his refusal to obey orders, and march promptly against the enemy. An elaborate report from Gen. Halleck is published, showing that McClellan's excuse for disobedience, which was that his requisitions for supplies had not been filled, was totally false.
When McClellan was called from Western Virginia to Washington, we hailed his advent. But, months ago, we became satisfied either that his heart was not in the work, or that he was utterly incompetent for the position to which he had been elevated. A suitable commander, with the means of which he has had the disposal, would have literally crushed the rebellion before now. He has brought the nation to the very brink c f destruction.
 General Burnside has evinced both capacity and earnestness. Under his command, the army will not go into winter quarters. It is possible that be may save the republic.—Honesdale (Penn.) Democrat.
"THERE IS A GOD IN ISRAEL."
Gen. McClellan has been removed from the command of the Army of the Potomac, and has been ordered to report to his family at Trenton. Washington, in the old days of the Revolution that tried men's souls, amid the snow and ice of inclement winter, with a mere handful of worn-out soldiers, turned upon his powerful and exultant foe, and routed him in sore defeat at Trenton; McClellan, in these later and evil days of Rebellion, comes to the bosom of his family in the same Trenton, having frittered away one noble army in dilatory and fatal strategy, and having left behind the command of another, with which he has squandered a propitious autumn, in letting his tatterdemalion foe insultingly kick him and his noble army in front and rear, with Stuart raid, and then escape unpunished to his Southern strongholds. But as the world saw, in Washington, the victorious, at Trenton, the Revolution accomplished; so it sees, in McClellan, the superseded, at Trenton, the Rebellion crushed. In the former was recognized that military genius and that hearty and persistent purpose, which could not fail of success; in the latter is recognized that military imbecility and lack of heart in this greatest of struggles between Right and Wrong since the world began, which has brought only disaster, laid aside in disgrace—a ridiculous, expensive and useless idol of thoughtless or treasonable worship dashed in pieces—and in its place military skill, genius, and earnest devotion to the nation's cause, declared to be the essential requisites of him who would lead the patriotic and earnest soldiers of the Republic. In Washington, victorious at Trenton, the world saw the turning point of the Revolution; in McClellan. retired at Trenton, it sees the turning point of the War against Treason and Rebellion.
We are not surprised at the removal of McClellan. We have wondered that he was not removed long ago. He has had every advantage, every facility, every chance to prove himself a great commander, and to save the country, but he has not begun to do either. But President Lincoln has borne and forborne, till patience and forbearance ceased to be virtues. The blow has at last fallen —and not a moment too soon: possibly, in Heaven's mercy, it may not be too late. The truth should not be disguised, that McClellan's inefficiency, or something worse, has brought the nation to the very brink of rain. But let all loyal men trust in God, in our noble army under competent and honest commanders and in Abraham Lincoln, that our country shall yet be saved.
If any person who has observantly watched the course of events for the last eighteen months, is not otherwise convinced that the President has done right in removing McClellan, let him read the letter of Gen. Halleck respecting the recent career on the North Potomac of this "very unfortunate" commander. Gen. Halleck is no "fanatic." no "radical," but his testimony as to McClellan's causeless delays and his disobedience of orders, whereby Lee made good his retreat weeks ago, is as conclusive as it is damning. Consider, also, the testimony of Gen. Halleck as to the disastrous surrender of Harper's Ferry, in which he censures McClellan for his slow-paced march into Maryland after the invading rebels at the rate of six miles a day. and expresses the deliberate conviction that he could and should have rein forced that important post—in which conviction the Commission concurred.
McClellan may not be a traitor; but if he really is loyal, be w one of the most unfortunate of men in his warmest friends and supporters; for they embrace every secessionist and traitor north of Rebeldom, from Fernando Wood and Franklin Fierce down to the editor of the New Hampshire patriot. To be sure, he has had some advocates and friends among loyal men, but they have been comparatively few, and have been growing "beautifully less," every day, for a long time. That non-descript element in the North, which is sometimes for convenience, styled "conservative," and which has "constitutional" scruples about putting down the Rebellion, has also struck for McClellan. A good deal his been said about the attachment of the army to him, but much of it is "in your eye." Antietam and the fetal remissness of the subsequent 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
day, which permitted the rebel army to escape when it Might have been ground to powder and the Rebellion ended, opened the eyes of thousands in the army to the true character of their commander. Mark it, that, the soldiers of the army of the Potomac will not cry their eyes out, not rebel, because McClellan has been removed. His popularity was, in great measure, factitious, manufactured to order, by newspaper and other claquers —a spurious article.
So far at our observation extends, no event of the war has caused more real satisfaction, or inspired more genuine hope in the hearts of truly loyal men, than the supersedure of George B. McClellan, and the appointment of Ambrose E. Burnside, the whole-souled patriot and fighting General, in his stead. This is the truth, and it should not be minced. The vast majority of the truly loyal people of the North feel that a deadly incubus has been at last removed from the otherwise resistless energies of the best army the world ever saw. They feel that the war will now be prosecuted with vigor, energy, and unflagging persistence, till Rebellion shall be dead. They expect that henceforth the "programme" shall be "decisive" fighting—fighting to the bitter end. They have confidence in BURNSIDE, and rejoice in the faith that "there is a God in Israel."
 
GENERAL McCLELLAN.
There is no use in denying that the removal of Gen. McClellan from the post be has so long and so inefficiently filled, has caused a feeling of relief throughout the loyal States, while in many quarters it is received with undisguised joy. While the conviction that McClellan is "an auger that won't bare" had long been growing upon many of his friends, who failed for some reason to find it out in the disastrous campaigns of last year, the recent developments of his criminal tardiness must have opened the eyes of all such men, and have given them opinions coincident with the strongest opposers of the do-nothings. No man, unless he be wilfully ignorant, can at the present day stand up as a defender of George B. McClellan. The fact that the General-in-Chief has testified that McClellan has been repeatedly and inexcusably disobedient to orders should and does settle the question. Although this does not comprehend the whole of the black, list of delinquencies which the history that his friends the so much covet will lay to his charge, it is doubtless the immediate reason of his disgrace, as it is a full and sufficient one. Those who are so foolish as to attempt to make a martyr out of such material and under such circumstances, should know that the only thing now to be regretted is that the removal did not take place twelve months ago, before thousands of our men had been needlessly slaughtered and millions of treasure wasted. Every paper in the country which had the good of the nation intelligently at heart then demanded it, but the counsels of the pro-slavery democracy prevailed, and McClellan was retained—at what a dreadful cost we can now judge. The man who supposes he will ever again be given the command of the army of the Potomac is even more brainless than the deposed General himself.
A paper which assumes to be the leading Republican journal of Western Massachusetts thinks that "it should be enough to satisfy the most inveterate malice that he (McClellan) has been removed and degraded just at the moment when be had brought his re-organized and enthusiastic army almost face Co face with the enemy, with the expectation of winning the decisive victory of the campaign." Gracious heavens! How many more lives are to be sacrificed by imbecility and incompetency before this "decisive victory," which McClellan has been about to win ever since the unlucky day he was placed in command, shall be gained? Manassas, Yorktown, the peninsula battles, and Antietam, it was promised should all be "decisive" victories; and who does not know that for the little progress made during the past year in the suppression of the rebellion, no thanks are due George B. McClellan?
We have heard a great deal from certain quarters on the importance of supporting the Administration, and we would like to know if the above quoted paragraph tends very strongly that way. The McClellan question has been a question upon which men have taken very decided grounds, and upon which there has been much strong feeling. Now that the men, of all in the country best qualified to judge, have given an unmistakable opinion, every loyalist should acquiesce, and support the Administration in the removal of Gen. McClellan, as well as in every other measure calculated to bring the war speedily and honorably to a termination. But what shall we think of a paper which, alter repeated injunctions to others to "stand by the government." prints articles, the only influence of which (if they have any influence) must be to foster discontent with the well-considered decisions of the Administration? What shall we think of a paper which tells of McClellan's "enthusiastic army," when there is the best of testimony that since the battle of Antietam. his soldiers have lost confidence in him?—and which prate of the "moderate malice" of those who manifest joy that our army is at last rid of its greatest obstacle to success, while it evidently regrets it,—and all in the face of its own assertion, that "if Gen. Halleck's statement touching this matter of supplies is correct, [which it does not presume to question.] Gen. McClellan is undoubtedly convicted of incompetency for his command, or, unworthiness to hold it"!—Northampton Free Press.

"LITTLE MAC."
The country was startled on the first day of the week, though it was both the Sabbath and Sunday, with snow on the ground, and rain falling on the snow,—the country, we say, was startled, by the announcement that Gen. McClellan had been removed from the command of the Army of the Potomac, and sent to Trenton, a place at which Washington once had the audacity to defeat a force of British Hessians, although the time was mid-winter, and be had to lead his ill-clad and badly-shod men across a cold and ice-encumbered river to get at them. Men could not believe the news, notwithstanding the despatch was more than usually clear and specific, and went into details as to the great event. It seems that the Cabinet had had the matter under discussion for some days, and that the party for change carried its point, and the President transferred the command to Gen. Burnside, who stands so well in public estimation, and who has won as honorable fame by the use of a wise head and a strong hand. It did not appear possible, at first, that this could be true, but it was; and Gen. McClellan, like a patriotic citizen, transferred the command to his appointed successor, and went to Trenton. We think the President has done wisely and well, in making the change; for either Gen. McClellan could not or would not do much to advance the cause of peace, which cause can be advanced only through vigorous action on the part of our armies. Even those who were at first inclined to blame the President, had occasion to reconsider their opinion when they read Gen. Halleck's letter to Secretary Stanton, of October 28th, in which it if made clearly apparent that the complaints about want of supplies, and so forth, made by Gen. McClellan, were without foundation. It is known, too, that Gen. McClellan did not obey the orders he received from Gen. Halleck, his superior officer, thus making himself liable to the gravest charge that can be preferred against a soldier, and far being guilty of which greater soldiers than he have been severely punished. There is difference of opinion as to the reason why Gen. McClellan always failed cither to defeat the enemy or to follow op victory. Some think that he was "playing a game," and that he did not wish to inflict such a defeat on the Southrons as should place them at the mercy of the North, and that be believed mild treatment would bring the "wayward sisters" back into the Union, one of these days. This, we suspect, will be found a piece of refining to which the General is not equal. The better opinion is, that his best is bad indeed. He has been thought profound simply because be is shallow. As his conduct was not consistent with the object of his appointment, and his integrity conclusion that his purpose was so deep that it could not be fathomed by ordinary minds. All this was a delusion. The General's character is a common one, and the cause of his peculiar conduct is to be seen on the surface of things. He did badly because he could not do well. He is a common-place man, who was elevated by circumstances to a post for which he bad no qualification beyond that of preparing armies for the field. He was frightened by the gigantic shadow of his own reputation; and, knowing that he could not justify his countrymen's
<c02>
extraordinary expectations, he has ever been opposed to active operations. He would bare been a happier man bad be never been elevated above the rank of General of Division. His fellow-citizens are as much to blame for what has happened as he is, for they would have it that be was another Napoleon, and drowned all attempts at criticism on his character and conduct in roars of laughter or of indignation. Not to accept the new military gospel according to St. George, was to expose oneself to insult and to denunciation. The new leader was affectionately called "Little Mac," and he has turned out to resemble much the Mack of Ulm. That he meant well by his country, cannot be doubted; but as be has not a particle of that kind of ability which his country requires in the commander of her principal army, his goodness found expression only in intention. He failed within a very few weeks after he became, though unofficially, the chief military man at Washington. Had he been removed the day after the blundering Ball's Bluff business, either the war would now have been over, or it would have worn a very different face from that which it now presents to an unadmiring world. Yet, if government had then removed him, bow the country would have protested against its action! The country had its way, and it has the satisfaction of knowing that it purchased the luxury at the cost of the expenditure of an hundred thousand men, and of at least three hundred million dollars. "Little Mac" was to have a trial, and most sorely has be tried men's patience. It may be doubted whether it is good policy to expend so much blood and gold merely to ascertain whether a man is or is not a Young Napoleon,—and a very young one, too.—Boston Traveller.

GENERAL McCLELLAN REMOVED.
In the course of some remarks we bad occasion to make before a public assembly last week, we made the remark, that, after a thorough canvas of the opinions of military men, it was evident that McClellan was, to use an expressive phrase, "played out." But we did not imagine he would get to the end of his tether so soon. He was dismissed by the President from the command of the "Grand Army of the Potomac" on Saturday last. And it was high time. Never was so transparent a popular humbug so long idolized by any nation. Worshipped, cheered, adulated, provided with everything in the shape of men and munitions that the Government and its loyal subjects could supply, his whole military career has been one of procrastination, delays and mortifying failures. It is well known that a month ago he received peremptory orders from the President and Commander-in-Chief to put his immense army in motion, and put the forces of Lee to rout. But he did nothing of the sort. He was always in want of something: never ready. His grand "strategy," which consisted mainly of intrenching and retreating, or, at best, failing to reap any substantial fruit of a victory, has cost the nation hundreds of millions of treasure and a hundred thousand noble soldiers. And when the patience of the President was entirely exhausted, and the whole country was breathless in impatience for the long promised forward movement, he still persisted in shilly-shallying and playing virtually into the hands of the enemy by the discouragement and gloom fostered by his sluggishness in the hearts of the long suffering North.
It turns out that all his complaints of lack of clothing. &c., for his army were without foundation, and that no army has been so well clothed and fed as his own. He lets the rebels slumber upon their defeat, and get themselves off at their leisure. We cannot say that he has proved a traitor, but he has shown himself imbecile; and the devoted millions, of the North rejoice that the President has "put his foot down" against him, as well as slavery the cause and strength of the rebellion. Tin's augurs well. Under the gallant Burnside and Hooker we may look with reason for active and warm work.
Mr. Lincoln has now nothing to hope from conciliation. He has got his eyes open. He will not back down. To the traitor suggestions that he shall modify his glorious Proclamation, he turns a deaf ear. To all insinuations, he replies, "Gentlemen, it's no use—I shall not modify my Emancipation policy." Live the Republic! God bless Abraham Lincoln, and make straight paths for his feet!—Cape Cod Republican.

INCOMPETENCY OF GEN. McCLELLAN.
It is one of the extraordinary events of the times, that two Generals, to whose bands chiefly the campaign year was committed, were by nature and sympathy fitted to command under an administration where irresolute honesty took counsel of indolent hopefulness.
Gen. McClellan has secured for himself a place in history. But it will be by his accidental association with great events, rather than by any important influence which he has had in producing them. He is a man of large perceptive and moderate reflective intellect. He is without genius or even moderate intuition. He digs out his conclusions as laboriously as ore is dug from mines. He received a thorough military education. And whatever could be accomplished by studiousness and untiring industry, no man could better accomplish than he. But be sees nothing and knows nothing, till it is reduced to the level of his practical reason. Especially, he lacked sense and intuition of human forces. The wise use of physical matter makes an engineer. The wise use of men makes the general. McClellan is only an engineer.
But such a man was competent to great results, had right dispositions and sagacious political faith come to his help. But he was possessed by an imperative caution that worked sometimes toward irresolution and sometimes toward obstinacy, but never toward daring enterprise.
His anxiety to De fully prepared was morbid. He was never yet ready. There was always something yet to be done before he deemed it wise to venture. He heaped up preparations. He had never enough men; never enough arms, or clothing, or munitions. The whole East drained toward his camp. And when, more than any General that ever commanded on this continent, he had at his command every resource of the nation, he was still unready. At length, when patience was worn out, and the President, the Cabinet, and the whole country clamored for activity, be felt the possible dangers before him even more than all the pressure of Government and country behind him, and demanded more men and means; complaining that he was hampered and thwarted!
A log of wood lying upon the spring grass is mightier, by its dead pressure against the hidden roots, than all the laws of growth! And so a respectable engineer, but inert general, lay upon the army like a spell of death, or of motionless enchantment. The same fate that gave to the army a McClellan on the east of the Alleghanies, raised up a Buell on the west. It is difficult to say which excelled in practical torpidity, Buell or McClellan. Whichever figure one contemplates, it seems impossible that another should excel him in laborious uselessness. Both were insatiable in demands, and both wasted immense resources without any important advantage. If there is anything yet to be exhibited of military inefficiency, some new man must be imagined, created expressly for it; for every conceivable part of insatiable demand and miserly retention of forces and means has been exhausted by the great Oriental Vis Inertia and the Occidental Vis Inertia.—N. Y. Independent.
We have believed that Gen. McClellan was loyal, patriotic, and desirous of bringing the war to a speedy close: but the testimony of Generals Halleck and Meigs, and others, shows his loyalty to be of a questionable character. If he is a traitor, his crime is so black that Jeff. Davis's treason will appear whitewashed compared with it; if not, be is the costliest, crudest and most stupendous humbug that ever a free people supported in patience.
With General Burnside's history, everybody is familiar. Possessing energy, bravery and prudence, each in a high degree, we shall be disappointed if results do not speedily follow his succession to the command of the army of the Potomac. On to Richmond!—Girard (Pa.) Union.
OLD STRATEGY DECAPITATED AT LAST! McClellan has at last been removed from the command of the army of Virginia, and Gen. Burnside appointed his successor! Every man we meet says, "Amen and amen! So mote it be! Let the Lord's name be praised!' Never before did so small a man obstruct the advance of his own legions! Never again will there be such a stumbling-block in the way of Republican Nationality!—Iowa State Register.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1862.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The subscribers to The Pine and Palm are hereby notified that arrangements have been made, by which The Liberator will be supplied to them until the close of their several subscriptions. As soon as the number of copies now due by me are furnished, The Liberator will be no longer sent, unless my friends promptly renew their orders for it, accompanied by the cash. It is not probable that The Pine and Palm will be revived this year.
Boston, Oct. 27, 1862. JAMES REDPATH.

GENERAL McCLELLAN.
From the tone of the newspaper press universally— with here and there an exception, like that of the Boston Courier and Bennett's Herald—and also from the congratulatory shouts which are heard in every direction, it is evident that, by the removal of Gen. McClellan, and the substitution of Gen. Burnside in his place, the President has lifted an incubus from the Northern heart, and given inspiration and courage where all before was uncertainty and dark foreboding. 
It is a measure which should have been adopted immediately upon the disgraceful and disastrous retreat from the Chickahominy; for more than sufficient time bad then been given for the exhibition of military capacity and strategic subtlety on the part of Gen. McClellan, if he really possessed them. But the President is proverbially slow, cautious, and over-magnanimous in his treatment of political opponents; and he therefore held off till endurance was no longer compatible with the safety of the government, or the suppression of the rebellion. Now that the change has been effected, there are manifestations of joy and hope in every quarter; and the army of the Potomac will shortly demonstrate its vast importance by the investment of Richmond.
Never was such forbearance shown before, in a great crisis, where the power of removal was so absolute, and the necessity for its prompt exercise so apparent. It is in vain, therefore, that the partisan and besotted idolaters of McClellan cry out against his removal as a hasty or prescriptive act; in vain that they impudently ascribe it to abolition influences. So far as the abolitionists are concerned, they were as ready to accept the appointment of Gen. McClellan to fill the place of Gen. Scott as his most ardent admirers; for they have had no party axe to grind at any time, and by their unselfish and independent position are able to see with a clear vision, and to judge impartially, with reference to men and things. From the beginning of the rebellion, they hare denounced and opposed it in the most strenuous manner, and given their verdict in favor of the government as guiltless of any injustice to the South. They were disposed, with the people of the North collectively, to give the new General a full and fair trial, even beyond all reasonable limits. Hence, they allowed month after month to pass away, with no perceptible progress or evidence of a wish to advance, without making any adverse criticism. They were slow and most reluctant to consider him either as incompetent, or as playing a game for political effect. This was especially true of the Republican party: it gave him its confidence to the verge of infatuation. But there is a point beyond which forbearance is folly, and magnanimity ruin; when even the most deluded, if honest in purpose, must see the absolute necessity for change. President Lincoln, in this act, has consulted neither his party nor the abolitionists, but solely the solemn duty he owes to the country, above and beyond all party or personal considerations. The people and the army will sustain him triumphantly; and the machinations of his enemies to force him to recall the dismissed "strategist" will only recoil upon themselves.

VALUABLE HISTORICAL RESEARCH.
One of the most timely, interesting and valuable publications of the day is a volume entitled, "An Historical Research respecting the Opinions of the Founders of the Republic on Negroes as Slaves, as Citizens, and as Soldiers; read before the Massachusetts Historical Society, Aug. 14, 1862, by George Livermore." We wish it could find a place in every household at the North, as the general perusal of it would do much towards extirpating that vulgar, cruel and unchristian prejudice which so universally prevails against the colored race. Wherever they have been tried, like other men, having the same hope of reward and the same chance for liberty, they have invariably proved themselves to be inferior to none. It is remarkable that they have never been found wanting in patriotism, notwithstanding their oppressed condition; but, from the Revolution of 1776 to the present time, on every battle-field and in every naval ship, they have freely shed their blood, and laid down their lives, in defence of the country. Alas! how shameful has been their reward!
At a stated meeting of the Massachusetts Historical Society in August last. Mr. Waterston, Secretary pro tempore of the July meeting of the Society, said he had made known the proceedings of that meeting to the venerable senior member of the Society, the Hon. Josiah Quincy, who, though unable at present to attend the meetings, retains a deep interest in all the Society's transactions. He had just received from him a letter, which he begged leave to present to the Society:—
"QUINCY, Aug. 9, 1862.
REV. R.C. WATERSTON:
DEAR SIR,—Your letter of this date communicates to me the purpose of Mr. Livermore to collect and publish documents on the subject of Slavery and Negro Soldiers, originating from the great men who-were guides of public affairs at the time of the American Revolution. I should regard such a publication as useful and desirable, and I heartily wish Mr. Liver-more success; and I shall be happy, according to my means, in aiding him in his purpose.
In respect to the general subject of shivery, I apprehend he will find very little favorable to the institution among the relics of the great men of that period.
Disgust at it was so general, as to be little less than universal. Among slaveholders, the language and hope of putting an end to the evil as soon as possible was on all their tongues; but, alas! it was far from being in all their hearts. Some of the leaders saw the advantages derived from it by the unity and identity of action and motive to which it tended, and its effect in making five States move in phalanx over the Free States. They clung to the institution for the sake of power over the other States of the Union; and, while they were open in decrying it, they were assiduous in promoting its interests and extending its influence. 
By constantly declaring a detestation of slavery, they threw dust into the eyes of the people of the Free States; while they never ceased to seize every opportunity to embarrass the measures which would advance the interests of the Free States, and at the same time to strengthen and extend the interests of the Slave States. We can trace their policy in history. We now realize the result.
With all their pretensions, the leading slaveholders never lost sight, for one moment, of perpetuating its existence and its power.
Truly and respectfully yours,
JOSIAH QUINCY."
Mr. Washburn spoke with interest of the letter which had just been read, remarkable as coming from a gentleman of such experience, and at so advanced a period of life. He then gave several historical frets which had come to his knowledge when writing his "History of Leicester," corroborating the statement of Mr. Livermore respecting the common practice of using negroes as soldiers during the war of the American Revolution.
The vote thanking Mr. Livermore for his paper, and committing the manuscript to him, to be printed in the manner moat agreeable to him, vu unanimously adopted.
We do not know whether this instructive volume can be bad at any of the bookstores, but trust there will be extensive inquiries for it.
<c04>
FRATERNITY LECTURE.
The seventh lecture of the Fraternity course was delivered by Ralph Waldo Emerson, who gave an admirable discourse on "Perpetual Forces."
This world, he said, is merely a faggot of forces. The lower specimens of it are light, heat, gravity, electricity, affinity, repulsion. On a higher plane, we find thought, will, temperament, sensibility, and time and eternity are the sphere in which these play their parts.
After discoursing at length of man's lower servants, the air, the stream, lightning, clouds and frost, gravitation and contraction, and the immense amount and variety of work that man can obtain from these, if he is careful to fulfil their natural and indispensable conditions, Mr. Emerson said that there were moral truths corresponding to all the natural laws; a moral force answering to every physical one; and man might obtain immense service and advantage from these also, but on the same inexorable condition, that he used each faithfully, in its appropriate manner. Obedience is the indispensable prerequisite of command. If we would gain the natural advantage from the use of power, whether physical, mental or spiritual, we must use it according to its kind, conform ourselves to its character, and work in the line of its natural direction. The world is delivered into man's hand on certain conditions. He may reign over it if he will use its various forces for noble ends, not for mere self-indulgence.
Thus far, this lecture was like one of the old Emerson an discourses, in which great and noble truths were declared or suggested, with nothing of what preachers call the "application." Each man was left to find for himself how these truths concerned the practical business of life. In this case, however, the speaker seemed irresistibly impelled to apply the ideas just announced to the war in which we are now engaged.
He said that this struggle, so fearful in some of its aspects, was answering one most useful purpose, to dispel some of our delusions, to abolish shams and false pretences, to show the dangers in which we stand, and the means needful to avert them. The enemy's cannon-balls come crashing through walls that have stood for years with the aspect of solidity. They show us the false relations in which we have been unsuspiciously abiding. The war has not created these false relations, they have created it. This contest simply shows what has always been rotten in our much vaunted political structure. War, like the cholera, goes where a predisposition for it already exists, and only there. All our political calamities have grown as logically out of our attempts in the past to do without justice, as the sinking of some part of our house comes from a defect in the foundation. The lesson that we are to learn from these events is, that personal virtue is essential to freedom. And the virtue' will grow more vigorously, the more clearly its relation to freedom is recognized. We must not let our conception of the part New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio are to play in the future of our Union be shaped entirely by the election of rogues in some counties of those States. There is a natural limit to profligate politics. These poor devils, having got as low in morals as the law of nature will suffer, must goon pause, meeting furies they cannot face. The fiercest rat in the ship's hold will not gnaw through quite to the water.
Let the war rage on while its proper material lasts. Like fire, when it finds no more stubble to burn, when it has consumed all timidity and concession, when it finds nothing but strength, then it will end.
The causes of this breach in our national unity teach us an important lesson respecting the reconstruction that is to come. Every particle of the old error, the old disease, must be removed. Let every vestige, and filament, and rudiment of slavery be done away. Let us not incorporate with the documents that define our new political system anything so base that we are ashamed to have its name appear. Let the coming American State be truly consecrated to Freedom for All, rights for All, equal laws for All. And let none of us shrink from the open expression of this desire and purpose. So much have we become corrupted by contact with slavery, that, in the parlor and the street, our complaints against it have been timidly whispered rather than spoken. And when one spoke out plainly of the certain and fearful disasters that must follow from this radical defect in our system, it was as if he had spoken of joining a church, men looked puzzled, and doubtful whether he were in earnest.
The latter part of Mr. Emerson's lecture was energetically applauded. At its close, Hon. Charles Sumner, who was on the platform, spoke a few words in answer to the urgent call of the audience, adding his testimony to the idea of the lecture, that our true road to freedom lies through impartial justice.
The next lecture will be given on Tuesday next, by Owen Lovejoy, of Illinois, the patriotic advocate of free institutions who has just been reflected to the U. S. House of Representatives.—c. K. W.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION. By M. Augustin Cochin. Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin's Works on America.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, "among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocqueville's work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo's Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions."
The volume will be passed rapidly through the press, and appear within a few weeks. WALKER, WISE & Co. are to be the publishers.
CONGRESSIONAL REPORTS. We are indebted to Hon. Henry Wilson for a large volume, entitled " Report of the Art of War in Europe in 1854, 1855, and 1856, by Major Richard Delafield, Corps of Engineers, from his Notes and Observations, made as a Member of a 'Military Commission to the Theatre of War in Europe,' under the orders of the Hon. Jefferson Davis," then Secretary of War, now President of the rebellious Southern Confederacy. It contains numerous illustrative diagrams, and valuable maps and drawings, executed in a very creditable manner.
Also, for a Report of the Commissioner of Patents, on Agriculture, for, the year 1861. It is crowded with interesting details.

LEWIS'S NORMAL INSTITUTE. We take special pleasure in calling the attention of our readers to the advertisement of Dr. Lewis, respecting his Normal Institute for Physical Education, in another column. He is one who thoroughly understands and admirably exemplifies the system to which he so assiduously devotes himself, and his name is rightfully to be placed on the list of public benefactors.
THE KANSAN NEGRO REGIMENT. The Leavenworth Conservative contains a long and interesting letter from Richard J. Hinton, Adjutant of the 1st Regiment of Kansas Colored Volunteers, concerning the formation and military bravery of that Regiment—a considerable portion of which we insert in another column. It appears that though the colored soldiers were duly enrolled under the terms offered by the acts of Congress—810 per month, and one ration per day— upon the authority of Gen. Lane, and though they have shed their blood in defence of the government, they have not been accepted by Gen. Curtis, nor in any way paid for their services. Shame!
<c05>
THE KANSAS NEGRO REGIMENT.
LEAVEN WORTH, (KANSAS) NOV. 7,1862.
On the 7th of October, we received orders to march to Fort Lincoln, preparatory to being mastered. We marched (the Northern recruits) over four hundred strong. We had recruited about six hundred men; the balance having become discouraged had deserted, encouraged and abetted thereto by the quasi friends as well as enemies of the movement. We reached Fort Lincoln. On our march we met the orders of Gen. Lane, stationing us on the border. We again objected, though not strenuous, till we were mustered. Gen. Lane reached our camp, near Fort Lincoln, made arrangements for the consolidation of the two battalions, with a field organization as follows: J M. Williams, Colonel; H. C Seaman, Lieut. Colonel; John Bowles, Major; and R. J. Hinton as Adjutant Lieut. Thompson being in Missouri with Gen. Blunt, Lieut. White, formerly of Lane's Staff, was detailed to muster us, and then we were ordered to march to the front by way of Baxter's Springs, there to report to Gen. Blunt. At this time, the change in the Department was made, and we were merged into that of Missouri,
under Gen. Curtis. Lieut Thompson returned from Missouri, which, of course, obviated the necessity of White's acting. Col. Chipman, Chief of Major General Curtis's Staff, reached here on a tour of inspection. He came to our Camp, and was present at a dress parade. He was there introduced to the officers, and in conversation spoke of his gratification at the appearance of the men, said we had demonstrated that negroes could be disciplined and drilled as soldiers, and advised us to go on, though he could not say anything as to our being mustered. We have gone on. We have drilled and worked until we have six hundred of the best disciplined and drilled soldiers that, excepting the Wisconsin 9th, have ever been seen in this region. All of these things have been public, have not been done under a bushel, and yet we have not been recognized, except in the semi-authoritative, negative manner, which I have recorded.
We have done more than prove that negroes will drill, we have proven that they will fight. On the 26th ult, acting under orders from Major Henning, commanding at Fort Scott, seventy men from the Southern, and one hundred and sixty from the Northern battalion, under Captain Seaman, went into Bates county, Missouri, to attack and rout a body of bushwhackers under Bill Turman. On the 27th we found them in force—four gangs of rebels under Cockerell, Hancock, Turman, and Campbell, were rendezvousing on the Island, in the Osage. They numbered over six hundred well mounted and armed men. We skirmished on Tuesday with them, having sent for reinforcements. We sent to West Point, where it was supposed three hundred of Col. Nugent's command lay; to Col. Adams, at Paola; to the organized militia in Linn county, Kansas; to the camp at Fort Lincoln; and to Major Henning, at Fort Scott. The latter sent the Colonel of the 2d Ohio cavalry, with one hundred mounted, and one hundred dismounted men, and two guns, to our assistance—also, sending ammunition. We had fought the battle of Island Mounds before they arrived.
On the 29th, we skirmished in the forenoon. In the afternoon, the venturing out of a detachment beyond the distance ordered brought on a severe, though short, general engagement. At least one hundred and twenty of the rebel cavalry made a charge upon this detachment of twenty-four men. Before we could bring up reinforcements, these fearfully disproportion-ed parties were engaged in a desperate hand to hand encounter. I was on the field, doing with the other officers the best we could to bring up reinforcements. There was no flinching, no hesitation, no puling hearts or trembling limbs, among the men, but fierce determination flashing in their eyes, and exhibiting an eager, passionate haste to aid their comrades and vindicate the manhood of their race. The air was rent with their yells, as they rushed on, and the difficulty manifested was in holding them well in, rather than in faltering. Among the detachment cut off, of whom only six escaped unhurt, nothing I have ever seen, read or heard, in the annals of war, surpasses the desperate Personal valor exhibited by each and every man. Bayonets came in bloody, as did the stocks of guns, and the last charge was found gone from cartridge boxes.
I witnessed the scene, and know whereof I write. It was with slowness and reluctance the men retired from the field they had won and held, in obedience to the orders of Captain Seaman, commanding, who had witnessed the movements of reinforcements from the timber along the ravines to the east of us, and was fearful of a larger force getting between us and our barricaded camp.
Our nine days' campaign proved that negroes are splendid soldiers, will march further, fight as well, and live on as hard fare without grumbling, as any soldiers now in the service of the government. The rebels at least seem to have thought so, for outnumbering us three to one, and being mounted, they left hastily the night after the fight at Island Mounds, themselves reporting seven killed in the morning skirmish, and eighteen in the afternoon engagement.
Finding the Missouri State Militia coming back after the fight, and knowing that they do not like us very well, we returned to camp, and thence have moved to Barnesville, Bourbon county, where we are close to the border, and can easily pay our respects to any of the rebels who may think the negroes won't fight.
This is what we have done. We have demonstrated that the negro is anxious to serve his country, himself and race; that he can be drilled and made effective
as a soldier; and that he will fight as well as any other set of men, all things being equal as to equipments, etc. Again I repeat, these things have not been done in darkness, but with the knowledge of the military authorities of the government, and in the broad light of day. Yet we are not mustered. Four months have nearly passed. The men have done their duty faithfully. Find me the six hundred white men, who, with such patient patriotism and perseverance, would have adhered to their organization through all the discouragements and disadvantages we have had to encounter. I have yet to see them.
It may be asked why the officers have continued to hold them together when the chances of recognition were so slim? I reply it is because we held it to be our duty to exhaust not only the probabilities, but the possibilities of the enterprise. We all believe that the Union needs the services of the negro; that Freedom and Progress to him ought to come through the nation; that the South has and will continue to employ them in a military capacity, and that, before the war is over, both sides will be bidding high for the service of every colored man able to bear arms. We had our duty to perform; we have done it. Our men have done theirs, nobly, fully, manfully, and none can point the finger of scorn at the negroes in Kansas, and say that they are cowards. The heroic blood of their dead on the hard fought field of October 29th will be their best answer to such falsehood.
Now, we demand of the military authorities that we be either accepted or disbanded. They cannot say that a1l this has been done without knowledge, for it Will not be true. We have worn the Federal uniform carried its flag, have used its arms in defence of that flag and have been subsisted by and obeyed the order, of its officers.
We are eager to march south. Will not Gen. Curtis. give us a chance? Pay be men their back pay since they enrolled so that they may provide for their families during the winter. Give us what extra arms may be spared, and let us march through the Indian Territory South, and by Christmas we will show the nation a respectable army going down the Red River valley. At any rate, we demand justice for our men. If the Union Does not want brave and efficient soldiers, pay them, and let them go home. If it does, then muster and pay them, and let them go on. We appeal to Gen. Curtis. Yours,
RICHARD J. HINTON,
Adjutant 1st Reg't Kansas colored volunteers
<c06>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
Prayer of a Fugitive Slave—Prayer of a Minister—Liberty before Government—Death before Slavery.
WYALUSING, (Pa.) Nov. 13, 1862.
WM. L. GARRISON:
DEAR FRIEND—The following is the prayer of a slave, escaped from Virginia leaving a wife and two children in the clutches of a rebel. He knew all about the Proclamation. He comprehended the bearing of the destiny of his wife and children, and that if it was crushed before New-Year's, they would not be fine. He had been tome time employed about a railroad station, and had many phrase, familiar to management of railroads. He was praying for his wife and children. In the fulness of his heart, be cried out with great energy in his own dialect, which I wish I could give—it would give more meaning to it, but I cannot, be must put it in simple English. He said—"Oh God Almighty! keep the engine of rebellion going of New Year's! Good Lord! pray don't let off the steam; Lord, don't reverse the engine, don't back the Lord! Don' put on the brakes! But, pray! Good Lord! put on more steam; make it go a mile a minute! Yes, Lord! pray make it go sixty miles an hour! ('Amen!" "Do, good Lord, don't let the express train of rebellion smash up till first of January! Don't let the rebels back down; but harden their hearts have as Pharaoh's, and keep all hands going till the train reaches the Depot of Emancipation!"
That was a natural prayer—straight from a loving, longing heart—inspired by a live which is of God—by conjugal and paternal love. Is there a man, in all have the North, who, under like circumstances, would not have uttered the same in sentiment'? Not one even Horatio Seymour, Fernando Wood and George Lord pray that the good engine of rebellion might be keys going till New Year's—if their wives and daughters were the chattels of some rebel.
But the bereaved fugitive's prayer was more pertinent than that of a Baptist minister, who, in his real for emancipation, wanted to use the best-sounding words in his prayer. He wanted to Spread himself and said—" Oh, thou great, most incomprehensive almighty, and most INSIGNIFICANT Lord God!!"
A spread-eagle prayer was that. The direct, simple, heart-felt prayer of the poor loving fugitive slave was much more efficacious with that God who sees the heart. The sentiment underlying the prayer of the husband and father was—"Liberty before government!" "Death before slavery!" The Federal Government is not worth a straw, except as it is the friend of liberty and the enemy of slavery except as it is adapted to improve the nature and ennoble the character and destiny of man. I feel no interest in its existence and perpetuity, except as the means of abolishing slavery and establishing and liberty. So far as the government, in theory and practice, is an Abolitionist, so far do I pray and labor for its continuance; but so far as it lends its aid to en-slave a single human being, for any cause, so far shall I work for its overthrow. Liberty before government! Better to destroy the government than to demoralize man to save it.
The removal of McClellan and Buell creates intense
 excitement, inspiring many, a majority, with satisfaction, and others with deadly wrath. It is the aim of the Democratic leaders to urge Republicans to enlist, and perish in the camp or in battle, to such an extent that the next Presidential election shall restore the Democracy to power without the aid of the South; and it is probably true that to this end McClellan, Buell, and other Democratic Generals have refused to prosecute the war with energy. The Democrats have staid at home, and watched their opportunity, while Republicans hare gone forth to sustain freedom, and have been slaughtered by the designed carelessness and inactivity of the Democratic Leaders. It is well understood that McClellan Buell have acted by the advice of Seymour, Wood, Hughes, and others of that school. Burnside must do better, or be swept away too.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT

LETTER FROM J. H. FOWLER.
BEAUFORT, (S.C.,) Nov. 1st, 1862.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,—General Saxton has been ordered by the President to raise 5,000 volunteers (colored) and muster them into the army. The First Regiment numbers over500 now, and will be fill in twenty days if they go on as now. Brave men are in it, and noble deeds have already been done! One company has distinguished itself by glorious action—putting to flight a company of cavalry, defeating infantry, destroying salt works, taking prisoners, and liberating their brethren. We has 2 slightly wounded the enemy 25 killed and wounded. A detailed account will be sent to the Tribune by Mr. French.
The field is vast, the opportunities many, and the colored people are waking up to the work. But the opposition is fierce, and determined to crush the whole movement in this department. Gen. Brannan. Now acting chief here, has been proposed as Major General of the department. Nothing is too mean for him to do against us, and he will take every means to discourage and oppose anything in favor of the <illegible>
I understand that every regimental officer in the department has signed a petition for his promotions to the office of Major-General. Should he get this, our cause—in the opinion of Gen. Saxton and many others—is lost here. Give us Fremont, Sigel Saxton, or Gen. Hunter back again, and we shall triumph. Do not suppose that every colonel or other officer here is opposed to us, because he favored Brannan's promotion. Many signed that petition just as they vote for a President whom they think they would like to have know it when elected, though they despise the man. I hope if any man at the North can exert any influence in favor of the right man here, he will do so; for we are in a most critical state. The soldiers take their course from their course from their leader, and such a man as I have named would revolutionize the department, while the man whose prospect is now best would bring them all down upon us. To show you the spirit, take these facts:—Last week, some soldiers of the New Hampshire 4th set a dog upon two negro children, and stood around, enjoying the sport hugely Last Friday night, I had a meeting for recruits of Hilton Head. Some thirty soldiers undertook a mob against us, knocked down a woman with a pitcher, bruising here badly, struck the people with clubs and rails; and, had I not exerted all my powers to restrain the colored people, a bloody fight would have occurred. One colored soldier was knocked down in the day time by a white soldier; threats to hang myself, with every insult and mean use of the names, "John Brown," "nigger-worshipper," "Christ," "God," were everywhere made against me. Men in government employ as soldiers and directors of work cursed the negro whom he drove as unfit for freedom, as entitled to it—declaring he ought to be in slavery now! "I would rather fail without the negro, this succeed with him"—"Enlisting him weakens our strength here"—"The whole department will by down their arms, if you raise these regiments"—"I hope Jeff Davis has taken Washington, and hang Old Abe, with all his Cabinet." Such and many other like expressions were used.
What I want you to see is the necessity of every friend to our cause, who has any influence, using it to keep out Brannan, and get in the right man. If that is done, you will see a, glorious record of events here within the next six months. I speak not my own opinion alone in this, but that of all the true friends here.
Yellow fever is nearly extinct: only one or two cases.
Most respectfully, J.H. FOWLER,
Chaplain 1st Reg. S.C. Volunteers.
We had supposed it was settled that Gen. Hunter is to be placed again in command at Port Roy. al, as the successor of Gen. Mitchel.]—Ed. Lib.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
TROUBLES WITH THE INDIANS.
DORCHESTER, Nov. 16, 1862. The despotism of the white man over the black, in this country, has been absolute. To make and to keep it so, he has habitually and without scruple disregarded and trampled upon the acknowledged rights of the red man. 
In 1607, a company of adventurers landed at Jamestown, and commenced a settlement there. They were Englishmen. Very soon, they encountered the primitive occupants of the soil. Disturbed in their accustomed haunts, the red men of the country were seized with painful apprehensions, lest they should be driven from their favorite fishing and hunting grounds, and eventually dispossessed of their ancient, honored, and thus far, undisputed domain.
Their fears have been more than realized. They have been displaced. Not, however, without a determined, brave, enduring resistance, as long as resistance was possible. Slowly and sadly they have given way before the encroaching and resistless tide of the white man's power.
Torn, oh, how reluctantly, from their dear native soil, from the everlasting hills, and "forests primeval." Where, for them, the Great Spirit dwelt; from their cherished homes, and the graves of their fathers; they have been transported to distant, and it may be uncongenial climes, there to drag out a life more intolerable than death itself. They exist, it is true, but in the sure prospect of the inevitable extinction of their race. Awaiting in sullen silence their inexorable fate, they approach their graves, as the sad victims of a soul-wasting despair.
Apparently, with "no rights which the white man is bound to respect," every where, as the stranger-race sweeps onward, the lingering remnants of their <illegible> tribes dwindle, and soon disappear. Thus have been displaced these simple sons of the forests; trodden out, or driven out, before their oppressors. From the Atlantic to the far Mississippi, scarce a trace remains of these once powerful people. This vast and beautiful country, once theirs, is now in the hands of strangers. True, in the far west, midway between ocean and ocean, no inconsiderable tract is said to be held in reserve for them; secured, too, by treaty, sealed by the pledged faith of the nation! What then? The white man is already upon them.
As the caged lion chafes against the bars that confine him, so these primitive men, proud, sullen, resentful; brooding for aye on past wrongs, with gloomy forebodings of the future, become impatient and restive. Undying hate and study of revenge, offspring of cherished resentments, waiting only the favoring moment, break forth into action; and along the frontier, far and wide, in their train follow destruction and ruin.
With the red man, or the black man, oppression breeds resistance. It is another name for war. Thus has it ever been, here and everywhere; and what has been, will be. When, therefore, oppression shall cease; when right shall over might prevail; when retributive justice shall have humbled the pride of the white man; when the spirit of wisdom, truth, justice, and mercy, shall take hold on the people; shall sway the counsels, and wield the power of the nation; then, and not till then, may we hope for a permanent peace. 
 H. W. C.

 THE NEW YORK ELECTION.
 Extract of a letter from AARON M. POWELL, dated GHEST, N.Y., Nov. 10, 1862:—
 "The result of the election in this State you are duly advised of. Horatio Seymour, an undoubted agent of the ‘Confederate States,' is the Governor elect. It is a humiliating, painful fact to chronicle. Still, with popular opinion as evenly balanced, I apprehend that Republicans will be a more vigorous working force out of office than in. Had they been hitherto duly faithful in instructing the people of the North as to the real nature and character of the issues of the pending contest, there would have been no such record as New York and other Northern States present. Defeat comes because it had been strongly invited and was deserved. But I am confident we have a better state of public opinion here to-day, and are in a better condition as a people, with the canvass, and defeat the case with the success of a Gen. Dix.
 At any rate, these autumn elections demonstrate most clearly that decisive battles of this revolution are really to be fought on Northern soil,-with peaceful weapons they still may be fought; if not thus, then with bloody weapons they ultimately assuredly will be. Most pertinent then, and highly important, are and will continue to be, in the immediate future, our labors of educating aright public opinion by every available instrumentality, and to the fullest possible extent."

 FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY.
 The programme of this Society's operations opened with a concert by the Hutchinsons, at the Meionaon, on the 20th ult., the pecuniary result of which, though not large in consequence of the weather and other unpropitious causes, was, nevertheless, a generous and characteristic offering.
 The first lecture was delivered on Monday evening, 17th inst., at the Joy Street Church, by Rev. E. N. Kirk. It was a very interesting, instructive and eloquent vindication of the brotherhood of man, with special reference to the times in which we live.
 At its conclusion, Rev. R.C. Waterston bore testimony to the excellence of the discourse, and in offset to this regret that the house was not crowded, tendered a handsome sum for appropriation of tickets. The example was followed, and the sum augmented to fifty dollars by other benevolent persons in the audience.
 We learn that Mr.Kirk will repeat his lecture at an early day, which, with the other distinguished names on the list, promises a very gratifying reward for the Committee's labors, and a well filled purse, we trust, for the suffering national freedmen. W. C. N.
 Boston, Nov. 18, 1862.
 THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for December, contains the following table of contents:-
1. The Union. Hon. Robert J. Walker. 2. Something we have to think of, and to do. C.S. Henry, LL.D. 3. Cambridge and its Colleges. 4. A Physician's Story. 5. La Vie Poetique. 6. The Ash Tree. Charles G. Leland. 7. An Englishman in South Carolina. 8. The Causes of the Rebellion. Hon. F. P. Stanton. 9. On Guard. John G. Nicolay, Private Secretary to President Lincoln. 10. Railway Photographs. Isabella McFarlane. 11. The Obstacles to Peace. A Letter to an Englishman. Hon. Horace Greeley. 12. Thank God for All. Charles G. Leland. 13. A Merchant's Story. Edmund Kirk. 14. The Freed Men Of the South. Hon. F. P. Stanton. 15. Was He Successful? Richard B. Kimball. 16. Gold. Hon. Robert J. Walker. 17. Liberty Notices. 18. Editor's Table.
This magazine is the raciest and most outspoken if all the monthlies, exhibits talent and enterprise, and we presume is securing a wide circulation. 
A. Williams & Co., Washington street.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, for October, 1862, contains the following papers:-1. Essays and Reviews: Dr. Lushington's Judgement. 2. The British Sea Fisheries. 3. Railways: their Cost and Profits 4. Gibraltar. 5. The Encyclopaedia Britannica. 6. Idees Napoleoniennes: the Second Empire. 7. The Religious Difficulties of India. 8. The Slave Power. 9. Contemporary Literature. The article On the Slave Power is a highly commendatory notice of the admirable work of Prof. J. E. Cairnes on the same subject, and evinces a most lively interest in the triumph of the American Government over the Rebellion. The reviewer is the accomplished John Stuart Mill, who has shown himself a true friend of our country and its free institutions.
 Crosby & Nichols, 117 Washington street.


<c02>
Mr. WELD'S LECTURES, We learn from persons who were present, that Mr. Weld was greeted at Lynn with a matt crowded and attentive audience, filling completely the largest church in that city—the first Methodist. He was heard with moat rapt attention for an hour and a half.
Next Sunday be occupies again the desk at Music Hall; and on the Sunday after, it is expected he will be at Fitchburg. On the Sunday following, (the 7th of December,) he win attend the annual meeting of the Country Society at Worcester, of which official notice will be given next week.
THEODORE D. WELD. After the lapse of more than a quarter of a century, this eloquent advocate of Freedom and Progress ascends the public platform, and once more consecrates his masterly powers and lofty sympathies to the advancement of eternal truth. We heard him break the long years of silence at Liberty Hall, in Orange, N. J., last week, just after the defeat of Wadsworth, and while Democrats were glorifying over their late victories. He opened upon the "Conspirators" with the most searching analysts, and exposed their treachery with the strongest and grandest arguments. His noble powers of intellect were exhibited in tracing principles back to their fountains. Never before did the basis of the "Union" appear more solid; never did rebellion seem more hollow and wicked. His constitutional argument was especially adapted to minds well versed in legal and political questions. The greater the scholar in these practical relations of the world, the greater would appear this first discourse of the glorious Theodore. After a few lectures, he will open his heart to new inspirations, and his audiences wilt then listen in rapt delight, while they follow him gladly into the green fields of thought and reform.
We congratulate the world on the reappearance of this great, good, far-seeing, deep-hearted apostle of human progress. Let the friends of humanity everywhere welcome and sustain Theodore D. Weld.— Herald of Progress.
 Theodore D. Weld, one of the earliest and ablest advocates of the Anti-Slavery movement, is now lecturing on " The Conspiracy," with a view to show the false pretences of the Confederate States in their alleged right of secession and of unrestricted State sovereignty. This lecture is rich in thought, cogent in logic, and vigorous in style; a characteristic production of one of the most vigorous minds in the nation.—S. Y. Independent.
We hear from Brattleboro', that our friend and fellow-laborer Andrew T. Foss, lectured in that place on Tuesday evening of last week to a large and good audience. Brig. Gen. Phelps was present. We hope to have a report of the meeting from Mr. Foss himself. Meantime, we give the following remarks of the- Brattleboro' Phoenix:—
"The Lecture in the Town Hall, on Tuesday evening last, by Mr. Foss, of Manchester, N. H., was an able and interesting one. The subject was the condition of our National affairs, and was treated in a clear, logical and satisfactory manner. We have not time or space to give a synopsis even of the lecture, and we could hardly do justice to it without giving a verbatim report. Those who were so fortunate as to listen to it must, we think, have considered their time profitably employed. At the close of the lecture, Gen. Phelps made a few appropriate remarks, suggesting various methods of closing the war in addition to the operations of the army, which were listened to with great interest."
Mr. Foss's LECTURE, at the Town Hall, on Friday evening, was well attended, and the large audience gave respectful attention to a very interesting lecture upon the causes that have ultimated in the existing rebellion, and what in the mind of the speaker was the surest, the safest and the speediest way to end it. As Mr. Foss is lecturing in behalf of a Society somewhat tinctured with radicalism, it was thought that he might throw a good deal of this element into his lecture. But we discovered no more of it than would naturally flow from a heart zealous in the cause of humanity. He was severe only on rebels and rebel sympathizers, while he hailed with a brother's affection the truly loyal, no matter with what political or religious organization they stood related. The positions he took and maintained were in accordance with the known history of the country, and if he occasionally stepped on the toes of the Democratic party, it was in exposing the treachery of its leaders and wire-pullers to the great interests of freedom, and their base subserviency to Southern dictation. He traced the history of the rebellion from the start, and in illustrating the tardiness with which it had been confronted by the government, happily introduced the old fable of the boys in the old farmer's apple tree. As the President had evidently become satisfied that grass, or mild measures, were only laughed at by the rebels, he had at length concluded to try "what virtue there is in stones." The Proclamation was the last big stone he had seized, and the indications were favorable that this mode of treatment would prove effectual.
Mr. Foss hag long been in the field as a lecturer on slavery, and the closer he examines all the machinery put in operation to strengthen and perpetuate the wicked systen, the more he is convinced that our government can never enjoy undisturbed peace until this element of tyranny and despotism is entirely eradicated.—Northern Advocate, Claremont, N. H.
 
OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH IN THE ARMY AND NAVY.
WASHINGTON, NOV. 16. The following General Order has been issued respecting the observance of the Sabbath Day in the Army and Navy:—
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, D. C-, 
November 16, 1862. 
The President, Commander in-Chief of the Army and Navy, desires and enjoins the orderly observance of the Sabbath by the officers and men in the military and naval service. The importance to man and beast of the prescribed weekly rest, the sacred rights of Christian soldiers and sailors, a becoming deference to the best sentiment of a Christian people, and a due regard for the Divine will, demand that Sunday labor in the army and navy be reduced to the measure of strict necessity. The discipline and character of the national forces should not suffer, nor the cause they defend be imperilled, by the profanation of the day or name of the Most High.
"At this time of public distress," adopting the words of Washington in 1776, "men may find enough to do in the service of God and their country, without abandoning themselves to vice and immorality." The first General Order issued by the Father of his Country, after the Declaration of Independence, indicates the spirit in which our institutions were founded and should ever be defended,—" The General hopes and trusts that every officer and man will endeavor to live and act as becomes Christian soldiers defending the rights and privileqes of their country."
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
THE REMOVAL OF GEN. McCLELLAN. 
WASHINGTON, NOV. 11, 1862.
The city has been in a hum for two or three days about the removal of Gen. McClellan from the head of the Army of the Potomac. Yet, to say that there, has been any "excitement" upon the subject, any thing which, in the slightest degree, resembles a protest of public sentiment against this significant act of the Administration, would be to accept the inflammatory exclamations of a half score of hangers-on at the hotels as the deliberate declarations of enlightened opinion. Indeed, the news, falling so suddenly upon the general car, has been received in this focus of gossip and twaddle with surprising calmness by the admirers and partisans of Gen. McClellan, while among the thinking and unprejudiced, who have no idol but their country, it is hailed as the best omen of the war, excepting the Great Proclamation.
Knowing more than appears upon the surface as to the causes of his removal, my advice to the claquers of Gen. McClellan is to stay their hands till all the facts are in their possession. The letter of Gen. Halleck is only an installment of the case—and a small one, too. That letter shows that McClellan repeatedly disobeyed the orders of his superior, and then gave gross misrepresentations of important transactions as a justification of his disobedience. In a word, he refused to advance and attack the enemy when ordered to do so, and thereby let them escape from him, and at the same time, falsified realities as to the grounds upon which he based his refusal. But, as I have already stated, these are but a tithe of the charges that his superiors and inferiors are able to bring against him: and if the record is ever made up, and an impartial court martial ordered, and the whole case sifted to the bottom, it will disclose a series of instances of disobedience to orders extending through a period or eight months, and that, too, in respect to the most important matters. It will also show the grossest misbehavior in refusing to take advantages of the enemy, and in neglecting to follow up successes and crush a beaten foe. And, in a word, it will convince every honest mind that the policy of McClellan in his conduct of the army has, more than any other cause, contributed to protract the war, give aid and comfort to the rebels, crimson the Land with blood, scourge us with remorseless taxation, and drag the country to the verge of ruin. Such an investigation, too, will astonish the nation at the amazing leniency of the Administration in permitting this man to so long hold command of oar chief army.—Corr. of the New York Tribune.
<c03>
THE NEGROES GOOD FIGHTERS.
The Port Royal correspondent of the New York Herald famishes in interesting account of an expedition by the U. S. transport steamer Darling, which left Beaufort for the South for the purpose of gathering up contrabands, and doing such good to the Union and such harm to secesh as might come in her way. The expedition was commanded by Lieut. Col. Oliver T. Beard, of the New York 48th. During her cruise, a visit was made to Fernandina, Florida, at which place she took on board sixty-two soldiers (colored) of the First South Carolina volunteers, under command of Captain Trowbridge. The sable warriors soon had an opportunity to how their pluck, and were not found wanting, as appears from the narrative, which continues as below:—
"She pursued her way, breaking up salt works, destroying some seventy-five large salt kettles, also boilers, including a stray tannery, whose leather and fixings were suddenly confiscated. Contrabands to the tune of enough to stock a big plantation were also removed from further attendance upon secesh masters. Then came an attack on the boat from sharpshooters stationed in trees. The intelligent contrabands, however, blocked this game, and picked off several from behind the Darlington's barricades in an artistic manner, proving that, their turkey shooting experiences had not been entirely thrown away. Col. Beard stood outside like a man, and exposed himself most gallantly until the enemy had enough. The same is true of Capt. Trowbridge; and as for the darkeys, they covered themselves with glory, as witnesses the official report of the brave officer accompanying the expedition. Two of the colored soldiers were wounded—one in the head, the other, Achilles like, in the heel; but both stood up to their work, and continued to load and fire, until secesh was ready to quit, which he finally did suddenly. Among the spoils of war are all sorts of trophies, including four secesh prisoners—one from the State of Maine, and another from Massachusetts. An ill looking crowd they were. I saw them marched up under guard—a negro guard of the soldiers who captured them. One of these rascals was guarded by his former slave, and looked anything but amiable. The same fellow has a letter among his captured goods which he had just penned to his brother, wherein he enthusiastically requests him, ‘as a good deer shot, to make the fur fly from the Yankees every lick, as they are always, like a buck, jumping round.' These worthies are now in jail here, and already take kindly to the oath of allegiance. They will probably be sent North for a change of climate."
NEGRO TROOPS. A letter just received from Port Royal, dated "St. Helena, October 30th," from Mr. W. C. Gannet, one of the Superintendents, says, "The rebels have twice visited our island lately, and in each case—once two boats, and once but one—were repulsed by the negroes with their guns."— Transcript.
GEN. BUTLER'S NEGRO REGIMENT. The following is an extract from a private letter, dated New Orleans, October 16th, written by an officer in the 26th Massachusetts regiment:—
"What is thought in your section of the country of Gen. B. F. Butler's 'niggers'? Isn't he ahead? Our department boasts of one full regiment, and another nearly full. The field and staff officers are white—the line officers colored. I believe the material is good for soldiers. At any rate the most perfect discipline is attainable. I have understood that the 2d Regiment wish for white line officers, as they have more confidence in the whites as leaders, than in their own race."
There is at present a negro company doing picket duty, under command of white officers, on St. Simon's Island—the only force now (here. Two boats' crews of these colored men, about seven days since, proceeded up the Darien River, and captured a Rebel Deputy Marshal and two pickets, guarding the shore.
St. Catherine's Island has been evacuated by the Rebels—who took their negroes with them, killing two who refused to go. The health of the troops at Port Royal was good.
WHAT THE NEGROES WANT. Northern pro-slavery partisans are continually asserting that the negroes at the South will not work if they are freed, but will become a curse to themselves and the land, through idleness and vice; also that they will overrun the North. Here is what the Corinth (Miss.) correspondent of the St. Louis Republican, a pro-slavery paper, says of the disposition of the "ontrabands in that vicinity. Practical observation is worth more than all the theories in the world:—
"I have made a visit to the negro corral, two miles out from the town proper. There I found some three hundred creatures, old men, women and children.
The women were washing, cooking, &c.; all doing something. Those whom I questioned had no idea what would become of them—they 'low'd to foller de army,' they supposed.
Not one of them wished to go back to their masters, if they could—said they wanted to work for themselves. This idea is universal with them—they seem to understand that much. I could not see any yearning to go North—they prefer to stay here, if they can work for themselves. So many a negro man has expressed himself here within my hearing. The captain of the regiment who guards the negro corral corroborated this statement, when made to him. I state these facts as I find them, leaving your readers to draw their own conclusions.
These negroes work—they expect to work, I am satisfied. The prevalent idea that their notion of the freedom is not to work does not hold good in this region. As teamsters and laborers, our army quartermasters give them full and good credit. Amid their depths of degradation and vice, let us of the North be willing to do them honest justice, when due, and in full measure."
SHIP ISLAND CONTRABANDS. The "contrabands" continue to come into our lines; certainly I have many of them here, and have procured good places for many more on ships of war and merchantmen. I have four as my own servants, and found them ready, intelligent, capable and useful. One of them was house servant to a wealthy widow; he helps my cook, has the sole care of my table, and waits at it with a grace and readiness that I have never seen excelled. He is a yellow "boy," say twenty-five years old. I have another as black as ebony, upright in his carriage, finely formed, and lithe as a leopard. He came from Mobile by land, to Biloxi, twelve miles from here; there got a little "dugout," about ten feet long (a canoe made of a log hollowed only large enough for one person). In the night he put off, and in the fresh breeze was overset twice in the dark. He lost his oars, and after a long struggle succeeded in getting the water out of his canoe, and paddling with his hands. In the morning he was seen two or three miles from the shore, and a boat was sent to pick him up. When he came he had nothing on but shirt and pants—no hat nor shoes. All were lost, and he was thoroughly drenched and weary. He had been a long time in the rebel army, and was at the battle of Corinth. An Englishman, Scotchman or American striving in such fashion for liberty would be a hero; but he is only a nigger, and deserves only a "walloping."—Neal Dow.
FORTRESS MONROE, Nov.8, 1862.
 The sudden shutting down of winter has caused much suffering and wretchedness among the negro population here, for whom there appears to be no adequate provision. In the vicinity of Camp Hamilton, there are 200 persons, mostly women and children, huddled together in a barn, into which the wind and rain find ready access. The stalls, recently vacated by horses, are used to sleep in. Fires are built on the ground, along the middle 0f the building, which is necessarily filled with smoke, and in constant danger of taking fire. The wretched inmates are, as a general thing, even more destitute of clothing and shoes, particularly the women and children, than of shelter. A certain amount of food is supplied, but the means for cooking are wholly insufficient.
There is still greater destitution or blankets, indeed, almost everything necessary to the comfort of human beings. Their condition has been presented to the Contraband Superintendent, who fays he can do nothing for them. Their numbers are augmenting, and their condition cannot be expected to improve. From lack of ability or disposition, the proper provision cannot be expected here. Though the situation of these wretched beings—the type of many more—demands the attention and calls upon the Government for a thorough reform in the administration of its contraband system, or of the system itself, I refer to the subject only to awaken the sympathies of the truly charitable.
Beside the instance I have cited, there are plenty of other cases. Shoes, especially for the women and children, blankets, underclothing and socks for all, are what is wanted. Sentiment and less practical sympathy will do at some other time in some other place. The field is one where philanthropy, directed by practical good sense, can find enough to do.
The Richmond Enquirer finds fault with slaveholders who are unwilling to allow their slaves to be employed as soldiers for the rebel cause. It thinks that "as the war originated and is carried on in great part for the defence of the slaveholder in his property rights and the perpetuation of the institution, it is reasonable to suppose that he ought to be first and foremost in aiding and assisting by every means in his power, toe triumph and success of oar arms." That is pretty good authority as to the cause of the rebellion.
Gov. Brown renews the call for negroes to complete the fortifications around Savannah. If they are not furnished promptly, they will be impressed.
General Sigel's scouts captured four women, dressed in U.S. uniform, seven miles out on the O. R.R. from Manassas, and turned them over to the proper authorities.
<c04>
SOUTHERN VIEW THE ELECTIONS. We have heard as yet but from two of the rebel organs on the results of the recent Northern elections, but those speak substantially as we had supposed they would. The, Richmond Whig discards all electioneering talk on both sides, and comes to the conclusion that, with a Democratic Congress offsetting a Republican Administration, "the war will not be set forward any." It interprets the elections as expressing "a deep dissatisfaction "with "Lincoln and his party," and thinks the opposition will now be encouraged to (peak out with much more boldness than ever before. The Richmond Examiner says of the elections that " these astonishing manifestations from the North convey the idea of" an emphatic and impressive popular verdict against the abolition faction which has ruled the Government at Washington."
With the rebels, of coarse, "the abolition faction which has ruled the Government at Washington" is the administration since the 4th of March, 1861. The elections, therefore, are regarded as condemning the administration in its civil and military policy, and announcing a determination to check and hamper it in its vigorous prosecution of the war.—Journal.
DEMOCRATS CARRYING A REBEL FLAG. The Knox County Express says that at the tory "jubilee " which was held at Mount Vernon on Saturday, to celebrate the recent election, a delegation from the eastern part of the county carried a secession, confederate flag. After hearing Vallandigham, these pretended Union Democrats, on their way home, shouted and hurrahed for the traitor, Jeff. Davis, and the rebel General, Stonewall Jackson! This shows that the Democratic party are in sympathy with the rebels, and also what kind of company the loyal Democrats and some misguided Republicans have been training with during the recent political campaign.—Cleveland Leader.
How WESTERN VIRGINIA SOLDIERS RECEIVE THE PROCLAMATION. The army correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette in Western Virginia thus speaks of the reception accorded to the President's Proclamation by Western Virginia soldiers:—
"Many of them—doubtless a large majority—are men who utterly despise the negro, and who care but' little for his weal or woe. Quite a large number, especially among the officers, are pro-slavery men; and one year ago were pledged to each other, in some instances, to resign and leave the service, should such a proclamation ever be issued by the government. 1 have conversed with a number of intelligent, and, I believe, truly loyal men, who declare that, if this had been done ' ten months since,' they would not have remained in the service ' ten minutes.' But now they say, (and this is the universal expression,) there is a 'military necessity ' which fully justifies the President in this course, and they therefore cheerfully 'acquiesce' in the judgment pronounced against slavery by the legitimate head of the government. In some instances, too, I find men who rejoice to hear the ' glad tidings' of this more than ' royal proclamation,' because it promises to rid the country of the 'accursed institution.' The feeling is quite common among Western Virginians, that slavery, in the Eastern part of the State, has saddled a burden upon the Western, which has seriously interfered with its growth in population, and the development of a material prosperity, in the elements of which it is so munificently rich."
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, for November, contains six articles, the most generally interesting of them being that upon "The War Policy and the Future of the South." This article takes true and high ground. "The old Union," it says, "was forever lost at Bull Run. It is a nobler and better one we have been laying the foundations of since." It declares that "The Emancipation Proclamation gives the slaveholding aristocracy its death blow," and anticipates a glorious future for the South when general education and a diversified industry shall hare elevated its masses. It is true that while we are fighting the South, we are also fighting for the South. Our defeat would be bad for us, but would be far worse for her. 
CONTRABANDS GOING BACK TO SLAVERY. The New York Evening Post tells this story:—
"A well known planter, living not far from New Orleans, wrote last spring that four of his slaves who had run away to the Yankees, had returned. "They have had enough of liberty, and were glad to come back.' But in his next letter to the North he told a different tale; the four had run away again—and had taken with them 200 more. Indeed, the planter suspected that the four had come back with only this object— and he probably guessed correctly."
SLAVES SINGING THE JOHN BROWN CHORUS.— When Col. Daniel Ullman was sick with typhoid fever in Little Washington, Va., he repeatedly heard slaves at their work singing the John Brown chorus. Col. Ullman asked the owner of the slaves if he permitted them to sing that song, and the slave master replied that he could not help it.
 At present, St. Louis is inundated with fugitive negroes from the South, not less than 3,000, I am informed, being now in the city. Many of them are unemployed, and will find it difficult to obtain "the privilege to toil," though they seem desirous to do so, on account of their ignorance of everything but labor in the cotton-fields. From present appearances there will be much suffering this Winter among the unfortunate negroes, unless some provision is made for them through public or private charities. Of General Pillow's negroes alone there are not less than 400 now in St. Louis.—St. Louis corr. of the New York Tribune.
The strict and inflexible way in which justice is at present administered here may be seen from the following item: A few days ago, some rabid Secesh folks undertook to prevent a colored soldier from riding in the city cars; an altercation ensuing, the matter was carried before the Military Commandant, who decided that the colored people had the same right to ride in the cars as other people, which decision, of course, greatly enraged the followers of Uncle Jeff, but they will have to grin and bear it.—New Orleans correspondent of the New York Tribune.
TERRIBLE STEAMBOAT EXPOSION. The steamer J. H. Dickey exploded one of her boilers, killing several and wounding others, near St. Genevieve, on the upper Mississippi, on the 6th inst. Among the killed is Lieut. F. Dodge, 6th U S. Cavalry, of Philadelphia. Several persons are known to have been blown overboard, and others jumped into the river in the panic, and were drowned.
SEVENTEEN PRIZES TAKEN BY ONE SAILING VESSEL. The barque Restless, a sailing craft of our navy, has made no less than seventeen captures of prizes (English and rebel) since the 14th of February last. She is commanded by Lieutenant Edward Conroy. Among her recent captures are the British steamers Scotia and Anglia.
General Burnside has divided the Army of the Potomac into three grand division* and a reserve. The right grand division will consist of two army corps,—the 2d and 9th,—under Gen. Sumner; the left, of the 1st and 6th corps, under Gen. Franklin; the centre, of the 3d and 5th corps, under Gen. Hooker. The reserve will comprise the 11th corps and other troops to be hereafter assigned, under command of Gen. Sigel.
Advices from New Orleans report that an expedition under General Weitzel met the enemy at Gabadierville, and defeated them after a brisk fight. I Upwards of 200 of the enemy were killed, wounded and taken prisoners, and one piece of artillery was captured. Our forces engaged were the 8th New | Hampshire, 12th and 13th Connecticut, 76th New York, and 1st Louisiana Regiments, with Carruth's and Thompson's batteries. Our loss was 18 killed and 74 wounded.
VISITORS TO GEN. MCCLELLAN. The Trenton Gazette alleges that the telegraph, as manipulated by the New York Herald, has fibbed in regard to the rush to see Gen. McClellan at Trenton, of which we have had frequent reports. It says:—
" A number of gentlemen from different parts of the State, as well as from other States, have called upon Gen. McClellan, but the absurd reports of crowds rustling here from ail directions are entirely unfounded. An inspection of the hotel registers will show that there ha* been no unusual number of strangers in Trenton during the week.
In fact, the curiosity to see the General seems to be very limited, and a stranger visiting Trenton would not, from anything visible, imagine that there was any unusual interest manifested, or that any ' distinguished stranger' was in our midst."
GENERAL CASS ON THE REMOVAL or MCCLELLAN. The New York Post makes this announcement: "We have the best authority for stating that Gen. Cass, in a communication to the President, has expressed the fullest approval of the removal of Gen. McClellan from the command of our army in Virginia."
Gen. McClellan, being called upon by the sol-diem at Warren too for a speech, said: "I wish you to stand by Burnside as you have stood by me, and all will be well." It is a pity that some of this self-sacrificing patriotism cannot penetrate the skulls or hearts of the noisy, self-elected friends of the General.
WEST INDIA ISLANDS — SLATE INSURRECTIONS. Papers from Bermuda and from other West India islands contain reports of extended slave insurrections, which have resulted in much plunder and destruction of property. Many negroes have been killed. The outbreak at St. Vincent lasted ten days, and was only quelled after a large military force, cooperating with English vessels, had taken the insurrection in band. A great many of the insurgents are prisoners, and martial law has been proclaimed.
<c05>
FOREIGN. John Bright, in a letter to Was. Gurnelle Jewett, expresses amazement at the idea of conciliation towards the South regarding slavery. He says, " The North mar separate from the South, or fight out the contest, and win; but to leave the slave still a slave will expose her to the contempt of the civilized world." He adds, "I applaud the proclamation of President Lincoln, as does every man in Europe who is not a foe to freedom or moved by base hostility to the American republic because it is a republic, and a powerful one."
At a crowded meeting of the Metropolitan Institution of London, resolutions expressing sympathy with the North were adopted.
Lord Brougham, in a letter, expresses a strong hope that the Government will refrain from interference in case of servile insurrection in the Southern States. 

OBITUARY.
Died, at Union Chapel Hospital, Washington, Sept. 25, from wounds received in the battle of Bull Run, WILLIAM: FULLER, of Needham, private in the 18th Regiment Massachusetts Volunteers, aged 30.
Notices like the above are so sadly common at present that they hardly excite attention, much less provoke comment. The individuality of a private soldier, in an army of a million of men, is so far lost, that but for the watchfulness of friends, heroism and cowardice would be buried in one common oblivion. In this instance, as in thousands of others, it is left to a friend's hand to snatch from forgetfulness the memory of a brave and good soldier.
Mr. Fuller was one of the earliest to enlist under the first call for three years men. He was induced to take this step, not by the mere enthusiasm of the moment, but after careful consideration of the subject, and counsel with friends, he chose a soldier's life from a sense of duty. Though he left behind him a wife and four children, his high purpose never faltered from the first. His frequent letters were a mixture of womanly tenderness and manly resolve. He knew what he had to leave before be left; he understood what he was to undergo before he encountered it. No man had a juster comprehension of the sacrifice to be made, and no man made it with more thorough heartiness, or with more self-forgetful courage.
He was from the very beginning a strenuous advocate of the policy of emancipation. So strong were his convictions on this subject, that some of his comrades charged him with being a disunionist. Bat he was not afraid either of the bullets of the enemy or the sneers of friends. He felt it his duty to urge that policy everywhere and always. "What are you all about at home," he writes, "that you do not work night and day to create a public sentiment on this point? As for me, I would willingly lay down my life, if by so doing I could give freedom to a single slave.' It is a source of regret that he did not live long enough to see the inauguration of that glorious era, which he so earnestly hoped and prayed might dawn.
He fell on the fatal field of Bull Run. With a single comrade he was skirmishing on the edge of the battle. A rebel sharpshooter, behind a pile of railroad iron, was annoying the men, and he determined to silence him, which, after a few shots, he succeeded in doing, and then turned his attention to a second, who, hidden behind a similar breastwork, flaunted a small secession flag every time be fired. Just as he was preparing to fire, a ball from his enemy pierced his lungs, and he fell. His comrade raised him, and was about to carry him from the field, but he refused, saying he wanted to see the fight out. Stretched on the field, he watched the shifting phases of the conflict, till, feeling exhausted from loss of blood, be tried to make his way to the rear, lie had gone but a short distance when be was struck in the leg by a spent cannon ball, and so disabled that he was obliged to be carried off the field. He was put into an ambulance and sent to Alexandria, a distance of twenty-five miles, "the longest ride," he says, " I ever took," and from thence to Washington, where, after two operations, the ball was at length removed from the shoulder, where it had lodged. He was supposed to be out of danger and doing well until a few hours before he died, when hemorrhage ensued, and he quietly sunk away into the sleep that knows no wakening.
In this hour, when bereavement is such a general heritage that men are in danger of forgetting all but their own private griefs, a friend who knew and loved the departed would lay this humble tribute on his distant grave. Brave soldier and true man, he has realized the promise—
"To them who, by patient continuance in well-doing, seek for glory, honor, and immortality, eternal life."
Grantville, Oct. 28, 1862. E. S. A.
Died, in Philadelphia, on the 6th inst., WARNER JUSTICE, in the 54th year of his age.
A veteran has fallen; a good man has disappeared from our midst. A truer friend to freedom than Warner Justice could not be; a more upright man is nowhere to be found. Though not very far advanced in years, he was yet one of our "old" Abolitionists. He took the field at the opening of the contest, and continued faithful to the last. With a modest appreciation of his own abilities, he shrunk from all conspicuous places; nevertheless, he was a man of clear mind and sound judgment, and well qualified, had he been so disposed, to take a directing part in matters that interested him. He preferred, however, to follow rather than to lead; but he did not follow afar off, neither did he deny the truth when it was dangerous to confess it.
Born and bred in the Society of Friends, he maintained faithfully the " testimonies" of that sect as he understood them; at the same time, he was no sectarian; nor did he, in the common meaning of the phrase, " make a profession of religion." His belief was, that" a tree is known by its fruits," and to this belief he conformed his action. Lip religion was an offence to him; the discrepancies between men's professions and their practice were a constant vexation to his honest spirit.
He was a man of big heart and generous affections. He made warm friends, between whom and himself the ties of attachment grew stronger and stronger. His departure will make a sad gap in the food circle that surrounded him. Still it is not to be mourned as a misfortune. The death of a good man—one who has fulfilled his mission and is ripe for the change—is not a calamity. It is in the order of nature, and is only beneficent. M.
Died, in Academy Hospital, Chambersburg, (Pa.) Oct. 19, Lieunant CHARLES W. BEAN, CO. H., 5th N. H. Regt. Vols., aged 20 years and 9 months.
This young man enlisted as a private in Co. A., 5th N. H. Regt., and was, for his soldier-like bearing and noble action, promoted to a lieutenancy. At the battle of Antietam, he was struck down by a rifle ball, and was soon after conveyed to a hospital near by, where he lingered in severe pain until Oct. 19th, when the messenger of death bore him away from earth to that land where wars and fighting are unknown.
He was a firm friend and school-chum of mine, at a seminary in a neighboring State, and I cannot refrain from paying his name and memory a passing notice. His life was a model one, and his character pure, without a stain. A firm friend of the slave, he saw in this grand uprising a hope for that "victim race"; and if his life was to be offered up in their behalf, and to sustain a free government, then be was ready to make the sacrifice.
He was a true soldier, loved, honored and trusted, and I when he fell, it was on a hard-contested field, with the glad shout of victory almost ringing in his ears. His comrades mourn that they shall hear no more that voice,
-" heard so oft
In worst extremes, and on the perilous edge
 Of battle when it raged, in all assaults
 Their surest signal."
A life so willingly given as a sacrifice for the liberties of his beloved land should be remembered by the nation's historian. May God comfort the bereaved parents, brothers and sister of the deceased, in this the hour of their affliction! J. H. M.
Died, in Boston, on Tuesday last, 18th inst., of typhus fever, GERTRUDE, only daughter and child of Mrs. Lucy N. COLMAN, of Rochester, N. Y., aged 17 years.
In this sudden and sorrowful dispensation, the before widowed, but now desolated mother shares deeply in the sympathy of a wide circle of friends. May He who tempers the wind to the shorn lamb shed around her, in this dark hour, the sunshine of his tenderest love!
The deceased had just commenced the study of medicine, and was uncommonly intelligent, mature, and promising for her years.
"Where is thy home, thou angel bright?
O tell us from thy rest
What beauteous visions fill thy sight?
What loves delight thy breast? 
What glories light thy home above,
To outer sense unknown?
To And, oh! what faithful bosoms move
In union with thine own?"
<c06>
FRATERNITY LE0TURE8.
FITTH COURSE,
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the Fifth Course of LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eight Congregational Society Will Be Continued On 
TUESDAY EVENING, November 25, 1862, at TREMONT TEMPLE,. When an address will be made by HON. OWEN LOVEJOY.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons: -
December 2.-B. GRATZ Brown.
December 9.- WENDELL PHILLIPS.
December 16. – HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 23. – JACOB M. MANNING
December 30. - GEORGE Wm. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 0'clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett's, 234 WASHINGTON ST: Oliver Ditson & Cos.277 Washington St.; of SOLOMON Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former Years had the disposal of tickets.
 THE FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or " contrabands" of Washington.
SARAH A. L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St.
President of the Fugitive Aid Society.
MRS. DEMORTIE is to read at New York, on the 24th of November; Albany, the 27th; and at Brooklyn on the 1st of December.
Letters will find Mrs. DeMortie at the Brooks- House 543 Broome Street, New York, from the 24lh inst. to Dec 1.

BOSTON FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY.
A Course of Lectures in aid of the Suffering Freedmen of Washington, D. C, to be delivered at Joy Street Church, 
November 17. Lecture by Rev. Dr. K. N. Kirk.
November 24. Rev. J. Sella Martin.
December 1, Rev. Dr. W. Hague.
December 8- Prof. C. L. REASON.
December 15 REV. R. C. Waterston.
December 22. Frederick Douglass.
 Ticket for the course, 50 cents.
 E.H.HEYWOOD will speak at Florence, Friday evening, NOV. 21, and in Cummington, Sundays, Nov. 23 and 30.
ANDREW T. FOSS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture at MILFORD, N. H., on Sunday next. NOV. 22, at the usual hours, on the Rebellion and the War.
 WM. WELLS BROWN will deliver his lecture on the President's Proclamation and its Effect on the Blacks
of the South and the Laborers of the North, as follows:
At Bradford. Wednesday, NOV. 26.
West Newbury, Thursday, NOV. 27.
West Amesbury, Friday, NOV. 28.
REV. M. D. CONWAY will lecture at Lyceum Hall, Milford, Mass., Friday evening. NOV. 21st, commencing at 7 o'clock.
 THEODORE D. WELD, of Perth Amboy.N. J., will deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, Nov. 9th.
 Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society's office, 221 Washington Street.
 The very valuable and still timely tract, by Mrs. L. Maria Child, entitled "The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere," (108 pages,) will be sent by mail to any person requesting it, and enclosing six cents in undefaced postage stamps. Address SAMUEL MAY, Jr. 221 Washington St., Boston.
 A few remaining copies of the American Anti-Slavery Society's last Report, entitled "The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year," will be sent in the same way, on the receipt of the postage, viz, fourteen cents.
 MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES.
THE BLACK MAN,
His Antecedents, His Genius, and His Achievements, with Biographical Sketches of Fifty Distinguished Individuals of the Race. 
Br WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
The work will contain about 300 pages, printed on good paper, and bound in muslin. Price $1. It will be published on Monday, Dec. 1st, by THOMAS HAMILTON, 48 Beekman Street, N. Y-, and R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston; and to be had of all booksellers.
 Owing to the increased number of pages of the work, and the advance in the cost of paper, the price will be $1, (as above stated,) instead of 75 cents, as at ant announced.
Nov. 21. tf
Lewis's Normal Institute
— FOR —
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 
[Incorporated in 1861.]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new Profession. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. Three eminent medical men teach in the department of Anatomy
Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. D1o Lewis of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75.Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent. to Ladies. Two courses during this year—the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July.
For a full circular, address Dr. D1o Lewis, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked out the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.—D. B. Hager, Pres. Of the American institute of instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis, has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.—Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.-Miss May, Valedictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice. Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis, He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this institution is famous is every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis's institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any school room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentle that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into our schools. – Extract from a speech delivered at the second commencement of " Lewis's Normal Institute," by J.D. Philbrick Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the liberator.
MICHAEL ANGELO'S "SLAVERY."
A DREAM.
Methought I gazed intent, with full, sad heart, 
Upon that wonderful epitome
Of the long record of earth's cruel wrong.
Gazing, thought traversed o'er those eons dark, 
Ere star and heavenly hymn had heralded
That dawn in whose meridian blaze of day
All bonds should Belt, and all the oppressed go ree. 
I saw, ah, me! Striding through the drear gloom, 
The vast procession of unholy powers,
Trampling upon the crashed and crawling mass; 
I heard the dismal oratorio
Of breaking, bleeding, frenzied human hearts,
And the wild, wailing symphony of wo,
Pleading with God for a Messiah's birth. 
I watched and listened with a sickening soul,
When, lo! The star arose, the hymn awoke!
The chill of nursing shot a shiver through
The tyrant's torpor and the victim's pain;
This, upward glanced with a vague thrill of hope;
That, tossed and turned with sadden, new unrest.
Slowly, so slowly, came the twilight rays!
Came, then were shrouded by a deeper gloom;
Then, mounting, shot athwart the black abyss,
Revealing, not unwelding, cankered chains.
Slowly, so slowly, kindled up the dawn!
How long, O Lord, how long? pleaded my soul, 
While my impetuous pulse throbbed with hot pain.
Slowly, so slowly, grew the gracious light!
Yet could I now descry, from point to point,
Forms struggling upward from the gulf of gloom,
As shipwrecked mariners from 'whelming waves;
Hands beckoning with gestures of wild joy,
All Marked with manacle and scarred with scourge; 
And faces gleaming in the new-born light,
Like beacons to the heaving mass below;
And, through the dissonance that still prevailed,
I caught clear clarion-tones of hope and trust.
Still slowly, O, so slowly, came the day!
How long, O Lord, how long? burst from my heart
When, sudden, o'er that silent face of bronze,
With its crushed brow, and patient, wordless wo,
Wakened a smile transfiguring with light; 
Deep, peaceful joy glowed in eyes raised to mine,
And the warmed lips parted with words like these:—
"Be calm and still; the hour speeds swiftly on! 
Lo! o'er the West a constellation burns,
Whose urns are filled with that exhaustless light
Which has its source in the great heart of God. 
This last vicarious atonement made,
The guiltless blood of myriad first-born
Cleanses the covenant His first-born sealed,
But which two thousand years of hate and strife 
Have blurred and stained to aching human eyes. 
The lofty lesson of hi« grace stands clear
In all the sweet simplicity of love.
The child-heart still has read and pondered it, 
Through all the mystic meshes centuries wove,
Since he who brought declared the pure child-heart
Alone can comprehend the Father's will.
The lofty lesson of that will stands clear
In all the grandeur of simplicity:
The child-race among men becomes the power
That overthrows the falsehood of the world;
Their stripes have healed the nations' mortal wound;
Their patient throbs of pain pulsed the slow march
Of still advancing truth; the last are first;
The weak things of this world confound the wise;
The fullness of the Gentiles hat come in;
Freedom, through Christ, gives equal rights to all!
Earth's lowliest learn the song heaven's highest sung,
Wave their free arms above the Past's long night,
And to the fainting heart of fallen power
Bring cheer again with the blest morning hymn—
‘Peace upon earth, good-will to all mankind!'
For this I've waited, with mute lips and cold,
Since Angelo from his divine excess
Gave the locked life that charmed with grief the world.
The sun of Freedom shines on captives' tears,
And they are gems in the Messiah's crown."
The wondrous beauty of that beaming face,
The music of the life-inspiring voice,
Swept through my soul. Surged with great joy, I woke.
Nov., 1862. A.S.

For the Liberator.
JOHN BROWN TO VIRGINIA.
I stood, Virginia, at thy gate;
Within my mailed hand
I bore the banner thou hadst set
Above thy virgin land.
"Death unto tyrants!" On thy soil
I saw, with wondering eye,
A captive people bowed in toil;
I heard their feeble cry,
What worth the swords that idly sleep,
When foul Oppression reigns?
Or strength, whose pulses coldly creep,
While manhood walks in chains?
For Liberty I smote, and Right;
Where was thy word of cheer?
Thy land as with as earthquake's might
Shook far and wide in fear.
One fiery storm of wrath and hate
Burst on my daring head;
No longer Freedom ruled the State,
Her here race was dead.
When me thou gav'st a dungeon cell,
A felon's death of shame,
On thy own head thy judgment fell!
God wrote against thy name,
"Weighed, and found wanting!" Therefore, He
Adjudged thee to the sword; The measure thou didst mete should be
In thine own bosom poured.
Because thou didst oppress the poor
That dwelt within thy gate, 
The scourge shall enter at thy door,
And leave thee desolate.
Above thy fields the deadly blast
Of war shall spend its rage;
The foe shall lay thy cities waste,
And take thy heritage.
"So ever unto tyrants!"—so,
Till thy free flag shall wave,
Nor see, its stainless folds below,
A tyrant or a slave.

From the Boston Traveller.
THE PRESIDENTS PROCLAMATION.
The word goes forth—new light leaps out
Across the dark, old earth;
A Bethlehem light, to bail the morn
Of Freedom's glorious birth.
"How long, oh Lord!" the people cried,
"Wilt thou delay to save? "
The word goes forth, at length, and strikes
The fetters from the slave!
Not Ham's dark sons alone are free—
We too our freedom win;
They were but slaves to tyrant man,
We slaves to deadly sin!
"Spare, spare the old!" some weakly cry,
And some, "Bring in the new!"
Not what is old or new we ask,
We want the Just, the True.
Let babblers keenly search to find
A quibble or a flaw;
We grasp the spirit, and reject
The dry, dead forms of law.
The word's gone forth; from our stained hands
Is cleansed the sin abhorred;
With trust the nation now may lean
Upon a gracious Lord!
Lowell, (Mass.) Sept. 24, 1862.
Hear it, ye Sanates! Hear this truth sublime—
He who allows oppression shares the crime.

<c02>
The Liberator
PRICES TO SEWING WOMEN.
MR. EDITOR:
When John Gilpin with hit family started upon his famous journey to Islington, Mrs. Gilpin, to lighten the expense of the excursion, "because that wine was dear," took a supply from home,—a bit of economy with which John was well pleased, inasmuch as it proved to him, in behalf of his wife, that
"Though on pleasure she was bent, 
 She had a frugal mind."
The following information, taken from the Philadelphia Ledger, may perhaps reassure some who hare been troubled with doubt about the frugal mind of oar government:
"REDUCED PRICES TO SEWING WOMEN. Since the first day of September, the price of work has been greatly reduced at the U. S. Arsenal. Pants, the making of which formerly cost forty-two cents, are now required to be finished by the women for twenty-seven cents. Jackets, for which one dollar and twelve and a half cents was formerly paid, are now obtained for ninety cents. This reduction in rates makes a perceptible decrease in the incomes of nearly five thousand women who do the sewing of the Institution, and much complaint has been caused. It is understood that parties in New York offered to furnish the goods at the minimum price, and the officials in this city were driven to the reduction in order to compete successfully with the New Yorkers. No work is now given out at the Arsenal, except to soldiers' wives."
It is said that a smart woman, who has not more than one or two children to care for, can, by working early and late, make a pair of soldier's pants in a day, a jacket in two days; therefore, by this reduction of wages, 15 cents a day is saved by each soldier's wife to government, which, multiplied by 5000, (the number of soldiers' wives,) amounts to the snug little sum of $750 a day saved to government out of soldiers' wages—quite a pleasant evidence of the "frugal mind" of the government. True, there may be some inconvenience suffered by the soldiers' wives to whom the 27 cents a day for making soldiers' pants may not pay for all the bread their children would like to eat; yet as we are well assured of the noble patriotism of our women who have so freely sent their husbands and sons to the war, it cannot be doubted that they bear the inconvenience very well; am it must be a glorious consolation to our soldiers, during their forced marches and scanty fare, and while wounded and dying on the field of battle, or in the sadder precincts of the military hospitals, to reflect that their wives and children are partaking the glory by making pants, and starving on 27 cents. If it be "sweet and glorious to die for one's country," it must be doubly so to know that one's wife and children arc in the same sweet and glorious fix—only more so.
It is also gratifying to know that our public affairs are, after all, managed with a good degree of thrift. "Sharp'th the word." "The officials are driven to this reduction in order to compete successfully with the New Yorkers," "who offered to furnish the goods at the minimum price." Is not the government official "sharp" who can compete successfully with the New York Jews in reducing the wages of sewing women?

Ill-natured critics may talk as much as they please about "penny wise, pound foolish" economy, and of government contracts by which speculators make their $10,000 a month by furnishing shoddy-cloth for soldiers' pants, or 
$75,000 commission in a week for buying old hulks to sink in Charleston harbor, or $5 to $20 a day each for some 10,000 officers on furlough, for months at a time, or of a hundred other things of like sort. But, the very fact that our resources waste at the bung-hole proves the necessity of saving at the spigot. Let the Philadelphia Arsenal officials, or whoever dictates their policy, have all due honor. Isn't "a penny saved a penny earned"? Don't "many a little make a mickle"? Every body knows that "half a loaf is better than no bread." At least the soldiers' wives aforesaid know about the half- loaves and half-allowance generally. D. M.
P. S. Wouldn't it be well to allow the tax-commissioners to assess $10 upon each soldier's wife for a licence to make soldier's pants? It would help to pay their own $5000 salaries, and perhaps something over, which might properly be added to the fund to compensate those rebels who, after being conquered, will content to take the oath of allegiance.
FRANCE AND GREAT BRITAIN.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.
The ancient hate towards Great Britain is as green as ever among the French. The French policy to weaken Great Britain and to exalt France has never been lost sight of. The natural ally of Great Britain is America. Louis Napoleon was convinced by the reception the Prince of Wales met with in this country, that there existed a preference deeply seated here for the English, which could be relied upon by them when in extremity.
Ericsson's invention has removed the only obstacle (to an efficient marine) which prevented France from becoming the first naval tower of Europe.
The shortest routes to India have always given to the possessors wealth and power. France has possessions in the Pacific, and rules in Cochin-China; and by a division of the United States into two hostile governments, and by an armed protectorate of Mexico, would become the controller of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, and Panama certainly, and of the Isthmus of Suez probably—and Great Britain, IN EXTREMITY, could not receive efficient aid from American States utterly divided and at variance.
Louis Napoleon has a long head. He has reduced the Catholic clergy to such a state of dependence and poverty, that his will, accompanied by his favor, may become their law. He has the most efficient spy system ever known. Under the direction of Polignac, son of the Minister to Charles X.—who is his tool—it has been introduced into America, and experts exported, to continue it in successful practise. His measures may be expected to influence, more or less, the political movements of the Catholics every where. Some persons in Europe are aware of this policy. The proclamation by President Lincoln has helped to derange it. The Cabinets of England and Prussia most, from the necessity of self-preservation, guard against it.
A knowledge that this policy on the part of France exists, and is near consummation, may (in skilful hands) be used with advantage against either or both governments.
 It is a good time for you to touch up all the friends of freedom in Great Britain, to put armaments being made in their ports, or any assistance whatever given to the designs of France and the confederates. CARBON.
TRIBUTE TO GOV. ANDREW.
NANTUCKET, 11TH MO.7TH 
MY DEAR GARRISON—Please insert the following in the Liberator, from the Nantucket Mirror, and oblige thy friend, N. B.
TRIBUTE TO GOV. ANDREW. In this SLAVEHOLDERS' WAR, which has bereaved many a family of a father, son, or brother, Nantucket has had a bitter experience; and in connection with this, and with our bur election, an incident occurred which is worthy of commendation. A resident of Siasconset lost a beloved son at the battle of Ball's Bluff, under very painful circumstances, of which Gov. Andrew, in his an tiring efforts for the soldiers' welfare and protection, became acquainted, and which induced him to write a letter to information and sympathy to the bereaved family. The kindness was not forgotten on the day of election, and the father, after providing a passage with hit own horse for several of his neighbors, that they might rote the Republican ticket, came himself, on foot, that he might cast his vote, as he said, "far the soldiers' friend "—for hint who, "in season and out of season," has devoted himself to the cause, both of hit country and of humanity.
Who would not envy such tribute? It tells a volume in praise of the worthy Chief Magistrate of the glorious Old Bay Stats. 
<c03>
SELECTED ARTICLES.
8PIRIT PH0T0GRAPHES—MORE DETAILS FROM BOSTON
The Banner of Light for this week has a lengthy statement, over the initials of Dr. A. B. Child, concerning the photographs of spirits, to which we alluded last week. We copy the greater portion of this article below, though some of the facts connected with the first picture arc repeated.
We have also received a few details from a reliable friend, who, at our request, called upon the medium. He was present at three "sittings." At each of these there was no result. The medium became so anxious, disappointed and disheartened, that he gave up for the day. Our correspondent writes:—
"I have seen several pictures, and there is a real look about them all. I examined the process of taking, and could'find no sign nor shadow of trickery. The medium's air and manner, his nonsuccess, his! disappointment, all indicate reality. The price is five dollars for a dozen impressions; and if no spirit impression is received, the sitter pays one dollar and takes four pictures. Four daily is the largest number he can take, and he is then considerably exhausted."
 In a letter of a later date he sends us a copy of the first picture taken, (described in our last,) also! one of a mother, whose features are almost entirely obscured by the head of a babe. He writes:—
"On Saturday experimented by sitting, and obtained for result a female spirit poised above his head. Having seen only the negative, he does not yet know if he can recognize it. When printed, he or I will advise you as to the result. He accompanied the operator through the process, and considers the product genuine."
The person indicated in this note we know, and have perfect confidence in his intelligence and integrity.
We quote still further from the same source:—
"I have not mentioned that one photograph has been taken of a spirit in a graceful position floating above the floor, at one side of the gentleman sitting for the picture. The figure in that of a female, draped so that the feet are not even, and the lower part of the figure floats or sails in a manner that indicates the absence of angles. In one hand she holds a wreath towards the person she is approaching. The figure resembles that in the frontispiece of Judge Edmonds's first volume."
We now invite attention to the account of Dr. A. B. Child:—
Mr. William M. Mumler is the medium and the artist who makes photographs of spirits. His business has heretofore been ornamental engraving—a very profitable business, which he says has paid him from five to eight dollars a day—but, from causes he cannot explain, he has been forced to leave it and engage in what he is now doing. He is not a Spiritualist, or, he says, he has never believed, in Spiritualism, but has opposed and ridiculed it. He has many times been told by mediums that he was a very powerful and peculiar medium. This he did not believe, and only laughed at the communications.
A few Sundays since, he being alone in the photograph saloon of Mrs. Stuart, 258 Washington street, trying some new chemicals, and amusing himself by taking a picture of himself, which, when produced, to his great astonishment and wonder, there was on the plate not alone a picture. of himself, as he supposed, but also a picture of a young woman sitting in a chair that stood by his side. He said that, while standing for this picture, he felt a peculiar sensation and tremulous motion in his right arm, and afterwards felt very much exhausted. This was all he experienced that was unusual. While looking upon the strange phenomenon, (the picture of two persons upon the plate instead of one.) the thought and conviction flashed upon his mind, thin is the picture of a spirit. And in it he recognized the likeness of his deceased cousin, which is also.said to be correct by all those who knew her.
He related this wonderful experience to some persons who were interested in Spiritualism, and they at once eagerly sought to have the experiment tried upon themselves, the result of which has been that some twenty or more persons have had their pictures taken, and the picture of one or more spirits have been upon the same plate. Many of them have been recognized as friends that once lived on earth. The picture of the spirit is fainter and less distinct than that of the one who sits. The pictures of the spirits are not alike, each one being different. The same person, sitting twice or more, gets different pictures of different spirits.
Dr. Ammi Brown on one picture had the likeness of a beautiful female spirit; on another he had the picture of two women and one man beside his own.
A widow lady, who was accompanied to the rooms by her mother and a daughter, sat for her picture and that of a spirit also. When it was finished, the daughter first saw it, and instantly exclaimed, bursting into tears, "Why, mother, this is father!" The grandmother looked at it next, and exclaimed. "Yes, this is my daughter's husband!" And the mother then looked, and said, " This is my husband!.'" All were weeping at the truthful likeness of a spirit.
All those who have witnessed this wonderful manifestation seem to be fully convinced that it is genuine—not a trick of the artist. Dr. Brown has examined it carefully and patiently, and is fully satisfied that there is no deception in it. He says: "If these, pictures, claimed to be the pictures of spirits, be a swindle or a sleight-of-hand deception, the operation beats the ingenuity of all the necromancers and prestidigitateurs of the present and the past." He has been present at the making of about twenty spirit pictures; he. has carefully watched the whole process from beginning to end. both before and behind the curtain; he has even prepared the plates with his own hands, and he affirms that he is fully satisfied that the pictures are what they are claimed to be—real photographs of real spirits.
He handed the first picture of a spirit taken for himself, inclosed in an envelope, into the sensitive hands of Mrs. J. S. Adams, before she had any knowledge that spirit photographs had been made, and the moment she took it in her hand she exclaimed, "This is the picture of a spirit."
One lady, very skeptical, said she believed that the artist used an old glass plate, on which there was another picture imperfectly washed oft". The artist requested her to furnish her own glass, with a mark on it, by which she should know it. She did so; and, to her unbounded surprise, there was not only a picture of herself upon it. but also a picture of a dear departed friend that she recognized.
One gentleman said that the picture of a spirit was a deception, for a photograph artist had shown him that two "negatives." used would produce two pictures on the same card.
This last fact Mr. Mumler admitted; but, on each single'• negative," he showed that there was the picture of the sitter, and also of the spirit.
Mr. Plummer, who takes the photographs for Mrs. Stuart in the same rooms, and with the same camera where Mr. Mumler operates, and assists Mr. Mumler in preparing his plates, affirms that if there be any deception in the matter, it is entirely beyond his knowledge.
Mr. Luther II. Hale, one of the best and oldest photograph artists in this city, has, by request, imitated these spirit-photographs; but he says he can only imitate them by using two negatives, printing twice. He says he cannot see how they can be produced on the card with only one negative, which is the case with all Mr. Mumler's spirit pictures.
Mr. Luther Parks has a picture of himself, and of a beautiful female spirit, floating, bearing a wreath of flowers, apparently about to place it upon his head.
Mrs. Isaac Babbitt has a picture of herself and of her deceased husband, that was recognized at once by all who knew him before his decease.
Mrs. Snow had a picture of herself and a spirit brother, holding a musical instrument in his hand, whom she recognized. This brother was a musical-instrument maker, and used to make the same kind of instruments he held in his band in the picture. She submitted this picture, in a sealed envelope, to a medium who knew nothing of what the. envelope contained, and who had heard nothing of this new phenomenon. The medium immediately replied: " You ought to be satisfied with the picture and musical emblem."
Mr. Taylor, of Indiana, sat for a picture, mentally requesting that the picture of Little child, recently deceased, might be made sitting upon hit hand, which he held in position for that purpose. The picture revealed himself and his mental request answered. The spirit-child was placed sitting on his hand, and leaning its little face against his own.
A well-known citizen of Boston sat for a picture, being folly persuaded in his own mind at the time
<c04>
he sat that the picture of Daniel Webster would appear on the plate with that of his own, and which impression of his own the artist knew nothing of. The picture presented one of himself and one of Daniel Webster, which no one could fail to recognize who knew the two men.
Mr. Edward Haynes, Jr., sat at two different times, and with very satisfactory results.
Judge Maine had a spirit-picture with his own, and was satisfied that it was what it purported to be.
All likenesses of spirits thus far taken are not! recognized as those of deceased friends, though most of them are fully recognized as such. But whether the likeness of* the spirit be that of a departed friend or not, this argues nothing against the mightiness of the manifestation in its claims to be spiritual, which claims have thus far been subjected lo the ordeal of the most searching examination, and in every respect seem to be just and true.
Mr. Mumler invited me to bring my own glass on which to make the picture; to examine the camera, its tubes and lenses; his chemicals; to see him apply the condition to the glass, and immerse it in the silver bath; to see him take it out of the bath and put it in the shield, then in the camera, and then to go with him into the dark closet, lighted only by a little lamp, and see him take the glass from the shield, which is a little dark box, then pour on an iron preparation, wash it under a stream of water, and then hold it to the little lamp, and see the picture of a mortal and a spirit on it. In compliance with this invitation, I carefully observed all the above operations in detail.
Mr. Mumler asks for any fair investigation that shall convince the people that his claims are just and genuine. This is right, and as it should be. And it is not unjust, or ungenerous, in a new thing, so great and so beautiful as this, if true, must be, for the people to ask the privilege to prove it true beyond the shadow of doubt.
I have a desire not to he too credulous in believing this new phenomenon, which seems almost too good to be true—and also I have a desire not to appear like an obstinate fool, by shutting out the perception of palpable, tangible facts, and deny that they exist, when I know that they do. Having spent one hour each day, on four consecutive days, in making a careful and thorough examination and reexamination of the whole process, and conversing freely with Mr. Mumler during the whole time—and also having seen many of the pictures which exhibit a peculiarity that deception, I believe, could not produce or imitate, I freely confess, with at least twenty others, whom I know, who have witnessed almost the same, that there is no appearance of deception—that the pictures arc real pictures of real spirits.
The modus operandi of producing these spirit-pictures is a mystery There is no spirit seen standing by the side of the person who sits for a picture, which shows that the picture of the spirit is not made like the picture of the mortal—by reflection on the camera. The spirit-picture must be made without reflection from without, but is made inside the camera. How it is made, neither deception, investigation, nor philosophy can answer.
—Herald of Progress. A. B. C.
ROBERT DALE OWEN AND MATTIE GRIFFITH.
Few persons, who are at all familiar with newspaper literature, are not familiar with the names that I have placed at the head of this article. Not because they have been associated together in any work whatever, but because each in his or her own way has made for himself or herself name and fame; and now I have put them side by side, simply because, for ten days, we have sat at the same table, and talked morn, noon and eve of the war, of slavery, of American affairs generally, and I have ventured to suppose that the readers of the Leader would be glad, for one meal at least, to be introduced to our party.
There at my right, at the head of the table, you sec a venerable looking gentleman, with whiskers white as snow circling from the ears to the tip of the chin, a soft, blond, fair face; it is plain, very plain. The nose is large, the eves deep set, yet very soft and of bluish grey, and the, hair, which is more brown than the beard and thin, is drawn from the left side to the right, falls, smooth and soft entirely over the head, leaving no baldness.
He is not either tan or short, neither fat nor lean, but a medium. His voice is pleasant, with the least bit of a Scotch tone, and he sits a' table, or deals out the steak or lamb, with the easy air of a good father among his children, lie is now in New York on business fur the.war from the State of Indiana, and is earnestly at work with his powerful pen, aiding and abetting the emancipation question, which he feels \s the only safety for our beloved institutions. But what will astonish most people, as it did me. is to know that this man seems to feel the most entire faith in God, and that He is working out this great problem of human liberty in His own way, and it will succeed. Mr. Owen seems to be a universal philanthropist. He has a work to do for the Port Royal Mission; helps ladies to start juvenile schools, young authors to publish books; and, though a very quiet man at home, has seemingly a mountain of word on his hands, which he is pushing off with a great deal of system and force. He plays games with the children evenings in the parlor—chats as familiar as a brother with the ladies—receives the literati of the city, and discourses the a flairs of the nation like a prophet.
If he was ever a Democrat of the Vallandigham school, he is not now. Heart and soul he is for liberty—for emancipation; but is ready to wait the appointed time of the President, and thinks that Abraham Lincoln will answer to the demands of the people by the first of January, 1863.
Mr. Owen was recently called to Washington. We all wait anxiously his return, hoping that lie will bring good news of great joy from the Capital. He goes at the call of Governor Morgan.
Opposite me, at Mr. Owen's right hand, sits Mattie Griffith, the little Kentucky poetess, once such a favorite of the Louisville Journal and the Missouri Republican, known now more generally in the free States as the Emancipator of her slaves, and the author of sundry books and tales on slavery, among them, Autobiography of a Female Slave." Miss Griffith's parents died when she was quite young. She was nursed from her birth by a mulatto slave, loved her for her kindness, and grew up without any of that " natural instinct of antipathy " to the black people which we hear white people of the North prate about. Her sole wealth, descending from her father, was in slaves. She was petted and loved for her genius, which broke out very early in life. At twenty-one, in spite of all remonstrances from friends and relatives, she gave freedom to every one. and by that act left herself dependent upon her own untried energies for support.
Such an act of course rendered the South no place for her; she came North, and has realized in part the saying, " Cast thy bread on the waters, and after many days it will return to thee."
Lovable in herself, the friends of freedom everywhere gave her a warm and generous welcome. She is a student and author, has travelled in Europe, and returned without being spoiled. A pretty figure, dark brown hair, and eves to match, a complexion of a chalky whiteness, but neither clear nor bilious. She is simple in her manners, artless, playful, impulsive, and as she sits sipping her tea before us, we would suppose her yet in her teens. We honor her for the work of humanity which she has done, and give her words of praise, because she has been true to herself; and being true to herself, is being true to man and to God.
"DO you unto others as ye would that others should do unto you," was to Mattie Griffith a living principle. Long may she live to enjoy the peace that comes of well-doing! Few young girls have ever been known in our slavery-bound country that have had moral force to do as she has done.
FRANCES D. GAGE.
New York, Oct. 6, 1862.
—Cleveland Leader. 

THE BATTLE OF CORINTH.
Extract from a letter dated—
CAMP NEAR CORINTH, Miss., Oct. 20,'62. We had an awful battle here on the 3d and 4th. Our regiment reached Corinth Saturday evening, and found the rebels in full retreat, followed them by rapid marches for two days and nights, came up with rear guard, skirmished, lost one killed and seven badly wounded, took hundreds of prisoners, and marched back to Corinth, where we are likely to remain, throwing up fortifications fur months to come..... I spent one day and one night among the wounded at Corinth, of whom there were at least J500, mostly rebels, and terribly sickening sights I aw. In one camp five miles out I found over 400,
<c05>
and nearly all badly wounded—three out of four with a leg or arm off, and in the most filthy and wretched plight that imagination can depict, without nurses or proper medical attendance. I made the acquaintance of several of the rebel surgeons, from whom, as well as from scores of the poor wounded and dying soldiers of their army, 1 received full accounts of the battle, and of the condition of their army. Many of the young men told me they had been forced into the service, and that their sympathies were all with the United States. With three of their surgeons and one of ours 1 assisted in removing 250 of those with amputated limbs to the. cars to go to Iuka, where they were delivered to their friends- Many of them begged me to have them sent North instead. Nearly one-half of them were absolutely naked, and with only a blood-soaked blanket, lying on the ground, longing for death to end their sufferings. This defeat was one of the most disastrous the Confederates have received since the war began. No more desperate fighting was ever done on the face of the earth than that of the storming of Fort Robinett; over 500 dead (by actual count) lay in and around the little fort after the fight; whole platoons were mowed down by single discharges of the guns of the fort near by; yet on they pressed, actually climbing over heaps of their dead. Three times they lowered the star* and stripes and run up their own flag, every man engaged in the work falling dead at the foot of the flag staff. I have seen a photograph taken a few hours after the rebels retreated, in which 30 corps of these assailants are seen piled about that staff, including Colonel Rogers, of the Texas Cavalry, and a captain of the same regiment. We have buried, by count, I468 of their dead, and taken over 5000 prisoners, exclusive of wounded. Our killed was about one-fifth of theirs. Their retreat was in much dismay and confusion, and with great loss of artillery, arms, ammunition, &c., but we should have followed, and utterly annihilated their army.

DEATH OF GINERAL MITOHEL
Ormsby McKnight Mitchel. the great astronomer, the finished orator, the patriot soldier, is dead. In the prime of life, the height of his influence, he dies on the southern coast as he is about entering on a career which offered the fairest opportunities for the development of his military talents, and promised results of the greatest importance to three million slaves. Of all the noble lives which have been laid on the altar of liberty in this war, there were none more precious to the country or the scientific world.
A correspondent of the Tribune gives the following account of the last scene:—Standing by his bedside, he reached out his hand and took mine, and looking up in my face, he said: " It is a blessed thing to have a Christian's hope in a time like this." I answered encouragingly, and he immediately closed his eyes and said no more. An hour after, he beckoned me, and feebly shaking my hand, said: " You must not stay any longer; go now, and come to me in the morning." Major Birch, who had been untiring in his attentions, entered almost convulsed with grief. He had just taken down the last will and wishes of his beloved commander. He conducted the Rev. Mr. Strickland to the bedside of the General, and beckoned me to follow. I did not hear the words of the General as the Rev. Mr. S. stooped to speak to him, but I did hear him say, "Kneel down," and then he asked Mr. Strickland to make a short prayer. How still he lay while that prayer went up to the throne of the God of battles! At its conclusion, as we arose, his eyes rested on me, and his hand was extended again. " You can do me no good," said he, faintly; " do not stay." His mind seemed perfectly clear and calm; but he was failing constantly. 
Oh! it is a tearful sight to us all to see a father thus dying—dying in the same house with his two sons, and they not know it—not permitted to look upon his face—not permitted to treasure his last words, his last look—that all these must be given to strangers. But they are too sick yet to bear the blow; it would shatter them; therefore they must be kept in ignorance till a coming hour.
7 P. M.—Gen. Mitchel has breathed his last. He is gone from us. Our hopes that were placed on him must be lifted higher—higher. With Victor Hugo, we must learn to say: " It is not generals nor soldiers, but God, who must give us the victory in this war of the powers of darkness." General Mitchel had entire possession of his faculties till within an hour or two of his departure, when his reason seem-I ed to wander. His last intelligent look was to the Rev. Mr. Strickland: seeing him approach the bed, he looked up devoutly, and lifting his band, pointed upward twice. So passed he from among men.
The Port Royal correspondent of the New York Independent, under date of Oct. 31st, writes:—
" Last evening, the announcement reached Hilton Head,' Major-General Mitchel died at a quarter past six this evening.' It is impossible to convey to any one outside of the Department the overwhelming sensation of grief and gloom that this news created. Every one, in every station, feels that he has lost a personal friend, in whose brilliant exploits he felt an intense pride: that the Department has lost one who was the tower of its strength and safety; and that the country has lost a General to whom no superior is left behind. Truly, in the grand, touching words of Isaiah:' It is as when a standard-bearer fainteth.'
To-day I have attended his funeral at Beaufort. The procession moved from Hospital No. 2 to the Episcopal church, the pall being borne by Admiral Dupont, Brigadier-Generals Brannan and Saxton, and other naval and military officers of high rank. At the church and at the grave, the service of the Methodist Episcopal Church was read by Rev. Dr. Strickland, chaplain of the 48th New York, an old friend of the General. I regretted that there was not something beside the reading of the service— some word of prayer or remark suggested by. and growing out of, the occasion. It seemed as if everyone present must long to hear and join in an expression of the emotions of admiration for the dead, of grief for his departure, which burdened every heart. It was remembered with overwhelming emotion that, two weeks ago, he had summoned together all the officers at the Post. to meet him in this church, and had, in a familiar address, animate with patriotism, spoken to them of his policy, and cheered them to the faithful discharge of their duties to the country.' Alas! no more will that clear lip flash with the instinct of genius and patriotism; no more will that! ringing voice, which seemed to emulate the resonance and the strength of the steel by his side, call us to duty and to glory. In the very spot where so lately he stood and spoke, now his body rested, enveloped in the flag he loved so well.
He died as he had lived; for he was not alone a General but a Christian. He was a member of the New School Presbyterian church in Cincinnati, J formerly under the charge of Dr. Beeches And his life and spirit were in harmony with this profession. It was faith in God which sustained him amid the perils which he saw surrounding the nation. He said to the writer a few weeks ago,' I am not troubled. I am standing on a rock. I have absolute confidence in the wisdom and goodness of God. He may indeed leave the country a prey to disaster. But I do not believe that he will, for then it would be of no use to contend against such a result. Rather. I believe that he will bring it out of ail its perils into peace and liberty.'
Among the many saddening attendants of the late bereavement was the fact that the General's two sons, prostrated by the same disease which had proved fatal to him, were ignorant of his death, not being in a condition to bear the shock of the announcement. It will be remembered that shortly after be offered his services to the Government, and left his home for the teat of war, his wife died suddenly, overwhelmed with solicitude in his behalf, and with sorrow over his absence. Sorely, no one among us has made such unparalleled sacrifices at the altar of liberty, of humanity, of the country with whose destiny he believed the interests of humanity to be inseparably Inked."
THE ABUSE OF FURLOUGHS. General McClellan started on the Peninsula campaign with 168.000 men. After the seven days' battles, this force was reduced to about 64,000, although the casualties of both field and camp did not much exceed 20,000. Forty four thousand men—more than one third his original force—it is said, were absent from their commands on furlough! To this cause, more than to disease and battle, is attributed the frittering! away of the modern times magnificent army of modern times, and McCllean's failure to capture Richmond. It will be remembered, that immediately after the battles in front of Richmond, the War Department issued a most stringent order in regard to officers and men absent from their commands; but it was too late to change the state of affairs on the Peninsula, and the " grand army " returned to Washington with scarcely one-third the numbers it left with.
<c06>
THE EFFECT OF EXCLUDING THE SOLDIERS FROM VOTING. 
The unfavorable results of the election in Ohio and Indiana are in accordance with the apprehensions we have felt for a month past. The enormous drain of straight Union men to fill the requisitions for 600,000 soldiers weakened the Union party so seriously as to leave the opposition party in a majority in those States. In many counties, one-half of the Republicans have gone to the army, white in the same counties not a tenth part of the democrats have volunteered. There has been a wide-spread, systematic and zealous effort on behalf of the Tory leaders, who oppose the war, to dissuade the rank and file of the party from enlisting, which bas in large measure been successful, especially under the late calls. They keep them at home to cote, and seize upon the seats in Congress, in the absence of the patriotic free men in the field batting for their country. In consequence of this conspiracy, the Republican party in Ohio and Indiana has had to furnish two-thirds of all the men sent to the war. The rest are War Democrats.
 The net loss to the Republicans in Ohio has not been less than 40,000 and in Indiana 30,000. That the unconditional Union men should, under not matter of surprise. If the soldiers from those States circumstances, be worsted at the polls, need not be a matter of surprise. If the Soldiers from those States had been allowed to vote, not a single Tory would have been elected to Congress. The Unionists would have made a clear sweep. This statement is shown to be true by the result in Iowa. In that State the soldiers were permitted to take part in the election, and behold the result! The victory is one of gigantic proportions. The Union men have elected the entire delegation. Not a Tory came within sight of success. Like causes produce like results. Let the volunteers of Indiana and Ohio vote to-morrow, and they will reverse the results in every district carried by the Vallandigham party. It is a gross outrage and injustice, upon the right of the majority to rule, to deprive patriotic men of the elective franchise, simply because they are absent from their counties or States, fighting to save the Government from destruction, and society from anarchy, or to permit secession sympathizers to open a fire-in-the-rear upon them through the ballot-box. Not one of the candidates elected by the Tories in Indiana or Ohio represents the sentiments of the majority of the votes of his district. To have those quasi loyal congressmen legislating and making laws for the Republic is not only anti-democratic, but a gross outrange upon the rights of the majority.
—Chicago Tribune.

THE MODEST MAS.
George Francis Train, in his speech at Portland last Monday evening, was eminently successful: that is, he convinced the most of his audience that he is either a maniac, or the biggest jackass that walks on two legs. His egotism is exceeded only by his brass. The Portland Advertiser reports his speech at the meeting referred to. at which the editor presided, and we need only quote a few passages from it to convince our readers that we do George Francis no wrong. In speaking of the work before him, he says:—
"As soon as I have broken the skull of the Abolition party, I am off for Richmond: the self appointed representative of the people, as I was in ENGLAND, where I shall talk Jeff. Davis into a peace satisfactory to every man in the Republic, but fire-eating Secessionists and the blood-making, nigger worshipping Abolitionists."
 This declaration about making a satisfactory peace with Jeff. Davit is not entitled to unconditional belief, although Mr. Train interposes no conditions But here is something about what he and his wife are worth:—
 "I want no office, no money. I am independent of the world. My wife has just had an elegant house presented her by her father, in Madison Avenue, New York. Some time ago, he settled 8100,000 upon her and my children, and 1 intend to make a million sterling out of my Horse Railway Patent in England; therefore I am not dependent on any man to dictate how I shall wear my hat, or what color shall be my gloves. As for the Abolition newspapers, the range of their guns can never touch a debater who for eighteen months has stood fireproof against the Editorial Battlers of England."
But here is one more good thing by George Francis; though it may be all strictly true, we certainly think that it would have looked a little better had some other person than himself said it. About the close of his remarks he said:-
" Two hours hare gone so quickly, I have omitted much I wished to say. Mr. Sumner is a man of small grasp, small range of intellect. I can talk more sense, and commerce, and finance, and statesmanlike thought in an hour, than he can in a week. Why don't he meet me in debate, if he dares to, instead of sending out the two lunatic members of his abolition firm!"
This will do. Mr. Sumner has certainly been run over and used up by the "fast Train"—George Francis Train, the modest man.—Oydensburgh True Advance.
 
FREEDOM.
"It is the Lord's doing, and marvelous in our eyes."
I'se gwine to tall ye, Sambo, 
What I heard in town, to-ay,—
I listened at the Cap'n's tent, 
I'll tell ye what he say.

He say dat Massa Linkum,
Way yonder Norf, ye see. 
Him write it in de Yankee book,
De nigger gwine for tree 

And now, ye see, I tell ye
What Massa Linkum done, 
De secesh can't get way from dat,
No more'n dey dodge a gun.

It's jes' as sure as preachin',
I tell ye, Sambo, true.— 
De nigger's trouble ober now,—
No mere dem last for you.

I'spected dat would happen,—
I had a sense, ye see. 
Of something big been 
To make de people free.

I t'ought de flamin angel
Been gwine for blow de trump;
But Massa Linkum write de word, 
Dat make de rebel jump.

So now we'll pick de cotton.
So now we'll broke de corn,— 
De niggers body am his own,
De bery day he born.

He grind de grits in safety,
He eat de yams in peace, 
De Lord, him bring be jubilee,
De Lord, him set de feas'.

So now, I tell ye, Sambo,
Ye're born a man to-day.— 
Nobody gwine for contradie
What Massa Liukum say.

Him gwine for free de nigger,
De Lord, him gib de word; 
And Massa Linkum write'em down,—
Oh! Sambo, praise de Lord!
—Hingham Gazette.
 CONTRABANDS IN WASHINGTON. Mr Nichols, superintendent of contrabands at Washington, denies the statement that forty thousand of these freedmen are supplied with food, clothing and quarters at Government expense. He says there are about seven thousand contrabands in the District and Alexandria, and that of these only six hundred and seventy five receive rations from the government. Of this later number, many perform a certain amount of labor so that they are not entirely a burden to the government. Mr. Nichols says that these contrabands have received clothing only from private sources. He adds that there is so much demand for their labor that he could furnish homes for ten times as many as he could supply.
The Anglo-African says that Mrs. Abraham Lincoln has presented the Contraband Relief Association of Washington the generous contribution two hundred dollars for the relief of the suffering freedmen in and around that city.
WILL CASE. In the Court of Common Pleas at Philadelphia, in Friday, a jury decided a case in which the husband of Nancy Coots, a colored woman, sought to invalidate his wife's will, leaving her estate which was considerable, to the wife of Passmore Williamson. It was shown by Coots that his wife was of unsound mind when the testament was made. As its provisions conflicted with ail her previous, declarations and the jury rendered a verdict invalidating the will.
 Sir Benjamin Brodie, the distinguished surgeon died at his seat in Surry, (Eng.) on the 21st ult.
