<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS Two dollars and fifty cents per an sum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square in <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Socities are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDRLL PHILLIPS.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the Journal of Commerce.
SUMNER'S WRATH AND POLITICAL IN TERPRETATIONS.
How disgraceful, and how mortifying to the advocate of the peace and harmony of the nation, does the present political attitude of Senator Sumner appear! He seems to have banished from his memory the record that George Washington was opposed to internal differences of any kind or description between the people of the North and the South, because of the existence of slavery. He was content with the provisions on that point inserted in the Constitution; and, like all good and patriotic Americans, would not consent to disturb them. In our day, however, the slave of a revolutionary theory, the victim of egotism, and the searcher after applause and notoriety-unequalled in his nervous anxiety by even Wendell Phillips himself-steps forth to pronounce the law defective which had its origin in the infant days of the Republic, when the wise and noble spirits who had lought for our liberty cried amen to every token of unity, and every show of mutual progress and prosperity-recognizing both North and South as one grand compact, without regard to any differences in their local construction. Who, pray, is this new expounder of the Federal Constitution? Has be any liberality of soul, any yearnings for a return of the precepts of his forefather, any decency, any respect for the intelligent classes of the community, and any remembrance of his claims to the title of an American statesman? T is said that he is a MODEL REPUBLICAN, the pupil of Seward, the friend of the Abolitionists, and the stump advocate of Lincoln. Let the people beware of his teachings, as they better become the disciple of treason than the scholar or the gentleman! Let him, in short, be made sensible of the fact that a tongue like his, with venom, should in future be silent-its office has been degraded, and its possessor will be despised.
CITIZEN.
SUMNER'S SPEECH.
The embodiment of all that is disgusting and contemptible in manhood,-that
‘incarnation,’ as he was justly called by Senator Chestnut, ‘of malice, mendacity and cowardice,’-the notorious Charles Sumner, who disgraces alike the Senate of the United States, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the continent of America, and the form of humanity, has again vomited forth one of those ineffably depraved coneoctions of his, which it is an abose of language to dignify with the name of a ‘speech.’ On Monday, he made the Senate chamber hideous with his foul and loathsome sputterings, and the wonder is how any decent member managed to sit five minutes under the sounds of his voice, as they must have resembled the mutterings of a fiend in the pit, more than the modulations of a tongue touched with the sympathies and instincts of ordinary mortality.-Petersburg (Va.) Express.
TERRIBLE EX-PRESIDENT TYLER!
John Tyler has issued a pronunciamento in favor of Breckinridge, and against Bell, Douglas and Lincoln, all and singular. Hear him:-
‘Live or die, survive or perish, I will stand over the graves of my ancestry, by the hearthstones of my relatives, and by the side of my friends-all, all here in James City, Charles City, and New Kent-and defend the one and the other against all enemies whatever, whether they appear as compromisers of any rights under 
the Constitution and in the Union, or as Republican Abolitionists-whether they consist of Northern oppressors or of Southern tyrants. In six months, we shall know whether the ominous junction of twenty-five millions of non-slaveholders. North and South, has been formed, tearing the Constitution into shreds, in order that they may obliterate with brute force the rights and interests secured by the great charter of liberty and freedom to the two millions of slaveholders in the Southern States. In six months, we shall know whether a war will not have to be raised at the South, similar to that of the Revolution, between the patriots and the tories. In that brief time, we shall know whether it will not be necessary, as it was then, to purge the political atmosphere of the South through a baptism of blood. The "Constitutional Unionists" of this day may find themselves in the predicament of the "British Unionists” of that day. My “funeral" may then come, but if perish I must, let me fall under the folds of the patriot flag. If this be treason, make the most of it.'
HAMLIN A NEGRO!
In a recent political harangue, Rhett of South Carolina thus assails the Republican candidate for the Vice Presidency of the United states:—
If, on the contrary the Black Republicans succeed in electing Lincoln and Hamlin, who openly advocate that slavery be abolished throughout the whole world, then we have to look to ourselves. Hamlin is what we call a mulatto. He has black blood in him; and let me tell you that it is his Domination that has a remarkable peculiarity. The Northern people take that man in consequence of that peculiarity. I see it stated in the papers that be is a mulatto. I can only say that some state it as reason why that man is taken up, is in consequence of the spite and malignity manifested towards him. But they design to place over the South a man who has negro blood in his veins.
They put a renegade Southerner on one side for President, for Lincoln is a native Kentuckian, and they put a man of colored blood on the other side of the ticket for Vice President of the United States. This was a sectional Convention. It nominated men upon a sectional principle, with not a single Southern State represented among them. They proposed a platform of principles utterly inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States by which their rulers should be governed. The question is, will you submit to such a nomination, if effectual?

REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES, BY A SOUTHERN ARTIST.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.A late Harper's Weekly we have received (May 26) gives us a portrait of Abraham Lincoln, the nominee for President of the Black Republicans, and a horried looking wretch he is!-sooty and scoundrelly in aspect; a cross between the nutmeg-dealer, the horse-swapper and the nightman-a creature ‘fit, evidently, for petty treason, small stratagems, and all sorts of spoils.’ He is a lank-sided Yankee, of the uncomeliest visage, and one of the dirtiest complexion and the most indecent comparisons. Faugh! after him, what decent white man would be President!'
HANNIBAL HAMLIN. Harper's Weekly for June 2 takes off the heads of the Chinese, and gives us bead and shoulders of the Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, the Black Republican candidate for Vice President- a person of much beef and brawn, with mouth awfully compressed, cheeks dreadfully tumid, attitude shockingly inartistio tout ensemble such as
<c02>
though wonderfully contrasted with that of the Black Republican nominee for the Presidency, Abraham Lincoln-such as will do more to shock the good taste of Europe, for our representative men, physically, than their own performance ever can do in disgusting them mentally and morally. Both are monstrously bad-looking fellows, whom we should rather expect to see in a watch-house, or on the tread-mill, than in any assembly of decent citizens. Charleston Mercury.

SELECTIONS.
From the New York Tribune.
PHILLIPS versus LINCOLN. 
In the Tribune of the 4th inst. we commented upon an article in the Boston Liberator by Mr. Wendell Phillips. On one point, and one only, it seems, we did Mr. Phillips injustice. We suggested that his gross misrepresentation of Mr. Lincoln was committed through carelessness. We were mistaken. It was done deliberately, and in last week's Liberator is deliberately defended. He does more than defend it. In his first article, the purpose was 'to gibbet a 
Northern hound,' by representing Mr. Lincoln as seeking the reconsideration of a vote to abolish the slave trade in the District of Columbia, that he might introduce a bill, the sole object of which, Mr. Phillips would have his readers infer, was to enact a Fugitive Slave Law in the District, We showed how unfounded and calumnious this charge was, by appealing to the record, whereby it seems that Mr. Lincoln made no request of the House to reconsider its vote, but, on the contrary, told them that if the vote were reconsidered he should attempt to introduce a bill which would not only abolish the slave trade in the District, but slavery itself. This main purpose of the bill Mr. Phillips is compelled to recognize, now that attention is called to it. He offers no apology, however, nor explanation, for having at first concealed the fact, but justifies himself by objecting to the bill itself as ‘no credit to any man, being one of the poorest and most confused specimens of pro-slavery compromise.’ We beg leave to submit that that is not the question. We cannot permit Mr. Phillips to shift the issue in this facile way. Let us keep to the point. The charge was that Mr. Lincoln attempted to restore the slave trade in the District, and to open it to slave-hunting without qualification. The fact is that he did not do the first at all, and he evidently proposed the second only as a concession in a scheme of ridding the District of both slave trade and slavery. Now, whether his scheme was a good one or not, is not the point in discussion. We know very well that Mr. Lincoln is not an Abolitionist of the Garrisonian school; nobody pretends it. Nor is it his character that is in issue; but it is Mr. Phillips's. 
Though the first article surprised us much, the second surprises us more. Mr. Phillips is reckless in misrepresentation. The bill, he says, provides that United States officials, coming from the South, may bring their slaves into the District. True. But he adds: ‘Such persons are to be allowed to hold them there forever.’ What says the bill? Officers of the Government ‘coming into said District on public business, and remaining only so long as may be reasonably necessary for that object,’ shall have this privilege. Again: 'All children born after 1850 were to be free some time or other; it is not stated when,' says Mr. Phillips. What says the bill?' That all children born of slave mothers, within said District, on or after the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty, shall be free.’ And it is further provided that these children shall be held as apprentices, supported and educated by the owners of their mothers for a term of years, which was left blank, to be filled of course when the bill came up for consideration, when they were to be  ‘entirely free.’ Mr. Phillips! Mr. Phillips!
But we do not choose to draw away from the main point by a discussion of the bill. Whether it was good, or whether it was bad, is nothing to this present controversy. The point is simply whether Mr. Lincoln did a certain thing for a certain purpose, as we, standing on the record, assert; or whether he did quite another thing with quite another purpose, as Mr. Phillips avers. Beside the record, we have another invaluable witness-Mr. Phillips himself-who has no other justification to offer for suppressing the truth than the fact that he considered it discreditable to Mr. Lincoln. Nobody would expect a bill drawn up by that gentleman touching slavery in the District, to be satisfactory to Mr. Phillips. But Mr. Phillips does an irreparable injury to the cause he represents when he so forgets himself as to resort to a concealment of facts for the propagation of a slander. It may be very wicked in Mr. Lincoln, or any other Republican, to concede for the District of Columbia the same constitutional right for the rendition of fugitives that belongs to all the States of the Union. But a gratuitous concession of that privilege, and its concession for the sake of abolishing slavery itself in the District, are two things so widely different in spirit and purpose, that it is impossible to misconceive them as it is discreditable to misrepresent them. ‘I was a man,' we remember Mr. Phillips saying in one of his eloquent orations-‘ I was a man before I was an Abolitionist.' We beg leave to remind him of it. The cause of abolition can never justify him in doing an unmanly thing.
Perhaps as sharp a commentary as need be made upon the foregoing article from the Tribune will be to append to it the following edifying extract from a speech delivered last week by Horace Greeley, at a meeting designed to be composed mainly of old Henry Clay Whigs, friendly to the election of Abraham Lincoln:-There is one other of our old friends who is conspicuous in the effort to turn over the old Whigs of New York to the support of the Douglas ticket: that man is Washington Hunt. (Groans.) Of him I purpose to speak by the record. I went to Washington as a representative of this District in the year 1848, and I found there Abraham Lincoln and Washington Hunt, with me Whig members of Congress.  Now, then, I have compared their record, vote by vote and proposition by proposition, and I defy any man to show wherein Abraham Lincoln went one step in advance, in what is miscalled a sectional direction, of Washington Hunt, or in advance of what we then understood to be Whig doctrines with regard to slavery in the territories. There was one case wherein they differed that was a somewhat important difference; and Mr. Lincoln was on the conservative side of the question, and Mr. Hunt, with me and others, was on the side of what they now stigmatize as not conservative. I call your attention to the record. Mr. Daniel Gott from this State, a member of the House, rose, on the 21st of December, 1848, and moved this proposition:—
Whereas, The traffic now prosecuted in this metropolis, in human beings as chattels, is contrary to natural justice and to the fundamental principles of our political system, and is notoriously a reproach to
<c03>
our country throughout Christendom, and a serious hindrance to the progress of republican liberty throughout the nations of the earth; therefore.
Resolved, That the Committee of the District of Columbia be instructed to report a bill prohibiting the slave-trade in this District.’
Gen. Haralson of Georgia moved to lay that proposition on the table, and Abraham Lincoln voted in the affirmative-yeas, 81-for this proposition to lay on the table; and Washington Hunt voted with me and Mr. Gott, Mr. Giddings, &c., against laying on the table. The proposition to lay on the table was voted down, and the resolution adopted, yeas 98, including Washington Hunt, Giddings, Gott, Greeley, &c.; and among the 88 nays was Abraham Lincoln! How is it that Mr. Lincoln is now called a fanatic, while Washington Hunt is now opposing him for sectionalism? (Laughter and great applause.) The Southern men voted with Mr. Lincoln. Mr. Lincoln was a conservative Whig: he was an avowed Anti-Slavery man. but he thought it not best to pass that resolve at that time. He brought in a separate proposition afterward, and tried to get it before the House for a more modified and conservative way of getting rid of the slave-trade in the District; and Mr. Washington Hunt and I voted with Mr. Giddings and others, the Northern members exclusively, against the whole South, and against Abraham Lincoln, voting with the South. (Hear.) Where was Mr. Hunt's horror of sectionalism then and these?

DEFAMATION REFUTED.
To the Editor of the London Anti-Slavery Advocate:
LEICESTER, Mass., June 11th, 1860.
Friends advise me to send the following circular to you for publication in the Anti-Slavery Advocate, and they suggest that you may get it inserted in some other journals, perhaps in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, British Friend, and in the Daily News. What amount of circulation or attention the book has had in your country, I have no means of knowing. It is a small, neat 18mo. of 189 pp. published by Sampson Low, Son & Co. in 1859; and ‘the right of translation reserved'! The authoress is a Miss Bird, of the Scotch Church, I believe; her father is a clergyman of the English Church, and she is, I have understood, a neice of the Archbishop of Canterbury. It so happened that she passed several weeks in the family of a friend of mine near Boston, where I saw her once or twice. None of his family supposed she would so grossly caricature the anti-slavery meetings as she has done in her book, much less that she would so utterly falsify Wendell Phillips or any other person. My attention was first called to the passage by an English lady who knew of Miss Bird's partial acquaintance with me and of her intimacy in my friend's family. It was to satisfy her that I drew up the certificate of which the foregoing is a copy, and obtained such signatures to it as I conveniently could. The original goes to England, and it you think proper to give publicity to the copy, we shall feel obliged to you. Recurring to your note of December 6th last, I find the work you therein mention as so grossly defamatory of the American Abolitionists is the identical one concerning which I have sent the certificate! I was not at all aware of it when I was getting the names nor until within these few minutes. It seems, then, that you have seen the book, or some notices of it, and will of course be able to decide at once upon the utility of publishing it. 
Our cause, and the cause of free and courageous speech and action, have lost a host in Theodore Parker. Oh! his death is very grievous,-a terrible blow. But his own words from Santa Cruz, a year ago, in anticipation of his death, are a great comfort now. A noble, brave worker he was, with a tender heart, alive to all suffering and wrong. The little bigots among us ill conceal their joy at his departure; but the large and generous souls, of all classes and denominations, render their respectful and grateful tributes to his memory. It is pitiable to see the living asses kick the dead lion, but they do the best they know, and may be easily pardoned in view of their feebleness and cowardice. I think you will read with satisfaction the addresses made at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention upon the resolutions offered in his memory.
CIRCULAR ABOVE REFERRED TO.
On the 85th page of an English work, entitled 'The Aspects of Religion in the
United States of America,' by the Author of' The Englishwoman in America,' is the following passage:-
'He [Wendell Phillips of Boston. U. S.] stigmatized Washington and Jesus Christ as traitors to humanity; the one as the author of the Constitution, the other of the New Testament, both of which encourage slavery.'
We the undersigned, well acquainted, and most of of us long acquainted, with Wendell Phillips, and familiar with his views and opinions on the subject of slavery, pronounce the above language and sentiments, attributed to him by the author of ‘The Aspects of Religion, &c., to be entirely destitute of truth, I completely at variance with his well known sentiments concerning Christianity and its author, and concerning Washington, and wholly opposite to his frequent and unvarying language, both in public and in private, during his whole life.
Boston, April 28, 1860.
(Signed,) FRANCIS JACKSON, President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
SAMUEL MAY, Jun., General Agent of said Society; late Pastor of Second Congregational Church, Leicester, Mass. 
E. H. HEYWOOd, Late of Brown University, Providence, R. I.
W.M. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor of the Liberator, and President of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
EDMUND QUINCY.
SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, New York.
[Rev. Samuel J. May further says-’ Let me add, Wendell Phillips is incapable of such an historical blunder as to attribute to Washington the authorship. of the United States Constitution: or to Jesus Christ, who left no writings, the authorship of the New Testament.']
From the London Anti-Slavery Advocate.
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES. London: William Tweedie, 337, Strand, pp.56.
Some people, who take a superficial view of the anti-slavery cause, treat it as a matter of no moment to British Abolitionists whether the Constitution of the United States is or is not to be regarded as an anti-slavery document. They might maintain with equal justice that a clear idea could be given of the steam-engine by a lecturer ignorant of the action of the steam upon the piston. Slavery is upheld by the consent of the Free States, not because they like it, or because they regard it as morally right, but because, being blinded by habit to its moral and social evils, they consider themselves bound by the' compromises of the Constitution.' It is impossible
<c04>
to argue to any practical anti-slavery result with an American, unless you can convince him either that he should disclaim all allegiance to the immoral bargain made on his behalf by the founders of the Republic, or that none of the provisions of the Constitution do really bear a pro-slavery construction. The number of Americans who visit England is so great, that it is of the first importance to be able to meet them on their ground in reference to this question; and for this purpose, we have never seen any manual so fitted to make the whole subject clear to Englishmen as that now before us. It contains,
I. A speech by Mr. George Thompson, in which he shows, in lucid and dignified language, the pro-slavery meaning of the American Constitution, as held not only by the great majority of the people of the United States of all classes, but by the members of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
II. A speech by Air. Frederick Douglass, in which he attempts to refute Mr. Thompson's arguments, and explains with good ability and in very bad temper the theory that the absence of the words ‘slave’ or ‘slavery’ in the Constitution is a sufficient warrant for all who choose to interpret that document in an anti-slavery sense.
III. A rejoinder by Mr. Thompson, who upholds the views of his former speech by an ample array of the highest authorities, legal and legislative, of the United States.
Being fond of poring over old book stalls, we lately happened to pick up on one of them, ‘A Familiar Exposition of the Constitution of the United States: containing a Brief Commentary on every clause, explaining the true nature, reason, and objects thereof; designed for the use of schools, libraries, and general readers. By Joseph Story, LL.D., Dane Professor of Law in Harvard University. New York: Harper and Brothers, 1847.' Now, this Joseph Story was subsequently Chief Justice of the State of Massachusetts; he was the author of many legal text books, which are regarded with great respect not only in the United States, but in England; and as an expounder of the Constitution, he would probably not he considered inferior to Mr. Frederick Douglass. Turning to page 242, chapter xxxiii., under the heading of ‘Privileges of Citizens, Fugitives, Criminals and Slaves,' we find that the last section of the Commentary runs as follows:-
‘ 411. The next clause is, "No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor; but shall be delivered up, on the claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due." This clause was introduced into the Constitution solely for the benefit of the slaveholding States, to enable them to reclaim their fugitive slaves, who should escape into other States, where slavery is not tolerated. It is well known that at the common law, a slave escaping into a State where slavery is not allowed, would immediately become free, and could not be reclaimed. Before the Constitution was adopted, the Southern States felt the want of some protecting provision against such an occurrence to be a grievous injury to them. And we here see that the Eastern and Middle States have sacrificed their own opinions and feelings, in order to take away every source of jealousy, on a subject so delicate to Southern interests; a circumstance sufficient of itself to repel the delusive notion that the South has not, at all times, had its full share in the blessings resulting from the Union.'
We venture to suggest that this is a valuable addition to the array of facts, authorities, and arguments which Mr. Thompson has produced, in support of what we have always regarded as the most sensible, as it is the most practical, view of this question.

THE LIBERATOR.
CELEBRATION AT NORTH ELBA.
The Fourth of July among the Adirondacks.
THE JOURNEY TO JOHN BROWN’ HOUSE.
Into the ‘enchanted land of the Adirondacks,' as this region has been fitly called by Mr. Higginson, our little party passed on the 3d of July. We crossed Lake Champlain, at Burlington, to Port-Kent, Essex county, thence by stage to Keeseville, some four miles distant. Here we engaged an open wagon and pair of horses. Our route lay through one of the most romantic regions on this continent.  Up the valley of the Au-Sable, a dark and swift mountain stream, which for the first dozen miles flowed gently over its gravelly bed, meandering through a broad valley of placid beauty. The distant mountains, blue with mist in the morning, grew more and more distinct as their proportions loomed up. Rare vistas through the many ranges of hills were constantly opening, affording glimpses of green valleys and broad Intervales.
After the first dozen miles, the scenery grew more wild and romantic. ‘Old Whiteface' became more distinct. The hills came down steep and precipitous almost to the water's edge. The bed of the stream was narrow and rocky. The turbulent waters thundered along, breaking at short intervals into miniature cataracts and falls, while occasionally a genuine torrent thundered over a ledge of rocks high enough to make one think of the sublimity of Nature. The road wound close to the river, sometimes cut from the side of a sheer precipice, along which there seemed barely room enough to pass. Below, fifty or a hundred feet, roared the river; above, the dark pines, firs and cedars found scanty subsistence in the overhanging masses of rock, which looked as if ready to fall each moment upon our heads. Words cannot paint the wild grandeur of the scene. Passing through what is known as the ‘Narrows,’ where the ‘White-face mountain' rises up on the one hand, and on the other the iron-gray wall of rock shoots up sheer and precipitous for hundreds of feet, until you have to look overhead to catch the gleam from the sky; the dark masses of evergreen, clinging to and clothing the steeps with sombre beauty; the foaming torrent, boiling in the rapids which just below break over a ledge of rocks,-all these make a scene such as can only be surpassed in the Alps or Andes.
It was near sundown when we reached the hamlet of North Elba. The home of Capt. Brown was about a mile beyond. We reached it in good season, and found a hearty welcome. It is a modest farm-house, which has been somewhat enlarged during the past sesson, but yet not too comfortable for the severe winters of this region. In answer to our inquiries, we learned that all of the family had arrived. While supper was being prepared, the writer stole off for a few moments’ self-communion by the grave which contained the remains of the hero whom he loved. 
<c05>
About one hundred and fifty feet from the door stands a huge granite boulder - a primeval relic - which seemed to have been upheaved from the farthest depths of earth, in the convulsions of some mythical age. There it stands, stern and strong, an emblem of the character of him whose body moulders in its shadow. Such a resting-place fitly became the hero. On the side of the rock facing the house, swells the mound which tells of him who lies beneath. It is a simple turfed hillock, carefully banked and tended. The revolutionary gray grave-stone stands in simple modesty at the head of the mound. How unpretending! how touching! yet how significant the inscription! On the one side it reads,- 
‘In memory of Capt. JOHN BROWN, who died at New York, Sept. ye 3, 1776, in ye 48 year of his age.
JOHN BROWN, born May 9, 1800, was executed at Charlestown, Va., Dec. 2, 1859.
OLIVER BROWN, born March 9, 1839, was killed at Harper's Ferry, Oct. 7, 1859.’
On the other side is inscribed the following:- 
'In memory of FREDERICK, son of John and Dian the Brown, born Dec. 21, 1830, and murdered at Osawatomie, Kansas, Aug. 30, 1856, for his adherence to the cause of freedom.
WATSON BROWN, born Oct. 7, 1836, was wounded at Harper's Ferry, Oct. 17, and died Oct. 19, 1859.'
What a commentary! ‘ Murdered for adherence to the cause of freedom.' With head uncovered, we sat before that lowly grave. What passed in our mind words could not tell, but the memory will never be obliterated.
Preparations had been made for the speaking. A rude platform and desk were placed on the granite, and the speakers stood looking down on that grave. Beyond, rude seats were arranged for the audience. That night was spent at the house of Henry and Ruth Thompson, in company with the elder members of the family from Ohio, Miss Dunbar, and other friends.

THE MEETING.
The day rose clear and bright. Very early the people began to gather in, and it soon became evident that the assemblage would be large. By ten o'clock, a thousand persons were present. The meeting was called to order, and the Rev. MATHEW WARDNER, of Essex County, chosen President. R. J. HINTON was nominated as Secretary. The President opened the proceedings with some introductory remarks, alluding to the events which had brought the assemblage together, and contrasting this celebration with others going on simultaneously throughout the land.
Rev. C. G. PRINDLE then read the Declaration of Independence, in a full and clear voice. As the list of grievances fell upon the ears of those present, many, whose eyes were resting on the grave before them, were making a stirring commentary upon the sounding periods.
Prayer was then offered by the Rev. LYMAN PRINDLE. It was worthy of the occasion. 
John Brown's favorite hymn,-
‘ Blow ye the trumpet, blow!' was then sung by the choir and the meeting-the stirring strains swelling up until the listening hills seemed to echo back the strains.
On motion, W. F. M. Arny, of Kansas, Wendell Lancing, editor of the Republican paper at Keeseville, and the Rev. Lyman Prindle, of Mooers, Clinton Co., N. Y., were appointed a Committee to prepare resolutions for submission to the meeting.
The President then introduced the Orator of the Day, as one of the oldest anti-slavery workers-the Rev. Dr. LUTHER LEE, of Chagrin Falls, Cuyahoga Co., Ohio-who delivered an Address, the length of which will prevent its insertion here.
At the close of the Oration, another appropriate hymn was sung by the choir.
Mr. Arny, from the Committee on Resolutions, then made the following report, which was read:- 
PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
Whereas, this being the 84th Anniversary of the American Independence from the tyrannical control of the King and Government of Great Britain;- and whereas, the principles enunciated in that immortal declaration assert the sacred right of each member of the human family to the possession of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness’;-and whereas, there are now held in the most degrading bondage in one-half of this boasted land of freedom, four millions of persons who are deprived of all the essential requisites which constitute individual, civil and religious liberty;-and whereas, it would seem as if this nation, in the fulness of intemperate pride, glories in the shame which renders the land infamous, branding with the name of ‘felon’ those who, believing in the Golden Rule and the Declaration of Independence, dared to put into deeds the words of Jesus, and in their lives practise what Bunker Hill and Yorktown taught the race, finding no place for the noblest of men but the prison and the scaffold-therefore,
Resolved, That we, here assembled, standing around the mound which covers all that was mortal of our late friend, neighbor, and fellow citizen, JOHN BROWN, of immortal memory,-with the glorious events of his long life of self-sacrifice and martyr heroism fresh in our minds, and remembering, as he did, ‘those in bonds as bound with them’ do reaffirm our unalterable faith in the principles of Universal Freedom, and reiterate our determination, by ALL and EVERY means, to aid the slave to become free, leaving to each individual conscience the sole right of determining in what manner and at what time these principles shall be translated into acts.
Resolved, That we extend a warm and cordial greeting to those of the immortal twenty-one who followed JOHN BROWN to Virginia, and have survived that scene-the Bunker Hill of the enslaved race-and to-day are in safety with us. It is fitting in this presence, and on this anniversary, that our welcome should be earnest, and our thanks hearty and warm, to those who, by a spirit of heroic sacrifice, have renewed our faith in humanity and our trust in the eternal justice of God. Resolved, That we, the men and women of Essex County here assembled, extend a hearty welcome and cordial greeting to our noble fellow-citizen, Thaddeus Hyatt, whose recent incarceration within a loathsome prison and slave pen at Washington City, because he would not permit tyranny to be consummated in his
<c06>
person, by submission to an unconstitutional usurpation by the U. S. Senate, deserves, and we hope will receive, in the persons of the recreant Senators who allowed the iniquity to be consummated, the strongest condemnation of the people of the free States; and for the noble spirit with which our friend met the issue, we return our heartfelt thanks, and assure him he has won the gratitude of both the present and future.
After the reading of the resolutions, the Secretary, Mr. R. J. Hinton, read the following letters from gentlemen whose presence had been anticipated; pre-facing the reading of them by some remarks relative to the occasion that had called them together.
Mr. Hinton then said, the first letter is from the pen of one of New England's noblest sons, a man of large intellect, of great culture; but above all, possessing a broad and manly nature, of undaunted courage, and yet with a tender, womanly heart,-one whom John Brown esteemed most highly-I mean T. W. T.W. Higginson:-
WOBCESTER, MASS., June 29, 1860.
DEAR MRS. BROWN,-How much pleasure it would give me to accept the kind invitation to be with you on the 4th of July. How beautiful will all that region be in its summer verdure, and how greatly will you enjoy the meeting with your sons. The memories of the blest departed will hallow your meeting, but not, I trust, sadden it. I shall always count it one of the chief honors of my life to have been admitted to your husband's confidence; and I am glad to be counted worthy to attend a meeting of hid family.
I was sorry not to see you and your daughter Isabella when you were here; but I was only in Boston one day, and then could not find you. I believe Isabella, John and Jason are the only members of your family whom I have not seen; and I desire to send cordial regards to them and to all. Yours, with sincerest regard,
THOS. WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.
The next letters are from two members of the race for whom John Brown died. The first is from one of the most eloquent and gifted young men with whom it has been my fortune of late to meet. The name is of both good and evil omen; yet the odds are on the side of truth, even in this respect-freedom having two Douglasses, slavery but one. The letter is addressed to Messrs. Redpath and Hinton:-
BOSTON, June 29, 1860.
GENTLEMEN-Your note, inviting me to be present at your gathering at North Elba, on the 4th of July, is received. I return to you, and the family of our much-lamented friend, a thousand thanks Be assured, that nothing but a previous engagement, from which I cannot very well be relieved, prevents me from meeting with the dear good men and women of Old Essex around the grave of the martyr, saint and hero-JOHN BROWN.
Your meeting will be a glorious epoch in American history, and I trust will do much to redeem the day from the damning sacrilege of priestly cant and political mockery. I would suggest that you, gentlemen, who knew the old Christian best, should put the ball in motion at your meeting, and let us raise a monument to his memory that will rival in solid grandeur that old gray shaft on Bunker Hill. Very truly, yours for the oppressed, 
H. FORD DOUGLASS.
To Messrs. HINTON and REDPATH, Committee.
The following letter is from the Rev. J. Sella Martin, Pastor of the Eleventh Baptist Church, Boston. He is an earnest and gifted young man, seeking to lift his people in the scale of progress, and believing in acts as well as words:-BOSTON, June 30, 1860.
GENTLEMEN,-Your kind invitation to visit North Elba on the 4th of July has been duly received. I return my thanks to you and the family of our sainted hero and martyr, JOHN BROWN.
Nothing but other and imperative duties prevent me from being with you on that day,-an occasion hereafter, I hope, to mark anew the opening wider the era of Anti-Slavery warfare. As a humble representative of the race for whom John Brown died, I regret that my tears cannot mingle with yours over his grave, nor my vows go up with those who are to carry on his work, that work shall be done in the fulness of that spirit which led the heroes of Harper's Ferry to cheerful sacrifice. In the shadows of the ‘everlasting bills,’ and above that lowly mound, I hope fresh glory will go out and renewed strength be given.
I rejoice, as a minister of God's Word, in the Christianity of the martyr-chief. In an age when the lessons of God, writ in the Holy Scriptures, are mocked by a pro-slavery Church, John Brown believed and practised. In the spirit of the Saviour's divine words, he dared ‘do unto others as he would they should do unto him.’ He dared do this in the face of a corrupt priesthood, a tyrannical government, and a fatally weak and careless nation. Imbued by the truths of the Bible, the Spirit of God upheld him, as, from the battle-field to the scaffold, the path of his later life became so glorious a psalm of praise to the Most High, making his name one of the dearest Humanity can hold in memory.
May blessings rest upon all the surviving members of the family of our beloved friend, and upon those of his company who have escaped the Philistines. God grant a new spirit may go out from this meeting, and, armed in the truth of righteousness, may the friends of the slave go on conquering and to conquer, until not a fetter shames the limb of man, and the name of bondman shall be among the things of the past, remembered only to warn and to teach.
For universal freedom, fraternally yours,
J. SELLA MARTIN.
I have a letter from one who needs no further introduction than the words of Wendell Phillips, who spoke of him ‘as the man whose words were bullets,’-I mean James Redpath:-
MALDEN, Mass, July 2,1860. 
JOHN BROWN, JR.: My Dear Friend,-Duties, imperative and that cannot be delayed, will prevent me from visiting North Elba on Wednesday. Era this week is over, I shall probably be sailing for Hayti.
I deeply regret that I cannot be with you, to unite in re-affirming an unwavering faith in the doctrines of the Declaration, and in the expediency of the agency of physical force for the liberation of the slaves in our Southern States. A new party should be organised on this basis.
Slavery most be abolished by force-either by insurrections, controlled by white men, or by the strong arm of the Federal Government. The slave quarter is the Achilles heel of slavery: wound it there, and it dies. Washington city is the throat of the system: choke it there, and it dies also. Shall we strike, then, at its heel or its throat? I
<c06>
THE UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS
‘The United States Constitution is ‘a conveant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution . . . There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without-excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION,SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution . . . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
reply, strike at both. Let those of as who cannot aid in inciting insurrections, labor with untiring and systematic zeal to obtain the control of the Republican party. It is not half so difficult to abolitionize that party as most of us suppose. The great majority of its voters, I believe, are already true-hearted anti-slavery men. They support it only for want of a more radical organization. They do so, however, as if under protest, taking no really earnest interest in it. Hence we find in its present platform a resolution branding the martyr of Virginia as a criminal, ï¿½which, although, as we are told, it was received' ï¿½without applause,' and ' ï¿½with an ominous silence,' the politicians nevertheless managed to pass. But think you that the masses of the Republicans regard your father as other than a man of most heroic soul and stainless integrity, who did what we all approved and silently were yearning to see done? If I were with you, I would urge the organization of a party of Practical Abolitionists, whose duty it shall be not to advocate the doctrines of the Declaration, (which is the office of our noble friends, the (Garrisonians, and the Gerritt Smith men,) but to devise methods and, policies of putting them into operation,ï¿½of translating them into historical facts. 
For myself, I have finished, I believe, my advocacy of the doctrines of the Declaration. Henceforth, I shall regard them as self-evident truths that require no argument to support them; andï¿½heaven and fortune favoringï¿½I shall now devote myself to the dissemination of methods of abolition, and also, I hope, to the work itself, when your fatherï¿½s successor shall be called on to take the field. None of us may have the privilege that your fatherï¿½s fate bestowed on him, of being martyred for the faith that is in us; but all of us, at least, can resolve to so live that, although we may not share his mode of death, we may win the undisputed title of deserving it.
Four victories were to be won, ere the American slave was to be freedï¿½Bunker Hill, Harperï¿½s Ferry, a successful insurrection in one State, and then liberty peacefully effected throughout all the land,. Two have already been achieved: let us hasten forward to the third; and God speed the Pike!!
Ever and forever your friend, 
JAMES REDPATH. 
We have with us to-day, in person, a man whom the United States Senate has chosen to honor by imprisonment in the national slave-pen at Washington. He has proven that Endurance has her victories as well as Force. In my hand I hold a communication from one who has also proven, in resisting by other means that same iniquitous mandate, that one man in the right is stronger than an organized wrong. I allude to Thaddeus Hyatt, of New York, and Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord. The first is here bodily; the second, spiritually, and has placed himself en rapport with us by means of this letter:ï¿½
CONCORD, July 1, 1860. 
MY DEAR FRIEND, ï¿½If it were in any way convenient for me, I should certainly be present at your family gathering, and the appropriate celebration of the 4th of July at your fatherï¿½s grave. But I have so often been absent from my school during the past year, that now, in its last weeks, it requires my constant presence; and, with other interests, will detain me here till after the middle of the month. I would gladly join hands with you about the green mound of your father, whom I knew and loved so well; and it would especially please me to make acquaintance with yourself, since you have proved so well your right to inherit your fatherï¿½s name. I trust that I may still have that pleasure, and that you will visit Concord before you return to Ohio; for Concord now claims, with your own Ashtabula County, the honor of protecting white men, at least, from Southern oppression; and you have many friends here who honor you, but have never seen; you. I should like, too, to see Owen, whom I met some year since; and Jason, who, like yourself, is a stranger to me. Indeed, any of your family are now as kinsmen of mine, for your father, I think, loved me almost as a son, and I am sure I honored and loved him as a father. I look upon your celebration of the day as well-nigh the only one that will be properly made in the whole country. Most of us have no right to read the Declaration of Independence, for its magnificent periods are to us but, ï¿½glittering generalities,' as a New England sophist used to say: but to the family of John Brown, it is the true charter of liberty, to which your father has added some marginal notes. I wish I could write an ode worthy to be sung by you on that day, but you need for that the genius of Burns, or of the enthusiast who wrote and set to music the Marsailles Hymn of freedom. I may, however, offer you a sentiment for your public dinner:ï¿½
Thomas Jefferson and John Brownï¿½The one came from Virginia to write the Declaration of Independence, and the other went there to publish the best commentary on it. Posterity will forget neither, though Virginia forgets both. 
Truly yours, F. B. SANBORN. 
The following vigorous and beautiful original hymn, written by Mr. Sanborn for this occasion, was also read by the Secretary, as it was not possible to arrange music for it at the time:ï¿½ 
Eternal hills! that rise around 
To guard the consecrated ground;
Ye ancient woods that oï¿½er us wave, 
Oh, hear us! and for aye record, 
Till deeds redeem our plighted word, 
The vows we offer at the grave!
We swear, by him who lies below,ï¿½ 
Whose death the justice, sure and slow, 
Of Godï¿½s great law shall yet repay,ï¿½ 
Ever to hold his memory dear, 
And follow him in that career 
Where he, unfaltering, showed the way. 
Be ours the slaveï¿½s neglected cause; 
No golden bribes, no godless laws, 
Shall taint our heart or cheek or hand;
Firm to resist the tyrantï¿½s power, 
Swift to attack when dawns the hour, 
For righteous Liberty we stand. 
Too well we love our father's fame,
Too keenly feel our country's shame, 
To vex with boasts this mountain air,ï¿½ 
With pride we tell our glories past,
On Thee our fears and cares we cast, 
Just God! by Thee our oaths we swear. 
From a true friend of the cause I have the following:ï¿½
BOSTON, July 1, 1860.
DEAR SIR,ï¿½I regret that pressing business engagements will prevent me from accepting your invitation ï¿½in behalf of the family of John Brown, to be present at North Elba on the Fourth, to celebrate the anniversary of American Independence.' and unite in re-affirming, over the grave of the Martyr of Virginia, the truth of the doctrines of the Declaration of Independence.'ï¿½
Yielding to no one in admiration and in veneration of the high moral and religious character, the self-sacrificing spirit, the heroic and unswerving devotion to the cause of Freedom and humanity which marked the life of John Brown, it would afford me great pleasure to be present on the above occasion, and to lend at least the sanction of my presence to the great principles which he so faithfully and fearlessly defended, and in the maintenance of which he cheerfully surrendered his valuable life.
Very truly yours,
C. H. BRAINARD.
To JAMES REDPATH, Esq.
Mr. PRESIDENT. There is another name to be spoken on this dayï¿½the name of one whose voice we had hoped to hear pour forth its burning utterances on this occasion. He is not with us; but in his place comes this missive, charged full of the fiery magnetism of his tropical nature. Among the first of the letters read, was one from a Douglass; the one I am about to read is from another of the same clanï¿½not the Little Giant of Illinois, but the Black one of New Yorkï¿½Frederick Douglass:ï¿½
ROCHESTER, June 29, 1860.
JAMES REDPATH, ESQ.: My Dear Sir,ï¿½Your kind note, inviting me to meet with yourself and other friends on the 4th of July, at North Elba, came into my hands only yesterday. Had it reached me only a day or two earlier, I certainly should have complied with it. Very gladly would I assemble with you and others on that revolutionary day, to do honor to the memory of one whom I regard as the man of this nineteenth century. Little, indeed, can you and I do to add luster to his deathless fame!. The principles of John Brown, attested by a life of spotless integrity and sealed by his blood, are self-vindicated. His name is covered with a glory so bright and enduring, as to require nothing at our 
<c02>
hands to increase or perpetuate it. Only for our own sake, and that of enslaved and imbruted humanity, need we assemble. To have been acquainted with John Brown, shared his counsels, enjoyed his confidence, and sympathized with the great objects of his life and death, I esteem as among the highest privileges of my life. We do but honor ourselves in doing honor to him, for it implies the possession of qualities akin to his. 
I have little hope of the freedom of the slave by peaceful means. A long course of peaceful slave-holding has placed the slaveholders beyond the reach of moral and humane considerations. They have neither ears nor hearts for the appeals of justice and humanity. While the slave will tamely submit his neck to the yoke, his back to the lash, and his ankle to the fetter and chain, the Bible will be quoted, and learning invoked to justify slavery. The only penetrable point of a tyrant is the fear of death. The outery that they make, as to the danger of having their throats cut, is because they know they deserve to have them cut. The efforts of John Brown and his brave associates, though apparently unavailing, have done more to upset the logic and shake the security of slavery, than all other efforts in that direction for twenty years. 
The sleeping dust, over which yourself and friends propose to meet on the 4th, cannot be revived; but the noble principles and disinterested devotion which led John Brown to step serenely to the gallows and lay down his life, will never die. They are all the more potent for his death. 
Not unwisely are the eyes and hearts of the American slaves and their friends turned to the lofty peaks of the Alleghenies. The innumerable glens, caves, ravines and rocks of those mountains, will yet be the hiding-places of hunted liberty. The eight-and-forty hours of John Brownï¿½s school in the mountains of Virginia, taught the slaves more than they could have otherwise learned in a half century. Even the mistake of remaining in the arsenal after the first blow was struck, may prove the key to future success. The tender regard which the dear old man evinced for the lives of the tyrantsï¿½and which a should have secured him his lifeï¿½will not be imitated by future insurgents. Slaveholders are as insensible to magnanimity as to justice, and the measure they mete must be meted to them again,. My heart is with you. 
Very truly, FREDï¿½K DOUGLASS. 
In conclusion, Mr. President, I desire to read the manuscript I hold. It was handed to me at Concord, with a note, while on my way here, by one whom all, must honor who know himï¿½Henry D. Thoreau. Of a fearless, truthful soul, living near to Nature, with ear attuned to catch her simplest and most subtle thought, and heart willing to interpret them to his eager brain, he often speaks undisguised, in most nervous Saxon, the judgment upon great events which . others, either timid or powerless of speech, so long to hear expressed. So it was last fall. Mr. Thoreauï¿½s voice was the first which broke the disgraceful silence or hushed the senseless babble with which the grandest deed of our time was met. Herein, Mr. Thoreau gives us some recollections of that eventful period:ï¿½ 
John Brownï¿½s career for the last six weeks of his life was meteor-like, flashing through the darkness in which we live. I know of nothing so miraculous in our history. 
If any person, in a lecture or conversation at that time, cited any ancient example of heroism, such as Cato or Tell or Winkelried, passing over the recent deeds and words of Brown, it was felt by any intelligent audience of Northern men to be tame and inexcusably far-fetched. 
For my own part, I commonly attend more to nature than to man, but any affecting human event may blind our eyes to natural objects. I was so absorbed in him as to be surprised whenever I detected the routine of the natural world surviving still, or met persons going about their affairs indifferent. It appeared strange to me that the 'little dipperï¿½ should be still diving quietly in the river, as of yore; and it suggested that this bird might continue to dive here when Concord should be no more. 
I felt that he, a prisoner in the midst of his enemies, and under sentence of death, if consulted as to his next step or resource, could answer more wisely than all his countrymen beside. He best understood his position; he contemplated it most calmly. Comparatively, all other men, North and South, were beside themselves. Our thoughts could not revert to any greater or wiser or better man with whom to contrast him, for he, then and there, was above them all. The man this country was about to hang appeared the greatest and best in it. 
Years were not required for a revolution of public opinion; days, nay, hours, produced marked changes in this case. Fifty who were ready to say on going into our meeting in honor of him in Concord, that he ought to be hung, would not say it when they came out. They heard his words read; they saw the earnest faces of the congregation; and perhaps they joined at last in singing the hymn in his praise. 
The order of instructors was reversed. I heard that one preacher, who at first was shocked and stood aloof, felt obliged at last, after he was hung, to make him the subject of a sermon, in which, to some extent, he eulogized the man, but said that his act was a failure. An influential class-teacher thought it necessary, after the services, to tell his grown-up pupils, that at first he thought as the preacher did then, but now he thought that John Brown was right. But it was understood that his pupils were as much ahead of the teacher, as he was ahead of the priest; and I know for a certainty, that very little boys at home had already asked their parents, in a tone of surprise, why God did not interfere to save him. In each case, the constituted teachers were only half conscious that they were not leading, but being dragged, with some loss of time and power. 
The more conscientious preachers, the Bible men, they who talk about principle, and doing to others as you would that they should do unto you,ï¿½how could they fail to recognize him, by far the greatest preacher of them all, with the Bible in his life and in his acts, the embodiment of principle, who actually carried out the golden rule?? All whose moral sense had been aroused, who had a calling from on high to preach, sided with him. What confessions he extracted from the cold and conservative!! It is remarkable, but on the whole it is well, that it did not prove the occasion for a new sect of Brownites being formed in our midst. 
They, whether within the Church or out of it, who adhere to the spirit and let go the letter, and are accordingly called infidel, were as usual foremost to recognize him. Men have been hung in the South before for attempting to rescue slaves, and the North was not much stirred by it. Whence, then, this wonderful difference? We were not so sure of their devotion to principle. We made a subtle distinction, forgot human laws, and did homage to an idea. The North, I mean the living North, was suddenly all transcendental. It went behind the human law, it went behind the apparent failure, and recognized eternal justice and glory. Commonly, men live according to a formula, and are satisfied if the order of law is observed, but in this instance they, to some extent, returned to original perceptions, and there was a slight revival of old religion. They saw that what was called order was confusion, what was called justice, injustice, and that the best was deemed the worst. This attitude suggested a more intelligent and generous spirit than that which actuated our forefathers, and the possibility, in the course of ages, of a revolution in behalf of another and an oppressed people. 
Most Northern men, and a few Southern ones, were wonderfully stirred by Brownï¿½s behavior and words. They saw and felt that they were heroic and noble, and that there had been nothing quite equal to them in their kind in this country, or in the recent history of the world. But the minority were unmoved by them. They were only surprised and provoked by the attitude of their neighbors. They saw that Brown was brave, and that he believed that he had done right, but they did not detect any further peculiarity in him. Not being accustomed to make fine distinctions, or to appreciate magnanimity, they read his letters and speeches as if they read them not. They were not aware when they approached a heroic statementï¿½they did not know when they burned. They did not feel that he spoke with authority, and hence they only remembered that the law must be executed. They remembered the old formula, but did not hear the new revelation. The man who does not recognize in Brownï¿½s words a wisdom and nobleness, and therefore an authority, superior to our laws, is a modern Democrat. This is the test by which to discover him. He is not wilfully but constitutionally blind on this side, and he is consistent with himself. Such has been his past life; no doubt of it. In like manner he has read history and his Bible, and he accepts,
<c03>
or seems to accept, the last only as an established formula, and not because he has been convicted by it. You will not find kindred sentiments in his common-place book, if he has one. 
When a noble deed is done, who is likely to appreciate it? They who are noble themselves. I was not surprised that certain of my neighbors spoke of John Brown as an ordinary felon, for who are they? They have either much flesh, or much office, or much coarseness of some kind. They are not etherial natures in any sense. The dark qualities predominate in them. Several of them are decidedly pachydermatous. I say it in sorrow, not in anger. How can a man behold the light, who has no answering inward light? They are true to their right, but when they look this way they see nothing, they are blind. For the children of the light to contend with them is as if there should be a contest between eagles and owls. Show me a man who feels bitterly toward John Brown, and let me hear what noble verse he can repeat. Heï¿½ll be as dumb as if his lips were stone. 
It is not every man who can be a Christian, even in a very moderate sense, whatever education you give him. It is a matter of constitution and temperament, after all. He may have to be born again many times. I have known many a man who pretended to be a Christian, in whom it was ridiculous, for he had no genius for it. It is not every man who can be a free-man, even. 
Editors persevered for a good while in saying that Brown was crazy; but at last they said only that it was ' ï¿½a crazy scheme,'ï¿½ and the only evidence brought to prove it was that it cost him his life. I have no doubt that if he had gone with five thousand men, liberated a thousand slaves, killed a hundred or two slaveholders, and had as many more killed on his own side, but not lost his own life, these same editors would have called it by a more respectable name. Yet he has been far more successful than that. He has liberated many thousands of slaves, both North and South. They seem to have known nothing about living or dying for a principle. They all called him crazy then; who calls him crazy now? 
All through the excitement occasioned by his remarkable attempt and subsequent behavior, the Massachusetts Legislature, not taking any steps for the defence of her citizens who were likely to be carried to Virginia as witnesses and exposed to the violence of a slaveholding mob, was wholly absorbed in a liquor-agency question, and indulging in poor jokes on the word ï¿½extension.ï¿½ Bad spirits occupied their thoughts. I am sure that no states-man up to the occasion could have attended to that question at all at that time,ï¿½a very vulgar question to attend to at any time. 
When I looked into a liturgy of the Church of England, printed near the end of the last century, in order to find a service applicable to the case of Brown, I found that the only martyr recognized and provided for by it was King Charles the First, an eminent scamp. Of all the inhabitants of England and of the world, he was the only one, according to this authority, whom that church had made & a martyr and saint of; and for more than a century it had celebrated his martyrdom, so called, by an annual service. What a satire on the Church is that! 
Look not to legislatures and churches for your guidance, nor to any soulless incorporated bodies, but to inspirited or inspired ones. 
What avail all your scholarly accomplishments and learning, compared with wisdom and manhood? To omit his other behavior, see what a work this comparatively unread and unlettered man wrote within six weeks. Where is our professor of belles lettres or of logic and rhetoric, who can write so well? He wrote in prison, not a history of the world, like Raleigh, but an American book which I think will live longer than that. I do not know of such words, uttered under such circumstances, and so copiously withal, in Roman or English or any history. What a variety of themes he touched on in that short space! There are words in that letter to his wife, respecting the education of his daughters, which deserve to be framed and hung over every mantelpiece in the land. Compare this earnest wisdom with that of Poor Richard. 
The death of Irving, which at any other time would have attracted universal attention, having occurred while these things were transpiring, went almost unobserved. I shall have to read of it in the biography of authors. 
Literary gentlemen, editors and critics, think that they know how to write, because they have studied grammar and rhetoric; but they are egregiously mistaken. The art of composition is as simple as the discharge of a bullet from a rifle, and its master-pieces imply an infinitely greater force behind them. This unlettered manï¿½s speaking and writing are standard English. Some words and phrases deemed vulgarisms and Americanisms before, he has made standard American; such as ï¿½It will pay.' It suggests that the one great rule of compositionï¿½and if I were a professor of rhetoric, I should insist on thisï¿½is to speak the truth. This first, this second, this third; pebbles in your mouth or not. This demands earnestness and manhood chiefly. 
We seem to have forgotten that the expression, a liberal education, originally meant among the Romans one worthy of free men; while the learning of trades and professions by which to get your livelihood merely, was considered worthy of slaves only. But taking a hint from the word, I would go a step further and say, that it is not the man of wealth and leisure simply, though devoted to art, or science, or literature, who, in a true sense, is liberally educated, but only the earnest and free man. In a slaveholding country like this, there can be no such thing as a liberal education tolerated by the State; and those scholars of Austria and France who, however learned they may be, are contented under their tyrannies, have received only a servile education. 
Nothing could his enemies do, but it redounded to his infinite advantageï¿½that is to the advantage of his cause. They did not hang him at once, but reserved him to preach to them. And then there was another great blunder. They did not hang his four followers with him; that scene was still postponed; and so his victory was prolonged and completed. No theatrical manager could have arranged things so wisely to give effect to his behavior and words. And who, think you, was the manager? Who placed the slave woman and her child, whom he stooped to kiss for a symbol, between his prison and the gallows? 
We soon saw, as he saw, that he was not to be pardoned or rescued by men. That would have been to disarm him, to restore to him a material weapon, a Sharpeï¿½s rifle, when he had taken up the sword of the spiritï¿½the sword with which he has really won his greatest and most memorable victories. Now he has not laid aside the sword of the spirit, for he is pure spirit himself, and his sword is pure spirit also. 
ï¿½He nothing common did or mean 
Upon that memorable scene, 
Nor called the gods with vulgar spite, 
To vindicate his helpless right; 
But bowed his comely head 
Down as upon a bed.'
What a transit was that of his horizontal body alone, but just cut down from the gallows-tree! We read, that at such a time it passed through Philadelphia, and by Saturday night had reached New York. Thus, like a meteor it shot through the Union from the southern regions toward the north! No such freight had the cars borne since they carried him southward alive. 
On the day of his translation, I heard, to be sure, that he was hung, but I did not know what that meant; I felt no sorrow on that account; but not for a day or two did I even hear that he was dead, and not after any number of days shall I believe it. Of all the men who were said to be my contemporaries, it seemed to me that John Brown was the only one who had not died. I never hear of a man named Brown now,ï¿½and I hear of them pretty often,ï¿½I never hear of any particularly brave and earnest man, but my first thought is of John Brown, and what relation he may be to him. I meet him at every turn. He is more alive than ever he was. He has earned immortality. He is not confined to North Elba nor to Kansas. He is no longer working in secret. He works in public, and in the clearest light that shines on this land. 
At the close of the reading, the President introduced W. F. M. Arny, Esq., of Kansas, to the meeting. 
Mr. Amy spoke at length in favor of the resolutions, taking up each separately, and eloquently defending them. As he spoke of John Brown, his voice was broken and tender, and his eyes were moist. He knew him seventeen years ago, while he (Mr. Arny) resided in Virginia. Captain Brown came to that State from Ohio, to see if he could render aid to a friend in prison for assisting a fugitive slave. The 
<c04>
record of that friendship, thus begun, was luminous, with such deeds of self-sacrifice. I, continued the speaker, have known John Brown to give the last dollar from his scanty purse in Kansas, to Free State men whom he met in a worse condition. The life of him whose remains rest before us, is full and brimming with such deeds. The record of that life he has left us, a solitary mark of grandeur in an otherwise degenerate age. He, the speaker, was a Southerner, born in Virginia; the curse which rested there was a dishonor to the land of his birth. But a few days since, he had stood by the grave of Washington, the Father of his country; yet standing here on this rock, and looking upon the lowly, grass-grown grave before him, he was prouder of his manhood, surer of the progress of the race, and possessed far more faith in the love of the Good Father, than when standing on the banks of the Potomac. 
Mr. Arny proceeded to allude to the companions of John Brown. He spoke of the histories of those who fell at Harperï¿½s Ferry, most of whom he had known in Kansas, and extended a cordial welcome to those of the survivors of that fight who were in the gathering. In closing, he entered into a vindication of the position assumed by his friend, Thaddeus Hyatt, at Washington. He spoke of the positions assumed by himself and the other witnesses, who, under protest, testified before the Harperï¿½s Ferry Committee, showing how by it one portion of the designs of the Slave Propaganda was foiled, as was another defeated by John Brown, Jr., who with Ashtabula County at his back, refused to obey and was not troubled; by Mr. Sanborn, on whom the process of kidnapping was attempted, but forcibly resisted, first by personal means, then by legal; and lastly, by James Redpath, of whom it was known that not only were his words bullets, but that he keeps the veritable powder dry, and that his faith was not placed on much else but his own skill in defending himself. Mr. Redpath was let, as was John Brown, Jr., severely alone. Mr. Hyattï¿½s position of endurance was equally as essential as these to the complete discomfiture of the foe. Never again would such an attempt upon the liberty of the citizen be made. The aristocrats of the Senate were routed. 
After the close of Judge Arny's able speech, of which the above gives but a very imperfect idea, the question upon the adoption of the resolutions was put. On motion, the acquiescence of the people in the first resolution was signified by rising and standing silent and uncovered around the grave. The others of the series and the preamble, were adopted with three cheers. 
Thaddeus Hyatt, Esq., then came forward in response to the call of the meeting. Mr. Hyatt is an invalid, and was quite feeble. He, however, kept the audience earnestly listening to a speech of some twenty minutes duration. We cannot give a report. His description of the transactions carried on in the jail showed those transactions to be horrible indeed. He also showed that, contrary to the compromise of 1850, of the violation of which, on the part of the North, the South was constantly complaining, the slave trade was carried on in the national capital, the jail being turned into a slave pen, the victims of which were generally men and women, seized by the police-kidnappers of the federal city, under the pretence of being fugitives from slavery, kept in prison until the jail fees run up largely, then carried to Alexandria, and placed in the tradersï¿½ shambles. It was doubtless because of the knowledge ï¿½he had gained that Mr. Hyatt was discharged. He alluded to the investigations he was making into the legal status of slavery in Maryland, and predicted that the result would be the removal from under the accursed system of even the lower law, props upon which it had so long stood. 
John Brown, Jr., was loudly called for at the close of Mr. Hyattï¿½s remarks. He came forward, and was greeted with loud applause. Mr. Brown is a very fine-looking, impressive man, dignified and intellectual in appearance. He spoke for about ten minutes, returning his thanks and that of the family for the presence of so many friends, on this occasion. He then alluded to the action consequent upon the Harperï¿½s Ferry Senate Committee, fully endorsing the course pursued by Mr. Hyatt, and administering a severe rebuke to the New York Tribune for its unjust and cowardly sneers at that gentlemanï¿½s course. 
Owen Brown was loudly called for, at the close of his brotherï¿½s remarks, and made his appearance. Owen is a singularly eccentric appearing man; very florid complexion, auburn hair and beard, small oval face, nervous features, and keen eyes, wherein you see reflected a humorous but earnest, enthusiastic mind. He kept the assembly in a roar of laughter by his quaint speech and illustrations, which, however, had all the force of proverbs. His description of a modern politician was almost terrific in the force of its sarcastic humor and fiery disgust. One of his illustrations will serve to show his style:ï¿½' ï¿½A politician in Congress always had a double twist in the belly of his speeches; he squinted both North and South, yet always kept looking a head for a tall perch on the tree of office, just like a cat running a-top of a crooked fence, with a bull-dog on each side, and a tree in the far distance.' It is impossible to give any adequate idea of the speakerï¿½s style. Philosophy, humor, fancy and bitter invective were all mingled, with gestures and contortions singularly appropriate to the matter. 
A motion was made to adjourn. 
Mr. Hinton came forward and saidï¿½ 
MR. PRESIDENTï¿½Standing in this presence, on this anniversary, and looking on the grave of our beloved chieftain, I hold it not fitting that this gathering should pass away without our looking upon the face, and hearing the voice, of a representative of the race for whom this earth was rounded and this stone erected. The first blood shed for the American Idea was that of Crispus Attucks, a black man. John Brown died for that manï¿½s descendants, as he died for our parents. That the black man can fight for freedom we have ample evidence, both in the blood of. Attucks, and that of Leary, Newby, Copeland and Green at Harperï¿½s Ferry and Charlestown. We have with us to-day one who bravely acted his part on that memorable occasion, and who, wearing that history as the proud mark of manhood, is worthy to stand on this rock and speak for his race. I allude to Osborne P. Anderson, of Chatham, Canada West, but late of Harperï¿½s Ferry, and I trust that before we separate we may look upon him, as well as the faces of others of those men for whose persons the pirate-State of Virginia offers a reward of $1500. 
A Voiceï¿½ ï¿½There are no Democrats here.'
Mr. Hintonï¿½' And if there were, we have good revolvers and strong arms, wherewith to defend our friends.' 
Mr. Anderson then came forward upon the stand. He is a tall, handsome mulatto, with thoughtful face, sadly-earnest eyes, and an expression of intellectual power that impresses the observer strongly. He said, that this was the first occasion in his life when he felt that he could stand on a Fourth-of-July platform. That day to him had hitherto been a lie and a juggle. Thank God, it was no longer so! By the light of that graveï¿½s sacrifice, he knew the Declaration of Independence held more than' ï¿½glittering generalities.' ï¿½He had gone to Virginia, not as a mulatto, but as a man. Thank God for the struggle! Costly as had been the sacrifice, it would yet amply be repaid. The 17th of October, the 2d and 16th of December, 1859, the 8th of March, 1860, and this summer day, would be forever blessed in the memories of men; their golden threads would be woven into the web of the future, irradiating its march, and lighting up the path of Liberty and Justice. 
Barclay Coppoc, of Iowa, was then introduced. Mr. Coppoc has a very youthful but earnest face; and the sight of his sad eyes, in the shadows of which forever seems to repose the wild-vigilance of that 
<c05>
mountain retreat, and the glooms of the prison and scaffold at Charlestown, whence his brotherï¿½s soul went to its Maker, impressed all with tenderness and pity. Yet the expression was resolute, like a man who had counted the cost, and was willing to take the results. Mr. Coppoc spoke briefly, thanking the friends for the reception, excusing himself from speaking on account of fatigue and ill-health, and closed by reaffirming his devotion to the principles they had assembled to honor. 
Francis J. Meriam was then introduced to the meeting. He said he was not there to speak, but only to say how glad he was to stand there a free man, and look into the friendly faces before him. After some other remarks, he closed by asking ï¿½How many of those present would protect him and his comrades from the bloodhounds of Virginia?' 
ï¿½All of us! was the hearty response. 
 ï¿½How many of you,' continued the speaker, ï¿½if we should determine to stay here among these mountains, and the Governor of New York issued, warrants for our arrest upon a requisition of the Governor of Virginia, would aid in defending us against such process?'
ï¿½I would,' and ï¿½I,ï¿½ ï¿½I,' ï¿½I,' came from a large number of persons. 
Mr. M. made a few closing remarks, and retired. 
On motion, the meeting then adjourned to the grove, about half a mile distant, where the table was laid. 
The meeting was very earnest and enthusiastic, and, altogether, the demonstration a successful one. Good results for the slave will emanate therefrom. 

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, JULY 27, 1860. 
RELIGION MANIFESTED IN LIFE. 
The ï¿½Progressive Friendsï¿½ of Pennsylvania, the Proceedings of whose Yearly Meeting, just published, we have noticed elsewhere, show one of the most remarkable manifestations of the spirit of reform that characterizes this age. They seem to have recognized the truth of the definition given by Theodore Parkerï¿½ï¿½Religion is voluntary obedience to the will of God.' They have founded a Religious Association whichï¿½besides the great and rare merits of being free from sectarianism, and of not confounding either theology or a round of ceremonial observance with Religionï¿½manifests its reverence for God and its obedience to Him by conformity to his law, the Rule of Right, in the daily lives of its members. It was muchï¿½a new and hopeful sign of the timesï¿½that the men and women who composed its first organization were so far in advance of the old churches in their theory of religion, in their plan and statement of the better life they wished to lead. Their earliest documents, their first meetings, gave good reason for the anticipation that they meant to be, and would really prove to be (as Mr. Parker said again) ï¿½upright before God, and downright before men.' And now that years have shown the accordance between their theory and practice, their plan of life and their actual lives, we can not only thank God and take courage in view of their position, but can rejoice in the belief that they mean what they say in this ï¿½Testimonyï¿½ï¿½ the first of the series for 1860ï¿½on slavery.
ï¿½SLAVERY.
We see in the events of the past year, imperative reasons for renewing our testimony against American slavery, and fresh incentives to greater zeal in the work of abolition. 
The holding of a human being as a chattel is an outrage upon humanity of so deep a dye, that we can innocently make no compromise with it, either as individuals or as members of the body politic. The Fugitive Slave Law of this land we regard as infamous, and therefore not to be justified, or even excused, by any plea of constitutional obligation; and we call upon the friends of freedom everywhere to be careful, that they do not, by their votes or otherwise, countenance those who, whether as magistrates or citizens, would aid in its enforcement. 
The ministers and churches of the land, which either sanction slavery or fail to testify against it, and to employ their energies for its extirpation, we regard as false to the principles of Christianity, and therefore unworthy of the name they assume. 
We regard the imprisonment of Thaddeus Hyatt, by the Senate of the United States, for refusing to appear before the Committee appointed to investigate the Harperï¿½s Ferry Invasion, as a usurpation of inquisitorial authority not conferred by the Constitution, and as affording a new and alarming illustration of the despotism of the Slave Power; and we assure the prisoner of our heartfelt sympathy with him under his trials, and of our admiration of the heroic firmness with which he has borne them.' 
The Yearly Meeting of 1859 had written a message of affectionate sympathy to Mr. Parker, who had addressed their meeting the year before, and who had crossed the ocean in search of that health which he was not destined to regain. The following affecting letter, sent by him from Switzerland in reply, was read to the meeting this year, and published in their Proceeding:ï¿½ 
ï¿½MONTREUX, Switzerland, 25th Ninth month, 1859.
To the Progressive Friends in Pennsylvania:
DEAR FRIENDS,ï¿½Your kindly letter of the first of Sixth month, signed by your Clerks, Joseph A. Dugdale, Elizabeth Jackson and Oliver Johnsonï¿½persons well known and highly esteemedï¿½reached me but yesterday, for it was long delayed in Paris. Let me now, from a full heart, thank you for your generous expression of such sympathy and regard. In these times, when a difference of theological opinions so often hinders all feelings of human brotherhood, your words come to me full of sweetness and encouragement. How pleasant it is to find Religion without Bigotry, Devotion to God with no hatred of his children! 
Once I intended and promised to speak also to each of the other congregations of Progressive Friend, but now I think you will never again hear my voice in your Yearly Meetings; for, even if I somewhat recover my health, it seems I must hereafter address men only with the pen, and no longer also with the living Word. Yet I trust I shall never fail, with what powers I have, to help forward the cause of Truth and Righteousness, so dear to you all. 
I kept sacred the anniversary of your last meeting, with devout gratitude for the opportunity I twice had of preaching before you what to me is far more dear than this earthly, mortal life, for the friendly reception my words found among you, and the cheering talk I had with many of you in private. The faces of the men and women I value so much came up before me and peopled the solitude of the ocean I was then sailing through, adding their human loveliness, to the else mere material beauty of the sea. This year I could not gather with you at your Yearly Meeting; yet was I present in spirit and joined in your spoken or silent prayer for the Truth which shall make all men free, and for the Love that shall add its most precious blessings to all humankind. 
Long may the spirit of Truth and Love, the spirit of Religion, live in your hearts, shedding its gladness and its beauty on your daily lives, while it keeps your feet in the paths of righteousness, and strengthens your hands for every duty which God demands of you. 
Believe me, ever faithfully your friend, 
THEODORE PARKER.ï¿½
This letter was made yet more impressive by the fact, that the painful intelligence of Mr. Parkerï¿½s death had reached them but a short time before. Well might he give such counsel, for his life, too, was a bright and clear manifestation of the animating power of religious principle. In him, high thoughts and fervent aspirations were constantly transformed into a noble life; and his many friends may assuredly believe that his labors, even thus prematurely cut short, have hastened, more than those of almost any of his contemporaries, the triumph of true freedom and true Christianity in America. C. K. W.
The Tribune gave, not long since, a long list of undoubted slavers which cleared from the port of New York for Africa between the 1st of Jan. and the 1st of May. To this it now adds, for May and June, eight vessels more. This is one of the pernicious consequences of our long-continued fraternization with slaveholders as Republicans and Christians. 
<c06>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS, held at Longwood, Chester County, 1860. New York: Oliver Johnson, 5 Beekman street. Octavo, pp. 64.
This pamphlet contains the Minutes of the Yearly Meeting of 1860, which, as usual, was very largely attended, and which occupied four days, commencing with Sunday, the third of June. It then gives the ï¿½Testimoniesï¿½ of the Society, upon the following subjects: _1. Slavery-2. Rights of Women-3. Treatment of Criminalsï¿½4. Home Educationï¿½5. Intemperanceï¿½6. Tobaccoï¿½7.Treatment of Animalsï¿½8. Parentage. Next comes an Address (delivered before the Yearly Meeting by A. D. Mayor Pastor of a Church in Albany, N. Y.) entitled 'ï¿½The Method of Reform.'ï¿½ This is followed by a repetition of their ï¿½Exposition of Sentiments,' formerly published, but still timely and needful. The department of ï¿½Correspondenceï¿½ closes the pamphlet. It contains, first, a ï¿½General Epistleï¿½ from this Yearly Meeting to all other bodies of Progressive Friends; then communications from Yearly Meetings in Ohio, New York., Indiana and Michigan; and finally, letters from Moncure D. Conway, Parker Pillsbury, Theodore Tilton, David A. Wasson; William L. Fisher, Abram Brooke, Ann E. L. Roby, Jesse Bond, Cora Wilburn and Emma Hardinge. 
Those who have been acquainted with the documents issued by this body in former years will of course desire to see this one. To all others we earnestly recommend the careful reading of this pamphlet, which may be obtained from the publisher, a New York, or from R. F. Wallcut, at the Liberate Office, 221 Washington street-C. K. W.
THE BLESSINGS OF ABOLITION. A Discourse delivered in the First Congregational Unitarian Church Sunday, July 1, 1860. By W. H. Furness, Minister.-pp. 26. Philadelphia, 1860.
This admirable discourse, delivered on the Sunday preceding the 4th of July, seeks to turn the ideas and the action of that important anniversary into the only appropriate channel, namely, that of sympathy and help for the slave. Its author deserves the highest honor for his uniform faithfulness to the cause of freedom, though beset with the discouragements naturally existing in the midst of an evil and perverse generation, living so near to slavery as to have inbibed much of its contagious influence. 
The author says, as all abolitionists have been customed to think, that, were slavery done away, there would be nothing to prevent a happy and naturally advantageous Union between the North and the South. The events of the last few years have brought me, individually, to a different opinion upon this point. Our manners and morals at the North, never very pure in their best estate, have lately sunk so rapidly towards the level of those of the swearing, whiskey-drinking, gambling, horse-racing, cock-fighting, dueling and lynching section of the countryï¿½a section so degraded and besotted by the influence of slavery, that one of its most popular newspapers, years ago, declared its unmitigated <illegible> everything ' ï¿½free,'ï¿½ particularly specifying free chums, free schools and a free pressï¿½that I think as need, and must seek, a dissolution of the Union, for the slaveï¿½s sake only, as the nearest <illegible> way to his redemption, but for our own sakes. Our Northern people, certainly, cannot afford to gave worse than they now are; and the drunkard who would reform must not only sign the pledge, but keep away from the grog-shop. 
Dr. Furness says,ï¿½ 
ï¿½But before I mention some of the blessed consequences of letting the oppressed go free, let me briefly state by what means I consider that they ought to be set free. According to my idea of Abolition, and its in agreement with the principles constantly <illegible> by the leading advocates of the Cause, all interference whether by physical force or by unauthorized public action, between the master and the slave, is <illegible> abjured and strongly condemned, and the <illegible> reliance is upon truth, truth addressed freely and faithfully to the individual conscience and to <illegible> community at large.' 
It is true, as this passage declares, that the abolitionists took this ground from the beginning, and have continued to proclaim it, and to act upon it. The enterprise of John Brown at Harperï¿½s Ferry has brought me, individually, to a different judgment in a regard to the duty of the present hour, and of every hour that shall elapse before the extirpation of <illegible> very. Differing as I do with that noble man as to the appropriate limits of the use of physical strength in a moral causeï¿½holding, as I do, the impropriety of all use of injurious forceï¿½I yet have to thank John Brown for the example of aggressive aggressive self-<illegible> that he has given, and for the lesson of not waiting passively for the consent of the tyrant, when its as possible, irrespective of that consent, to give immediate enfranchisement to the slave. 
It was right to begin the Anti-Slavery work with conciliation; with the use of patience and <illegible> suffering toward our brethren, the slaveholders; <illegible> reliance on the sufficiency of moral suasion, on the power of truth to convince and convert even then. But we ought to have learned from far less than thirty years of such an experience as ours, that patience had already had her perfect work in that quarter; that it was folly to expect from such men as those of Virginia and South Carolina (not to speak of Mississippi and Louisiana) the voluntary <illegible> of their ill-gotten power; and that day now calls loudest for our extension of sympathy <illegible> and of active help to our brethren, the slaves. It their turn to receive some of the practical manifestations of brotherhood. The giving of active helps the slaves, wherever their liberation can be <illegible> either by stratagem or by the open exercise of <illegible> injurious force, is a position that, in my judgment ought to have been taken years ago. Let no more time be lost in waiting for the conversion of slaveholders.ï¿½c. k. w. 
BOOKS AND READING: A Lecture by W. P. <illegible> Published by Request. Boston: <illegible> Nichols. Lee & Co., 1860.-PP.60.
This lecture-one of a course delivered before the hands employed by a Massachusetts manufacturing company, for whom the author, at the request of its Treasurer, had previously selected and purchased a libraryï¿½is designed to give such hints as may be to useful to persons having comparatively little time for mental improvement. 
The author speaks justly of a neglect of books, and son of an abuse of books, which are too common every where. He says that many schoolhouses might appropriately be labelledï¿½Institutions where children are disgusted with Learning. He calls attention to the difference between reading for amusement and reading for instruction, both of which, however, he affirms, to be needful. He shows the necessity of a balance between the labors of body and mind, affecting that, as manual labor, to be good for any thing requires brains, to study, to be good for any thing requires bone and muscle; and illustrating by a rest of his friend and minister. Theodore Parker, <illegible> when askedï¿½ ï¿½How can you endure this encrust amount of study and writing? 'replied, ï¿½Because laid so many rods of stone wall when I was a <illegible> boy in Lexington.' ï¿½
Mr. Atkinson makes, a just discrimination, in regard to the reading which is intended for amusement, between wholesome and unwholesome reading. He suggestion, respecting solid reading may be usefull those who have more than ï¿½a littleï¿½ time for <illegible> improvement. And he closes with saying-after <illegible> planning that his omission to treat specially of <illegible> reading did not arise either from intentional <illegible> or want of appreciation-that whenever he has appealed to other motives, he has meant to imply, an underlying them all, a religious sense of responsibility to God for the right conduct of our lives.ï¿½c. k. w. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THEODORE PARKER:A Sermon, preached in Renshaw St.Chapel, Liverpool, on Sunday, 3d June,1860’ by S. A. Steinthal. Published by Request. London, 186O.-PP, 18.
Mr. Parker had formerly preached in Renshaw St. Chapel, and its minister improves the occasion of his death to recapitulate and enforce the lesson of his life. Designating some minor points in which(owing, I think, to his distance from, and limited knowledge of, the great battle-field in question,) he thought Mr. Parker in error, he freely and strongly expresses the gratitude which(he says) all ought to feel, for the services rendered by that eminent man to his race.
Mr.Steinthal particularly specifies these great merits in the positive teaching of Mr. Parker, namely; his constant recognition of the sacred fact upon which Jesus Christ based all his teaching that in the very nature of man there is the indestructible evidence of the existence of a loving God, a universal Father, and of a moral law higher than all human statutes; and of that other most precious truth,(which the agents and organs of the sects calumniously represent him as having denied,) that God has made and still makes, no less-revelations of inspired truth to man; so that every one who truly seeks communion with God may find it.
The sermon closes with a hearty recognition of the great value and efficiency of Mr. Parker’s labors in other branches of reform, especially in the department of Anti-Slavery.-C.K.W.
THE EPIDEMIC OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. BY
E.BOYDEN, of Hopedale, Albemarle County, Virginia. Richmond, 1860.-pp.25.
This Epidemic, according to Mr. Boyden, is’a diseased moral sentiment pervading the North on the subject of slavery'-the belief' that slaveholding is wrong, wrong in itself.’
This question, our author declares, ‘cannot be determined, save by the one only standard of right and wrong Known to Christendom, namely, the Holy Scriptures.’ He proceeds to affirm that, of the three dispensations by which God revealed and established His religion, the first, or patriarchal, was introduced among slaveholders; the second, or Jewish, among a free people, who afterwards were appointed to become slaveholders; and the third, or Christian, among slaveholders again. He represents that slaveholding, though in accordance with the Golden Rule, is not strictly a question of morals and religion at all; but is dealt with in the Holy Scriptures always as a matter of civil government, and so regulated, and of course permitted.-C.K.W.
THE RIGHT OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. BY T.W.Hoit, of the St. Louis Literary and Philosophical Association. Southern and Western Edition.- First and second editions, 500,000 copies. St.Louis, Mo., 1860. - Octavo, PP.51.
This well printed pamphlet undertakes to show the rightfulness of American slavery-the right of the civilized to enslave the barbarian generally-the peculiar fitness of the African for slavery-the absurdity of negro equality-and the necessity for our onward progress as a nation, by means of the products of slave labor-C.K.W.
CIRCULAR No. 1, of the Directory of the Practical Christian Promulgation Society. By Adin Ballou, President. Hopedale, 1860. - pp.8.
This tract gives an account of the organization and proposed measures of the Society above named. Adin Ballou is its General Agent as well as its President; and he proposes, by lectures, and by the preparation and circulation of tracts and larger publications, to forward those important ideas of practical reform which were advocated in the practical Christian, and by the Association at Hopedale. There are no more hearty and diligent laborers in things that concern the welfare of mankind than the founders of this Society.-C. K. W.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS: AN ESSAY delivered at the Exhibition of the English high School, Monday, July 16th, 1860, by william A.Hovey. Printed by Request. Boston: Yerrinton & Garrison. 1860. pp.7.
This little essay claims for woman, in just and forcible language, the enjoyment of all those rights which are by statute secured to man; particularly, the right to exercise the elective franchise, and the right, when accused of crime, to be tried by a jury of her peers. The maturity of thought and the power of just discrimination here shown by a pupil of the English High School, are creditable, not only to him, but to his teachers. Theodore Parker well said that her Public School were the glory of Boston. That a son of Charles F.Hovey should do honor to their instruction and discipline is no more than the friends of that excellent man would expect.-C. K. W.
The ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for August, is received. Its contents are,-The Carnival of the Romantic; A Legend of Maryland; Prince Adeb; Eleusinia; Victor and Jacqueline; Midsummer; Tobacco; Shakspeare done into French; The Poet’s Singing; A Journey in Sicily; The Professor’s Story; Anno Domini, 1860; Darwin on the Origin of Species; Reviews and Literary Notices.
FRATHERNIZATION OF THE CHURCH NORTH WITH THE CHURCH SOUTH. A late Congregationalist makes the following statement, without comment:-
‘Rev. Dr. Palmer, of New Orleans, has declined the professorship of pastoral theology and sacred rhetoric in the Princeton Theological Seminary, and has received a call from the church of which Dr. J. W. Alexander was pastor.’
The pro-slavery character of this New Orleans minister not only does not suffice to prevent his being invited to a professorship in a Massachusetts Theological Seminary, and to a Presbyterian pastorate in the city of New York, but is not probably once thought of as a disqualifying or even objectionable circumstance, by the Northern people who invited him.
The influence of the popular religious teaching, in all the great sects in this country, is to cause slaveholding to be regarded as an indifferent matter, entirely irrelevant to the inquiry whether a man is a Christian or not a Christian. If the English churches assume these churches to be Christian, and freely hold intercourse with them as such, they cannot fail to be defiled and corrupted. If the English churches sink, with the American, to this level, (giving their license to the worst of sins not less directly and openly than the Romish church gave hers in the time of Luther,) then Protestantism will require a Revolution as radical as Luther’s, to save the name of Christian from becoming a byword and a hissing.—C. K. W.
NOT TO BE WONDERED AT. Henry Ward Beecher says,-
‘People have the idea, now-a-days, that the churches are cradles, the ministers spectacled nurses, while the burden of their song is,” hush my dear, lie still, and slumber.”’
What wonder, when Rufus Choate, before Southside Adams’s church and congregation,(and a large gathering besides, of Reverend and other dignitaries,) praised the distinguished hero of the occasion, his pastor, for having performed precisely that function towards himself for a quarter of a century! And the Reverend gentleman not only accepted this as legitimate and merited praise, but the other Reverends took, in acquiescent silence, the somewhat impertinent and unneeded advice of the eloquent lawyer, to-Go and do likewise!
Rufus Choate went to his pew ‘for rest.’ And he found it there!-C. K. W.
<C02>
WENDELL PHILLIPS AND THE TRIBUNE.
MR. EDITOR:
I do not care to notice further the quibbles of the Tribune. It has done me the justice to publish my full statement, and I willingly rest my case on that.
 Please print in full the Bill which LINCOLN proposed, that your readers may see how faithfully I represented it. I hope they will remember that it related to a Territory of the United States (the District of Columbia), where, according to Republican theories, all slavery is illegal and unconstitutional—a nullity and a crime. The Tribune’s notion, therefore, of buying its abolition by infamous ‘concessions’ (if admissible any where) is there a surrender of the first principles of the Republican movement.
Observe, also, that a man, claiming an anti-slavery heart, could, in a deliberately drawn instrument, talk of the OWNERS of human beings!—a phrase which the Tribune also uses. Benton said ‘no man could be President who spelled negro with two g’s.’ So I think little or nothing of the anti-slavery heart of any man who deliberately talks of OWNERS of men. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The following is the bill referred to by Mr. Phillips, in full:—
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled, That no person not now within the District of Columbia, or now owned by any person or persons now resident within it, or hereafter horn within it, shall ever he held in slavery within said District.
SEC. 2. That no person now within said District or now owned by any person or persons now resident within the same, or hereafter born within it, shall ever be held in slavery without the limits of said District; Provided that officers of the Government of the United States, being citizens of the slaveholding States, coming into said District on public business, and remaining only so long as may be reasonably necessary for that object, may be attended into and out of said District, and while there, by the necessary servants of themselves and their families, without their right to hold such servants in service being thereby impaired.
SEC. 3. That all children born of slave mothers within said District, on or after the first day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty, shall be free; but shall be reasonably supported and educated by the respective owners of their mothers, or by their heirs or representatives, and shall serve reasonable service as apprentices to such owners, heirs and representatives, until they respectively arrive at the age of years, when they shall be entirely free; and the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and required to make all suitable and necessary provisions for enforcing obedience to this section, on the part of both masters and apprentices.
SEC. 4. That all persons now within said District lawfully held as slaves, or now owned by any person or persons now resident within said District, shall remain such at the will of their respective owners, their heirs and legal representatives: Provided that any such owner, or his legal representative, may at any time receive from the treasury of the United States the full value of his or her slave of the class in this section mentioned; upon which such slave shall be forthwith and forever free: And provided further—That the President of the United States, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be a board for determining the value of such slaves as their owners may desire to emancipate under this section, and whose duty it shall be to hold a session for such purpose on the first Monday of each calendar month; to receive all applications, and, on satisfactory evidence in each ease that the person presented for valuation is a slave, and of the class mentioned in this section, and is owned by the applicant, shall value such slave at his or her full cash value, and give to the applicant an order on the treasury for the amount, and also to such slave a certificate of freedom.
SEC. 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and required to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners all fugitive slaves escaping into said District,
SEC. 6. That the election officers within said District of Columbia are hereby empowered and required to open polls at all the usual places of holding elections on the first Monday of April next, and receive the vote of every free white male citizen above the age of twenty-one years, having resided within said District for the period of one year or more next preceding the time of voting for or against this act, to proceed in taking such votes in all respects not herein specified, as at elections under the municipal laws; and with as little delay as possible to transmit correct statements of the votes so cast to the President of the United States; and it shall be the duty of the President to canvass said votes immediately, and if a majority of them be found to be for this act, to forthwith issue his proclamation giving notice of the fact; and this act shall only be in full force and effect on and after the day of such proclamation.
SEC 7. That involuntary servitude for the punishment of crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall in no wise be prohibited by this act.
SEC. 8. That for all the purposes of this act, the jurisdictional limits of Washington are extended to all parts of the District of Columbia, not now included within the present limits of Georgetown.
 
CAMBRIDGE REFORM CONVENTION.
DEAR GARRISON:
A word about the’ Reform Convention’ at Cambridge, Ill., may be acceptable to your readers. I do not aim to report its proceedings, as they will, of course, be published, but merely to say that it was, in numbers, intelligence and interest, more than its most sanguine friends anticipated. 
The Court House on Saturday was nearly full, and on Sunday it was well filled, and, I think, mainly by reformers. 
There was an evident fear of being again brought into bondage, and deprived of the glorious liberty wherewith Christ has made us free—and especially by those who had been connected with the various church organizations. Hence the question of organization was unanimously laid over to a future meeting.
There was variety in the speeches, and even ‘popular sovereignty,’ or, as the speaker termed it, ‘individual sovereignty,’ had its frank, fearless and eloquent defender, in the person of Mr. Harwood, of Cambridge. It was not, however, thanks to the manliness of the man and the spirit of the age, the sham sovereignty’ which is limited to the white man; but it was asserted and shown to be inherent in man by virtue of his humanity, irrespective of the color which an Indian or an African sun may have burned upon his features. And, nobler far, the speaker maintained that ‘sovereignty’ was inherent in woman too—that she was in all respects the peer of man. 
Mrs. Stillman, (M. D.) of Dewitt, Iowa, gave a lecture on physiology and hydropathy, which was not only well received, but proved her ability to fill the sphere which she has chosen. The lecturer was especially and deservedly severe on the tobacco users, and seemed to think that about the only use of long skifts was to mop our churches and lecture rooms. 
Mrs. Campbell, of Clinton, Iowa, read, with a clear and distinct voice, a manuscript ‘Epistle’ from the Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends in Chester county, Pa., which was well received, and made a deep impression on the Convention. 
Mr. Allen, of Genesee, Ill., gave us an excellent lecture, which was no new thing for him. 
A. T. Foss, of New Hampshire, entertained, in his impressive manner of speaking, the large audience, on Saturday and Sunday, by two excellent discourses; the first going to show the moral guilt of the people of the free States remaining in union with slaveholders, either in Church or State. This complicity with crime he depicted in glowing colors, which must have made the most indifferent feel the responsibility of his position on this vital question of human rights. The second discourse was on the authority of the Old and New Testaments, as an unerring ‘rule of faith and practice,’ which he canvassed with marked ability. 
Having to leave before the Convention adjourned, I cannot speak of the closing lectures.
Yours for humanity, B. G. KNIGHT. 
Rural, Rock Island Co., Ill
<c03>
FROM THE ’OLD GRANITE STATE.’
EAST LEMPSTER, (N. H.) July 9,1860.
DEAR GARRISON:
I have been spending a few days in this vicinity, among the rock-ribbed hills of the ‘Old Granite State.’ In no other State have I seen such grand and beautiful scenery. Well has this State been called the ‘Switzerland of America.’ As the fertile dell, between the bleak, granite-crowned tops of those bare, forbidding summits which rise on every hand, like the green oases on Sahara’s barren waste, cheer the heart of the lone traveller, so the warm, bounding life-current which animates many a generous heart of the ‘natives’ of this forbidding country revives the soul of the modern adventurer whose barque is stranded on a man-cursed shore of Satanic Democracy.
A little leisure, and a suggestion of a friend whose whole life is devoted to the welfare of the oppressed and unfortunate everywhere, determined the question of an anti-slavery lecture at this place, where the gospel of immediate and unconditional emancipation has not been preached for nearly twenty years.
At the appointed hour, the town hall was well filled with an intelligent, attentive, and apparently interested audience. Two clergymen of the place were present, who, by their attempted defence of the Republican party and the Methodist Church as antislavery organizations, added much to the interest and profit of the meeting. 
If any additional illustration were needed of the fact, that of all men, there is no class in the community, of equal native talent and culture, who are so completely demented in regard to the application of moral principles as the clergy, we had abundant proof in the puerile attempt of the Congregational minister of this town to shield Abraham Lincoln from the popular contempt for his pro-slavery predilections on the ground that he is a ‘law and order’ man, and under constitutional obligations to see the Fugitive Slave Act faithfully executed, as well as all aspirations for freedom in the heart of the slave duly crushed out,’ should there be any manifestations of a revolutionary tendency. Now, I submit that this ‘lower law’ doctrine of making the blood-stained Constitution supreme over conscience and all the higher attributes of the soul, is bad enough in all reason when proclaimed by stump orators and political hucksters; but that it should find its advocates in the ranks of those who set themselves up as religious teachers(?) shames all decency. But, not withstanding this moral obliquity has fallen upon the minds of some who ought to apprehend God’s truth more clearly, yet this is a hopeful field for the earnest laborer in the moral vineyard, as evinced by the ardent desire of many of the audience for another lecture. 
May the time soon come when the stalwart arm of some real worker shall turn over this fallow ground, and prepare the soil to receive the seed of truth and righteousness, which shall bear an hundred fold in living men and women, prepared for the great duties of life in solving the problem of a nation’s distiny.
 Yours, for the redemption of those in bonds, 
D. M. A.
THE PRESENT POSITION OP THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH ON AMERI-CAN SliAVEBY.
LETTER TO REV. MR. FANKS, East Lempster, N. H.
DEAR SIR—At a recent Anti-Slavery meeting in your village, you complained of unfairness on the part of the lecturer in stating the relation of the Methodist Church to the subject of slavery. I maintained that, in common with all other evangelical(r) churches,(except the Covenanters,) it is essentially and thoroughly pro-slavery, so far as any practical action has yet been had. You asserted, on the contrary, that the Methodist Church proper was radically anti-slavery, and you stated distinctly to the audience, that action had been taken at the last General Conference which freed the church entirely from all connection with and responsibility for this giant sin. As I had not the official report of the proceedings of the General Conference, and your disclaimer was made with the greatest assurance, as coming from one who knew whereof he affirmed, the impression was doubtless left on the minds of many present, especially those of your own faith, that your statement was entirely correct, and that great injustice had been attempted by the speaker towards your church. To correct all such false notions, if any exist, I submit the following statement of the action at the Buffalo Conference, taken from one of your own papers—(Northern Independent.') 
It will be remembered that the recent Conference at Buffalo is not the first one that has taken’ decided action' on the question of slavery. We have been repeatedly reminded, within the last fifteen years, that the Methodist Episcopal Church was not responsible for slavery; that it had cut loose from the crime,(or, rather, that the crime had left it, in the withdrawal of the Southern wing.) and had borne an unequivocal testimony against the evil {I) of slavery. 
But, in opposition to all this hypocritical profession, has stood the fact, that more than 35,000 slaves were owned by Methodist church members, in good and regular standing—acknowledged as Christians in all your churches.(I am not now speaking of the seceding church, which owns more than 200,000 hu-; man beings, but of the M. E. Church.)
It is undeniable that the church in question is doctrinally, historically and administratively, a slave-holding and a slave-trading organization. Turn to the record of its proceedings at Buffalo, and you will see that, while those who spoke for justice and, humanity were not applauded, save in a single instance, the advocates of a do-nothing’ policy were frequently cheered, and, in one instance, at least, having exhausted the time allowed to each speaker,’ the defender of adultery and wholesale concubinage was permitted, by vote of the Conference, to extend his remarks at pleasure. 
These incidents, insignificant in themselves, are instructive as indicating the amount of anti-slavery action to be expected from such a body. In perfect accordance with its past history and present position, the General Conference passes the following as its boasted new chapter' for the extirpation of the’evil'(not sin) of slavery:—
We declare that we are as much as ever convinced of the great evil of slavery. We believe that the buying, selling or holding of human beings, to be used as chattels, is contrary to the laws of God and nature, and inconsistent with the Golden Rule, and with that Rule of our Discipline which requires all who desire to continue among us, to “do no harm and avoid evil(!) of every kind." We therefore affectionately admonish all our preachers and people to keep themselves pure from this great evil(!) and to seek its extirpation by all lawful and Christian means.' 
[The italics are my own.]
Two things in this new chapter' are worthy of note. First. This great anti-slavery(?) M. E. Church speaks of slaveholding as an evil. It does not, it never has, characterised this sum of all villanies' as, a sin—a crime. Human beings may be bred for the market by Methodist church-members, innocent. babes may be torn from an affectionate mother's warm embrace, and told to human brokers in the trade of blood,' by licensed ministers of the gospel(!) female purity may be violated, and virtue trampled in the dust, by canting hypocrites; every command in the decalogue may be ignored, and every conceivable vice extolled; but the strongest term of disapprobation this great Anti-Slavery Methodist Church has to apply thereto is it is an evil'!!
Secondly. The action of the Council was only AD-MONITORY!’We affectionately admonish all our preachers and people to keep themselves pure from this great evil'! But, what if those who have grown
old in iniquity and rich in the traffic in the bodies and souls of their fellow-men, will not be advised to turn from their wickedness and obey the Golden Rule—what then? Does the M. E. Church propose to discipline them therefor? Will she disfellowship a single brother in Christ(?) simply on the ground of slaveholding? Not a bit of it! As slaveholders and the defenders and apologists of slavery constitute a large class in said church to-day, so the next General Conference, four years hence, will find pro-slavery rampant and domineering as ever; and the man who endeavors to delude his hearers with the idea that the Methodist Church has ever taken a stand for the abolition of slavery within her own borders; or elsewhere, is either sadly demented on the subject, or grossly dishonest.
There are thousands of slaveholders in the Methodist Church to-day. There are slaveholders among’ her travelling and local preachers, and yet we occasionally find a man, yes, a minister, who has the hardihood to assert that the church is anti-slavery—: that it has gone to the verge of its power in prohibition of this man-degrading system—that it has freed its skirts of all responsibility for this heaven- defying sin! 
May we spread the mantle of charity over all such, and may God, in his infinite goodness, have mercy upon them! 
Yours, for the triumph of truth, justice and equality, D. M. ALLEN.
Newbury, Geauga Co., O., July 15, 1860.
LETTER FROM VERMONT.
WILLIAMSTOWN, Vt., July 8, 1860. 
MR. GARRISON; 
I wish to renew my subscription for the Liberator. I have tried to satisfy myself with political papers, but have failed, most sadly failed. There is too little principle in them, too little of any thing but a thirsting for place and power. There is not a single paper in Vermont devoted to any higher purpose than the interest of sect or political party. This may be deemed uncharitable by the conductors of some of our Vermont papers, but it is nevertheless true. 
The Repository, the organ of the growing and highly respectable denomination in Vermont called Universalists, claims, no doubt, to be governed by a better motive than the interest and advancement of a sect. It claims to be liberal, claims to be philanthropic, yet its editor has recently issued his edict against any article transcending the limits of the denominational creed, assigning as a prominent, if not the sole reason, that the interest and prosperity of the denomination required it.
The Green Mountain Freeman (a grand title, surely; would it were significant of its principles!) swaggers about freedom, and publishes weekly as its motto,
‘With its hand upon the charter, 
And its feet upon the sod, 
It will live and die a martyr 
To its freedom and its God.'
Great swelling words, surely, but words are cheap. The same motto might easily be placed at the head of the Vermont Patriot or the New York Herald, and with nearly equal propriety. While its editor is thus publicly boasting of his readiness for martyrdom to the cause of freedom, he utterly refuses his columns for the utterance of a single thought which does not clearly accord with the interests of the Republican party, assigning as his reason that his object in publishing the Freeman is to make money. Hence his abuse of Garrisonians, while his columns are forever barred against a single line in their defence. Their doctrine is unpopular, and he fears it will injure the circulation of his paper, and thus hinder the prosecution of his one only object, making money. For an editor of the age, talent and reputation of the editor of the Freeman to call Wendell Phillips a’ disunion rascal,' and denounce Mr. Garrison as worthy of the halter, while he denies them and their friends the privilege of saying a single word in their defence, is to descend to the very lowest depths of editorial meanness. I ask the anti-slavery men of Vermont how long we shall continue to patronize such a paper? 
A VERMONTER.
From the N. T. Tribune. 
EMANCIPATION BY A VIRGINIAN
.Miss Cornelia Barbour, a daughter of the Hon. James Barbour of Virginia, formerly Governor of that State, and a member of President J. Q. Adams's Cabinet, has resolved to emancipate her numerous slaves and locate them in a free State, where they can enjoy liberty and(if they will) acquire property. The following letter was prompted by tidings of this resolution:— 
NEW YORK, July 9, 1860. 
Miss CORNELIA BARBOUR,—It was my happiness many years ago to pass a portion of two days at the house and in the society of your honored father in Orange County, in the Old Dominion. I still cherish a very distinct recollection of him, your mother, and yourself, and of the pleasure and instruction I derived from that visit. Recent information that you, in concurrence with the sentiments of the great men of Virginia at the period of the Revolution, of the great and good men of all Christian countries, except only our Southern States, had resolved to give free dom to your bondmen, has awakened anew the memory of that interview for which I was indebted to the kind introduction of our mutual friend, Judge Field of Culpepper. Allow me to rejoice and to thank you for your practical devotion and self-sacrifice in a cause now doubly dear to me, since it has cost me years of exile and banishment from all the fond ties of wife and children, and a happy home. In my wanderings since my ostracism from our great State of Virginia in 1856, I have often dwelt with delight on the recollections of the noble person and the still nobler sentiments of your distinguished father. These feelings are aroused with increased intensity by an extract inclosed, which I have just cut from the N. Y. Tribune of this day's date. Such sentiments are worthy of one of the great lights of our country—a man who conferred honor upon every station he occupied, whether in the Executive of his native State, in the Cabinet of one of the purest National Administrations, or as c% Representative at the most mighty Court of Europe. 
Go on, esteemed daughter of Virginia and of a most noble sire, in the work of patriotism, of freedom and humanity! Others shall be influenced by your bright and heroic example. And may we not hope for the. speedy coming of that good time when the State we love shall resume her ancient position, the foremost among her sisters of this glorious Union? Her central location, her unequalled natural resources and capabilities, demand this at her hands. She should be first in agriculture, in commerce, in art", in manufactures, and especially in intellectual culture, and in all the higher developments of mind and heart which give elevation of purpose and dignity of character, and spread the kind charities and sweet amenities of Christian civilization through all the activities of social and domestic life. 
I know you will have one earnest sympathizer in the person of my wife, who, like yourself, born to a condition of ease and indulgence amid a large circle of servants, has, like yourself, chosen to secure the consciousness of doing justice and loving mercy, a' the expense of incurring the reproach of folly anc fanaticism. The names of those equal to the surrender of arbitrary power are few indeed, and worthy of eternal consecration. Who can forget Dioclesian, Charles V., Richard Cromwell, LaFayette, or the Russian Alexander II., who has already achieved greater glory by the emancipation of his serfs than did his Grecian predecessor by the subjugation of the’ world. Yours shall be a kindred glory. God grant that you may be spared the cruel persecution, spite threats and denunciation which my poor wife has been compelled to endure. Through the medium o that good wife, in her premature and enforced widow hood at Culpepper, I send these brief words, assuring you of the sincere respect and great regard with which I remain, your friend,
JOHN C. UNDERWOOD.
MARRIED.—In this city. July 18th, by Rev. J Sella Martin, Mr. JOHN A. MULLIGAN to Miss MARRY ANN LAWSON, both of this city. 
In this city, July 18th, by Rev. J. C. Stockbridge Mr. GEORGE W. POTTER, of New York, to Miss MARY TOWSEY, of Fabius, N. Y. 
In Cambridgeport, July 10th, by Rev. Mr. Whitte more, Mr. NATHANIEL J. WALKER to Miss LUCY A SKEENS.
DIED—In tBrookline, July 16th, Mrs. MARION DIX, wife of John W. Sullivan.
<c05>
ABOLITION TRIUMPHANT! 
The Twenty-sixth anniversary of”WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on WEDNESDAY, August 1st, at the beautiful Grove in NORTH ABINGTON.
Amidst the war of factions, the strife of parties, and the social antagonisms which convulse our country, the voice of British Philanthropy, of monarchical Liberty, speaking deliverance to Eight Hundred Thousand CHATTEL SLAVES, proclaims the justice, the divinity, the inevitable triumph of the Anti-Slavery principle; the ineffable baseness sad hypocrisy of that Republicanism which holds four million men in chains; and the only method of solution for this problem of chattel bondage, the immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave upon our soil. The day is consecrated to the achievement of this sublime purpose. The friends of impartial freedom, without solicitation, will throng the assembly; its enemies are cordially invited to be present. 
Among the speakers expected are Rev. M. D. CON-WAY of Cincinnati, EDMUND QUINCY, CHARLES L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS, E. H. HEYWOOD, Hon. N. H. WHITING, WM. W. BROWN, J. B. SWASEY of Boston, and others.
An Excursion Train on the Old Colony Railroad will leave Boston at 9.15 and Plymouth at 9.20, A. M., stopping at usual way stations. Returning, leave the Grove at 5.15, P. M. 
Fare as follows:—Boston, Savin Hill, Dorchester, Port Norfolk and Quincy, to Grove and back, for adults, 50 cents; children, 25 cents.
 Plymouth and the way-stations not already mentioned, to the Grove and back, half the usual rate. Excursion tickets good on other trains.
 Ample preparations at the Grove for Refreshments and Recreations. 
In case of rain, the meeting will be held in the Town Hall, contiguous to the Grove. 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Committee of Arrangements
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangements
E. H HEY WOOD, Committee of Arrangements
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, Committee of Arrangements
THOS. J. HUNT, Committee of Arrangements
SAMUEL DYER, Committee of Arrangements
 
NO MORE CHAINS. 
West India Emancipation.
The Twenty-Sixth Anniversary of West India Emancipation will he commemorated at MILFORD, Massachusetts, at the Town Hall, on THURSDAY, August 2d, 1860. Services to commence at 10 o’clock, A. M.
Let us gather once more, in multitudinous array, to call the attention of our own guilty land to the sublime achievement of British Philanthropy, which gave liberty to eight hundred thousand chattel slaves!—a triumph of right more glorious than any other event recorded on the page of history. And by the light of this noble example, let our own shame and startling hypocrisy urge on the work which shall lead to the universal and immediate emancipation of the four million slaves who pine and suffer beneath the galling yoke of American despotism. 
In the name of Freedom and the suffering bondmen, we invite our fellow-countrymen and women to be with us. PARKER PILLSBURY, C. L. REMOND, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and other able speakers, will be present to address the meeting. Services to commence at 10 o’clock precisely, and continue through the day and evening.
Per order of the Committee of Arrangements,
GEORGE W. STACY.
Milford, Mass., July 18, 1860.
MASS MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
The Colored Citizens of New Bedford respectfully invite their brethren, far and near, to meet them in a Convention that will assemble in Liberty Hall, in this city, on Wednesday, August 1st, 1860, at 10 o’clock A. M. 
They believe the day should be commemorated in a manner calculated to advance the cause of Freedom.
Several eloquent speakers from abroad have been invited, and are expected to participate in the deliberation, and a grand reunion of the oppressed is expected. 
Let the voice go forth from this meeting that will convince our oppressors that we are entitled to equal political and judicial rights: that our claim to a seat in the jury box cannot justly be withheld. And we pledge ourselves to agitate the question of our wrongs until justice is bestowed upon all men whose only crime is the color of their skin. 
At the close of the Convention, a Grand Levee will be held in City Hall. Good music will be in attendance during the day and evening.
Committee of Arrangements—EZRA R. JOHNSON, JOHN FREEDOM, CHAS. H. BROOK, FRANCIS DOUGLASS, LLOYD H. BROOKS, SOLOMON PENETON, JOSEPH SCOTT, WILLIAM BERRY.
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT SAUGUS CENTRE.—PARKER PILLSBURY and JAMES N. BUFFUM will give addresses at Saugus Centre, on Sunday evening next, July 29.
WEST WRENTHAM. PARKER PILLSBURY will speak at West Wrentham, Wednesday evening, August 1st.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Dover, N. H., Sunday evening, July 29.
ANDOVER-PARKER PILLSBURY will speak at Andover, Sunday, August 5.
NATICK.—H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Natick. Sunday, August 5.
WM. WELLS BROWN will hold meetings at the following places: 
West Brookfield, Vt., Friday, July 27. 
Waitsfield, Saturday, 28. 
Rev. N. R. Johnston will also attend all the meetings in Vermont.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years’ experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity. 
References.—David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark. M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me. 
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers(free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be— soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). JAS. S. MARSHALL, 
Practical Chemist,
 No. 32 City Buildings, New York. 
New York, June 6. 3m
HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next term of this Institution will commence on WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 5, and continue FIFTEEN WEEKS. For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals. 
WM. S. HAYWOOD, -Principals 
ABBlE B. HAYWOOD, -Principals 
WANTED, 
At the above-named Institution, a MATRON to. have the superintendence of the Domestic Department. An American woman of experience, good health and competency, and especially of Reformatory Principles and unquestionable integrity of character, desired. None other need apply. Please address as above, or 
J. LOWELL HEYWOOD, Steward.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.,
July 23, 1860. )
PARKER AND PHILLIPS.
MINIATURE Photographs of THEODORE PARKER and WENDELL PHILLIPS, executed in beautiful style, have just been published. Price only 15 cts For 30 cents in stamps, one of each will be sent in a letter, post-paid, to any address. Liberal discount to those who desire to aid in circulating them.
Address R. THAYER, at this office.
<c06>
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRA
MIND AND BODY
PHYSIOLOGY reveals the intimate connection between the mind and the body,and shows us that without a sound and healthy body,the mind cannot properly perform its functions. Having spent fifteen years in feeding the public mind, until apparently an absolute plethora has come upon it, we now propose to administer for the maladies of the body--'To cure the ills which flesh in heir to.' We have issued during our Publishing Life not less than FOUR MILLIONS OF VOLUMES, several of which have been translated into other languages, and have found their way to hundreds of thousands of readers, in every portion of the habitable globe.
Having been so largely instrumental in disseminating valuable books, which have made an indelible impress for good upon mankind, it is not without a slight feeling of regret that we abandon our calling for another, and we should hesitate in so doing, did we not believe that good can be done in another sphere, and that the body, with its multiform infirmities, needs attending to(especially in this land of fast livers.) as well as the mind.
A few years since, a gentleman of Boston, an invalid was travelling in search of health, in Perr, the beautiful land of the Incas, the country of mines and minerals. During his stay, he spent seven weeks in a convent in the interior; while there, he became possessed of a recipe for a medicine which effected his own complete restoration to health. Grateful for the means which had enabled him to live a sound man again, he extended his knowledge as he was able, and in a few years it was in successful use in all the Hospitals, and by all the medical men of Peru. The effect of the medicine was so wonderful that he entered into correspondence with parties in this country, who took it up earnestly, and have labored unceasingly for its introduction, until
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP,
OR
PROTECTED PROTOXIDE OF IRON,
Has come to be considered almost a necessity in every family. Its success is extraordinary, proving its great excellence. Notwithstanding its present popularity, it is destined yet to take a higher rank than any curative ever offered to the American People. Its elements are safe and simple, and disintegrated, have been known and recommended by physicians for centuries, but, previous to this discovery, could never be properly combined so as to be held in solution.
We purpose to devote the next ten years to a thorough and systematic dissemination of this INVALUABLE PREPARATION, until
‘EARTH’S REMOTEST NATION’
shall bo reached and benefited. If our language seems extravagant, we beg the ineredulous or doubting to send for a pamphlet of testimonials, from some of the most distinguished men of Peru and this country, who have tested its value, and speak from experience.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.
The style of our new firm will be
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER,
STORE 39 SUMMER STREET, BOSTON,
(Next door to the New Post Office.) 
The medicine will be manufactured by N. L. CLARK & CO., but exclusively for us, and, as herefore, will be sold 
BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
July 20.
PROUTY & MEARS’S
CELEBRATED 
HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the ’Clipper Improved,’ ‘Mount Vernon,’ and ‘Gold Medal.’
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,’ of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron ‘Parlor Oven Stove’ ever introduced into this market.
ALSO
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS’S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS. 
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf

CARPETING
‘All the Year Round,’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER Street,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths(of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
WEDDING AND VISITING 
CARDS, 
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY 
E. A. TEULON,
1491-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
120
POETRY
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.

CELEBRATION AT NORTH ELBA. 
[The following lines were written, on reading the notice of a celebration, on the 4th of July, at North Elba, N.Y., over the grave of JOHN BROWN, at which John Brown. Jr. read the Declaration of Independence, and Simon Brown, the youngest son, read the Sermon on the Mount,' by AUGUSYINE CALD well, a Student in the Normal School, Bridgewater.]

Merry bells that day were ringing—
Over every hill and dale. 
Shout of mirth and song of gladness
Floated on the passing gale. 

Yet, methinks, that they who gathered 
Kindly round that hallowed mound, 
little cared far mirth and gladness. 
Or the trumpet's joyous sound. 

Higher thoughts their souls pervaded. 
While they read those words of trust, 
Writ by men whose daring spirit 
Raised a nation from the dust.

As they listened to the teachings 
Of the blessed Master here. 
Soothingly those lines so tender 
Must have fallen on the ear.	

He who slept that day beneath them, 
Took those precepts to his heart; 
Their true spirit had pervaded 
And ennobled every part. 

Christs dear’ little ones’ he labored 
Fearlessly and well to win; 
Every man he called his brother- 
Claimed the wide world at his kin. 

But his mild and gentle spirit 
Did for him most keenly feel, 
Who was crushed with heavy burdens- 
Felt the yoke on’ heart and heel.'.

He had heard the piteous prayer, 
Seen the whip and heard the blow; 
I was his most noble life-work 
To redeem him from his woe. 

Would his mantle might fall on us. 
And we catch his spirit true; 
Forward go, and waver never,- 
Boldly in his steps pursue. 

Now he sleeps, let us grow firmer. 
Careful lest our spirits quail:- 
God is just—His arm is mighty- 
And the Right shall yet prevail. 

For the Liberator. 
THE PRIZE-FIGHT. 
Eighteen hundred and sixty years 
Of Christward leverage under the spheres; 
And what is the thing that now appears? 

Troopsof golden prophesies come 
Up from the bountiful martyrdom 
That struck the jeering world so dumb:

Wherefore, far on the outer verge 
Of tangled cycles of sorrow and scourge, 
Where’mid the passionate Ages surge, 

I catch the shining of those white days 
For which the Universe moans and prays- 
Soft hours wherein is no dispraise. 

But what of beautiful and of sweet 
Doth the earth, made green by touch of His feet, 
Yield to the Holy Paraclete? 

The lips of a glorious brotherhood 
Fling to the jasper gates of God 
A cry that sounds at a voice of blood. 

Under the clear compassionate skies 
Two men glare in each other's eyes; 
And yet they are not enemies: 

Amethyst pure are their affluent veins; 
Royal their strength of loin; and reins; 
Dark their ghastly gashes and stains. 

Poet, whose super-sensual ken 
Cleaves to the souls of things and men; 
Where was your scorn of scorning then?

Priest, in the shadow of the Cross, 
Naming the things of the earth for dross, 
Why did you stand at such utter loss? 

Mother-queen of the isles and seas, 
Throned in purple regalities: 
You, with your children round your knees, 

Singing of love and of innocence- 
Where was your law's just vehemence, 
And where your own large woman-sense? 

The poet withheld his awful breath: 
The craven priest was still as death; 
He did not whisper of Nazareth. 

The Queen sate silent: the strong law slept: 
And a roar of horrible laughter leapt 
From the throat of Hell to the heavens that wept. 

Eighteen hundred and sixty years 
Of Christward leverage under the spheres; 
And this is the thing that now appears. 
RICHARD REALF
We republish the following felicitous tribute to the memory of a dearly beloved friend and an early coadjutor, in order to correct some errors which marred its first publication, a few weeks since.—[Ed. Lib. 
THE SLAVE'S FRIEND. 
A Tribute to the Memory of Ellis Gray Loring. Poet, whose super-sensual ken
Cleaves to the souls of things and men;
Where was your scorn of scorning then?

Priest, in the shadow of the Cross,
Naming the things of the earth for dross,
Why did yon stand at such utter loss?

What spell of tenderness hath touched 
The’golden lips' to-day? 
Why bend the poor and rich, alike, 
Above yon prostrate clay? 

In no vain words of praise respond  
The memory of his deeds. 
Enshrined in faithful hearts, is all 
The eulogy he needs. 

Let Love, bereaved, pour forth its tears 
Where Auburn's willows wave, 
Let Nature's flower-wreath bloom and fade 
Around his new-made grave 

Then write his name, his simple name, 
On marble white and fair, 
And let the stranger, let the slave, 
Pay grateful tribute there. 

The slave? alas he may not dare 
Beside this grave to rest, 
He way not moisten with his tears 

The turf on LORING'S breast.
Oh, Time  deal gently withWe republish the dust 
That consecrates that mound. 
Till the freed bondman's pilgrim feet 
Shall tread the hallowed ground

Then wake the bard, whose Heaven-taught strain 
Shall truth itself inspire, 
And let him make the name we love 
The burden of his lyre 

FLOWERS. 
They tell of a season when men were not, 
When earth was by angels trod, 
And leaves and flowers in every spot 
Burst forth at the call of God: 
When spirits, singing their hymns at even, 
Wandered by wood and glade, 
And the Lord looked down from the highest heaven, 
And blessed what He had made—
The bright, bright flowers  


In no vain words of praise respond
The memory of his deeds,
Enshrined in faithful hearts, is all
The eulogy he needs.

Let Love, bereaved, pour forth its tears
Where Auburn's willows wave,
Let Nature's flower-wreath bloom and fade
Around his new-made grave

Then write his name, his simple name,
On marble white and fair,
And let the stranger, let the slave,
Pay grateful tribute there.

The slave? alas he may not dare
Beside this grave to rest,
Be may not moisten with his tears
The turf on LORING'S breast.

Oh, Time deal gently with the dust
That consecrates that mound,
Till the freed bondman's pilgrim feet
Shall tread the hallowed ground.

Then, wake the bard, whose Heaven-taught strain
Shall truth itself inspire,
And let him make the name we love
The burden of hit lyre

FLOWERS. 
They tell of a season when men were not,
When earth was by angels trod,
And leaves and flowers in every spot
Burst forth at the call of God:
When spirits, singing their hymns at even,
Wandered by wood and glade,
And the Lord looked down from the highest heaven,
And blessed what He had made-
The bright, bright flower

<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 

THE PRESENT LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE OF ORTHODOXCONGREGATIONALISM.

The world moves. Notwithstanding the increase of some sorts of vice and evil, there is a constant progress, among civilised nations, in material, intellectual and spiritual things. 
The Church also moves, being unable to resist the influence of that which it calls, reproachfully,’the world.' But it moves by a force from without, slowly, and at intervals, and only, as it were, by a dragging of the anchors with which its clerical leaders' have attempted to’ fix' it in steady resistance to the, stream of progress. The position and influence of these clerical leaders, and the position of the Church, so far as it yields to their guidance, are so well displayed in the Report of the Fifty-Eighth Annual; Meeting of the General Association of Massachusetts, held last month at Holliston, that an abstract of some: portions of it is herewith submitted. 

'Narratives of the State of Religion' were given from twenty-seven districts. In seventeen of these' is reported either the entire absence or the very limited occurrence of’ revivals,' and in eight more there was such a silence upon the subject as necessarily implies a similar state of things. In only five of these; twenty-seven districts is any progress of the people in practical reform alluded to; and it is noticeable. that all these five are districts where there have been few or no’ revivals.' Where the Church has been strongest, real improvement of character has been least manifest. 

This almost entire cessation of’ revivals' is thus corroborated in the report of the’ Statistical Scribe.' He says 'Last year, the streams had been swollen by the melting's of the Sun of Righteousness. This year, the churches have hardly held their own; in fact, the 76,784 members of last year are slightly reduced.' 

In precise accordance with the statistical statements from these two sources, were the following representations in the’ Pastoral Letter.' In connection with the mention of the’ almost unprecedented absence of revivals of religion in the churches during the last year,' it was asked in that Letter (in reference to the daily prayer-meetings which were established in many places in the time of of the great revival') 'Where are those prayer-meetings now? Why, indeed, are they nearly all abandoned?' 

It was, however, thought not well to have such a representation as this sent out to the churches, and the Pastoral Letter' was referred back to the Committee for amendment. It was subsequently adopted, after having been’ so modified as to express the view that there has been a sensible increase of interest generally in the stated prayer-meetings during the past year.'

Those who have noticed the readiness with which these men use falsehood in opposition to the promoters of theological and practical reform, will hardly be surprised at finding it used for the general promotion of their own policy. 

One exercise of the Association was a discussion on the question' What are the special dangers or need of the pulpit in New England at the present time?' The various answers given to this question, if they give no other light, illustrate the position of the Orthodox clergy of Massachusetts in the year 1860. 

Rev.B. F. Clark thought the greatest want was more of Christ.

Rev. E. P. Marvin thought the’doctrines’ should be preached clearly. ’We must reason with the people, if we would convince them that they are lost.'  

Rev. Dr. Todd said,’ It seemed to him that the pulpit of New England at present, was too much under the power of the secular press. All the magazines, and many of the papers, assumed to instruct the clergy, and he thought there was danger of an undue influence from this source. How many times, he would ask, had his brethren preached, the past year, on the woes of the lost, and on what are called the severe doctrines?' 

Rev. A. Ballard thought that’one of the first things was for a minister to keep his own heart. ‘More perfect confidence in the promises of God was also needed.' 

Rev. Horace James’ would have more expository preaching-more preaching upon the parables, the tours of St. Paul,' &c. 

No other speaker upon this subject was reported. The following question was then taken up; and the speakers upon it are thus reported by the Congregationalist:—

'Is there anything to be desired, and, if anything, what in the conducting of our religious 
newspapers? 

'Dr. Todd said he should like to talk on the question, but he was afraid he should be printed. (Laughter.) He should be glad to see less personality and acerbity than was sometimes exhibited. Sometimes editors were unkind, and almost savage and unchristian toward one another. It was a misfortune to have our papers thus battling with one another. The divisions among us were in a great measure, he thought, made by the religious press. Several of Dr. Todd's allusions brought out hearty laughter-especially an anecdote which he  told of a lawyer, who, in speaking of the New York Observer and the Independent, said the former had fallen from grace, and the latter had never been converted.



Rev. E. W. Clark criticised the insertion of advertisements unsuitable to be read in the family. He had lately noticed in two religious papers an advertisement of Spalding's Prepared Glue, in which a story was told of a dog that ran against a stick, and was cut into two pieces; but by the application of this glue was put together again. The parts, however, were not stuck together the same side up, but this enabled the dog, when he got tired on one side, to turn over and run a-while on the other. (Loud laughter.) Such statements he thought hardly comported with the dignity of a religious newspaper. 

Rev. E. G. Little, of North Middleboro', objected to the publication of patent medicine advertisements, and he wished such a sentiment might go out from this body and the religious community as would put a stop to it. 

Rev. Erastus Colton, of East Hampton, thought it was inexpedient for religious papers to refer to local matters, such as church difficulties, as it only did harm to spread these things out before the 
community.

Rev. Dr. Albro, of Cambridge, suggested that correspondents furnished objectionable articles and statements sometimes. It was not uncommon to see in one issue a contradiction of facts stated in a previous number. This was wrong,, and more care should be taken to state matters correctly, if at all .

Rev. Dr. Hitchcock, of Amherst, thought the people had a responsibility in this matter, for it was only to gratify a disposition for novelty and incitement on the part of readers that most of the objectionable matter was printed. 

Rev. L. Dickerman, of Dorchester, suggested that papers ought to be more careful in giving credit to the sources from whence they might copy articles, and thus keep better than some of them now do the eighth commandment. 

Rev. Mr. Tucker, of Holliston, said that, in the view of some, at least,, the plan of reporting Sabbath discourses was objectionable, and nothing short of a transgression of the fourth commandment. 

Rev. Joshua Leavitt, of New York, though not a member, was allowed to speak by the courtesy of the Association. He had been connected with the press thirty-two years, and be believed they would bear him witness that he had endeavored to deal honestly and impartially with all. It was the ability to catch and respond to the thoughts of the people that made a paper successful. 

Whether or not the Rev. Joshua Leavitt was called out by the hit at the Independent, administered by the previous speaker, we’have now this suggestion, presented by the senior’ Office Editor' of that paper, as the key to’ to ‘successful' editorship of’a ‘re- 

<c03>
ligious' paper: ECHO THE EXISTING IDEAS OF THE PUBLIC, INSTEAD OF TRYING TO TEACH THEM BETTER ONES. 

One of the evenings of this meeting of the General Association was devoted to the honor and glory of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, preparing the way for the semi-centennial celebration of its establishment, which was to take place in Bradford, two days later. The following statements, I suppose, give a correct historical account of the way in which the A. B. C. F. M. was originally cut and dried:-

'Rev. A. H. Quint read extracts from the early records of the Board. It was fifty years ago 
yesterday, he said, since the meeting of the  General Association at Bradford, which took the initiatory steps for the organization of the Board.  

Rev. S. B. Treat, one of the Secretaries of the Board, said that fifty years ago to-day, two men well known, and of ecclesiastical standing, were on their way to the meeting of the Association at Bradford, and the organization of the Board, even to its long, cumbrous name, had its origin in the conversation of that hour. Forming a plan in their own minds, they pressed it upon the Association with so much force that their proposition was carried into execution.' 

The way in which secular history becomes transformed into sacred history—-the way in which natural events, under priestly guidance, come to be reputed miraculous and divine-is well displayed in what was said of this very transaction by Rev. Dr. Worcester of Salem, at the Bradford meeting, two days after. The report of his sermon on that occasion-in this very number of the Congregationalist-says: 

'All controversy as to the question, What man was most active in securing the formation of this Board? was deprecated. God was its proper author. To him belonged the praise.' 

The closing afternoon was devoted to the preaching of the ’Associational Sermon,' and to the ’Communion Service,' both of which the Report represents as’ somewhat tedious.' 

A brief editorial notice of this Anniversary (in the same paper) speaks of it as usually pleasant and delightful.' From 175 to 200 clergymen were present. The morning prayer-meetings were prominent features of interest. The action upon almost every vote was unanimous,, and there was no approach to acrimony or bitterness in any of the discussions. 


A similar testimony to the harmony of these 200 ministers was borne by Rev. Justin Perkins, the missionary to Persia, who, many years ago, exerted himself to awaken his clerical brethren and their churches to the sin and danger involved in slavery,, but who has succumbed to the pro-slavery influence of the Board, and has lately been laboring, with its Secretaries, to obtain enlarged contributions to its treasury. His address on this occasion was made for this purpose, and—

'In closing, he said he had always felt a pride in hailing from Massachusetts, the glory of all lands. He expressed gratification to find the pastors of the State so well united on the reforms of the day, especially on the great evil of oppression.' 

The harmony thus boasted of is a united and unanimous ignoring of the need that any action in regard to slavery should be proposed by the ministry, or carried into effect by the people. In this long report of the proceedings of two-and-a-half days,, occupying nearly a page of the Congregationalist, I find only three other allusions to the subject of slavery, all of them as incidental as the above. They are harmonious in evading that subject. If any one of these ministers of the Gospel' (as they call themselves) entertained the private opinion that the oppression of four millions of slaves in this country is something worse than the advertising of ’Spalding's Prepared Glue' in a religious newspaper-he prudently kept it to himself, and would not risk the harmony of the Association by proposing to help them. It is thus that the clergy are ’united,' alike in regard to this and to the other most important 'reforms of the day.' 

One of these reforms-one of the movements most important to our social, intellectual, moral and religious welfare-is the existing demand for the Rights of Women. Surely, it would not be dangerous or evil in any way to give women their rights Yet, owing mainly to the position of the clergy upon this subject, not only are those rights pertinaciously refused, but the very phrase which recognizes and demands them has become a laughing-stock; a theme for small wits, masculine and feminine, to exercise their satire upon. 

In the very number of the Congregationalist reporting the meeting above referred to, the leading editorial article is a reply to a communication signed’ A PASTOR'S WIFE,' of which the following is the more important portion:—

'Mr. Editor: allow me to ask a few plain questions in regard to the rights of female members of Congregational churches. We may not understand Congregationalism, or Congregational usage, so well as some of our liege lords, but, be this as it may, it is important for us to know our rights, and what we join when we join a church. 

1. In whom, or what body, lies the power of calling or dismissing a minister? 

2. If this power is in the church, as in some cases exclusively, of what is the church composed? 

3. When females join, are they entitled to all its privileges, or only a part of them? If the latter, 

4. What does this passage in our covenant mean:-"We, the members of this church, affectionately receive you to our communion, and, in the name of Christ, declare you ENTITLED TO ALL 
ITS PRIVILEGES?’
To this the Reverend editor replies:-

'We will endeavor to answer the above questions, in order, according to the light we have, and will then append a remark or two, suggested by them.

1. A Congregational church is the only body which has the ultimate power to call and settle, or dismiss, its pastor. Where an ecclesiastical society exists in affiliation with it, that society must take concurrent action with the church; but its action cannot override the action of the church.

2. The church is composed of all persons who have been admitted to it in the ordinary way, and who have not ceased to be members, by reason of dismission and reception elsewhere, excommunication, or death. It does not follow however,
necessarily, that because a person is a member of a church, that person has a right to vote in it for  pastor, or in any other business. Members who have taken letters to other churches, but who have not yet been admitted upon them, ought not to vote except upon surrender of the letters. Members, under censure or suspension, have no right to vote We believe that females have no right to vote, because we regard the New Testament as explicitly discountenancing such a procedure.

3. Females, in joining a church, become entitled ‘to all its privileges,' to which females are entitled by the great charter of the church-the New Testament. Very few members of any church are, in the strictest sense, entitled to ’all its privileges.'
‘It is one of ’its privileges’ to be its pastor, another to be its deacon; yet very few of its members are, by gifts and graces,’entitled' to them.'

4. That passage means what it says, interpreted by the Scriptures and by common sense. 

The despotic disposition manifested by the first of these remarks, saying that the’ society' must take concurrent action with the ’church'-and the mixture of transparent sophistry with unspeakable impudence in the second, third and fourth items, are worthy of particular attention. 

After further comments upon a case stated by ’A PASTOR'S WIFE,'-in which the (female) majority in a church found their wishes and their rights utterly disregarded—-ending with the emphatic question, Is this Congregationalism?' the Reverend editor proceeds—

'As this whole matter pivots upon the right and expediency of voting in the business of the church by the female members, we will add a few further words upon that subject. We believe it to be 

<c04>
unnecessary, unscriptural, uncongregational, and, inexpedient, for the female members of the church to participate actively in its business, and to assume the responsibility of voting in its affairs.

1. It is unnecessary that females should vote in the business of the church. We do not here allude, of course, to any exceptional case, such as where the entire male membership might be removed by death; but we mean in ordinary churches, and at ordinary times. If the female members vote, they must either vote with the male members, or against them. If they vote with them, their vote will not altar the result, and is unnecessary. If against them, it must be for reasons which they can state’to their husbands at home.' If they are bad reasons, they ought not to modify the opinion of the males-and if they are good reasons, they will be almost sure privately to do so, and thus, quietly, work such; a revolution in the male votes as to render any female votes unnecessary.

2. It is unscriptural. Paul says, in his first epistle to the Corinthians, (14: 34, 35,)”Let your women keep silence in the churches; for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also smith the law. And if they will learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home; for it is a shame for women to speak in the church." So he says to Timothy, (1 Tim. 2: 11,12.)” Let the woman learn in silence, with all subjection. But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence." It is true that these in junctions do not, in so many words, forbid, to the female members of the church, the privilege of voting. But it appears to us perfectly clear that, to all intents and purposes, they do so. Intelligent voting often involves previous discussion and inquiry, and its exercise must nearly always amount to the exercise of ”authority" over whatever ”man”" may happen to be put into the minority by it. And, in general, the taking part by females—-as if there were no distinction of sex—-in the business of the church, necessarily involves a state of things wholly at variance with that which the enforcement of these apostolic directions would naturally produce.

Moreover, the New Testament particularly specifies ’the brethren’ brethren' as those who act on church questions. They (Acts 6: 3) were to’ look out' seven men of honest report to be deacons; and this, although the trouble calling for their election had grown out of the case of certain ”widows." In the discussion at Antioch which led to the Council at Jerusalem, (Acts 15: 1-30,) it was ”the brethren" who sent greeting with the apostles and elders; and that greeting was sent to ”the brethren; it was” the brethren” who were ”exhorted with many words:" it was ”the brethren” from whom Judas and Silas were” let go in peace;" and ”the brethren" who recommended Paul and Silas” to the grace of God." It was “the brethren" (Acts 17: 10) who sent Paul and Silas away from Berea; ”the brethren” (Acts 18: 27) who wrote exhorting the disciples in Achaia to receive Apollos; ”the brethren” (Acts 21:17) who received Paul gladly at Jerusalem. So it was ”the brethren"1 Cor., 16:20; Phil. 4: 21) whose greetings were transmitted by Paul to ”the brethren” at Corinth and Philippi.. It was ”the brethren”" who were with him (Gal. 1:2) at Ephesus, who joined; in his salutations to the churches of Galatia. So the ”faithful brethren” in Christ at Colosse were (Col. 1:2) particularly addressed; and also (Col. 4:15)”the brethren" in Laodicea. The Epistle to the Thessalonians was to be read
read (1 These. 5: 27) to all ”the holy brethren." It was ”the brethren”" whom Timothy was to ”put in remembrance” of the truths of the Gospel. It was”the brethren" whom Paul commended (1 Cor. 4: 6, taken in connection with 1 Cor. 5: 4-13) when” gathered together in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ," to excommunicate”  that  wicked person;" and it was ”the brethren” whom Paul (Gal. 6: 1) directed to ”restore” the man who is ”overtaken in a fault."

Nor do those texts-like that (Gal. 3: 28) which declares that ”there is neither male nor female” in Christ-which seem to do away with all distinctions of sex in the church, make against the 
passages before quoted; because they can all be explained-and indeed are all most naturally 
explained-as having reference to the matter of salvation, and declaring that both sexes are-in regard to the possibility of the forgiveness of sin by the atonement of Christ-on a level of privilege.

3. It is uncongregational for females to vote in the business of the church. It is so because it is 
unscriptural. It is so because it is unnecessary; Congregationalism stands upon Scripture and common sense. It is so because it is the well known fact,
that the vast majority of Congregational churches discountenance such a practice, and consequently it can hardly fail to introduce trouble into the church which attempts it. If any body is ever out-voted by it, he will be very apt to refuse to submit, and claim that the church should adopt the law of Scripture and the usage of the denomination, and so a long quarrel is initiated, which the common practice would have avoided. We know of only one Congregational church in New England which allows its female members to vote, which has not had trouble-resulting in a council and a division-in consequence, and we are not sure about that one.'

After quoting Increase Mother and others to show that Orthodox Congregational churches (which he deceptively calls 'Congregational' simply, as if none but Orthodox people were Congregationalists) have been long accustomed to refuse women the right to vote in the church, the Reverend editor proceeds

4. It is inexpedient for females to vote in the business of the church. It is inexpedient, because it is uncongregational, unscriptural and needless. The Congregational churches of the land have flourished well without it, and where it has been introduced it has been a frequent source of trouble. We cannot help thinking that if this church at ”South Hadley Falls" had not been” for thirty years" accustomed to violate the usages of the denomination, and transgress the law of God in this manner, it might have escaped those troubles which have made its recent history so unhappy, and which have disgraced alike itself, the fraternity to which it belongs, and the cause of Christ which it is held, by the world, to represent.' 

Mr. Dexter's reasons for thinking it unnecessary that females should vote in the business of the church seem to have been modelled upon those given by the caliph Omar for the destruction of the great Alexandrian Library.  If those books agree with the Koran, they are superfluous and useless. If they disagree with it, they are pernicious. In either case, let them be burnt' So our modern spiritual caliph decides-If the women's votes agree with those of “the brethren,' they are unnecessary If they disagree, and are in the wrong, it is of course better for them not to vote  If they disagree, and are nevertheless in the right, still their voting is unnecessary, since they can easily wheedle’ the brethren' into compliance   

Such is a clerical interpretation of the liberty with which Christ makes free 

What will ’A PASTOR'S WIFE' do about it? I Probably’ her husband at home' holds by his order more tenaciously than by his wife, and would vote tomorrow, if the question should come up in the Association, that female voting (even of women having a name to be church-members, and’ entitled to all the privileges of church-membership,') is unnecessary, unscriptural, uncongregational and inexpedient. The interests of the order imperatively require such a decision. Nay, it is almost as essential for Northern ministers to keep up the restriction on female voting in the church as for Southern ministers to keep up their prohibition of the reception, by the church, of the testimony of a female slave against her master, when both are church-members. Innovation on church customs, in this latter case as much as in the former, would be subject to the four objections above mentioned. For a female slave to accuse her master of rape or adultery, before the church of which they both are members, would be unnecessary since' the brethren,' the absolute controllers of church matters, see no necessity for it; it would manifestly be unscriptural since no case of that kind is recorded in Scripture; it would be uncongregational since Congrega
tionalism (in the orthodox view) is a male institution; and it would be inexpedient—-since it would assuredly bring an ill name upon’ the brethren.' 

But even if (possibly) the pastor who has a wife so intelligent as the writer of the above letter should agree with her in opinion, it is not to be expected that 

<c05>
he should uphold that opinion, either by voice or vote in the Association, or by a statement, under his name, in a’ religious' newspaper. Even should he put his ministerial reputation (and his bread-and-butter) at such fearful risk as to write such a statement, it' would probably be editorially adjudged’ unnecessary, unscriptural, uncongregational and inexpedient' to print it 

Meantime, the woman's statement so clear and convincing in its simplicity, so decisive, under its interrogative form, of the reason and justice of the case will waken many minds among her sisters to reflection; and will help them, by the light which it throws upon the arrogance and sophistry of the clerical reply, to distinguish the same characteristics in other things which they hear from the pulpit or read in the Congregationalist-C.K.W. 

From the Boston Gospel Banner. 
THE LATE THEODORE PARKER. The death of this distinguished man has very naturally been made the theme of much newspaper editorial, and more preaching. Several of the Boston pulpits have paid their respects to his memory some in terms of bitter invective, some in qualified praise, and some in warm eulogy. The appreciative friends and admirers of Mr. Parker and, to give them their due, most of them know how to appreciate; for, generally speaking, they are a cultivated and intelligent people will neither feel regret nor express censure, at any honest severity upon his career or influence. Perhaps there is no trait in Mr. Parker's character which they have admired more than the straight-forward honesty with which he dealt with public men, whether dead or living. Mr. Parker never flattered and falsified in deference to the ignoble custom of speaking only good of the dead. He would speak his full mind of Daniel Webster or of John Quincy Adams; and this however offensive to partisan friends. If, therefore, any clergyman speaks of Mr. Parker in the same frankness and truthfulness of intention, they have his conspicuous example to sanction them in so doing. And as for what small men and bigots say,’ one way or the other, it matters very little with any party. 

Mr. Parker was emphatically a great man; great even in his weakness. He had a strength of will beyond that of any man I ever saw. No one could see him on the platform, in Music Hall, in the Lyceum desk, or on the street, without feeling his force. He was every inch a Cromwell; only had he  been; Cromwell, not only the head of Charles the First,, but of every Stuart,would have been brought to the block. Whenever he spoke of the gun used by his ancestor at the battle of Bunker Hill, but now in his study, and by which he should defend his colored parishioners against the ’kidnapper,' every one saw, that if the emergency came, he would do it' He sincerely believed that the slavery question in this country is destined to be settled only by civil, war, and an appeal to the sword. In case the crisis came, every one knew where he must look for Theodore Parker; and this not in the rear of the fight.; In passing him on the sidewalk, involuntarily gave him the track. There was a kind of momentum in his walk that made me get out of the way. I never shook hands with him but once, and then he gave me a grip that I felt. His will was present in every muscle. He was a man of vast talent, because his Maker so fashioned him; he was a man of vast scholarship, because, in his youth, he made up his mind to become such a man. His force of will was really awful. Had he been in Jackson's place, he too would have’ moved the deposits, 'that is, if he had made up his mind that the thing ought to; be done. Had he been in the place of Calhoun with Calhoun's convictions,, he would not have caved in to Jackson on the question of’ nullification.' With many strong men, to resolve is to do. with Parker, to believe a thing ought to be done, was to resolve; and this point reached., no regard; was paid to the consequences the thing must be done, though the heavens should fall. 

I have said that Mr. Parker was great in his weakness. It was certainly a weakness to overwork. his brain, and hands, and feet; and to persevere in all this, in spite of the warnings of physicians, and the more emphatic warning of certain fatal consequences. But he who was strong to resist anything else, was too weak to resist his own mighty will; and it killed him. A heavy locomotive with a monster train attached, going at the rate of forty miles an hour, cannot suddenly stop, to spare the life of the child that unfortunately is in the way. Herein it is weak. Mr. Parker believed that the mass of American clergymen were time-serving, false to their trust, and cumberers of the ground; and he drove at them with awful momentum. I must think that his heavy heel trod down many a worthy and well meaning parson. The great Lord Bacon could not be deceived by Aristotle or any of his school;, but he was the daily dupe of his own domestics. His large view left out minute points. Parker saw the American clergy in Stuart, Lord, and Dewey;; it seems to me that he did not see the merits of  smaller yet earnest men. 

Mr. Parker, however, never annoyed me even when he said and did things which seemed to me wrong. I love strong men; and I love to see a strong man strike, even though some of the splinters light upon and even scar my own person,—,-of course, I am speaking figuratively of mental, not of physical blows. I emphatically dissent from and regret Mr. Parker's views of the Bible; but it would be a gross injustice to class him with the vulgar horde of deists. His intense faith in God—-in his nearness to man, his child, and his instant readiness to help him in every time of trouble displaced in his opinion, the special need of the Bible which most Christians confess. Mr. Parker's great error was in not making allowance for the needs of his weaker brethren, and in not perceiving the truth by which God has provided for them. However well Theodore Parker might get along with Theodore Parker's theory, smaller men, men of fainter intentions, cannot make the theory answer. I could write pages about this wonderful man, but my sheet is full. I will add, that the greatest evil attendant- upon Mr. Parker's career, is the horde of small fry that have tried to ape his peculiarities. But barnacles will stick to the -noblest ship. SILAS. 

THE EFFECT OF SUCCESS. 
Some one has said,—
'Treason doth never prosper. 
What is the reason? 
When it doth prosper 
None dare call it treason.' 

Had John Brown succeeded, in the ordinary meaning of the term, his fame would have eclipsed that of Washington; and, instead of the legal title of ’traitor' being nailed upon his gallows, he would have received the gratitude and homage of an admiring nation. 

The effect of success has been forcibly demonstrated in the case of Garibaldi. The official 
Neapolitan journal, at the commencement of the Sicilian revolution, thus characterized the movement and its leader:-'The monster in human shape, Garibaldi by name, has had the audacity to attack, at the head of a band of murderers, the dominions of his Majesty, the King of Naples. It is needless to add that measures have been taken by the government to capture him, when he will be justly punished for his rash and lawless undertaking.' 

After Garibaldi's success at Palermo, the journal alters its tone, as may be seen by the following announcement:-'The Commander-in-Chief of the King's troops in Sicily has signed a capitulation with his Excellency General Garibaldi, at Palermo. 

The following was received by Harper & Bros. of New York:-
M-georgia 
the 26 November 1859 

Mister harper
dear Sir
I see from the nuspaps That thar bav bin a considerable Disturbance at your fery i would be ablege ef yu woud give me all The cercumstanc connected with the Disterbence if you cant get out yur maggazeen and nuspaper regular as yu is accustumd to git it out plese scratch my name offen yur book,

i forgot to say that I payed you in advance plese tel me wether the Brige over yur fery is thar so a boddy can Git a cross it ef i want to as i understand thar is a Brige thar in our sextion we hav flats to cross Ferrys in and niggers to pall them across witch we have to Pay a quarter please excuse bad spelin as i aint much of a Scholar
yurs respecfuly 

The London News states that six thousand Christians have been slaughtered since the troubles commenced in Mount Lebanon. 

<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS. S.A.ALLEN'S
WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present, year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Restorer.' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS.My hair ceases, to fall, which is certainly as advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.'Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov. 22, 1855
President J.I.,EATON, LL.D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.

'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of’ Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer.' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was, distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CHASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT 
THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor ’Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalzamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor’ Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y.
' Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair, to its natural color,.' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City. 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommmending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.' 
Rev. A. WEBSTER,. Editor ’Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to he of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'

Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed.’Guide to Holiness,' Boston.

'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from 
actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'

Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Chruch, Attleboro', Mass. 
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair 
Restorer has been to change the ’crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'

Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.

'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'

GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescott, Lancashire, England.

'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'

[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI. 
Rev. Mrs. E. S.ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y. 
In consequence of her long residence in afore named island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the ’American Baptist,'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.' 

Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.

'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'

Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed.’Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.

'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A., Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.

Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.

'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'

Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y. 
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.' 

Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.

'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.' 

Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.

'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'

Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H. 
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'

We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.

These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.

We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.

Address all letters for information, &c., to ’Mrs.: S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has ’Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a crime in a offence.

SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER. 
Oct lyeop
