THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents five cents per line; less than a square,75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 12. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1728. 
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE POMEROY CIRCULAR.
Through the enterprise of some opposition journal, a very important private document has been brought to light, in the publication of a letter from Senator Pomeroy of Kansas, addressed to some party whose name is not given, for general circulation, evidently.
Thus is the great Presidential campaign beginning already to take shape, and an official recognition of Mr. Secretary Chase’s claims for the exalted position of "public functionary" comes from no less a personage than the Chairman of the Republican National Executive Committee.
This is not all; not satisfied with expressing his preference for the rising sun, Mr. Pomeroy turns in strong terms of disapprobation from Abe Lincoln, "the honest," who would thus appear to be a waning light in the Abolition constellation.
The paper, we believe, which first published this "strictly private" letter was the Daily Constitutional Union of Washington. The Abolition editors of the Capital, finding themselves eclipsed in the matter, pronounced the letter a hoax, and cited Mr. Chase as having declared that he knew nothing whatever of its existence. The New York Herald ventilated the document with its precious disclosures still further, and by this time it must have been read by every one in the country. As Mr. Pomeroy has not denied its authenticity, the letter becomes invested with much interest as forming a portion of the history of the times. In regard to the choice which the Republicans or Abolitionists, for they are birds of one plumage, may deem fit to make for the Presidential nomination, we have no question-that is their own business; but the probability is daily becoming greater that their party organization is in due course of disintegration. All this is extremely logical; but we must confess that we were unprepared for such early evidence of the inevitable dissolving of the ties of unholy brotherhood.
Abraham Lincoln, this document tells us, stands charged with being a prodigious failure by his own confederates. We told his party that, two years ago, and are glad that they are arousing themselves from the obtuse to the intelligent view of a well-established truth. We have now further to add that the unstable platform of abolitionism, which shifts itself with every fashionable breeze, will not be able to sustain the same man for a second election. It is characteristic of extreme principles, or, more properly speaking, of political heresy, to adhere to nothing permanently. A party entertaining such views as the dominant party in this government holds to, can only exist through a mistake. The great exorcists of all mistakes are time and intelligence. So long as reason was left free to combat error, Mr. Jefferson did not fear the existence of the latter in the States of our Union. Now Mr. Lincoln, third-rate county-court lawyer and all, as he is frequently styled by his party associates, is not so much a failure as is the idea which he represents. Sentimental politics are the curse of government. Principles have nothing to do with sentiment; they should not be mentioned together. When the latter is subordinated to principles, it is beneficial. But as it has done, and continues to do, such wide-spread mischief, we do not ever wish to hear the words mentioned in the same connection. In regard to Mr. Chase, he has always been regarded as a person of fair ability and resolution, and a strict party man. In the Senate he rendered himself obnoxious to three-fourths of the American people by his bitter radical politics. Many a time and oft did he bring on himself a severe flagellation from Judge Douglas, for his abolition pranks; and in the hands of the Little Giant, every one knew him to be merely a child. That he is a superior man to Mr. Lincoln can be admitted, without adding many inches to the stature of his greatness, nor deducting many from that of the President. We could name a dozen Republicans, not nearly so prominent as Lincoln or Chase, of higher qualifications than either of them. But we have nothing to do with their predilections or antipathies; let them nominate Mr. Chase, or Mr. Lincoln, or Mr. "General" Fremont, or all of them, and we will be as satisfied with one as the others. Mr. Pomerory’s document looks indeed like business, and we advise Mr. Lincoln, to spread abroad another, through some of his countless hangers-on, to prove that he has not failed so signally as is declared. If he succeeds in demonstrating that proposition, we will subscribe to our good- natured Presidents, claims to a considerable degree of smartness. In the meantime, go on with the nominations!-Boston Pilot.

THE NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTION.
If the people of New Hampshire ever again enjoy the blessings of liberty and a fair and free ballot, it will have to be in spite of, and by victory over, the exertions of the radical party and their leaders. Car load after car load of soldiers has been sent through New York, under arms, to vote according to orders in that little State. On Sunday afternoon they poured through New York by hundreds, selected men, sure to vote the Administration ticket, while thousands, as brave, as loyal, as worthy soldiers, are refused furloughs because of their politics. This is a simple, sad story for America in the 19th century. It ought to bring the blush of shame to the cheek of every American. It does bring that blush to the cheek of every honest defender of free principles; and the man who justifies or seeks to excuse this conduct on the part of the Administration should be regarded infamous. There is no longer a possible doubt that New Hampshire is Democratic to-day. The State would vote against the administration by a decided majority, if it had a free ballot of all its soldiers and citizens, To prevent the utterance of its free voice, this gigantic fraud, costing millions of dollars, is perpetrated. And men are found to think it right! The Tribune published yesterday a special despatch from New Hampshire, signed by Richard Busted, who is a lawyer, ex-general, and who was some months ago appointed by President Lincoln Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, to draw a salary. He was confirmed by the Senate long ago. It seems his district has been transferred and his duties changed, for he is stumping New Hampshire, and corresponding with the Tribune. This is not the business for a Judge, nor does it fail to reflect disgrace on the Administration. The appointment of this man was an insult to the country, and the use that is now made of him shows his thorough unfitness for the appointment. Radicalism stops at no vile work to accomplish its objects. Still we have hopes for New Hampshire. There is a certain energy in the American people that will one day or another resist fraud, and throw off the oppression of tyranny.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTERS FROM ENGLAND. N0. VI.
BIOGRAPHY OF GEO. THOMPSON, ESQ.
BY WILLIAM FARMER, ESQ.
During the time that Mr. Thompson was thus engaged in seeking to advance the object of the Anti-Corn Law League, he was also, from time to time, occupied in promoting a reform of the government of India. By the investment of a sum of money, which had been subscribed as a testimonial to him, he became proprietor of East India stock, and thereby possessed of a qualification to sit and vote in the General Court of the Company. Soon after taking his seat, he drew the attention of the body to the iniquitous system of landed tenures prevalent in India; and warmly espoused the cause of the Rajah of Sattara, a noble and virtuous prince, who had been dethroned by a series of iniquitous proceedings instituted against him by the Company's agents in India.
It was a tacit but well-understood principle of the old East India Government, never to acknowledge a political error, however patent it might be to the world, and however grievous to its victims the injustice resulting from it; hence the refusal of redress to Appa Sahib and his adopted son. Every appeal successfully prosecuted invited other efforts, and destroyed the assumed infallibility of the British authorities in India. An incident, however, occurred, during the Sattara debates at the India House, which serves to illustrate the extraordinary oratorical powers which Mr. Thompson possessed at that time. A special court was convened upon requisition, to take into consideration the propriety of a reconsideration of the case of the Rajah of Sattara. The Directors had a double motive for getting rid of the debate; first, the desirability of strangling discussion upon a subject so damaging to their reputation as rulers of India; and, secondly, because they were desirous of going to a grand civic banquet, to be given that day. After the reading of the requisition convening the court, and before a record of the case from which it had been called had been gone into, the chairman moved the adjournment of the court-a motion which he knew he would carry by the dumb votes of the retainers of the Board. The friends of the Rajah present drew up a written protest against the unjust and indecent proceeding; and whilst it was handing about for the signatures of proprietors, Mr. Thompson entered the building. He inquired of the chairman whether might speak upon the question of adjournment; the reply was in the affirmative. He thereupon commenced a review of the whole case. After having spoken for some four hours. he requested a half-hour's adjournment for refreshment; but the application was clamorously cried down. At length, the shades of night had so far set in that he was unable to read his documents, and he requested the aid of candles. He repeated his question thrice, but, eliciting no answer from the chairman, said, "Very well, sir, I shall sit down, and wait until the sun gets above the horizon again". He resumed his seat for about ten minutes, the court sitting in silence and darkness, when Sir James Weir Hogg, perceiving the physical advantage Mr. Thompson was gaining from rest, and refreshments furnished by friends, rang the bell, and ordered in candles, when the speaker proceeded with his speech, which lasted nine hours and ten minutes! His friends followed, and kept the court until three in the morning; a fifteen hours’ sitting. The result was, not merely that the Directors were deprived of their civic banquet, but that they never afterwards resorted to a trick which deserves to be characterized by no more dignified phrase than that of a shabby dodge.
Mr. Thompson took an active part in the debates at the India House upon the abolition of the oppressive salt duty; the use of the torture in the collection of the revenue; and the introduction of railways into India.
There is an erroneous impression prevailing in some quarters, that his connection with the India princes was highly remunerative. I happen to know to the contrary. He was to have received an annual stipend from the King of Delhi, but only one. year of it was paid to him; and after the death of the Rajah of Sattara in 1848, he never received from the family one farthing for the prosecution of their cause, although it was attended with a considerable outlay. In fact, his interest with British India was of the same disinterested character as his attachment to the cause of the slaves in the British colonies and the Southern States of America. 
In 1841, upon the decision of the House of Lords upon the Auchterarder case, involving a point of lay patronage, which was supposed to infringe the vital interests of the Church of Scotland, there occurred what is known by the name of "the disruption" of that body. The majority of its clergy comprising the elite of their talent and piety, left their churches and manses for the sake of conscience. The spectacle was unusually sublime, but it is much to be regretted that the same enlightened conscience did not regulate all the subsequent proceedings of the newly-established Free Church. They presented the novel spectacle of a hierarchy without churches, homes, or means of support. In this distressing exigency, they made appeals to their sympathizing fellow-Christians throughout the world. For the purpose of obtaining aid, they sent deputations to various parts, and amongst others to America, to solicit contributions towards their sustentation fund. The delegates received a large sum from the churches in the Southern States, upon express condition that neither in the North or South should they open their lips in reprobation of the sin of slavery. This dereliction of principle is the more remarkable, inasmuch as one member of that deputation, the late Dr. Cunningham, of Edinburgh, had been a staunch Anti-Slavery advocate, who had caused the republication in this country of one of the most terrible exposures of American slavery ever written, entitled, "A Picture of American Slavery, by the Rev. George Bourne, late minister of the Presbyterian Church in Virginia"; a work well known in America during the early period of the Anti-Slavery struggle. Notwithstanding the criminal source from whence the money had been obtained was brought distinctly under the notice of the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland, that body deliberately resolved to receive the price of blood into their treasury.
Mr. Frederick Douglass, Mr. Henry C. Wright, and Mr. James N. Buffum came over as a deputation from the American Anti-Slavery Society, and made an appeal to the people of Scotland, throughout the length and breadth of the land, to compel the ministers to "SEND BACK THE MONEY" thus wickedly obtained. They were afterwards joined by Mr. Thompson, who travelled at his own expense, for the purpose of refuting employed by Drs. Candlish, Cunningham and Chalmers. By one wrongful act they had in moral posi-
<c03>
tion descended from senith to nadir; but with priestly pride they refused to retrace their steps.
While so occupied—namely, in 1845—the Council of Edinburgh presented Mr. Thompson with the freedom of that ancient and important city. On the roll of bargesses of the capital of Scotland, his name stands inscribed next to that of the then Lord John Russell, now Earl Russell. This, however, is greatly enhanced from three causes: first, it was a distinction that the corporation of Edinburgh were very chary in conferring upon any man, however eminent he might be in his particular sphere. Secondly, it was gained in competition with one of the most powerful opponents Mr.Thompson’s friends could well have had to contend against—the Rev. Merle D’Aubigne, the renowned historian of the Reformation, and one of the most distinguished divines in the world; who was, moreover, put forward as the candidate of the Free Church, the most powerful ecclesiastical organization in Scotland. Thirdly, it was an honor expressly conferred upon Mr. Thompson in recognition of his distinguished Anti-Slavery labors; a form of presentation most gratifying to his feelings. 
In the following year, 1846, American slavery made another insidious attempt to gain for itself the ecclesiastical sanction of the British churches, by getting within the pale of the Evangelical Alliance. An attempt was made, under high auspices, to form an ecumenical alliance. Delegations were sent to it from all parts of the world. The American deputation comprised no less than sixty of the leading divines of the United States. As most of these gentlemen were of pro-slavery tendencies, the American Anti-Slavery Society sent certificates of characters along with them, so that the representatives of the British churches might know who the men really were, who sought religious fellowship with them. A test resolution was submitted to the convocation, the effect of which would have been, if carried, to exclude from membership, if not all who had pro-slavery tendencies, at least all who were practically connected with slavery. It was known that at least one of the deputation, who had taken his seat in the Alliance, Dr. Smythe, of Charleston, South Carolina, was de facto a slaveholder, although he sought to avoid the odium of his position by asserting that he held the slaves in right of his wife, and not in his own. The test resolution was, however, rejected by the Alliance. Mr. Thompson and Mr. Garrison, at their own risk, thereupon called a great meeting at Exeter Hall, for the purpose of bringing popular sentiment to bear upon the backsliding body, which, professing to lay the axe to the roots of Popery, Infidelity and Sabbath-breaking, refused to lay a finger upon slavery. Although the anti-slavery resolution was rejected, the difficulties raised by its introduction, and by the public attention having been so generally drawn to the proceedings of the Alliance, were so overwhelming that it was found impossible to form the projected ecumenical alliance. The alliance adjourned for six weeks, then to meet at Manchester; as though change of time and place would overcome the insuperable obstacles which had been raised to the plan of virtually whitewashing slavery! The American deputation, which, with one exception, would not consent to the excommunication of slavery, and the other delegates, could not from very shame fellowship it, now that its presence in the assembly had been so generally proclaimed. Mr. Garrison, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Henry Clarke Wright, and Mr. Frederick Douglass most actively employed the six weeks’ interval by holding meetings in nearly all the large towns in England, Scotland and Wales, and by that means the whole kingdom had become pretty well warmed up to the subject. At Manchester, Mr. Thompson and the American delegation were holding crowded meetings, at the very time when the alliance were making another effort to hatch their previously addled ecumenical egg. It was ultimately found that the readiest way to get out of the dilemma was to eat the leek; and, consequently, with an ill-suppressed feeling of mortification that slavery had not been permitted to slip into the alliance sub silentio, upon the motion of Sir Culling Eardley Smith, a resolution was agreed to, to the effect that no slaveholder should be invited to become a member of the ecumenical alliance. The pro-slavery character of the American delegates was proved by the fact that fifty-nine of them were in the minority, and only one in the majority, on Sir Culling's motion. It was now left to each country to form an Evangelical Alliance upon such principles as it deemed best, and to form such international unions as they might be able to agree upon.
One of the most remarkable meetings held, during this agitation, was in Saint Andrew’s Hall, Norwich, whither Mr. Thompson went at the invitation of the Rev. William Brock, now of Bloomsbury Chapel, London. Mr. Thompson had prepared a speech of a peculiar character, which he read to me as we travelled together. Prior to his speaking, a clergy-man of the Church of England asserted that a Christian might lawfully bold slaves. Away went Mr. Thompson’s prepared speech to the winds, and, for three hours, he poured out such a stream of eloquence as I had never before, and have never since, been privileged to hear. The densely crowded assemblage was riveted by the marvellous display of oratorical power, and not a soul moved from the closely packed meeting, except the clergyman who absolutely ran away, although it was getting on towards midnight. Elihu Burritt is reported to have said that he had heard the most celebrated speakers on both sides of the Atlantic, but he never was so powerfully excited by them as by the simple reading of the report of that speech at Norwich. This fact tends to negative the maxim of Fox, that a good speech must read badly, and that a speech which reads well must have been a failure in delivery.
Just prior to these proceedings, the Anti-Slavery League was established, with Mr. Thompson as its President. That body, during its existence, rendered great service by exposing and counteracting, from time to time, the pro-slavery influences which were ever at work in this country; but it did not meet with the amount of support it deserved. Amongst the sacrifices made by Mr. Thompson for the Anti-Slavery cause, I am able, as a member of its council, to testify was the heavy amount he was out of pocket in the maintenance of its invaluable proceedings.
During this the last visit of Mr. Garrison to England, himself and Mr. Thompson again visited the venerable Thomas Clarkson, at Playford Halt, Norfolk. Thirteen years had elapsed between the first and second visit; and yet the noble old man, who in 1833 might almost have been regarded as a patriarch, was still in possession of unimpaired mental powers, and his heart beat as warmly as ever for the redemption of the slave. He made his visitors his anti-slavery executors, and delivered unto them his last will and testament upon that subject,—a very able document in which he powerfully expressed the doctrine of no union with slaveholders. 
The lock of the cell in which John Brown was confined at Harper’s Ferry has been sent to the Albany Fair. 
<c04>
LETTER FROM MONCURE D. CONWAY.
LONDON, Feb. 20.
Nothing is more remarkable and exhilarating to an American who loves freedom, and disgusting to one who does not, than the reverence with which the Simon-pure abolitionist is regarded here. There may be many opinions in any company concerning the possibility of restoring the Union, or the character of the Yankee; but he is a rare and a bold man, who has anything to say against abolitionism or abolitionists. They are regarded as the legitimate successors of the Wilberforces and Buxtons, whose position was among the highest of the land, and whose descendants are powers in Parliament.
The American abolitionist is regarded as a nobleman. Of course, it was always recognized that until lately there was but a small caste of this high calibre in the United States; but they who were not such were regarded as the mere swarming unimportant mass. Our reason for this is obvious; almost every American name that hitherto has been ever heard on this side of the ocean was the name of an abolitionist. You may even now speak the names of Winthrop, Everett, Douglas, Lord, or Van Buren, and nineteen in twenty faces will be blank. Even the name of Webster is apt to elicit the question—Who is he? But not one in twenty will be found ignorant of Emerson, Phillips, Garrison, Mrs. Stowe, H. W. Beecher, Sumner, Curtis, Mrs. Child, or Horace Greeley: and each of these names
has an association with abolitionism. It is taken for granted that all our literary men are on that side; and I have seen many a well-read Englishman amazed at learning that an author so well known as Hawthorne is on the wrong side. But lately it has been also seen that the abolitionists were evidently empowered, by the increase of their numbers, and the justification of their position by events, to be the guiding force of the revolution now going on in America. Their prophecies have been all fulfilled; their demands of yesterday have become the policy of the government to-day. Hence, you in America can scarcely appreciate the sensation which has been produced here this week by the tidings, which have been the choice morsel of the papers, that an important split in the abolition ranks had occurred. A financial crash could scarcely more have stirred the anxieties of the friends of the North, and the joys of the friends of the Southern Confederacy. It will be the very few will see in that split the evidence that the Anti-Slavery movement in America has vitality enough to live, and live to purpose, so long as a vestige of slavery remains; only the few who will see therein the evidence that, having lived to secure one harvest, it has vigor enough to promote a second. The question, has the abolition society fulfilled its mission, is now answered. That which can divide is not dead, nor asleep; seed shells part that germs may shoot forth. Most certainly, it is not by adhering to men simply because they have done some good things, or moved with the average mass, or been true to themselves, that the abolitionists can do work in this emergency. Suppose Mr. Garrison had only gone as far as the people sustained him, what would he have accomplished? And what advantage can we get by men being "true to them selves" if those selves are stupid or mean? Pierce, Buchanan, the Devil—or any other organized rascality—were doubtless true to themselves. It is the selves we object to. Now, it is very certain that thus far, with all his good qualities, Mr. Lincoln’s cause shows that a substantial part of his self (pardon the grammar!) consists of that which he got out of Kentucky at his birth. And so we have much to fear from that Kentucky in him—for the Kentucky out of him is not a whit more formidable than Pepper’s Ghost,—indeed is but the projection of Mr. Lincoln’s weak point.
There is no doubt that this little passage between Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips is producing an important effect here. Hitherto the criticisms which have been made against Mr. Lincoln from the antislavery side of the house have been nearly drowned by the outcries of the pro-slavery party, North and South, against him. It was surmised that he could not be very objectionable to the abolitionists who was so odious to slavery. And so the anti-slavery criticisms (unfavorable) have had the air of unreality; have been supposed to have some momentary or special bearing not fundamentally affecting Mr. Lincoln’s standing with the abolitionists. And so Mr. Lincoln has still been the subject of idealization with our friends here. But this state of mind has had a shock. It is now clear that Mr. Phillips, who stands with Emerson above all Americans, has utterly lost faith in Abraham Lincoln. The pain is deep; but, popular as the President is, the opinion of the life-long, all-sacrificing devotee of Liberty will outweigh his popularity. From this time the plaudits will be feebler. If Mr. Phillips shall be the means of provoking in our friends here, some sharp and common-sense criticism upon the President for his slowness, and for surrounding himself with Sewards, Blairs and the like, he will do a good work. The sad defect in the otherwise potent influence of our friends here has been their unwillingness to criticize, their disposition to accept the administration undiscriminatingly, for fear of having their ad- missions seized on by the opposition. Privately they will discuss Seward’s folly and Blair’s meanness; but not publicly. But how shall we wonder at them when we are still waiting for valiant words from Massachusetts senators?—[Commonwealth.

EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS. 
In another column is printed a letter from Mr. Edward S. Philbrick, of Boston, giving an interesting history of the progress and result of cotton culture by free labor in the sea islands of South Carolina. Mr. Philbrick, as agent for a joint stock company, purchased last March, at the tax sales, eleven plantations, all on the island of St. Helena. Two more were leased from another purchaser; and on these lots he began, at a rather late period in the year, owing to various obstacles, the planting of cotton by free labor. He was able to procure as laborers only women and children and old men, all the able- bodied men having been drafted into the army. He employed four hundred hands; or nearly a hand to every two acres of cotton planted. He paid all his hands by the "job" Even the six New Englanders who were engaged as superintendents under him were paid no salaries, but had an interest in the crops. The black laborers were maintained upon a system which—though probably not the best-is the most convenient for them at present. 
Each family is allotted a patch of land, at the rate of about an acre and a half for each adult, and a smaller portion for the children. On this they raise their provision crops; and they are responsible for their own food, with which the employer does not concern himself. Unlike other farm laborers, therefore, they board themselves. To each family is also assigned a fixed portion of cotton land; each takes such quantity as it pleases, and becomes thenceforth responsible for the cultivation of that part. For the labor on this cotton-crop the work
<c05>
men were to be paid when the crop was gathered, payment to be made by the pound. But it was found advisable, in practice, to give also small amounts in hand during the season. Accordingly, special payments were made, each month, for planting and hoeing the crop per acre. This encouraged the people to be constant; they had, at first, little confidence in white men’s promises. 
The result, so far as the work-people are concerned, is that they have earned an average sum of about fifty-five cents per day, besides free house-rent and free possession of the land on which they raised their food. They have worked satisfactorily to their employers. "Many," reports Mr. Philbrick, "have done habitually double the amount of work they were formerly required to do by their masters"; and they have been at liberty to devote their spare time to their own purposes. They have supported five stores set up on the estate, and have, during the year, made purchases at cost to the amount of nearly twenty thousand dollars. Finally, "it has not seemed advisable to place any sort of restrictions upon the negroes in regard to what sort of labor or what amount of labor each one should perform. Any attempt in such a direction would serve to check the healthy development of industry by begetting suspicion and repugnance towards the employer."
As to the commercial results: Mr. Philbrick relates that the crop raised amounted to seventy-two thousand pounds, and is about two thirds the average crop under the slave system. This is satisfactory, for the land was not properly manured, the seed was put in later than usual, the able-bodied hands were taken off" to the army, there were scarcely any farm animals on the island, and the whole experiment of cultivation by free labor was new. The whole amount paid out in wages, including the sums spent for collecting manures, for feeding the animals and for preparing the cotton for market, is twenty thousand dollars; and, estimating the other expenses, the cost of the cotton is given at thirty-seven and a half cents per pound. Sea Island cotton, such as this is, has been sold lately for one dollar and a half per pound. It cost to raise, just before the rebellion, an average of forty cents per pound; so that in reality free labor has already proved to be cheaper than slave labor was at that time. But besides this, Mr. Philbrick points out that "these two hundred bales of cotton have been produced by the application of a cash capital of only forty thousand dollars, including the cost of the land and all expenses for a year, while, under the old system, the market value of the negroes alone, which were required to produce the same amount of long-staple cotton, was not less than two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, or more than six times the amount of capital required under the free-labor system." 
Mr. Philbrick complains, and we think justly, of the plan on which the cotton lands in South Carolina are now sold to the negroes. These people are permitted to enter them at one dollar and a quarter per acre; though they are worth ten and often twenty times as much. He points out that this is not the best way to help them; they ought to be put upon the same footing as whites, and if they buy land, should pay the proper value of it. It is plain that such an unnatural plan must necessitate injurious restraints; for if the blacks buy land at less than its true value, what but an arbitrary law can prevent them from selling it again, pocketing the difference? Of course, this would not be permitted; but the system is bad which requires the constant interference of the authorities with property rights. Where lands are sold in the South here after, by tax collectors, they ought to be sold in moderate sized lots, so as to prevent a revival of the old land monopoly which so greatly injured the Southern States; but the sales should be made to the highest bidders, be they white, black or yellow, and at not less than the full market value. 
What Mr. Philbrick has accomplished in South Carolina during the past year is probably a result better than the average is likely to be. He was a thoroughly-trained business man, accustomed, as superintendent of one of the most important railroads in New England, to the management of numbers of workmen; and over and above this, he is a gentleman of humane and liberal sentiments. His training, no doubt, did much to secure him success; but we are of opinion that any honest and active man can do well in cotton culture in the South.-N. Y. Evening Post.

THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNION
Judge Seymour, democratic candidate for Governor of Connecticut, in his letter of acceptance, says:
"I am for the restoration of the Union as it was, under the Constitution as it is, and I believe that such restoration is the earnest desire of the peace-loving and law-abiding citizens of the republic. To the Union thus restored, allegiance is due from all and may be exacted of all. We may rightfully and by force of arms compel obedience to the Constitution as it is; but not to a reconstructed and altered government without violating the first principle of civil liberty, that ‘government derive their just powers from the consent of the governed."
This reads well, but, unluckily, "the restoration of the Union as it was" is an impossibility. As well might it be sought to restore the British Empire as it was in 1700, when both Ireland and Scotland had Parliaments, as to restore that American Union which existed in 1860. This impossibility has proceeded from events which govern men in times of revolution. Even had it been possible to induce the seceded States to return into the American nation after Mr. Lincoln’s inauguration, the old Union would not have been restored. They could have returned only on terms, and those terms could not have been granted without destroying the polity under which we had lived for seventy-two years. The Union would have been maintained, but it would have been at the expense of the Constitution. It would have been a new Union, and provisions would have been incorporated into the Constitution quite as destructive of its original character as anything that "radicals" are charged with wishing to place in it. The only difference would have been this, that those provisions would have been favorable to slavery, whereas "radicals" would make changes favorable to freedom.
If it would have been impossible to maintain "the Union as it was" before war broke out, what hope can there be of a complete revival of that Union? None whatever. The former state of things, thanks to the action of the democrats at Charleston, in 1860, belongs completely to the past. It is as much a by-gone affair as the Constitution of the first French Republic, or that of the Republic of the United Provinces. We may look upon this with regret, and lament the noble dead; but our regret and our veneration will avail nothing. They are, for practical purposes, as idle as our or sorrow because yesterday has passed away. We have to do with an entirely new state of things. Our object is not "the restoration of the Union as it was"
<c06>
but the maintenance of the American nation in all its territorial integrity, a matter of much greater importance than the restoration or conservation of any polity that man ever has created, or that he likely ever to create. A polity, or constitution, or form of government, is unquestionably something of great moment, and it never should be lightly assailed; but it is not half so important as the nation which lives under it. It can be changed, or modified, or even destroyed, to the advantage of the nation. The change made in the English, polity by the passage of the Reform Bill was of a comprehensive character, amounting even to a revolution, save that it was effected legally; yet England is far greater now than she was before that change was effected. The change wrought in France by the Revolution was of the most sweeping nature; yet France is in every respect a mightier nation to-day than she was under the old monarchy. So would it be with us, should circumstances compel us to change our polity altogether.—Boston Traveller.

THE MARYLAND OF THE FUTURE.
The good time for Maryland is coming more rapidly than her best and truest friends had ever dared to hope, and her regeneration will be effected with but few of the pangs that usually accompany the new birth of States. Maryland has gained already by the war more than any other State; more than any of the free States; for she has gained freedom, and how much does that count?—more than any other of the slave States, for the freedom which the war will bring to them, as to her, is balanced in them by desolated farms and cities and villages, and by the overthrow of all the forms of industry, while she has only had such a taste of war as has made her feel how blessed it is not to have it. 
The future Maryland is already visible in the present; the coming blessings are casting their shadows before. One of the glories of the renewed Maryland will be a new sort of liberty, the liberty that loosens the tongue and unshackles the press upon every question which human beings have a right to think of and to discuss. The laws are said to be silent in war. But if the war is for the right, and comes with its sword and cannon where wrong is erected into law, the fettered right is apt to take courage and open its mouth against its oppressors, and the canonized forms of wickedness are boldly called in question. What a glorious day is it for an oppressed people when a crusade of righteousness strikes down its tyrant! How the patriot orators delectate themselves; how even the lowest of the people try their tongues on the new vocabulary; how the women and children shout the opinions of husbands, lovers, and brothers, in sheer wantonness of new-found liberty, and in spite against tyrants! This is what is now taking place in Maryland. The usually ghastly front of war wears in Maryland a holiday smile for all, except the friends of the rebellion and slavery. The loosened tongue and the emancipated press are drunk with the new liberty. The long-caged eagles take their revenge by flying higher than birds of their own feather usually do. They intend not only to let the world see that they are out, but they want to know how freedom feels—how it feels to fly outside of wire and without a tether. And these attempts are by no means failures. You would think in looking over the newspapers of the State that you had taken up the New York Tribune, or the Evening Post, by mistake. In reading the proceedings of the State Union Convention at Baltimore, you might suspect, from the noble fury with which they nominate their candidate for the Presidency, and especially from the speech of Colonel Creswell, that you had gotten into a Massachusetts Convention. The whole State speaks a new language, has entered upon a new and strange career, the preparation for a glorious coming history.
Another of the results of the war, for Maryland, and one which is already beginning to appear, will be a general system of public schools, which shall network the whole State. When this was proposed four years ago in the State legislature, it was met by a member from one of the chief slaveholding counties with the objection that such a measure would abolitionize the whole State. Wicked as the objection was, it was true. The reason why such a proposition could be ventured was, because Baltimore, whose representative made it, was already deeply infected with the anti-slavery heresy. And the reason of this infection, again, was that Baltimore has possessed for many years a system of public free schools equal perhaps to any in the nation. A whole generation of Baltimoreans, the poor as well as the rich, had gone to school. 
The legislature now in session has before it this question of public schools for the whole State. So quickly does light follow on the heels of liberty, as before liberty had trodden on the heels of light. These twin sisters of Divine Providence cannot dwell long apart. The result will be the enlightenment and elevation of the masses of the State. What are the non-slaveholding whites of the far South? The answer is, that many only differ from the blacks in being more stupid, worse fed, worse clothed, more lazy, and of lighter color. Public schools would have made them men; but to make them men would have made them dangerous. So public schools were the greatest horror that South Carolina and other States of her kind ever saw in the very worst of their dreams. In Maryland the lot of the non-slave-holding whites has been graduated, in the different counties, according to the proportion of the slave interest. In the worst slave counties, such as Prince George, Charles, and St. Mary’s, the poor have been ground down into the very sand, while in the upper counties, where there are scarcely any slaves, and where a slave is hardly a slave, small freeholds abound, work is respectable, and workers are intelligent. In the coming Mary land, the new one that is now making, there shall be school-houses for the children of the poor on Point Lookout and on the summit of the Alleghenies; they shall dot and light the whole shore of the Chesapeake, the Potomac, the Patuxent, and the St. Mary’s, as they now do the banks of the Patapsco; and even the black man shall be permitted to aid in enriching the lands he has impoverished, and shall receive wages instead of stripes for his toil 
In the Maryland of the early future, the old aristocracy will rot to manure the worn-out fields. And yet where the proud blood has not altogether forgotten the claims of loyalty, and forfeited all its estates by treason, it may not suffer a direct fall, but may only be relatively depressed by the elevation of the people. The proud mountains may not sink, but the plains will rise, and equality will be attained, not perhaps by the overthrow of the few, but by the exaltation of the many. When every slave becomes a man and every man may be a landholder, the old owners of the soil may be all the richer for the loss of their aristocracy and their slaves. 
The destiny of Mary land will turn not a little, we think, on her central position in the country. There is a philosophy in the fact that one of the Presidential Conventions has selected Baltimore as the place
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that, the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES....... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH in from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to array, on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
of its meeting in July. Hitherto Maryland has been part of a border; though in the very centre of the nation, she has been between two great sections which were ever drawing themselves more and more apart. But soon the civilization of the country will be homogeneous, and no trace of the border will be left in Maryland. She will be central in every sense, and Baltimore will be a central city, cosmopolitan in situation, ever tending to draw into herself and combine in her life all the elements of national civilization, energy, and enterprise.—New York Methodist.
WASHINGTON, D.C., March 11 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON—I clip the following from the Daily Morning Chronicle of this morning. It is a production of Hon. John W. Forney, Secretary of the Senate. The Chronicle is the morning paper of the Capital. J. R. F.
HOW NATIONS BECOME FREE.
When a skilful commander makes a campaign into an enemy’s country, he does not move his forces in close column over a region not previously examined, but sends out detachments to scour the country, and take possession of prominent points, from which the enemy’s movements may be observed and signalled from afar. He sends out his sharpshooters, those radical warriors who never level their rifles without intent to kill. It will be readily admitted that this advance guard is an absolute necessity in the plan of the commander. It is formed of picked men, noted for their vigilance and fidelity. They are sent forward to prepare the way for the advance of the grand army. And when the chiefs of divisions see these daring pioneers in possession of commanding positions far in advance, they know that their forces may be safely moved up to points so covered.
Not much more than thirty years ago, a small but select band of pioneers went forward to spy out the way of progress for the American people. They were men noted for earnest and inflexible purpose—men who abhorred wrong and oppression as intensely as they loved right and liberty. They went forward into the enemy’s country—a long way in advance of the masses—and lighted their signal fires upon heights which seemed utterly impracticable to those who remained behind with the main body. The chiefs of parties despatched messenger after messenger to them, at first earnestly, and finally peremptorily commanding their return. They were told that the main body could never be drawn up those heights; that to go forward on the heels of such a rash reconnoissance would be to go forward to certain destruction. The daring pioneers returned answer that the enemy lay beyond; that he was perfecting his plans for a general advance, intended to overwhelm the people with defeat; that his avowed purpose was the destruction of the liberties, of the masses; and that to be met successfully he must be sought, and forced to fight the friends of truth and right upon their own chosen ground. They further entered into long arguments to show to the chiefs of parties that the avowed purpose of the enemy was destructive of popular liberty; that he was aggressive from necessity; and that, if they did not lead the people to meet and vanquish him, he would inevitably seek out and vanquish them.
So the contest raged between the chiefs of parties and the hardy pioneers on the path of national progress; the former deriding the latter as a pack of fanatics and fools, disorganizes and public enemies, and the latter returning epithet for epithet, and denunciation for denunciation. Both parties seemed to grow bigoted and unreasonable in their ways, with this notable difference, that while the politicians generally admitted that there was a stupendous wrong, but affirmed that it was impolitic to right it, the radicals, or fanatics, as they were called, declared that to do right and justly was always expedient. One made it a matter of expediency; the other of principle and duty.
Thus commenced, and progressed, the war between slavery and anti-slavery. Of the latter, Garrison and Phillips were and are distinguished chiefs apostles. They went forward, and lighted the signal fires of freedom in the teeth of an intolerant, nay, a murderous public opinion. Not many, who now rejoice in the death of slavery, but at some time in their lives looked upon these pioneers as fanatical, if not foolish; as utterly impracticable, if not criminal. To-day we can see that folly, like wisdom, cannot be monopolized by a particular scet or party. To-day we know that those signal fires, lighted so far in the advance of public opinion, had their uses. We begin to recognize Providence in history. To-day we behold the main body—the people—encamped upon those seemingly inaccessible heights; and those signal fires have so increased in brightness and volume that they are become the camp-fires of such an army of anti-slavery men and women as the world never before saw, and the whole continent is illumed.
Such are the beginnings of national progress. Men are like the moth. Set a light in the most impracticable place, and they seek it. They seek it involuntarily. They can no more avoid being drawn toward the light than the germ can avoid piercing upward to the sun; or the vine, which roots in a dungeon, and straightway stretches across the damp floor, and along the slimy walls, to the light shed through some minute crevice.
It was inevitable that the American people should become anti-slavery. Garrison and his fellow-pioneers were not originators, but followers. They planted their feet on the firm rock of the Declaration of Independence, and refused to move. They fore-reached time, and caught a glimpse of the “must be” in advance of their generation. But Thomas Jefferson was made the instrument of the enfranchisement of the American people. He lighted the fire at which Garrison lighted his lamp. It was Thomas Jefferson who added slavery to the catalogue of crime in his indictment against King George. Garrison only moved up to Jefferson's stand-point. He has done little save to reiterate Jefferson's definition of the inalienable rights of man. How earnestly, how unflinchingly, how temperately, all things considered, has he done his work! The mark of every shaft of malice and abuse launched by the chiefs of all parties for thirty years; making himself naught among men that lie might be of service to the humblest; keeping himself pure—a stranger to the vices which disfigure the majority of men; with a single ambition—to become the iconoclast of the age. The hero of such a purpose may well be pardoned his eccentricities, and indulged in unlimited theorizing.
The American people must not forget that this day and its triumphs are but the unfolding of the thought of Thomas Jefferson when be penned the Declaration of Independence.

PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
Until very recently, it seemed probable that no rival to Mr. Lincoln would be proposed by any section of the country which sustains his administration. The public voice has been so uniformly in his favor, so far as pronounced, that the verdict of the loyal people for his nomination gave promise of being unanimous. Our hope was that this result would be reached. The country is in the very night of a terrible war, and seems really to have no surplus energy to expend in an exciting presidential canvass. It needs all its money, and all its enthusiasm, and all its spare concern for the contest on hand. Why not, is the circumstances, allow the election to slip along as easily as possible?
Supposing that we do not approve of every act of the President—thinking him to have been too fast or too slow, for some have each opinion—or that his proclamation of freedom was delayed too long, or uttered too early; or that his offer of amnesty is too stringent or too lenient; or that we differ in regard to many other things from his judgment: and it is a question, after all, if any other man would have done any better. No line of action would possibly suit all men. He gives best evidence of being right, prima facie, who satisfies the calm judgment of the greatest number. By this test who could hope to have hit the demands of the case better than has Mr. Lincoln? The great unanimity of the verdict rendered by the people in his favor, especially of that portion of the people who have no private ends to serve, is the strongest proof of the wisdom of his management that could be had. It is not without reason that this verdict is pronounced. Mr. Lincoln has been narrowly watched and severely judged. The public mind, concerning him, was slowly made up. It hesitated for more than two years before being satisfied. Our President is not at all a man who appeals to the popular enthusiasm. Having little or none himself, he imparts none to others. He has no sounding phrases; puts on no airs; utters no ominous shakes of head or fists, which stir the marvellous in beholders. He is a plain man, who relies upon truth, im-
<c02>
presses others by his evident sincerity, and appeals to the common sense and calm judgment of men. Consequently, though his way to their confidence is slow, it is sure when reached.
There is another thing to be taken into account. This rebellion is aimed at Mr. Lincoln. The rebels have in many cases declared that they would never submit to him as President. But he was the regularly elected President of the United States, chosen according to the forms of that Constitution by which they as well as we were bound. Now we insist that they ought to be made to do just that thing. We are for giving them Abraham Lincoln, and nobody else, till they have accepted their duty.
We thus present this matter in this light, on the supposition that all the parties addressed have no other idea than to canvass for their candidate, as before a convention, to present a name to the people for their suffrages; for we take it, there cannot be lunatics enough in the United States, who are truly loyal to the country, to fill one respectable asylum, who will think of running any third man for the election before the people. Such a procedure can only aim to defeat the loyal cause altogether, and peril the freedom of this nation forever.—Chicago Tribune.

A WORD TO REPUBLICANS.
In the Presidential canvass which is already upon us, we are in favor of a free expression of opinion upon the relative merits of candidates. We are willing that every man should have his candidate, and insist upon his being the paragon of political virtue, and the perfection of all moral and social qualities. If a man believes that N. P. Banks, Salmon P. Chase, John C. Fremont, Benjamin F. Butler, or any other man is the proper candidate for the Presidency, let him work for him through the canvass manfully, fairly and honestly, and urge his nomination in the Convention with all his eloquence and power. We are not in favor of restriction. We have chosen our man, and we shall work for him to the best of our abilities. We believe that Abraham Lincoln is, all things considered, the man for the next Presidency. We believe that be combines caution, boldness, prudence, originality, independence, hard political sense and honesty of purpose in that degree which eminently qualifies him for the Executive Chair. We believe that be is thoroughly devoting his best energies to the overthrow of traitors and the restoration of the Union to its former integrity, and that be will extirpate slavery, root and branch. Convinced of this, we intend to exert our influence and devote our energies to his renomination, which is synonymous with his re-election; and we would accord to all other men the same privilege, and grant the fullest latitude to discussion, so long as it does not prejudice the success of the cause.
But there are always a class of men who oppose their individual wills to the expressed preferences of others, and insist upon carrying out their purposes, even if they lead to common ruin. They are presumptuous, politically omniscient and autocratic as the great Mogul.
We refer to politicians of the Caspar Butz school, who, if they cannot have the management of the house, will try to topple it down upon our heads. The times are prolific of these men, floating about in the disturbed sea of politics, with abilities just large enough to render them obstinate, and blind to everything but their own aggrandizement. Such a policy we deprecate, and we are sorry to see that there are some Republicans who declare that, unless a certain candidate, their favorite, is nominated, they will bolt. We are willing, as we have before said, that they shall go before the Baltimore Convention, and urge the nomination of their men to the best of their abilities, but they must abide by the results of the Convention, and not put in force the rule or ruin policy. In order to ensure success, the party must have perfect cohesion. However much the party may be divided in the preliminary canvass, when the leader is named by the majority, and we are in the face of the enemy, the minority must close up, that we may go into the serious work of the fight with an unbroken front. The proposed action of the factionists is exactly that of the rebels. It is secession in a mild type, and persistence in it will throw the country by Copperhead success into rebel hands. As for ourselves, we hope and believe that Abraham Lincoln will be our standard-bearer in the coming political contest, and that he will pilot us through the stormy trials amid which we are now struggling, and remove the last vestige of the accursed system of human bondage; but, at the same time, we pledge ourselves, if he is not nominated, to abide by the action of the Convention, and to work with all our zeal for Banks, Butler, Chase, Fremont, or any other loyal Union man who shall be set apart as the representative man of Freedom. We demand the same action of every other Republican, for there is safety in no other course. We must be united, or, through our divisions, ruin will ensue to the country. Anything, everything must be done, rather than let the political power of this country lapse into the hands of the Copperheads, and the country itself thereby be divided. If we are united, it can be prevented. Individual prejudices and interests must be sacrificed. We must yield everything to the common weal. He who does not, criminally imperils the national existence.—Chicago Tribune.
The Liberator.

No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY MARCH 18, 1864.
THE PRESIDENCY.
Unquestionably, the approaching Presidential election is a matter of the gravest consideration in its relation to the stability of the government, the suppression of the rebellion, and the abolition of slavery. It is now useless to say that its discussion had better be deferred to a later period; for it is certain that divisions are forming in the Republican ranks and elsewhere, and various candidates are propounded to succeed the present incumbent—such as Secretary Chase, General Fremont, General Butler, and General Grant. Besides, time is swiftly hastening, and but a few weeks remain before the holding of the several Presidential Conventions which are to present their favorites for national approval. Hence, the sooner the subject is canvassed, in all its momentous bearings, the more likely are the people to vote understandingly and wisely.
Standing, as we have stood for more than thirty years, outside of every party organization,—yet taking the deepest interest in every political struggle of national concernment as indicative of progress or retrogression,—we occupy a position not only absolutely independent of all party ties and obligations, but sufficiently elevated and disinterested to make our judgment impartial, if not conclusive to others. The crisis is too solemn to justify heat or dogmatism, or even that personal preference or rivalry which, under other circumstances, would be allowable, and attended with no danger. Never was the apostolic injunction more impressive than now—"Let every one be FULLY PERSUADED in his own mind”-and act in accordance with his clearest instincts and his highest convictions. There are, and there will be, honest differences of opinion among those who are thoroughly loyal to the government, as to the best course to be pursued; yet it is none the less certain that the. fewer these differences can be made, the less danger will there be of the success of that party at the North which is essentially, brutally, persistently pro-slavery, and eager to strike hands with the rebels of the South in an arrangement that shall be mutually satisfactory, by allowing the latter to dictate terms, and have their own way.
In stating our convictions, we ask no approval of them on the part of our readers beyond what may seem reasonable and just.
The National Republican Convention for the nomination of a Presidential candidate is to be held in Baltimore early in June. Previous to that time, it is right and proper that the merits of the various favorites should be fully considered and temperately discussed; but, whoever shall receive the nomination at Baltimore, upon him the whole strength of the Republican party should be concentrated—for not an ounce of that strength can be safely spared in rivalry or division. It is as palpable as “the sun shining in his strength,” that it is the aim of the Copperheads
<c03>
to act upon the maxim—"Divide and conquer"; and, therefore, they will leave nothing undone to sow dissensions in the Republican ranks, and induce as many rival candidates to be set up as possible—even on the plausible ground of having a more radical anti-slavery policy carried out—for, being "full of all deceivableness of unrighteousness," they will assume any shape and resort to any trick. In thus man<illegible>uvreing, they will have the sympathy and concurrence of the Southern traitors, whose final hope of success in carrying their point lies in the triumph of the Copperhead party. What enactments of law, what scenes of violence, what revolting compromises, what national humiliation and degradation would follow that triumph, imagination may in vain attempt to depict. But it can take place only by the fatuity of Republicans in allowing themselves to have rival candidates in the field, with all the disposition to disparage and assail those candidates which such a contest would endanger; and if this shall occur, then the terrible unity which prevails in the Copperhead ranks will almost certainly enable them to seize the reins of government for the next four years. Therefore, THERE MUST BE BUT ONE CANDIDATE.
That candidate to be successful—we are thoroughly convinced from the widest observation and the most careful scrutiny—must be and can be none other than Abraham Lincoln; and we have scarcely a doubt that he will be re-nominated by an overwhelming majority. Even the Legislature of Ohio, with all the well-deserved popularity which Salmon P. Chase has won in that State and throughout the North, has with great unanimity recorded its vote in favor of the reelection of Mr. Lincoln. This decision has been promptly, gracefully, and patriotically acquiesced in by Secretary Chase; and he has consequently retired from the list of competitors, nobly saying that he counts it a privilege as well as a duty to ask that no further consideration be given to his name. He can well afford to wait, and such magnanimity will be remembered and rewarded in the future.
Gen. Fremont has many warm admirers. The Germans of St. Louis held a meeting on the evening of the 2d, nominated Gen. Fremont for President, and adopted a call for a general mass meeting of his friends at St. Louis, on the 10th of May, “for the purpose of completing a thorough organization of the radical masses all over the Union.” This looks like a determination not to abide by the decision of the National Republican Convention at Baltimore in June, and forestalls it in point of time. We do not exactly like this exclusively German action, aside from considerations of its impolicy in the present critical exigency; it is not sufficiently American; though we have no doubt of the earnest purpose of our German brethren to crush slavery and the rebellion by the shortest possible method. But personal preference most give way to the one overwhelming duty of keeping the government beyond the possible attainment and control of its deadly foes. As opposed to Mr. Lincoln, Gen. Fremont could have no rational hope of success; nor do we believe, if but one Republican candidate take the field, there is any man living in America who would poll so many votes, or who has so strong a hold upon the mass of the people, as Abraham Lincoln.
Not that Mr. Lincoln is not open to criticism and censure; we have both criticism and censured him again and again. Not that there it not much to grieve over, and to be surprised at, in his administration, on account of its inconsistent and paradoxical treatment of the rebellion and slavery; of this we have spoken freely. Nevertheless, there is also much to rejoice over and to be thankful for; and a thousand incidental errors and blunders are easily to be borne with on the part of him who, at one blow, severed the chains of three millions three hundred thousand slaves,—thus virtually abolishing the whole slave system (the greater necessarily including the less) in quick progression, as an act dictated alike by patriotism, justice and humanity. Besides, we should learn something from the enemy. “Any change,” says the Richmond Examiner, referring to the approaching presidential struggle—"any change will be better for us." The Copperheads are of the same mind. Is it wise to attempt to gratify either of these parties?
THE AMERICAN CONFLICT. A HISTORY OF THE GREAT REBELLION IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 1860-64, BY HORACE GREELEY.
This great work is more especially intended to illustrate the conflict between Freedom and Slavery, and the drift and progress of American opinion respecting the peculiar institution throughout the entire period of our national independence, and culminating in the present rebellion. In addition to the special value of the work is an authentic record of the civil and military operations of the war. This prominent feature of developing the moral changes of the nation will commend the work to every American. Few American writers could more fitly assume the responsible task. His familiarity with the political history of the country, and his fund of statistical information, will guarantee the work to be one of no common interest.
The work will be printed on fine paper, and issued in two large double-column octavo volumes of 600 pages each, abundantly illustrated by Maps, Diagrams of Battle-fields, Sieges, Naval Actions, views of places of historic interest, obtained from official reports and other authentic documents in War and Navy Departments, etc., together with a large number of fine steel plate portraits of prominent Generals and other distinguished persons connected with the war, both North and South. Volume I will be published on or about the first of May, 1864, and will contain seventy portraits on steel, classified and arranged in appropriate groups, besides other illustrations of much interest.
THE REBELLION RECORD. New York: G. P. Putnam.
A. Williams & Co. have received Part 40 of the Record which is illustrated with portraits of Gen. Stoneman and of the rebel General J. E. B. Stuart. This number contains in part documents connected with the battle of Gettysburg.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER for March has the following list of articles:—John Wesley: his Character and Work. Dies Irae. John Winthrop in England. The Moral Problem of Education. Thackeray. Smith’s Bible Dictionary. Military Drill in Schools. Charles the Bold. Federalism and its Present Tasks. Review of Current Literature.
ENFRANCHISEMENT OF COLORED CITIZENS OF LOUISIANA. In the U. S. Senate, on Tuesday last, Mr. Sumner presented the petition of 1000 citizens of Louisiana, of African descent, to be allowed to vote in the reorganization of Louisiana. The petition is approved by Anthony Fernandez, President of the Louisiana Association of the Veterans of the War of 1812, founder of the first Union Association, and a member of the central organization of a free State; by Thomas J. Durant, President of the Free State Committee, and by other citizens. It represents that all are owners of property, many engaged in the pursuits of commerce, paying taxes for forty-nine years on an assessment of $15,000,000, and that at the call of Gov. Shepley they raised a colored regiment in forty-eight hours.
PROF. LEWIS'S EXHIBITION OF GYMNASTICS. The exhibition of gymnastics at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday evening, by the graduating class of Prof. Lewis's Institute for physical education, was attended by a very large audience, and gave much pleasure and satisfaction. The exercises with the wands, dumb bells and rings were accomplished with a grace, precision and ease which showed thorough training.
It is somewhat late in the day to publish the proceedings of the meeting at Meadville, Pa., (see our last page,) commemorative of the martyrdom of John Brown upon its last anniversary; but the manuscript got mislaid, and the delay has been unintentional. The proceedings will repay perusal.
<c04>
LETTERS FROM NEW Y0RK. No. III.
NEW YORK, March 10, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
It was my good fortune to be present at Mr. Thompson's reception here in the Cooper Institute. I would go far to see that man who was not touched by the enthusiasm of the occasion, or who was not enchained by the eloquent delivery of our trans-Atlantic defender. For one, remembering dimly his power of speech as manifested in his last visit to this country, and knowing something of his bodily debility in the interim, I was prepared for a considerable abatement in my judgment of his oratory, and dubious of his ability to interest an American audience. It is enough to say that he completely disappointed me. His command of language was marvellously ready, his range copious, and his selection choice; his sentences were balanced and rounded as if first wrought on paper; and not seldom, amid the graceful flow of his discourse, would burst forth some powerful, inspiring utterance, compelling applause, and giving proof of the speaker that
"E’en in his ashes live their wonted fires”.
The remarks of Gen. Fremont which preceded, and those of Dr. Tyng which followed Mr. Thompson's, were worthy of comment. The former, as ever, spoke ably, and with evident deliberation. He did full justice to Mr. Thompson, and to the Abolitionists, and was deficient in nothing unless in taste, since much of what he said had a necessary reflex upon himself as a possible candidate for the next Presidency. Dr. Tyng, in response to calls from those present, caught up the glowing spirit of the assembly, and carried it along to loftier heights of justice and humanity. He boldly declared emancipation without equal rights before the law to be a fraud, and a yoke more grievous than that of slavery. With deep earnestness he depicted the inevitable scarring of our own souls by every stroke with which we scourged our brother, and demanded that our fellow-countrymen should be our fellow-citizens no less.
From Fremont to the Presidential question is an easy transition. The premature development of the Chase programme has awakened extensive discussion, and has in the main called out expressions favorable to Mr. Lincoln. The Secretary and the President, meanwhile, have exchanged compliments over the Pomeroy circular, and discover no reason for an interruption of their entente cordiale. The legislature of Ohio significantly gives the cold shoulder to the former Governor of that State. Winter Davis interprets the Maryland manifestation in behalf of Mr. Lincoln to spring from their gratitude for the Emancipation Proclamation, and asserts that his constituents will "support the man only as long as he supports the cause." Gratz Brown, remembering what the Administration has done for Missouri as well as for Maryland, likewise openly opposes the President. The appointment of Sigel to the department of West Virginia is a sop for the Germans which they are not slow to perceive, and to ridicule as "cunning, trickstering, soft-soaping and assuaging." Such sops are thrown away. On the whole it may be said, of politicians and presses, that they are shy of committing themselves to any particular candidate, which I take to be a sign of weakness rather than strength, so far as concerns Mr. Lincoln. All feel that his chances are best to-day, but all are ignorant of the morrow; and it is my opinion that we shall hear little more of rival nominations before the seventh of June.
The Louisiana election is over. On a three-tenths vote, Hahn is made Governor by about 2000 majority. It must be said of him that he is a man of a very damaged character,—taking loyalty as the test,—that he received the support and cooperation of General Banks, and that his party disclaimed all "sympathy with radical measures looking in the future to negro equality." The President has reaped the first fruit of his unjust, undemocratic policy. It is noticeable that Mr. Flanders, who, whether rightfully or not, bore the stigma of being favorable to human rights independent of complexion, polled a smaller vote than the rebel candidate, Mr. Fellows. Does any suppose that such would have been the result had the colored population been allowed to vote? Gen. Banks was too eager to adopt the President's idea of reconstruction in this particular. There were men of the despised race in New Orleans whose shoe-latchets neither the Major General of the Department nor the newly-elected Governor is worthy to loosen, much less the inimical rabble which voted for the disloyal candidate; but wealthy, refined, intelligent though they were, their manhood could not be recognized for fear of their darker brethren, the freedmen. It is gratifying to know that this injustice was not endured without a protest, and that the colored inhabitants of the Crescent city have the honor of being the first to move in defence of the rights inherent in their humanity. They sent a delegation to Washington, the record of whose reception by the President ought to call a blush to the cheeks of him who reads, and make thoughtful voters consider if such a magistrate can be entrusted with the republican idea in the coming conflict of reconstruction. "He told them," says one account, that "he did nothing in matters of this kind upon moral grounds, but solely upon political necessities. Their petition asking to become citizens and voters being placed solely on moral grounds did not furnish him with any inducement to accede to their wishes, but that he would do so whenever they could show that such accession would be necessary to the re admission of Louisiana as a State in the Union." But of what account is the restoration of Louisiana to the Union, unless she return upon the republican plane, ready to repeat the first line of the Declaration, and enforce it by her Constitution and Statutes? Says another account: “If the recognition of black men as having a right to vote was necessary to close the war, he would not hesitate. He saw no reason why intelligent black men should not vote; but this was not a military question, and he would refer it to the Constitutional Convention of Louisiana.” Then it was not a military question whether intelligent white men should vote, and the President condemns altogether his interference in the State elections. The truth is, he had the power to determine, if anything, whether the old prejudice and oppression of slavery should continue, or should be supplanted by the equality of perfect freedom. Had he ignored every discrimination except that of loyalty, the colored man would have voted, and the task of the future would have been spared us. But what could or can we expect from the joint production of Kentucky and Illinois?
The conservatives of the Missouri Legislature succeeded in postponing a Constitutional Convention, and, as they trust, the abolition of slavery in that State, till next year. The Convention of Loyal People of West Tennessee, which met at Memphis on the 23d ult., passed very radical resolutions, one of which, "providing that slavery shall henceforth cease and be forever prohibited," also recognizes "the importance of making the State Constitution republican in fact as well as in name, by guaranteeing the natural and inherent rights of all persons in the State." Let us hope the full meaning of these noble words was comprehended and designed! Gen. Cheltain has established himself at Memphis to prosecute the organization of colored regiments, and is highly spoken of. From Texas, we have a fresh dissent from the Amnesty Proclamation by those best qualified to form a judgment. Says a Matamoras letter:
"The loyal refugees who reach here via Piedras Negras, do not express themselves pleased with the Proclamation of President Lincoln. They think that he has given amnesty to too many, and concur in insisting that contractors, publishers and editors, blockade runners, and all who have been persecutors of loyal men, should not be let off. They argue that unless a stringent and effective confiscation be enforced, the wealth and political power of the rebel States will remain in the same hands as heretofore, and that a reorganization will be next to impossible.”
It is well that that State has a Governor like Gen. Hamilton, and a Judge like the Hon. Isaac B. McFarland, who charged the Grand Jury empanneled at Brownsville in January, "that slavery in the State
<c05>
of Texas had ceased to exist, and persons of African descent are entitled to the protection of the law as freemen." The Committee on Emancipation of the Virginia Constitutional Convention, now in session at Alexandria, recommends the incorporation of immediate (and, apparently, unconditional and uncompensated) emancipation into the charter of the State.
What of the doings of Congress? That body talks a great deal before doing a little. It takes up, discusses, and then postpones, now the question of equal pay for colored troops, now of abolishing distinctions of color for the soldiers of the Union in public conveyances. The troops remain unpaid; the U. S. uniform is daily insulted. However, at times good does come out of Nazareth. The House has passed, by a very close vote, the bill for the Freedmen's Bureau, and a bill by which Massachusetts may recruit for her quota in any hitherto disaffected State, of course inviting white or black to come under her banner. The debate on the latter measure elicited the best speech of the session, in a logical sense, though uttered by a conservative from Kentucky, Mr. Wadsworth. He thought a man wham he could summon to fight for him, was fit to vote for him. Since he could not reconcile himself to negro suffrage, he was opposed to negro regiments. The nation stands rebuked by one who is not incapable of gratitude, even if he is of justice. Nevertheless, it means to employ black soldiers, and the order for the enrollment of slaves has gone forth from the War Department. Mr. Wadsworth and the State of Kentucky, however reluctantly, will yet be saved by their heroism. So let him anticipate the fact, acknowledge his Indebtedness, and demand for them their share in the Government they will have maintained.
Space forbids me to recount at length the triumphal march down Broadway of the 20th United States colored regiment, which I beheld. Brave souls! there is no relaxation of the atrocities to which they will be doomed, if taken prisoners. New York has just decided that her white soldiers in the field shall vote, but I hear no talk of removing the oppressive property qualification in recognition of her darker champions. Grant that March '64 is an advance on July '68, in the prejudice against color we have the nucleus of a hundred riots. M. DU PAYS.

GEORGE THOMPSON IN PLYMOUTH CHURCH.
BROOKLYN, (N. Y.,) March 12, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Yesterday was the first foul day in this otherwise delightful week, and the effect was visible, to a degree, in the diminished audience which gathered last night to welcome Mr. Thompson to this city. Mr. Beecher's church was well filled, although not crowded, other causes co-operating with the rain to divide the public interest. Those who came, however, were a select company, warm in their reception of the distinguished speaker, friendly and attentive listeners; and the general satisfaction was evidenced not only by frequent applause, but also by the large numbers who beset Mr. Thompson at the close of the meeting.
The President of the Central Union Club, by which Mr. Thompson had been invited, appropriately assigned to Mr. Beecher the introduction of the guest of the evening. The opportunity to make some return for trans-Atlantic courtesy and assistance was not refused by Mr. Beecher, whose generous words I cannot adequately report. He began by referring to Mr. Thompson's early engagement in the cause of British West India Emancipation. When that measure, by his efforts as much as any other single man's, had be come a glorious success, the freedom-loving impulse which had urged him to its support induced him to visit America on a similar mission. We hooted him, abused him, well-nigh drove him from the country by our violence, pretending to object to him as a foreigner and a Britisher, but really hating him because he told us unwelcome truths. He did much good while here; he left more seed to fructify at a later time. His second visit to our country was next described, with a sketch of his various reformatory labors in the interval in his own country. When the rebellion broke out, Mr. Thompson was the first to plant himself on the side of Union and liberty. We cannot realize what it costs a man in England to be our advocate, for against him is arrayed all that respectability which travels in first and second-class carriages, and is found in first and second-class hotels. The man whom we had mobbed took the lead of his countrymen in pronouncing himself one with us, and to work unceasingly in our behalf. Some men affect to despise talkers. “Actions, not deeds!” This is a senseless and a fatal thrust at the entire instrumentality of pen, book and newspaper, no less than voice. Talking is good acting, or else the example of Jesus and his apostles is lost. "No man of whom I know has talked so much and to so good purpose as George Thompson. And I welcome him most heartily not only to America and to the city of Brooklyn, but especially to the church in which I worship, and in which I am accustomed to lead the religious services of my people. Let our blessing attend him wherever he goes throughout our country!"
The concluding words of Mr. Beecher were accepted by the audience in the spirit in which they were uttered. Mr. Thompson, on rising, was greeted with prolonged applause. He expressed himself wholly unused to such approving, sympathetic demonstrations; his life had been familiar with battles and storms. In the midst of such a welcome and such personal encomium as had been bestowed upon him, he felt embarrassed and as if his occupation was gone. He modestly disclaimed any other purpose, in coming to this country at the present time, than one of a purely private nature; but he hoped to find leisure hereafter for doing something yet for the cause of liberty in America. He admitted that his countrymen were very obtuse, and he had been endeavoring to enlighten them in regard to America not only during the past three, but thirty years, save when he was absent from England. He touched briefly upon his efforts in this way during the chief epochs of our political struggle, from the formation of the Liberty Party in 1840 to the Fremont campaign in 1856. In the John Brown period he was busy defending that sainted martyr, on the spot of whose execution he hoped one day to stand, and proclaim the triumph of the principles for which he mounted the scaffold. While the Presidential canvass of 1860 was in progress, he was laboring to present to the people of Great Britain the true distinctions of the contending parties. There is vastly more ignorance of American history and institutions in England, than exists among us in regard to the mother country. Especially is it difficult for Englishmen to distinguish between our parties, varied as they have been and often grotesque in their nomenclature. The only sources of information for the people at large are the public prints, which were largely hostile to the cause of the North. Motley's conclusive letters on secession to the Time-“a question,” said Mr. Thompson, “concerning which I never entertained but one opinion”-were admitted to that paper before it openly espoused the interests of the Confederacy. Mr. Spence's book, able, ingenious, sophistical, did much to corrupt the public mind, and had passed through four editions. It was answered in a masterly manner by Charles Edward Rawlins, a merchant of Liverpool. Added to the active efforts of Southern emissaries in prejudice of the Federal cause, were certain acts of your own Government which compelled for a time the anti-slavery masses to withhold their sympathy. Such were passages in the President's inaugural address, the supersession of Fremont after his famous proclamation, the conduct of many of our Generals in returning fugitive slaves to their rebellious masters, etc. Even the Emancipation Proclamation of January 1st was turned to the discredit of any anti-slavery intention on the part of the Government. And those who did not understand the powers of the President under the Constitution were liable to be deceived by the accusation that he had abolished slavery where he had no authority, and left it intact where he had. Mr. Thompson then described the outgrowth of
<c06>
the London Emancipation Society from the Anti-Slavery Committee which he had early instituted, together with its labors by means of lecturers, (whose services were for the most part gratuitously contributed,) books, pamphlets, placards, etc. This and an even still more active association, the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society, were able to render valuable aid to Mr. Beecher, while in England, whose effective speeches were now alluded to by Mr. Thompson in the most graceful and complimentary terms. “Able as is your minister," said he, "at the Court of St. James’s, (and your country has greatly improved its representatives abroad,) may you always be fortunate in having a People’s Ambassador to England like Mr. Beecher!" In contrast to what had been said of the respectable classes in England, Mr. Thompson referred to the uniform steadfastness of the working classes to the cause of freedom. Secession agents had in vain endeavored to bribe them to turbulent demonstrations in favor of the Confederacy. In the face of idleness and famine they resisted, and presented a sublime spectacle of moral heroism. In this connection, an interesting account was given of the manner in which great reforms have been carried in England; of the long years of peaceful agitation necessary to as accomplish the abolition of the slave trade, emancipation in the colonies, the repeal of the test laws, the com laws, &c. These measures were all wrung from hostile parliaments. So, on the American question, the people had restrained the government from giving cause for war and from recognizing the Confederacy. What effectually turned the tide in England was the execution of the slave trader Gordon, in New York; American cooperation in suppressing the slave trade; the recognition of Hayti; and Liberia; the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia; the prohibition forever of slavery in the territories of the United States; the President's proposition of compensated emancipation to the Border States; his proclamation of September 22d, 1862; and, above all, that of this last of January, 1863. In reference to the enactments of Congress since the out break of the war, Mr. Thompson said that the world could not match legislation to prudent, comprehensive and humane in so short a space of time. He concluded by thanking the audience for the cordial reception they had extended him, apologizing for his speech as coming from a brain which was indisposed that evening, and urging the American people, in the name of his countrymen, to complete the good work to which they had put their hands. America should one day help England to her own free institutions.
Having heard Mr. Thompson at the Cooper Institute also, I was able to compare his delivery upon the two occasions; and while I can say that his matter last night was entirely fresh, and presented in a manner absorbingly attractive, it must be admitted that his delivery here was not so easy and natural as in New York. The reasons for this were numerous and sufficient: personally, a dizziness of the head which lasted over till this morning; externally a church for an auditory, in which enthusiasm is usually repressed, and which on this occasion was just enough untilled to interrupt the magnetic circle between speaker and hearers—a breach not mended by the inclement atmosphere. But, as I remarked above, there seemed none to be dissatisfied, and Mr. Thompson was not so far from being himself that he did not, from time to time, give intimations of the power of oratory for which he is so justly famous. I trust we shall hear him again under better conditions. FIGLIO.

THE LAND INIQUITY AT PORT ROYAL
When Port Royal, two and a half years ago, came within our military lines, a new problem came with it—WHAT TO DO WITH NEGRO? The first thing as a matter of economy, was to see that he did not become a bill of expense to the Government. He was put to work on the plantations; but his master having left him destitute, he was subsisted till the crops came in almost wholly by the Government, and for some time after in part. But his condition, in the mean time, was improving. He was becoming more aware of the responsibilities of his new condition, more self-reliant, and finally self-supporting, and comparatively independent. Those who had best opportunities to observe were convinced that, under the stimulus of a motive, he would be, so far as a living is concerned, very much like all other people. Up to the first land sales for taxes, in March, 1863, scarcely anybody had entertained the idea of his being a landowner. It seemed to be settled doctrine, that he was to be the laborer of the South, as ever, though in another way; and many persons through the country were quite doubtful whether he would, in freedom, work for wages. That is, as the planters used to tell us, "If you make him free, he will lie on his back in the corn-field, and bask in the sun." This question was much discussed about that time. Acting under these impressions, about 16,000 acres of land were sold, mostly to white men, in large tracts, at an average price of 93 1-3 cents per acre, with buildings thereon. To-day they are selling from six to twenty-seven dollars per acre, with the buildings.
Through the following summer, while the negro worked on the government and private plantations, and on his own allotment lands, it was becoming apparent every day, that the time was not far off when he should have a home of his own, and be made, as far as it would consist with his parent state, the master of his own destiny. His friends soon began to feel, that the only way to secure his progress and independence was to give him an interest in the soil. Heretofore, the idea has been to sell the land to the industrious and ingenious white man, and hire the negro for a laborer; now, to let the negro hare his share of the land. From both humane and economic considerations, it soon became a conviction with the friends of freedom in Port Royal, that the time had now come to test the ability of the negro to take care of himself, on a patch of land of his own; and it seemed reasonable, that if the Government had land to sell, and was about to begin a new order of things, as it would in any new country, now was the time to take the first step toward doing justice to the negro, who, for so many long, sad years, had been stripped of all his rights We all said, “Give this landless and homeless fellow-man a chance to own the land at what, for him, shall be a reasonable rate viz., $1.25 per acre.
Not a man in. Port Royal, be he Copperhead or Republican, would ever have thought of opposing a proposition so humane and just, as well as so trifling as a matter of dollars to the Government, had it not been for the fact, that Northern men were eyeing the high price of cotton. Then they began to covet these lands, and to find reasons why they should have them. We began to hear about the unfitness of the negro, on account of his ignorance, to have too much liberty, or too much money; that he could only be truly developed under the protectorship of the white man; that, as soon as he began to get more money man; that as soon as he began to get more money than was sufficient to supply his daily wants, he would indulge his natural tendency to idleness, and that any surplus amount of money would only lead to his demoralization and ruin. It was painfully interesting to listen to the arguments of those whose minds were lighted up by golden dreams of sudden fortune. If any one alluded to the low price of labor, then it was said by some,—These people don’t need any more wages; their wants are simple; the creeks are full of fish and oysters; their little patches are full of vegetables, and markets are around; they can afford to work for low wages, and it wouldn’t hurt them a grain; forgetting that this argument belonged to the negro—for if he had all these facilities for helping himself, so much the stronger reason for him that his wages should be higher. Others quoted the prices of labor in the old, overstocked communities and despotisms of both Europe and Asia, to justify low wages here, in our young Republic. Some were for his having land some time; but it would be better that, in as much as the old master had ground him down to elevate him, he should now be ground up, through the wholesome process of industry, under organized
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
labor, into quickness and steadiness of motion, thrift, economy and contentment, at such wages as would admit of large profits to the considerate and benevolent employer!
How long it would take to complete this necessary preparation was not clear. Some thought after the war, and then that it would be better for the negro to pay a good round price for his land to those who had it to sell, as he would then so much the more appreciate its true value. Some, a little crest-fallen, said, in the negro was going to have land, the white man ought to have it too; that a "white-man was as good is a nigger." Some of the bald, flat-headed sort said, Eat-footedly, that "niggers oughtn't to have any land at all"-and yet even these were not entirely without humanity, for they did think (kind souls!) they ought to have twenty-five cents per day, and some of them thirty cents: and those of them who kept goods so sell, -now become necessaries of life in the new condition of the negro,-were so considerate as to sell "as low as they could afford." It came mighty hare, though, on the poor negro, with a family of young children to support, to have to pay away all his wages, and more too, and get only half as much for them as formerly, making thirty cents worth only fifteen cents. But business is business, and that't the end on't!
The last year has been a very trying one to both the people is Port Royal and their friends. Land monopoly has been attempting its old tricks, and has made its usual free use of a perverted logic "to make the worse appear the better reason, "why those who "make haste to be rich" should have an open field without the "fair play." "God for us all, the devil take the hindermost." Twice has Gen Saxton, a true friend of his country and of the freedmen, been obliged to put his shoulder to the wheel of that slow coach Board of Commissioners, and order the people to stake out their lands, to save first to the government to expense of supporting, and the disgrace of reducing to pauperism, the worthy people of Port Royal, as well as to secure their future homes; and twice have these poor people been disappointed, and, as a consequence, almost disheartened.
In the mean time, these disinterested land monopolists and cotton growers continue, under the goadings of their consciences-those that have any-to argue in their own justification, as did the wicked old slave-mongers, that it is so much better for these people to have the benefit of their superior civilization!
The plea of engrafting upon the colored people our wretched, nasal- twanged, wooden-nutmeg-Yankee civilization as a great boon is not only over-estimated, but taken in connexion with existing facts, is also unphilosophical and dishonest. It is but the speciousness of selfishness and low cunning. It is superciliousness and conceit bending over their victims-the wretched can and subterfuge of oppression.
It is useless to argue with this thing in Port Royal. It is nothing but an unmitigated attempt to make money out of the lands and laborers in double quick time, and then be off.
The agents of the Government, mistaking their true vocation, have managed for the speculator; and the result of their efforts is simply to place the bulk of the land in the hands of men who never mean-not one of them-to stay in Port Royal ten minutes after they make all the money they can; nor is it apparent from their conduct that they mean anything toward the colored people better than what our government is at this time imparting to them in Congress, the army, and among the plantations in the Southwest; and this is bad enough.
Not only in the matter of land, but of wages also, everywhere the last year, within our military lines, where the same amount of work, and of as good quality, was required as of white laborers, the negro has received only one-third, and, in some instances, only one-fourth as much as the white; and if we take into account the fact that these wages will buy only one-half as much of the bare necessaries of life as they would before the war, it is both unjust and cruel. It is susceptible of proof, as "clear as holy writ," that the wages paid, last year, to negroes, both by government and private employees, will not buy as much as did the wages in the Island of Barbadoes for fifteen years after emancipation, where the people were ground down by the plantocrats to wages which were 20 per cent. less than the market rate. The friends of humanity must bestir themselves to check the further progress of this land iniquity, or the liberties of the freedman are a mockery. F. J. W.

LETTER FROM REV. JOHN G.FEE.
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
DEAR FRIEND, -I have read your address, delivered in Tremont Temple, Jan. 28th. Again I respond, Amen! Since I read your address at Cooper Institute, I have had increased experience and observation on slave soil-at my former home in the interior of Kentucky.
There are men there, to-day, who went off with the rebel army, but did not find it a success as they had expected. They have come back, taken the oath, and are now again in possession of their lands and slaves; yet notorious in their enmity and opposition to the government, spitting their venom at Union men, abolitionists and negroes.
I wish no man any real injury; but I believe that the highest good to such men, and to society at large, is to deprive these men of that power which land monopoly always gives. I regard the Amnesty proclamation as all wrong. The land of such men should be confiscated and sold, so as to pay the national A plea is often set up, "This would throw the children of the rebels on to the world homeless."
Well, this is an incident of our associated connection. If I live prodigally, the sheriff sells my property, and my children suffer the consequence of my act. Nobody thinks of staying the claims of creditors, in order to keep my children from being homeless. Why should the just demand of the government be stayed, in order to furnish homes to the children of those who have maliciously sought the destruction of the government, and when nine-tenths of these children are no better than the parents?
Also, the highest good to those parents and children is to put them into a condition where they will be compelled to work, and develop character for industry and economy, which they would not otherwise do.
The Amnesty proclamation, in our judgment, was not needed, and is a great error. This, certainly, was the prevalent feeling in that Border State Convention at Louisville, Ky. Evidently, a majority wanted a more radical man than Abraham Lincoln. Resolutions were passed in favor of the one term principle, a change of the Constitution, and the enlistment of colored men in all the States, everywhere.
If we could have expressions from the people, I believe they would be different from that sent forth now by politicians. They want office, and seek to pre-direct the popular mind. Let us remember that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
Yours, as ever, JOHN G. FEE.
AUTOGRAPH OF JOHN MILTON. A photographic <illegible>simile of the page in the Album Americorum, owned by Senator Sumner, on which is inscribed a quotation from the Masque of Comus in the handwriting of Milton, together with his signature, has been published by C. H. Brainard, and is for sale by Crosby & Nichols. This is one of the greatest literary curiosities in existence, and must be highly prized by every reader of Milton. It is estimated that the original autograph would readily command the large sum of five hundred pounds, were it offered for sale in England.
CORRECTION. In the "Additional Subscriptions," as published in last Liberator, the name of JOSEPH S. DEWEY was incorrectly printed Davey.
An attractive Entertainment will be given at Music Hall, on Thursday evening next. 24th instant, in aid of the suffering Loyal Tennesseeans. Tickets, with reserved seats, 50 cents each.
<c02>
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION By the constitution and laws of Rhode Island, no complexional distinctions are recognized among citizens; and yet, in defiance of this guaranty of rights, in Providence, Newport and Bristol colored children are compelled to attend caste schools, or to go uneducated. Year after year the colored citizens t have made a respectful but manly to the General Assembly against such illegal and unrighteous treatment, but hitherto in vain. This question is now before that body; and it gives us great pleasure to publish the following favorable Report of the Committee on Education, to whom it was referred-a Report which is characterized by a noble sense of justice and fair-dealing, and which, it is to be hoped, will be adopted and enforced, in order that harmony may be restored and the character of the State exalted. 
The Committee on Education, to whom was referred the petition of James Jefferson and others, praying for equal school rights, beg leave to present their report.
Your committee have carefully considered petition; have held five separate sessions for the purpose of hearing the petitioners in their own behalf, and remonstrants against granting the prayer of the petition; and both parties have appeared and been heard at length.
The facts, as disclosed before your committee, are as follows:
In the cities of Providence and Newport, and in the town of Bristol, there are separate schools for the education of colored children, and these schools are supported out of the public school money. In the city of Providence, all the schools are under the direct control of the city authorities. To Newport and Bristol there is no such grant of power; and your committee are not informed by what authority colored children are excluded from the public schools in those places. It is possible, however, that authority may be given in section one of chapter seventy-one of the Revised Statutes. In the city of Providence, under the authority given by the Legislature, the City Council has passed an ordinance, and the School Committee a resolution, forbidding the admission of any colored scholar to any of the schools in said city, except the Meeting street and Pond street schools The Pond street school is a primary and intermediate school, with sometimes a class that should be in the grammar school. The Meeting street schools are a primary school, and a grammar school mixed with intermediate. These are the only schools in the city open to the colored children. They are entirely excluded from the High School under the resolution of the School Committee before referred to.
These facts were stated by the petitioners and admitted by the remonstrants, and are regarded by the committee as established beyond question. The records of the School Committee, with the resolution referred to, were produced and exhibited.
The petitioners further showed that, in consequence of the facts as set forth, they did not enjoy equal rights with their neighbors in the public schools. By the law of the Slate, the white children could not be excluded from the school kept in their own district. The colored children were excluded and compelled to go out of their district. Only one grammar school in the whole city was open to them. Many were thus obliged to go long distances to reach their school. In consequence of this inconvenience, many remained in the lower grade school, which was near them, when they were fitted to go to the grammar school, which was far off. Hence the colored schools were necessarily badly graded. There was also no possibility of rising above the grammar school. The scholar knew there was no admission for him to the High School, and thus a great stimulus to effort was taken away. If a higher education was wanted than was afforded at the colored school, it had to be procured out of the city or at private expense.
The evidence on these points was full, and it was that in several instances parents had been obliged, at great expense, to educate their children in other places, because they could not be admitted to equal school privileges here.
Quite an amount of testimony was given before your committee to show that the resolution of the School Committee of Providence was not always obeyed; that there were now colored children in some of the white schools; and that on one occasion a child of colored parentage was admitted into the High School. These cases, however, exist entirely by sufferance, and in disregard of an express regulation, and if they prove anything, prove, in the opinion of your committee, that the rule which they violate should be rescinded. In the case of the scholar admitted to the High School, she was so nearly white as to afford no test of the question whether the rule would be violated, and a colored scholar admitted.
The principal reason why the schools should be separate was that, in the opinion of the School Committee of Providence, several members of which testified before your committee, a change would be greatly to the detriment of the public schools, and would not benefit the colored population. On this your committee listened to much evidence, pro and con, and also addressed letters to the Superintendents of public schools in Boston, Worcester and New Bedford, answers to which have been received, and they testify in strong terms to the good working of the system of mixed schools in those cities. The evidence submitted by the remonstrants to show the bad effects this system was based entirely on observations made four years ago, and they admitted that they had not since re-examined the subject. It is well known that during the last four years the public sentiment has undergone a great change, and class prejudices been materially lessened. The more recent evidence, which is furnished in the documents above referred to, and the information received by the committee from other sources, show that the system of mixed schools can no longer be considered an experiment. It is therefore the opinion of your committee that there is little reason to apprehend any serious disadvantage to the cause of public education in consequence of granting the prayer of this petition. And it is further the opinion of your committee that if there had been more reason to apprehend disadvantage than appeared, still the question ought to be decided on ground of justice rather than expediency; it being our firm belief that the dictates of justice are always coincident with a true expediency, and whatever is opposed to them can only be supported by arguments a false expediency, which is unworthy of guiding the reason of men.
Acting on this belief, and in view of all the facts, and giving full weight to all the arguments that have been adduced on both sides, your committee have unanimously come to the conclusion that the petitioners ask only for that which it is right and just they should have. They ask only that they may have the same rights with other citizens of their districts, and the same right with other citizens of the city in the High School.
If these rights are denied, two grades of citizens are recognized by the law-the white citizens, with full and perfect rights, and the colored citizens, with different, imperfect and abridged rights. We do not believe that it is sound policy in a State thus to apportion different rights to different classes of its citizens. Especially is this true when so vital a matter as public education is concerned; and we do believe that whatever rights or privileges the Slate gives to one citizen should be given equally to all; and that before the law all citizens, irrespective of color, race or religion, should stand on a true equality.
We therefore recommend that the prayer of the petitioners be granted, and the accompanying act passed. 
A.M. GAMMELL, 
Chairman of the Committee on Education.
A. WOODBURY,
R. HAZARD,
EDWARD GRAY, JR.,
JOHN S. FISKE.
<c03>
SHAMEFUL PROCEEDINGS IN TENNESSEE.FREEDMEN'S CAMP, MEMPHIS, Feb. 18, 1864. 
Chaplain Fiske, who has been for a, few months past soliciting funds or aid for freedmen, was with us yesterday, and witnessed the scenes which I have described in this article. By his request I have written it, as his time would not admit of his doing so just now. This is the first instance of this kind in Tennessee; but we fear it will be repeated to an unlimited extent, if the public press and opinion do not at once cry it down.
Yours, truly,
MRS. CAPTAIN HAY,
Teacher of Freedmen.
A UNITED STATES SOLDIER DEPRIVED OF HIS FAMILY.
Within a mile and a half of the Freedmen's camp, Memphis, Tenn., lives a Dr. Wheaton, who, according to the united testimony of persons formerly held by him as slaves, furnished a substitute for the rebel army, and in various ways aided the rebellion. In June last, two of his slaves, a man and his wife, left him, and went to the 21st Missouri regiment, and encamped near by. They went to get their children, three in number, and the clothing they had left behind, but were driven away by the old Doctor, who heaped upon them curses and all kinds of abuse. Col. Moore then sent them to the Provost Marshal, with the following note:-HEAD QUARTERS FOURTH BRIGADE, EAST TENNESSEE, June 7, 1863.
Provost Marshal, District of Memphis, Tenn.-
In compliance with orders received from Brig. Gen. Veatch, I send herewith negroes belonging to Dr. Wheaton. You will please hear the man's statement, as he represents to me that his wife was being badly whipped by his master. The negro claims the protection of the Federal Government, having come within our lines.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DAVID MORE,
Colonel Commanding 4th Brigade.
JAMES B. COMSTOCK, A. A. A. G.
The matter was referred by Provost Marshal to Chaplain Fiske, Post Superintendent of Freedmen, and measures were immediately taken to restore to the injured parents their clothing and children. In the meanwhile, Dr. Wheaton procured from Major General Hurlburt and Brigadier General Veatch, commanding the post at Memphis, papers which enabled him to hold the children, and forbade officers or soldiers from trespassing on his grounds. Months passed by-the parents remaining in camp were never permitted even to see their children. The father became a volunteer in the 7th Reg't La. Infantry. The 21st Mo. Reg't, which for nearly a year had been obliged to guard the property of Dr. Wheaton, was removed, and his property was left unguarded. He had for months boarded a paroled rebel officer, who took turn about with him in guarding his slaves at night, to prevent their escape. He, too, had left the Doctor; and the father of the children, who had all the time been watching an opportunity, felt that the time had come for him to secure the children. The fence around the yard was high, and the gate was always locked. The children were at play in the back yard, and the father with two other soldiers climbed the fence, seized the children, and departed. Mrs. W. ran to the pickets for help. They were colored soldiers, but seemingly rendered her every assistance in their power, looking eagerly in every direction; but they failed to see the sight which fell upon her wondering eyes. The children were brought into camp to their mother, and there was a happy reunion of the family for months separated. But this did not last long. Scarcely two hours had passed when Dr. Wheaton, in his splendid earriage, with a staff officer of the General now commanding the post of Memphis, and three mounted orderlies, came into camp, bringing an order from the General to Capt. H. S. Hay, Superintendent of the camp, ordering him to give up the children to their owner. Capt. Hay gave them permission to search for them, and they paraded through the camp, presenting a scene long to be remembered by those who saw it-an old rebel by the side of a Federal officer, Lieut. Busse, of an Illinois regiment, Let his name stand in history by the side of Gen. Buckland, who ordered the separation of parents and children, for he was eager to find them; but failing to do so, he returned, and stated the case to Capt. Hay, who refused in any way to assist them. The Lieutenant said he would report him to the General, to which the Captain replied, "Very well." In these proceedings, no time was lost. They had been gone but a little while, when an orderly rode into camp, bringing an order from the General for Capt. H. to report at his head-quarters forthwith. On entering the General's office, the Captain found him seated, and smoking cigars with Dr. Wheaton. He was not invited to a seat, but stood while they leisurely investigated the case, puffing their cigars. In the meantime, Wheaton said, "General, he treated your order with contempt." Capt. H. denied it, and continued to do so as often as he was accused; but Gen. Buckland said he believed it, for his Lieutenant testified to the same thing. Wheaton then asked the General to step aside, to which he readily assented. After a short interview, they returned, and the General gave a verbal order to Hay to report with the children at his headquarters, by 9 o'clock next morning, and failing to do so, he assured him that he would place him at once in close confinement. Capt. H. assured him that he did not know where the children were, and asked how he could return them; and returned fully persuaded in his own mind to make no effort to find or return them, let come what would. But after consulting with Lieut. Col. Phillips, Superintendent of Freedmen for West Tennessee, it was thought best on the whole to return them. We thought best not to inform the parents of the conclusion until morning. A little fire was kindled outside the pickets, and there the mother with a young babe in her arms had strayed with her children until it was dark. They were then brought into camp, where they spent a happy night together, unmolested in their cabin; but their anguish and indignation can better be imagined than described next morning, when all their bright hopes were blasted on hearing that they must give up their children. They both expressed a wish to die on the spot, rather than see them returned. "I am a soldier," said the father, "and have I not a right to my own children?" "Don't take on so, Toney," said uncle John, "it's all for the best, but it's hard." The Captain refused to report in person, or with the children, but sent him the following note:- 
HEAD QUARTERS DETS. 7TH AND 8TH LA. INFT'Y, Feb. 18th, 1864.
GENERAL-I have the honor to report those children of John and Paulina Christian, (colored,) claimed by one Dr. Wheaton as slaves, found, and they are now held subject to your orders.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY S. HAY, Capt.,
Comm'ng Detachment, &c. Sup't Freedmen, Camp Holly Springs. 
Brig. Gen. R. P. BUCKLAND, 
Comm'g Post, Memphis, Tenn.
On the back of this note the General wrote:- 
"within named children will be delivered to Lieut. Busse, A. D. C. 
By order Brig. Gen. Buckland,
C. W. DUSTON, A. A. G. 
Hd. Qrs. Dist. Memphis, Feb. 18, 1864." 
The Lieut, came with a carriage to get the children; but when saw so many missionary teachers, officers and others gathered around to see the little ones carried away, and heard the many expressions of sympathy for the parents, he said he was ashamed of the business. The mother, after filling their hands with cheese and apples, left; she could not see them taken away; but when father stooped down and kissed them affectionately, wiping away his tears, every one was deeply impressed. Two of the children cried, and protested against being taken away. At the mother's request, I gave them each a copy of the little paper entitled "The Freedmen," and the car age rolled away Capt. Ellsworth. Adjutant for Gen. Thomas, was here, and took notes. We hope 
<c04>
the matter will not end here. It is a wonder to a thoughtful persons here how such a man as Dr. W can keep the good will of all our Generals, and make them tools in his hands for carrying out his plans QUERY. Why did Judas betray his Lord? It is claimed here that loyal slaveholders in Tennessee can get back their slaves; if so, is a man's loyalty to be tosted by the quality of his liquors, and by pro-slavery Generals? L. H. H. 
100,000 PETITIONERS!
On the 1st of April, the second instalment of the Emancipation Petition will be sent to Washington; and so on, the 1st of every month, during the session of Congress.
Ten thousand petitions have been mailed within few days from the office of the Women's League Room, 20 Cooper Institute, to the North, the South, the East, the West; thus giving loyal men and women everywhere another opportunity to register their names for freedom.
We ask all loyal editors to print copies of our petition, and circulate them through every school district in the country.
We ask the clergy of the land to circulate it in their congregations-to lay it on their communion tables, bidding their people remember that the only sacrifice the God of love demands is that they "do justice, and love mercy"-that they "break every yoke, and le the oppressed go free.
"We ask every woman to give her name for freedom and thus let the moral power of the nation be felt the right side.
We ask those men who believe in republican institutions to build, now, the platform for the next Presidential campaign in immediate emancipation.
In order that ALL the signatures for immediate and universal emancipation, both by law of Congress and amendment of the Constitution, may be counted together, the Women's League have added the Constitutional amendment to their prayer; and now ask all persons who circulate the Petition for one or both these methods, to send their lists of names direct to the Office of the League, Room 20, Cooper Institute, New York, where they will be counted and registered, and forwarded to Washington, in one hundred thousand installments-as often, we hope, as once a month.
Form of Petition now sent out by the Women's League:-
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of- believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country. 
THE PETITION TO CONGRESS will not be forgotten or neglected, we hope, in the press of other business. Its importance cannot be over-stated; and it depends, now, more upon the voice of the people than anything else, whether that Constitutional Amendment forever prohibiting slavery in the country shall be carried or lost. Are our people to give themselves up, too soon, to a false security? It is not yet time to rest.
The most anti slavery town in Middlesex county sent in their petition last week with only twenty-eight names appended to it! And with this postscript- "Hundreds of signatures to this petition could have been obtained, but it was not deemed necessary." This town has, heretofore, sent anti-slavery petitions supported by nearly one thousand names, if we rightly remember. We confess our regret that our friends there did not deem it necessary to secure an equally good signature to this petition. It seems to us that such work was never more necessary than now. We are losing precious moments, when we ought to be at work, making sure of the death of slavery. Let other towns work all the harder for the-mistake shall we say?-of good old Marlborough. M. 
THE CAMPAIGN IN FLORIDA. In another part of our sheet to-day will be found a letter from a correspondent at Jacksonville, who gives an instructive account of the circumstances which preceded the unfortunate battle Olustee. He asserts that Gen. Seymour was deceived as to the strength and purposes of the enemy by persons who were admitted to our camps as loyal citizens, but who were in fact rebel spies. His account of the march and the battle sheds new light on the causes which led to the disaster; and these appear to be of a kind which, during the first eighteen months of the war, brought on our armies commanded by Generals McClellan and Buell a number of mishaps of a similar kind. When a General marches into an enemy's country as though he were among friends, and aims to conquer the inhabitants by conciliation, he gives too many chances to the foe for safety. No doubt loyal Floridians were delighted with Gen. Seymour's policy; but those who gained the greatest advantage from it were the rebel generals, whose spies watched him, and deceived him. The McClellan and Buell policy was pretty thoroughly tried in Virginia and Tennessee; it was scarcely worth while to try it again. N. Y. Evening Post.
RATHER ONE-SIDED. The exchange of prisoners between Fortress Monroe and Richmond has been resumed, and seems likely to be continued. The Richmond Dispatch states the terms of this exchange in substance as follows:
1. The rebels dictate to us the choice of our commissioner of exchange, insomuch as they have succeeded in constraining our Government to forego its choice of Maj.-Gen. B. F. Butler for that service.
2. The rebels say we are to surrender five hundred of their men, rank for rank, for every four hundred of ours that they deliver to us.
3. They say that they are thus to get back the surplus of prisoners we now hold, and that without any stipulation or understanding respecting our black soldiers. That is to say: they are to deliver the white Unionists they hold as prisoners, and receive the far greater number of their men now in our hands in exchange for them; and then they are to be at perfect liberty to hang or shoot our blacks as they may see fit.
We don't believe this; but the subject needs explanation from our side, and will doubtless receive it.-
N. Y. Tribune.
WASHINGTON, March 15, 1864. The government has stopped the exchange of prisoners on the basis arranged between Gen Butler and Robert Ould, viz: seventy-five of those in their hands for one hundred of those in ours. Exchanges must be made man for man without regard to color.
OLD VIRGINIA A FREE STATE.-ALEXANDRIA, Va.,10th. The following report of the Committee on Emancipation was passed at 12 o'clock to-day by the Constitutional Convention now in session in this city. There was but one dissenting vote to the report. One hundred guns are now being fired in honor of the event.
Mr. Watson, in behalf of the chairman of the committee on emancipation and education, submitted the following report:
Your committee on emancipation beg leave to report as a part of the constitution of Virginia, to be inserted in the same under the caption slavery or freedom;
First. Slavery and involuntary servitude, except for crime, is hereby abolished and prohibited in the State forever.
Second. Courts of competent jurisdiction may apprentice minors of African descent on like conditions provided by law for apprenticing white children.
Third. The General Assembly shall make no laws establishing slavery, or recognizing property in human beings. 
The ovation to the black regiment which left New York on Monday was a striking manifestation of the change in public sentiment which a single year has brought about. In the streets of a city, where nine months ago negroes were hunted like dogs, a regiment of them marched in solid platoons, with shouldered muskets, slung knapsacks, and buckled cartridge boxes, to the pealing strains of martial music, and were everywhere saluted with waving handkerchiefs, with descending flowers, and with the acclamations and plaudits of countless beholders. The world moves, if the Boston Courier does not.-Boston Journal.
The negro troops at Haines's Bluff made a descent on Yazoo City, on the 28th ult., and. after a sharp fight, occupied the place. Loss about 30 killed and wounded.
Gen. Grant has detailed Gen. Sherman as his successor in command of the Department of the Mississippi, to which have been added the Departments of the Cumberland and Ohio.
<c05>
GOV. HAHN'S INAUGURAL ADDRESS.
GOV. Hahn was inaugurated on the 4th instant, with imposing ceremonies. Gen. Banks delivered an address, in which he predicted that the rebellion would be confined to three or four States on the Atlantic coast by this season's campaign. He said-Let us remember that the inauguration we celebrate has the basis of a century, for we have achieved deeds of a century within the past two years, and so long as the people are faithful and true to themselves, so long will stand Louisiana the first returning State, in which every man is a freeman.
The following is the most material part of the address delivered by Gov. Hahn, on the occasion of his inauguration:
The Union of these States, handed down by our revolutionary ancestors, is of more value than any falsely styled "State rights." especially when these "rights" mean sectional institutions, founded on a great moral, social, and political evil, and inconsistent with the principles of free government. The institution of slavery is opposed alike to the rights of one race and the interests of the other; it is the cause of the present unholy attempt to break up our Government; and, unpleasant as the declaration may sound to many of you, I tell you that I regard its universal and immediate extinction as a public and private blessing. It is not to be supposed that in the adjustment of the altered relations of labor to capital, an immediate satisfactory result can be reached, although the happiest results have already been witnessed on many plantations, now worked and cultivated, under the compensated labor regulations of the distinguished commander of this military department.
A desirable result will soon be generally attained, if this difficult matter is taken in hand as a practical question, free from the perplexities that cannot fail to encompass it, were a return to the old system among us conceivable or possible. To profit, as it is in our power at once to do, by our situation, we must dismiss dreams of the past, and accept accomplished facts as they are, and as they are evermore certain to remain. In the nature things, if we will only act as becomes sensible people, the greatness we have momentarily had eclipsed will be ours again, and secured to us by a more binding and lasting tenure than ever before. It must be based on a devotion to the Union, on a love of liberty to all men, and on a spirit of justice and humanity. The losses, if any, incurred by this change in our labor system by the truly loyal citizen, will doubtless be properly returned to him in due season by a generous Government.
At an early day an election will be held for members to a Convention for the revision of our State Constitution. The importance of such an election can scarcely be exaggerated. Every citizen is deeply interested in the organic law; and that it may in all respects faithfully mirror the wishes of the people and harmonize with the spirit of the age, the people must themselves exercise all due circumspection in the selection of delegates to represent them. The Convention will doubtless provide for an early election of a Legislature. On the meeting of the latter, the absorbing labor question will at once demand its most serious attention, and the importance of this alone will appeal strongly to the minds of all good citizens, so that in the selection of members none unworthy from vicious habits or educational unfitness may be chosen.
With the natural advantages Louisiana possesses in her inexhaustible soil, her genial climate, her domination of the river of rivers, her facilities for commerce, manufacturing and the most varied agricultural pursuits, nothing can prevent, her present population, or, if they will not do it, then the emigration that will speedily supersede them, from soon becoming what our people once aspired with reason to be, namely: the most flourishing portion of the most powerful of nations. Proper legislation, such as we may look forward to obtain before many months, will enable the people to profit by the new life that is being infused into our social system; and in presence of the change, no man of observation, enterprise and enlightenment need have a discouraging apprehension. I shall do all that can be required of me in the meantime to put society into healthful and useful activity; and if our foundries, our workshops, our manufactories and ship-yards remain closed, no charge of indifference to them on my part will be with justice preferred against me.
No person able to work will be allowed, with my consent, to be a burden on the community; the condition of man is to earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, and useless, unproductive drones must comply with the law of our being, or remove from among us. 
A grand ball at night concluded the gaieties of the occasion. All the people were in the streets during the day, and there was questionably a more sincere feeling of satisfaction manifested on this occasion, than on many of the more boisterous days of the secession madness of 1861. 

PRESIDENT LINCOLN AND EMANCIPATION.
To the Editor of the London Star:
SIR,-Can you favor us by inserting in your paper the enclosed copy of a letter which I have received from Mr. Adams, in reply to an address which our society sent to President Lincoln at the commencement of the present year? 
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN TURNER,
Secretary to the Ashton Union and 
Emancipation Society. 
66, Bradgate street, Ashton-under-Lyne, Feb. 25. 
(Copy.)
"Legation of the United States,
"London, Feb. 23. 
"Sir,-I am directed to apprise you of the reception by the President of the United States of the interesting address of citizens of Ashton-under Lyne, which was transmitted to him some time since through this Legation.
"It is with lively satisfaction that he accepts their assurances that, under all the disadvantages of a distant position, they have not been unable to understand the policy of the Government, and to comprehend how a fixed and unswerving determination to rescue the State from the assaults of domestic faction is compatible with the policy of lawfully extinguishing the chronic evil of African slavery. 
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant, 
"CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS. 
"Mr. JOHN TURNER, Secretary to the Ashton Branch of the Union and Emancipation Society." 
THE PRESIDENCY. 
The New York Evening Post publishes the following important letter from Mr. Chase, declining to enter the Presidential canvass:- 
"WASHINGTON, March 5,1864.
"My Dear Sir:-In reply to a friendly letter from you, I wrote you briefly not long ago about the wishes expressed by many of my friends, that my name might be favorably regarded by the people in their next choice of President, and closed by saying that should our friends in Ohio manifest a preference for another, I should accept their decision with the ready acquiescence due from one who has been already trusted and honored by them beyond merit or expectation. The recent action of the Union members of our Legislature indicates such a preference. It becomes my duty, therefore, and I count it more a privilege than a duty, to ask that no further consideration be given to my name. It was never more important than now that all our efforts and all our energies should be devoted to the suppression of the rebellion, and to the restoration of order and prosperity on the solid foundation of Union, freedom and impartial justice, and I earnestly urge with all with whom my counsels have eight to allow nothing to divide them while this great work-in comparison with which persons and even parties are nothing-remains unaccomplished.
Cordially your friend, 
S. P. CHASE. 
Hon. JAMES C. HALL, 
Senate Chamber, Columbus, Ohio." 
THE MASSACHUSETTS FIFTY-FOURTH. A letter from Beaufort, dated Feb. 26, from a gentleman who accompanied Gen. Seymour's expedition, has the following passage relative to the conduct of the Fifty-fourth in the recent repulse in Florida:
"A word about the terrible defeat in Florida. We have been driven from Lake City to within seven miles of Jacksonville-fifty three miles. The rebels allowed us to penetrate, and then, with ten to our one, cut us off, meaning to 'bag' us. And had it not been for the glorious Fifty-fourth Massachusetts, the whole brigade would have been captured or annihilated. This was the only regiment that rallied, broke the rebel ranks and saved us. The 8th United States Colored lost their flag twice, and the Fifty-fourth recaptured it each time. They have lost in kilted and missing about 350. They would not retreat when ordered, but charged on them with the most fearful desperation, driving the enemy before them, and turning their left flank. If this regiment hat not won glory enough to have shoulder straps, where is there one that ever did?
We hear that there is a good deal of murmuring among the friends of this regiment in Boston, owing to the statements constantly reaching them that, notwithstanding this gallant couduct and its previous record, it is kept almost constantly on fatiguing and dangerous duty, out of all proportion to its just share.—Boston Journal.
FOR ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Out 13,000 votes cast in Grant’s army, on the 22d nit., all bat 582 were for Abraham Lincoln’s re-election.
The Ohio Legislature has spoken most emphatically for the renomination of Abraham Lincoln; ninety-nine out of one hundred and thirty-one members have endorsed him. The State Republican Convention of Rhode Island has renominated Mr. Lincoln.
<C06>
MEETING AT WORCESTER.—The Annual Meeting of the Worcester Country (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Worcester, on Sunday, March 27, at Washburn Hall, forenoon, afternoon and evening, at the usual hours.
Parker Pillsbury, S. S. Foster and Samuel May, Jr., are expected to attend and aid in the disenssions.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President,
JOSEPH A HOWLAND, Sec’y.
LIBERTY FOR ALL.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak on the above subject as follows.
Putnam, Conn., Saturday, March 19.
Putnam, Conn., Sunday, March 20.
Brooklyn, Conn. Tuesday, March 21.
Danielsonville, Conn. Wednesday, March 22.
Danielsonville, Conn. Thursday, March 23.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture all day and evening in Manville, R. I. Subject—The National Issues to be decided by the existing War of Bullets and Ballots.
DIED—In Waltham, March 10, at the residence of Dr. Jarvis Lewis, his sister NANCY LEWIS, daughter of the late Benjamin Lewis of Canton, Mass.
When one with whom w. have lived so long in kindness and intimacy has passed from us, a tribute to her worth and excellence seems justly due.
Of her we would my, that in every relation of life in which she was placed, she faithfully discharged her duty in humility, and with all the Christian graces which make the performance of such duties a blessing to those around them. Throughout her life, much suffering and trial have been her lot. yet she has lived true to her higher Md. better nature, cherishing especially a kindness for the unfortunate and helpless, striving to make them the recipients of every blessing in her power to bestow. Warmly remembering the slaves and those who labor so faithfully for their freedom and elevation, her time and strength were freely given, and her personal gratifications set aside, in their cause.
In the nearer relations of home and friends, she was devotedly faithful to all, so that we felt, whatever may have been wanting, that heir heart was with us in sympathy and love, that she bore our burdens, and strengthened our powers of endurance, elevating our minds to bear our trials calmly, when she could not relieve them.
And in her declining years she has performed, as far as possible, the office of a mother to one bereft of her own, with the love and fidelity that hat few who sustain that relation can equal.
We would cherish her virtues in our memories, and endeavor to attain like excellencies.
JAMES REDPATH, Boston, has now ready,
I. THE MORALS OF EPICTETUS. A Poetical Translation. By Ellis Walker, M. A. 25c.
II. SPIRITUAL TORRENTS. By Madame Guyon. 50c.; cloth, 75c.
III. THE ROSE FAMILY: a FAIRY TALE. By. L. M. Alcott, author of "Hospital Sketches." Illustrated. 25c.
IV. BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE-"The Negro Napoleon," "The greatest military genius whom the New World has produced up to the present time," "a man whose career was more marvelous than any romance." $1.25.
V. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips $1.
VI. BOOKS FOR THE CAMP FIRES. No. 1. On Picket Duty and Other Tales. By L. M. Alcott. No. 2. Clotelle: a Tale of the South. (Five fine illustrations) No. 3. The Vendetta. By Belzac. No. 4. Gulliver's Travels. Voyage to Lilliput. (Illustrated.) No. 5. Victor Hugo's Battle of Waterloo. No. 6. Hospital Sketches. By L. M. Alcott. Each of these books contains at least 96 pages, well printed and neatly bound; each is complete in itself, and unabridged Price, Ten cents each! They are the cheapest books of value published. "Just the books to read to the soldiers." "Equally adapted to home fires.
"March 18.
MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost-$85,$100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusive-sively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1.The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as , Braun. Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakoech, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26-6m
R. BACON,
Real Estate Agency,
No. 36 Washington Street,
ROOM NO. 3, BOSTONUP STAIRS,REFERS TO
Hon. H. WRIGHT, Dr. D. RUSSELL, Messrs. BOWERS & JENKS.
Particular attention given to the purchase, sale and exchange of Farms; also to the sale and letting of Houses and Stores in the city. 3t March 11. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
LINES,
'Dress'd to dat are kind o’ brumagum Judge, who say dat darkies no citizens, and hab no rights he bound to 'spect. America our home!
I say dis country be our home—
Dis be our native spot ob earth;
From wheresoe'er our faders come,
Dis be de land dat gib us birth.
I say we nat'ral citizens,
More'n dey dat born a great way off,
And come from mountains, bogs or fens,
To share our taters, bread an’broff. 
You say no call us citizen,
Doe born upon de sacred soil;
Why so you call you children den,
You lazy boys dat neber toil?
You say we no Americans,
Because our faders Afric's sons:
How 'bout de blood dat in you runs,
Is’t alien?-be your Englishmuns?
Or Irish-Germans-Spaniards-French—
From eb'ry clime you faders come;
You mudders eb'ry kind ob wench,
Come here, and make you happy home.
And will you tell you Fader's son,
Because he skin ob darker dye,
Dis country free for eb'ry one,
Save him poor chile ob Africa?
Who gib you right to fix de ban
On any chile you Fader make?
De Eternal's signet stamp'd him MAN—
Respect him for our Fader's sake!
If you would hab you nation stand,
Build on de everlasting rock
Ob Justice-building on de sand
Not good to meet de flooding shock.
Make you foundations broad and deep—
Be sure let justice be you stay,
Lost when de mity deluge sweep,
It wash you rubbish all away!
You find de floods be pouring now,
You rubbish going by de board,
You build again-you make de vow,
So build to please de righteous Lord.
Den He, who make de sun and stars,
Stretch out to you de friendly hand;
Wid Gilead's balsum heal you scars,
And pour he blessings on you land!
OLE CUFF.

For the Liberator.
ANCIENT AND SOUTHERN CHIVALRY CONTRASTED.
The knight went forth in olden times,
With plumed helm, and lance in rest,
To clear the land of wrongs and crimes;
To aid the weak, right the opprest,
In the olden days of Chivalry.
The Southern knight goes armed forth,
With whip, and chain, and yoke, and brand,
To seize on all of dollar's worth,
And force them till, unpaid, the land,
In the days of Southern Chivalry.
The olden knight feared God, and laws;
He kept his heart and life still pure;
The wronged called him to right their cause,
And felt' neath his strong arm secure,
In the olden days of Chivalry.
The Southern knight wills his own laws;
He leads such life as suits his taste;
No suppliant trusts him with his cause—
His land and living run to waste,
In the days of Southern Chivalry.
JANE ASHBY.
Tonbridge, Kent Co., (Eng.) Feb., 1864.

TAKE NO STEP BACKWARD!
EARNESTLY INSCRIBED TO THE THIRTY-EIGHTH CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
I.
Take no step backward! The eternal Ages
Look down upon you from their height sublime,
And witness the events which History's pages
Shall class among the noblest of all time.
Right onward now the path of duty lieth,
Though it may lead to dangers that appal:
"Right onward! onward!" Justice sternly crieth,
And Mercy joins with Justice in the call.
II.
Take no step backward! Centuries of oppression
Are culminating midst our Nation's throes;
And wrong that might have stood, with fair concession,
Yields to the force of self-inflicted blows.
The hand grown horny in the life-long labor
That clothed and pampered those who held it bound,
Now grasps the gun, or wields the flashing sabre,
And wins and wears its honors on the ground.
III.
Take no step backward! Contraband, or chattel,
Or slave, or "person," what you will-they're men!
And if we stand or fall in this dread battle,
God leads the bondman from his thrall again.
The pillar of a cloud by day it is hazing
The atmosphere where’er the battle lies:
The pillar of a fire by night is blazing
Where conflagration paints you Southern skies.
IV.
Take no step backward! Ye have sorely smitten,
At hip and thigh, the Evil and the Wrong;
What ye have said, now verify! what written,
Seal with the seal of action, broad and strong!
Be not alarmed at apparitions dire
Of flaming swords that hurtle into view:
The element that purifies is fire:
Pass firmly on, and resolutely through.
V.
Take no step backward! Ye, whom God now uses
To solve the problems of Man's destiny,
To rectify his wrongs, right his abuses,
The grand accomplishment ye may not see:
But in the future-in the years of glory
That peace restored shall bring our land again—
Your names shall glitter in the noblest story
That celebrates the deeds of noblest men.
Kentucky, Jan. 8, 1864. W. D. G.

THE AMERICAN FLAG.
TO COL. ROBERT G. SHAW AND THE FIFTY-FOURTH MASSACHUSETTS VOLUNTEERS.
BY GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
At last, at last, each flowing star
In that pure field of heavenly blue,
On every people shining far,
Burns, to its utmost promise true.
Hopes in our fathers' hearts that stirred,
Justice, the seal of peace, long scorned,
O perfect peace! too long deferred,
At last, at last, your day has dawned.
Your day has dawned; but many an hour
Of storm and blood, of doubt and tears,
Across the eternal sky must lower,
Before the glorious noon appears.
And not for us that noontide glow,
For us the strife and toil shall be;
But welcome toil, for now we know
Our children shall that glory see.
At last, at last, O Stars and Stripes!
Touched in your birth by Freedom's flame,
Your purifying lightning wipes
Out from our history its shame.
Stand to your faith, America!
Sad Europe, listen to our call!
Up to your manhood, Africa!
That glorious flag floats over all.
<c02> 
And when the hour seems dark with doom,
Our sacred banner, lifted higher,
Shall flash away the gathering gloom
With inextinguishable fire.
Pure as its white the future see!
Bright as its red is now the sky!
Fixed as its stars the faith shall be,
That nerves our hands to do or die! 

The Liberator.
JOHH BROWN MEETING AT MEADVILLE.
A call, signed by a majority of the students of the Meadville Theological School for a meeting at the Court House "to commemorate the martyrdom of John Brown," was well responded to by the citizens. The meeting was called to order by Geo. H. Young, who proposed the following list of officers, which was unanimously adopted:-
For President, Charles H. Ellis; for Vice President, Joshua Douglass; for Secretary, Wm. A. Wilson.
On taking the chair, Mr. Ellis stated, briefly, the object of the meeting.
Rev. A. Porter then read selections from Job. 29 and Matthew 25.
The hymn, "Blow ye the trumpet blow," was then sung, followed by an earnest prayer by Mr. Porter.
Mr. Joshua Douglass being called on, said he was always willing to state his position on this subject John Brown was an earnest, whole-souled opponent of that vile system of bondage,-slavery,-and as such, he reverenced him. The question of his military ability was a foreign one; his movement, in a military point of view, may have been masterly or otherwise; he left that for others to settle. John Brown was true to his principles. Let us accord to him the honor of sincere love of the right, and a self-forgetting pursuit of the object in which his life was sacrificed.
To John Brown, the grand idea of life was duty. To do his duty was his whole purpose. In that he forgot everything else. It absorbed all. Politicians often say that success is a duty. To him, duty was the highest success; with it, failure was impossible. The great work of freedom was unfinished when he left it, but his work was done; and with that conviction he went to the scaffold with the lightest heart in Virginia. As he was being led out of prison, he saw a little-negro child in its mother's arms looking up into his face with his timid baby eyes. He stopped, kissed it affectionately, and moved on in his grand triumphal march of victory over death. The act was symbolic of his life. The love of children, so strong in his sweet, loving nature, and the heroic love of outraged justice, of which that child was a fit representative, were both combined in that one little but expressive act. The sun is seen in his greatest beauty only when finishing his day's labor of giving life and light to this rolling world. His rays are reflected from clouds and mists in all their various colors, as he goes down in all the glory of departing day. So this hero of ours, after a life devoted to giving the life and light of freedom and justice to humanity, is seen in his highest beauty only when met with the colors and mists of slavery, and, throwing his bright rays of truth upon us, he goes to his rest in all the glory of a Christian martyr's death.
W. A. Wilson read selections from John Brown's last speech in court.
Prof. Bowen, of Tennessee, responded to the call upon him. He was a slaveholder at one time, having charge of a large number of slaves. Of the real object of the meeting-of him whose martyrdom we were commemorating, he knew but little. As he had been invited to speak, he could testify only of that which he knew. He then proceeded to give a history of the secession movement in his State. He labored to convince the mad secessionists, at that time, that their only hope for slavery was in the Union-that gone, slavery must die. The sequel has proved his prophecy, for not a slave (legally) breathes to-day in that State. If a slave stays with his former master, it is only because he chooses so to do-no hand can compel him to do it. Many were troubled by the bugbear of negro equality. He could remember the time when negroes voted, and nobody was hurt. In the event of slavery dying out, don't fear the North will be overrun by the blacks, for the underground railroad has its tracks, now, not towards the North, but towards the South.
Mr. Charles A. Allen was called upon, and alluded to an old legend of an enchanted castle, in which dwelt a sorceress, and whatever knights approached were overpowered by her spells, and transformed into stones. But at last the knight came, whose heart was stout and stainless, over whom her magic was powerless, at whose bugle-blast her castle fell, and the knights arose in human form to aid in destroying the enchantress. Such was slavery, and such a knight was John Brown; and since his clear-toned summons shook the Slave Power to its foundation, we have seen the brave and true men of our country, whom the enchantress had deceived, rising in their full manhood to take vengeance upon her.
Few intelligent men had ever questioned Brown's honesty of purpose or nobility of character; and many who had thought his course a mistake, and even impelled in part by phrenzy, have been converted by the history of the two years past, and can now recognize in him a prophet who could see farther than statesmen and studious thinkers. It is fit to commemorate his name and his self-devotion, even if we cannot think it wise or far-sighted. He sacrificed himself for the principles of human rights as truly as the martyrs of our battle-fields, and in prophetic grandeur of character, as well as in priority of death, heads the long procession, and will stand forth in history as the representative spirit of this struggle. Hawthorne relates, that when the royal Governor Andross attempted to seize the old charter by military force, a form in gray antique garb headed the citizens of Boston, and drove back the tyrant. No one recognized the people's champion, nor was he seen again, till on Lexington common the people again rallied to defend their liberties, and on Bunker Hill he appeared in the midst of battle. And so, says the legend-teller, whenever the sons of New England rise in arms for this sacred cause, this gray champion, the Spirit of Puritan devotion to freedom, will rouse them to resistance, and lead them to victory. We can truly believe that this spirit for a brief space took flesh again in our own time, and when it passed away on a Virginia scaffold, it was to go forth again on his spirit mission. And whenever the sons of America contend on battle-fields for the single cause of human liberty, this gray champion, the soul of this heroic old Puritan, will march at the head, and lead them to triumph.
George H. Young was the next speaker. He offered the following resolutions, which, later in the evening, were unanimously adopted:- 
Whereas, all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; therefore,
(1.) Resolved, That it is the duty of all men to lend a helping hand and voice to every cause which has for its end the elevation of mankind, and the establishing of the principles enunciated in the above preamble.
(2.) Resolved, That we meet not to sing paeans at the memory of bloodshed, not to praise "a raid against civil law," as some allege, but to express our admiration of one who dared, in the face of tyranny, to become the exponent of these principles, to give the Golden Rule practical expression, to "remember those in bonds as bound with them"; thus to actualize in life the religion of our Lord and Master.
And whereas, the civil war now raging in our land, which has already drenched a continent in blood and gore, carrying desolation to many hearthstones, is the result of an insane attempt to establish an apology for a nation on the corner-stone of human bondage; therefore,
<c03>
(3.) Resolved, That duty demands of us as a nation to preserve our existence by destroying the only basis on which the Southern Confederacy professes to stand, and, by breaking every yoke, carry out the grand design of the founders of the republic.
Mr. Young then said, the last of these resolves comes directly to the all-absorbing question of to-day-that of the war in its complicated relations to slavery. The friend from Tennessee has told us of those "awful" times when negroes voted and their rights as men were respected, thus effectually silencing those who scoff at negro equality. Those men are entirely wrong who suppose that if the rights of the black man are acknowledged, the world will be turned upside down, and Nature's laws will not act.
We honor John Brown, not as an "insurrectionist," as some declare, for he was not such, but for his devotion to principles, as I have said in the 2d of these resolutions.
The Southern Confederacy, by the acknowledgment of Vice President Stephens, stands upon the pillar of human bondage. Knock out this prop, and that great structure which they have reared must totter and fall. By doing justice now, we shall rid ourselves of the scourge of war, and make future rebellions impossible.
Mr. Young's speech was diversified with many witty illustrations, which were well received by the audience.
Mr. Ellis, in the closing speech, said—
Long ages ago, to make men holy, Jesus died a painful death on Calvary. Four years ago, to make men free, John Brown died a painful death on a Virginia gallows. Christianity is the eternal monument to the one; human freedom-the liberty of regenerated America, will be the all-enduring monument to the other.
We recognize the eternal principle of liberty and the law of God in which he moved to his great work. Men called him "mad." So a Hebrew nation called Jesus "mad." He felt the voice of the Most High calling on him to act in behalf of human rights, and he took in his hand a life made strong by the gathered wisdom of sixty years, and struck at slavery a blow that burst every chain from three millions of slaves, and gave the world assurance that universal emancipation would soon be here. We are told in Scripture that the heavens shall be rolled up as a scroll, that they shall pass away with a great noise, and that a new heaven and a new earth shall appear.
We are in the midst of that scene now. Amid the din of battle, the old state of slavery is passing away, and the new state of freedom and right is dawning over the land. John Brown is the grand pioneer in this divine movement. He is the Father of American liberty;; the country is in her birth-pangs-soon all will be peace and joy. The bright Star of Freedom already hovers along the Southern sky, battling with Southern Sky, yet rising step by step, led on by that martyr-spirit. God grant it soon may reach the zenith, and shed its warning, cheering, purifying rays over all the land! Then, John Brown's work will be done, and the memory of the martyr of the 2d December be dear to every liberty-loving soul.
After singing "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," the meeting adjourned. 
The audience was not large, but very attentive, and deeply interested. The meeting held two hours and a half. The reports are short abstracts.
WM. ALEX. WILSON, Sec'y. 

TWENTIETH U. S. COLORED REGIMENT.
RECEPTION BY THE UNION LEAGUE.
The Twentieth Regiment, United States colored troops, left Riker's Island at nine o'clock on Saturday day morning, on board the steamer John Romer, and were conveyed to the foot of Twenty-sixth street, East River, where they were disembarked and formed in regimental line, and marched to Union Square, arriving in front of the Union League Club-House at one o’clock.
A vast crowd of citizens of every shade of color, and every phase of social and political life, filled the square and streets; and every door, window, veranda, tree and house-top that commanded a view of the scene were peopled with spectators. Over the entrance of the Club-Room was a large platform form ornamented with flags and filled with ladies. In the street was another platform, tastefully decorated, rated, and occupied by prominent citizens. From this stand the colors were presented by President King of Columbia College, who spoke as follows:
SPEECH OF CHARLES KING.
"I rejoice to see this day-I rejoice in the opportunity, beneath this glorious sun and in the presence of this goodly assembly, and under the folds of our ever dear, honored flag of the Union, to .salute you, soldiers of the Twentieth Regiment United States Colored Troops, as fellow-countrymen, fellow-soldiers, for I, too, have in other days worn the uniform of the nation, and from my heart I honor it, and all who worthily wear it.
"I am proud of the opportunity to stand before you as the representative of the Loyal Women who have united in the patriotic purpose of presenting to you a regimental flag, to be borne with the colors of the nation of which you are now the accepted and sworn defenders and guardians.
"These loyal women know and feel what such a ceremonial imports; they know and feel that the sacred banner which they commit to your faithfulness and courage is a trust as full of difficulty and of danger as of duty; that it calls, on your part, for the hourly exercise of self-restraint, self-discipline, self-denial; for the implicit obedience with out which an army is but a mob, and for that high and patriotic devotion which counts even life itself a willing sacrifice to the cause of country and of liberty. The religion of the flag is second only to the religion of the altar; and our Father in heaven may be implored to bless, according to its purity, the one and the other. Hence he who is false to his flag is false to his altar and his God.
"And these loyal women who thus confide to you a trust at once so dangerous and so honorable, they too-be assured of it-they will do all that may be done by careful ministration for the sick and the wounded, by systematic and considerate labors for the families of the soldier exposed to privation, to lighten the cares and gladden the hearts and strengthen the arms of those they encourage to go forth to battle.
"Go, then, soldiers of the Twentieth regiment, go forth in the assured conviction that you leave behind you ever-watchful, ever-kind, ever-active friends, who, taking so prominent a part in equipping you for war, will in nowise falter in their efforts for the welfare of the families you leave behind. 
"To these considerations, which may be fitly addressed to all soldiers, I desire to add some that be long to you alone. For, my friends-and I use the expression all the more emphatically that the same expression was, in the-fatal month of July, employed by a very high functionary on a very different occasion, and to a very different body of men-to each the choice of and responsibility for his own friends-in addressing you by this name, I address soldiers of order, liberty and law-men who come forth at the call of country and in vindication of her outraged Constitution-nay, of the very right of national existence.
"To you, then, in addition, the appeal suitable to every soldier lies in a higher and holier sense, an appeal as emancipators of your own race, while acting as the defenders and champions of another. “You are in arms, not for the freedom and law of the white race alone, but for universal law and freedom; for the God-implanted right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to every being whom He has fashioned in His own image. When you put on the uniform and swear allegiance to the standard of the Union, you stand emancipated, regenerated and disenthralled; the peer of the proudest soldier in the land; and withered be the hand and palsied be the tongue that shall ever give consent to your being subject to other treatment at the hands of the enemy than such as is measured out to other soldiers of the Republic! Prejudice, indeed, and the rancorous hate of brutalized minds, and that ingrained meanness of factious partizanship may still throw obstacles in your way, but that way; is upward and onward, and your march in it can not be stopped, cannot be much delayed, unless by your own want of faith and want of work. To
<c04>
your own selves, be true to your high mission as the vindicators and asserters of your worth as men, and you cannot then be false to any one, or fail in any high and honorable endeavor. You may fall as many of your race did fall with the gallant, good young Shaw, at Wagner; and the ignoble foe thought to dishonor that youthful hero's grave by heaping into it the corpses of his colored soldiers. Dishonored! Who would not die such a death to be worthy of such a grave? Who that rightly feels would exchange that lowly resting place on the barren shore of South Chrolins, lulled by the eternal requiem of the solemn sea, for the proudest mausoleum in the loftiest temple built with human hands? 
"No, no, my friends, you cannot be hindered now in your high calling. It is but to look back for a few years-nay, but for a few months in this city- to realize what a forward step has been taken, and to feel quite sure that in such a path there is no step backward.
"On! on! then, soldiers of the Twentieth United States Colored -Troops, with serried ranks, with faith in yourselves and in your cause, with confidence and affection for your officers, and with humble but earnest trust in God, and you will, you must, in contributing to the rescue of your country and its Constitution, work out your own complete redemption.
"Already the colored troops of the United States count by tens and twenties of thousands, and nowhere have they turned back from the bloodiest conflict, or failed to follow their leader into the very jaws of death.
"Dear Col. Bartram, to you and to the officers of this fine regiment it remains for me to say a few words:
"The flag which I hold in my hands, to be placed in yours, tells its own story. The conquering eagle and the broken yoke and armed figure of Liberty speak as plainly as symbols can of the might of freedom, and the overthrow of slavery-and flying, as will this standard-sheet, beside the Stars and Stripes of the Republic, they will form a spell of such power as to bind up every generous heart with one firm, fierce resolve that these flags shall not be separated-shall not be surrendered-but shall be marching on, and marching on, and still marching on to triumph and final victory!
"In the faith, Colonel, that such is your resolve, I commit to your hands, for the Twentieth Regiment United States Colored Troops, in the name of those loyal women, the flag they have prepared. May the blessing of God go with it, and with you and your soldiers, and fighting beneath its folds, may He cover your heads in the day of battle!" 
At the close of this speech, President King read the following address, which had been prepared by H. T. Tuckerman. The address was neatly engrossed on parchment, and signed by the ladies who presented the colors to the regiment.
To the Officers and the Men of the Twentieth United States Colored Troops:
SOLDIERS-We the mothers, wives and sisters of the members of the New York Union League Club, of whose liberality and intelligent patriotism, and under whose direct auspices you have been organized into a body of national troops for the defence of the Union, earnestly sympathizing in the great cause of American free nationality, and desirous of testifying, by some memorial, our profound sense of the sacred object and the holy cause in behalf of which you have enlisted, have prepared for you this banner, at once the emblem of freedom and of faith, and the symbol of woman's best wishes and prayers for our common country, and especially for your devotion thereto.
When you look at this flag and rush to battle, or stand at guard beneath its sublime motto, "GOD AND LIBERTY!" remember that it is also an emblem of love and honor from the daughters of this great Metropolis to her brave champions in the field, and that they will anxiously watch your career, glorying in your heroism, ministering to you when wounded and ill, and honoring your martyrdom with benedictions and with tears.
Mrs. J. J. Astor, Mrs. G. W. Blunt, Mrs. J. W. Beekman, Mrs. S. Wetmore, Mrs. S. B. Chittenden, Mrs. G. Bliss, Jr., Mrs. S. J. Bacon, Mrs. R. B. Minturn, Mrs. Charles King, Mrs. S. W. Bridgham, Mrs. W. E. Dodge, Mrs. R. Stebbins, Mrs. S. B. Schieffelin. Miss King, Mrs. J. B. Johnston, Mrs. N. D. Smith, Mrs. T. M. Cheeseman, Mrs.'H. A. Colt, Mrs. A. T. Mann, Mrs. J. J. Phelps, Mrs. G. B. De forest, Mrs. Le G. B. Cannon, Mrs. W. A. Butler, Mrs. N. A. Burdock, Mrs. A. Dunlap, Mrs. T. E. Howe, Mrs. W. H. Lee, Mrs. W. E. Dodge, Jr., Mrs. David Hoadley, Mrs. C. Ludington, Mrs. G. Lemist Mrs. E. C. Cowdin, Mrs. J. A. Roosevelt, Mrs. J. Sampson, Mrs. R. B. Minturn, Jr., Mrs. Alfred Pelt, Jr., Mrs. W. Hutchings, Mrs. George Opdyke, Mrs. G. C. Ward, Mrs. C. G. Judson, Mrs. S. W. Roosevelt, Mrs. E. D. Smith, Mrs. S. Gandy, Mrs. R. L. Stuart, Mrs. E. W. Stoughton, Mrs. J. W. Bigelow., Mrs. M. O. Roberts, Mrs. H. K. Bogart, Mrs. E. C. Hall, Mrs. J. Le Roy, Mrs. J. Brown, Mrs. II. Baldwin, Mrs. M. Clarkson, Mrs. J. O. Stone, Mrs. J. G. King, Jr., Mrs. H. Van Rennsselaer, Mrs. J. A. King, Jr., Mrs. J. C. Cassegee, Mrs. F. G. Shaw, Mrs. R. G. Shaw, Mrs. G. B. Curtiss, Mrs. C. G. Kirkland, Mrs. Hamilton Fish, Mrs. Bradish, Mrs. Bruce, and others. 
Colonel Bartram, who received the flags, made the following response:
"LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: 1 feel how utterly unable I am to respond in a becoming manner to the eloquent addresses just pronounced. While free to confess my deficiency in this respect, I yet claim for myself and my command an equal share of the patriotic ardor and love of country. In that we yield to none. (Applause.) This beautiful banner symbolizes our country. It is this that makes death glorious beneath its starry folds-it is this that rouses the feelings of outraged honor when we see it trailed in the dust. How base, and how dead to all sense of honor, must that wretch be, whose brow burns not with shame and rage at the dishonor of the flag of his country! (Applause.) Nearly three years since, the country was shocked by the spectacle of a band of traitors tearing away the emblem of our country from a fortress over which it had floated proudly for years, and substituting in its place a miserable device of their own. Has this act been fully avenged? No! The punishment for it has undoubtedly been great already, but I trust that the utter humiliation and discomfiture which it deserves are about to follow. To this end this regiment is about to take the field-a regiment composed of a race hitherto despised-of a race almost hopelessly sunk in degradation, by a system of slavery as barbarous as it is unjust. It has been the habit of those among us, who sympathize with the traitors now in arms against us, to sneer at what they are pleased to term the cowardice of the negro. I hope that Port Hudson, Fort Wagner and Olustee have forever settled this question. In this regard, I must be permitted to refer briefly to the conduct of the Eighth United States Colored Troops, in the last-mentioned action. My reason for doing this is, that for some three or four months I was on duty with this regiment, as its Lieutenant-Colonel, and during this period I had ample opportunity to become thoroughly acquainted with its officers, and the material composing its rank and file. No regiment ever went to the field better officered than the Eighth, and no regiment ever contained a braver or more resolute set of men. How well they fought is shown by their list of casualties; and although a subordinate officer in a battery thought it a misfortune to be supported by a colored regiment, yet when we bear in mind that two veteran regiments had already found the position too hot, and had retired, I think we can afford to forgive the slander, and say that the misfortune, if misfortune there was, was not in having a colored regiment for a support, but in having an officer in the service of the United States so biased, so ungenerous, so cowardly, as to slander the brave men who fell around his guns. (Applause.) I should feel recreant to my duty to an old companion in arms, who has laid down his life upon the altar of his country, did I permit this occasion to pass without paying this slight tribute to his memory.
I trust that when the time comes for the Twentieth to go into action, we shall behave ourselves in a manner that will reflect credit upon ourselves, and honor upon our friends and our country. We feel that we have the sympathies and prayers of good, men and women. We know the interest you feel in us-the high hopes you entertain-and believe me when I say that it is the determination of every officer and man of my command that, so far as the power to fulfill in them lies, you shall not be disappointed. I would that I could command appropriate words to address the noble women to whom we are indebted for this beautiful stand of colors. Will you accept a soldier's thanks, and his pledges that they shall never know dishonor while strength, remains to wield a weapon in their defence?”
At the conclusion of his remarks, he was greeted with enthusiastic cheers; then followed cheers for his officers and cheers for his men, and before he mounted his beautiful steed, some one presented him with a handsome bouquet. The following letter was received from Gen. Dix:
<c05>
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE EAST, NEW YORK CITY, March 5, 1864. 
To the Committee for the Reception of the Twentieth United States Colored Regiment.
GENTLEMAN: I much regret that official engagements at my headquarters will not permit me to attend the flag presentation to the regiment. It will carry with it to the field my cordial wishes for its success, and the assurance that the alacrity with which the colored classes in this State are coming forward to; co-operate in putting down the Rebellion will secure, as it deserves, the lasting gratitude of the country.
I am truly yours,
JOHN A. DIX, Major General.
THE COLLATION IN THE SQUARE. 
After the presentation ceremony was over, the men stacked arms, and partook of a collation provided for them. Corpulent cans of coffee and fat baskets of sandwiches were carried into the square, and their contents generously distributed among the sable soldiers. They ate heartily, and were not backward in expressing their sentiments in relation to the reception they had met "This is what we get for being soldiers." If Uncle Sam treats us in this way, we should like to board with him." "Hurrah for the Committee." "This doesn't look like July." "How are you, rioters?" "Three cheers for the ladies." "That flag is a big thing, boys." "Well show the Copperheads what we can do for freedom when we get a chance." "That was a jolly speech made by our Colonel." "Didn't Professor King talk like a book," &c. We might fill a column with the remarks made by these men during the few minutes allowed for lunch, showing their appreciation of the ovation which had been tendered to them, and the great advancement made in public opinion in regard to their race.
After luncheon, march was resumed in the following order:
THE PROCESSION. 
Police Superintendent Kennedy.
One Hundred Policemen.
Members of the Union League Club.
Colored Friends of the Recruits, marching with hands joined.
Governor's Island Band.
The 20th Regiment United States Colored Troops.
The line of march was down Broadway to Canal street, through Canal street to the North River, where they embarked on board the Ericsson for New Orleans. The men made a fine appearance in their blue uniform, white gloves and white leggings. They are hearty and athletic fellows, many of them six feet tall, straight, and symmetrical. A majority of them are black; indeed, there are but few mulattoes among them. The Twentieth is emphatically an African regiment, and to its credit be it spoken, not one of its members disobeyed orders, no one broke ranks to greet enthusiastic friends, no one used intoxicating drinks to excess, no one manifested the least inclination to leave the service, and their marching was very creditable.
The march was truly a magnificent demonstration, and a triumphant sign of progress. One thousand men with black skins, whose color has been a crime in the eyes of multitudes of whites, marched without molestation from the wharf where they landed, through Twenty-sixth street, the Fifth avenue, Lexington avenue, Madison, and Broadway. The doors, windows and balconies of our city palaces were thronged with aristocratic spectators, the ladies waving handkerchiefs, and the men cheering.
Seven months ago, the homes of these soldiers were attacked by rioters, who burned their dwellings, stole their property, and made the streets smoke with the blood of their unoffending relatives and friends.
On the 9th of July, Mr. George W. Blunt met with other gentlemen at the New England Rooms, and advised Gov. Andrew not to send the 55th Massachusetts colored regiment through this city, on their way to the seat of war, because the lives of colored women and children here would be endangered. On Saturday, Mr. Blunt marched with other members of the club in the van of the grand procession, and saw no signs of that hatred of the black race which has been such a stigma of shame to our city and nation. The following is the roster of the regiment:
Colonel, Nelson B. Bartram; Lieut.-Colonel, Andrew E. Mather; Major, Amos P. Wells; Surgeon, Thomas Cushing; First Assistant, O. S. Belden; Second Assistant, David Stephens; Quartermaster, Casper Goldman.
LINE CAPTAINS-George A. Foster, H. H. Rouse, John E. Barnaby, Edwin L. Wage, S. P. Putnam, William Moore, Albert B. Hall, Delos II. Stiles, Elijah Carry, James S. Goped.
FIRST LIEUTENANTS-Norman R. Martin, D. J. Pilsworth, Martin Cooper, Wallace M. Greeley, Nelson A. Sumner, Wm. Gerrish, Francis Bridges, Edwin G. Davis, Acting Adjt., John P. Blakeman.
SECOND LIEUTENANTS-John J. Thomas, Byron F. Strong, Wm F. Van Ornum, Chas. A. Briggs, Martin T. Smith, Isaac G. Gardiner, Benj. Ambruster, John Habberton, Perley Eaton, Bruno Trombly.
This is the second colored regiment raised by the Loyal League Club, and the members have been indefatigable from the first in protecting? the recruits from outrage, and providing them with all needful comforts while in camp at Riker's Island. Equally solicitous were they to secure competent and worthy officers; and to cap the climax, they have given the regiment a reception worthy of the city of New York, and the great cause for which these despised people have so bravely gone forth to battle.-New York Tribune.

IN MEMORIAM. 
Every week brings a new sorrow in these life-consuming times, but the last week brought, for many homes and hearts, a sorrow that will not soon pass away. On Friday came a despatch telling us that a brilliant life, recently transferred from the Atlantic to the Pacific coast, had suddenly been quenched by death. The sorrow of my own heart for this loss is none the less real because I thought Mr. King fundamentally wrong, and he thought me absolutely wrong, in theology. What I remember him for is what our short acquaintance brought oftenest to my notice; and how can I help being saddened, calling to mind, as I now do, his genial and unaffected kindness?
We were next door neighbors, and the wall between our houses was not too thick. I could bear him at work in his study,-now pacing the floor in deep thought, now taking a volume from its shelf, and now thrusting it back with such force that it seemed to send a challenge through the brick partition. And that nimble brain and hand have lost their cunning!
Our door-bells were emulous of each other's loquacity, jingling in such eager dispute that we could never decide which one had the last or loudest word. Ludicrous was the effect one day when Mr. King, in a playful mood, sent a peddler of heretical books to me; and very droll were his surmises, not long after, when solicited, by an unsuspecting agent, to subscribe for a forthcoming work in the interest of Orthodoxy. We spoke of the occurrence with a broad mouth, when the agent was gone. Over the way, and looking into our windows, was a neighbor whose name began with Mr. King's name, and ended with the beginning of my name. We used to call it the "connecting link" between us, and assert, with great good humor, that nothing but the affinities of their names could account for the mutual good will of the Kings, King-mans Man-nings. The morning after he had criticized a sermon on future punishment, preached in his pulpit at his own request, I happened suddenly to meet him turning a corner. He started back comically, saying, "We were pretty nearly into each other." "Yes," was the answer, "but don't be disturbed, for I'm not one of the fighting kind.”." He looked twice, perceiving the allusion to his theological strife, but, seeing no mote in my eye, burst into a loud laugh, and asked me if I didn't think it a great thing to rank as a "polemic divine." And the pulse of that boy-faced man is still!
I saw him at the White Mountains, one Summer, while we were fellow-boarders at the Alpine House. There his love for the grand and beautiful, as I need not say, had its throne. Happy the visitor that deserved, and could secure, him for a guide. But of this the world knows already, as by his unrivalled descriptions it has been instructed and charmed. Nature's anthem sounds weak and discordant, now that this string, so finely tuned to her mystery, is snapped in twain!
Mr. King, as I had the delight of knowing frequently, honored the honest and toiling poor. The day he left Boston for San Francisco, calling for me at the door to speak a parting word, he placed in my hand a recommendation to some post of remunerative labor, to be sent to a needy person residing out of town. It certainly marked him as a man of singular goodness, that he thought, amid the excitements of that day, to write a letter of charity-per-
<c06>
haps the last letter he ever wrote in his Eastern home-for one to whom he was bound by no tie but benevolent sympathy, and whose gratitude for his kindness he could never know. A mother and daughter, going from this city in quest of service in some family, having known Mr. King here, sought him out in his new home; and lavish indeed were their praises when they wrote back, telling how kindly he had welcomed the poor Irish women, asking after their friends in Boston, and helping them to a good home in San Francisco. And the generous heart., that would raise every other to its own level of purity and joy, is cold!
My last glimpse of Mr. King was in the cars recently, coming from Washington to Philadelphia an indirect glimpse only, for I saw for his character in another man's. A native of Kentucky, but a resident and soldier of California, sat beside me, and greatly surprised me by his intelligent, high-toned conversation. I did not look for such fruit from such a stock, and ripened in such an atmosphere. He said the battle between right and might was fairly joined in that new State, and he had no doubt the right would win. "Do you know Mr. King?" "Oh yes," was the reply; "and he it was who won me from the side of violence to the side of justice. My last evening, before starting for the seat of war, was spent with him. He has breathed the spirit of a true manhood into that gold-digging population. Already the younger and controlling minds have caught the inspiration, and have vowed, to one another and to God, that California shall be both the richest and the purest State in the Union. We shall make it that, for we have natural resources and climate, and now we are beginning to have the conscience". These warm words were spoken too seriously to be questioned, and showed me that Mr. King had enshrined his life in the heart of much that is truest and best in California, where the fragrace of his name, like that of precious ointment, shall be sweet and purifying throughout many generations.
It seems strange that I, once yielded over unto death, should be alive to remember him, whose place shall know him no more,-him, so suddenly cut down, and whom it is even yet hard to associate with anything but health and buoyant action. "So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom." Happy is he who finds an eternity in each fleeting hour, and so lives that death shall only prove him immortal. OLD SOUTH.

THEODORE PARKER'S LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
Correspondence of the Cincinnati Gazette.
New York, Feb. 26.
You have many readers who reverse the memory of Theodore Parker, and who have read his lately published life and correspondence with absorbing interest. It is not mine to offer you a review of that book, but it seems proper to state some facts touching its history and its true character.
Let me say in the first place, that I think the book one of extraordinary value, and that I shall make no unfriendly criticism upon it. The reason for saying anything about the circumstances of its production is, that it does not, and could not do, full justice to Parker; and it is due to him that the cause of its incompleteness should be stated. They group themselves, in a general way, about two persons: John Weiss, the editor, and Joseph Lyman, whom I may call the engineer of the book; the latter first.
I violate no confidence nor make public any really private matters when I say there has been a disagreement among Mr. Parker's nearest friends about his literary executorship. I shall not go into details on this point. It is all-sufficient to say that all agreed his wishes were to be respected, but could not agree on the evidence of his wishes. There was room to doubt which he meant, Mr. Joseph Lyman or Mr. Frank Sanborn, and the disagreement on this point unhappily widened into a permanent breach. The result was that all Mr. Parker's personal papers, within control of the family, were put into Mr. Lyman's hands, and he undertook to collect and arrange the materials for a Life. On the other hand, several of Mr. Parker's most intimate friends, who had large numbers of his letters and a treasury of personal knowledge about him, declined to give any letters or facts to an editor whom they regarded as unequal to the task he undertook, and unfitted for it by any previously existing relations between him and Mr. Parker.
Mr. Lyman, nevertheless, went on with his work as best he might. Not proposing to attempt the literary execution of such a work himself, he confined his labors to gathering from sources still accessible to him Mr. Parker's correspondence, and put the material into the hands of Mr. Weiss, of whom it is necessary to say something by himself.
The reasons which dictated his election everybody may understand. Mr. Weiss is a scholar of reputation, perfectly well known in Boston as a brilliant and forcible writer, a clergyman of strong religious feelings, though not especially in sympathy with Parker, and a frequent contributor to the reviews and magazines. Perhaps his style of thought and writing is somewhat too florid and tropical to make him the best exponent of Parker's direct, vigorous, Saxon habits of mind and of speech; still, that is not the chief objection to his competence. As a biographer he fails, because he did not know Theodore Parker. Of the ins and outs of his life-for the traits which made him Theodore Parker, and nobody else, in private just as strongly as in public life-for the whole individuality, and daily sweetness, and myriad variety of tenderness and myriad variety of tenderness and gentle goodness, that became known to the dear friends of Theodore Parker by daily intercourse with him for years, Mr. Weiss knew nothing, save what he could gather from other's report. That is what we chiefly miss, and what would have been of more worth to the world than any external qualifications his biographer could possess. And it must be remarked here again, that as in the matter of letters, so of reminiscences, traits, anecdotes, incidents, which were familiar only to half a dozen of those nearest in life to Parker, this book presents a lack otherwise unaccountable.
To these pre-existing disadvantages and hindrances are to be added the circumstances which attended the composition and bringing out of the book. Mr. Lyman's plan at first comprised nothing more than a brief memoir, of perhaps two hundred pages, and Mr. Weiss executed that some two years ago. The time being unfavorable for publishing, it was laid aside, and subsequently resumed with a view of being enlarged. There was certainly ample time for careful preparation during the two years that have since intervened; but Mr. Weiss's attention was otherwise occupied, and in fact little or nothing was done till two or three months before the book appeared. Mr. Lyman then hearing that a life was preparing in England by Frances Power Cobbe, the editor of English edition of Parker’s Collected Writings, hurried off to London, taking Mr. Weiss with him; and the two spent, I believe, about a month of diligent labor together over the mass of materials that were in Mr. Lyman's possession, and got them into shape and due relation in two printed volumes. So that, notwithstanding the time that has elapsed since Mr. Parker's death, and the necessity for especially careful editing that was imposed upon Mr. Lyman and Mr. Weiss by their unfortunate disagreement with Mr. Parker's friend, as well as by just respect to his memory, the Life and correspondence finally appeared in utmost haste, and bearing too plainly the marks of that haste on many pages. A cursory glance will show how many letters have been printed that ought to have been suppressed in whole or in part. Probably the insertion of many of these was due to the deficiency of others that should have supplied their places.
The book is indeed especially remarkable for what it does not contain. Everybody learns in what close relation Theodore Parker stood to Emerson, to Garrison, and to Phillips, yet scarcely a letter of any importance appears to either. Neither would give them to Mr. Lyman. Other persons whose names are less known to the public, but who knew Mr. Parker very closely, and whose correspondence with him is of the highest value, also withheld their letters, and declined to make any contribution to this book. They preferred to reserve them until , years hence, perhaps it shall become possible to write a life which shall show Theodore Parker to the world as he was known to these friends.
I repeat, finally, in order to make sure on this point, that I would not undervalue Mr. Weiss's life. There is no reason to suppose that any other will be written at present, and this must supply all that America and the world can know for years of one of the wisest and noblest men of the century. A great deal of Theodore Parker is in this book; and though I regret its deficiencies, and would not have it supposed this is all of Theodore Parker, I trust that if what I say has any influence, it will be to increase the number of its readers.
