<c01>
THE LEBRATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON ST, ROOM NO 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
VOL. XXXI. NO.<Co1>
Refuge of Oppression.
EPHRAIM AND JUDAH RECONCILED.
Extracts from a Sermon Preached in the First Congregational Church in  Lynn, on occasion  of the National Fast, Jan. 4. 1861. 
BY REV. PARSONS COOKE, D.D.
NORTHERN OFFENCES.
Let us endeavor, for the time, to keep passion and <illegible> in abeyance, while we candidly consider some of the offences against the Union, which have been committed at the North. 
Justice to our Southern countrymen requires us to say, in the first place, that they have suffered a serious and provoking annoyance from Ultraists among us, whose declared purpose has been a dissolution of the Union. For thirty years we have had among us a class of people whose zeal, activity, and noise have supplied the want of numbers—who have carried on ceaseless war, first and chiefly against the Gospel of Christ and its institutions, and then against social order and the authority of law. They have sought to lay in ruins the State, in order to destroy the Christianity that is in it.  To unsettle government   in  all the  States,  the  most  comprehensive and sure way was to destroy the confederation of the States—the arch that  sustained the whole fabric.   In  order to  this,  no scheme promised more than  appeals  to  the deep-seated anti-slavery feeling of  the North, and  awakening this into an active war with the prepossessions and interests of the South.  Not that they had indeed such a flaming benevolence towards the blacks, any more than  the French  revolutionists  were  really actuated by  the zeal which they pretended for the rights of man, and the relief of the oppressed, when they gave them slaughter instead of oppression.  So, as all other infidels before them have done, they put on clarity as a cloak for their sinister designs. They would have it that the revolution which they proclaimed was to emancipate the human race from all its ills, including Christianity, law, and slavery; leaving every one to do what is right in his own eyes. The grand assumption of their theory has been, that slavery, being the sum of all villanies, the embodiment of all wrongs, must be the foremost point of assault, and Christianity, and law, and other villanies, should be assailed in their subservience to this. Christianity, assumed to be a prop of slavery, should be ruthlessly removed fro the evil which it upheld, and civil government should give place because it interferes with man's freedom, and is therefore but another form of slavery.
On a platform so constructed, this body of professed reformers have gone forth against slavery, and against our National Union, for the time of one whole generation. The impression which they have made is much greater at the South than at the North. And at the North, the mischiefs which they have indirectly done are vastly greater than the regard which is consciously paid to their denunciations. The anti-slavery sentiment of the better and Christian portion of the people has unconsciously received an unhealthy tinge from an infusion of their spirit. Many sound and Christian men, wholly and honestly repudiationg their doctrine and purposes, have yet had their breathing affected by the pestilential vapors generated from their laboratories of infidelity. But the worst effect of these doctrines has been upon the Southern mind. There they have been caught up and set forth as true samples of Northern feeling; and so have called forth malignant retorts upon the North, as a whole. These retorts have begotten ill blood in the great body of our Northern people, that had no concern in the provacations given; and so have the more keenly felt the wrong.
This is an evil for us to deplore; but not for us to reform. For that is impossible. Tempests do not yield to reason; nor does fanaticism stay its fury out of regard to mischiefs done. The greater the ruin done upon our national fabric, the greater would be the triumph and the joy.
ANTI-SLAVERY PREACHING.
Now I proceed to say that the parent cause of the present trouble, so far as that cause proceeds from the North, has been our abolition preaching. What I have to except against it here is a mode of attack on slavery in contrast with that of the Christian apostles, and the use of the pulpit as a rostrum for political agitation, a grand electioneering theatre, turning the forces of the Gospel perverted, into the manufacture of the public opinion, hostile to institutions protected in our national covenant.
We freely grant that if the claims of the Gospel conflicted with national compacts, those compacts must go to the winds. So we are to show, in the first place, that the Gospel does not require, but expressly condemns, this mode of pulpit agitation. Let it here be understood, that the nations through which the apostles carried the Gospel were in the worst form slaveholding nations. The Roman laws respecting slavery, which then ruled the civilized world, sustained a slave system with vastly more rigor and license for abuses, than what attach to our Southern slavery. In whatever part of the heathen world the Gospel preacher opened his message, he found himself among slaves and slaveholders, among whom existed greater abuses and abominations than any to be found here—and where, if they had interpreted their mission as our anti-slavery preachers do, their preaching and epistles must have bristled with porcupine quills against slaveholders. In reasoning with our modern anti-slavery preachers, we should be justified in assuming that Paul, and Peter, and John, when they went forth to preach the Gospel, were as thoroughly principled against slavery as themselves, and that they were constantly pained with the spectacle of suffering, under its monstrous wrongs.
Yet behold a wonder; in never a speech or letter that has come down to us, do these model abolitionists utter themselves in the style of specific denunciation of the system so common at the present day. On what page of the apostolic writings, or in what speech of Christ himself, do we find a sample to warrant such preaching?
Yea, not only did they not preach in that style, but they expressly forbade it. Hear Paul, in his letter to Timothy:
"Let as many servants as are under the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed. And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren,but rather do them service, because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort. If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railing, evil surmisings, perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of truth."
Now who does not see in this passage a full and pointed condemnation, both of the theory and prac-
<c02>
tice of our modern abolition preaching?  So full and clear is it, that thousands who have had more passion for anti-slavery theories, than deference to the authority of inspiration, have hastily assumed that the Bible sanctions slavery, and therefore cannot have had God for its author.  We agree with the abolition preachers, that this passage contains no warrant  for  slaveholding,  though  it  implies that some slaveholders are Christians.  But we challenge them not to blink what it does contain.  Its prima facie proof against abolition preaching is so striking, that infidel abolitionints, constituting the extreme right of the abolition body, have made this text the fulcrum to bear the lever with which they have expected to overthrow Christianity.  And so successfully have, they diffused the  leaven of this spirit, that professedly Christian preachers now and then, as if half convinced of a conflict between the two, and vacillating between the Bible and abolition, blush not to say that they would reject the Bible, if they should see it to uphold slavery.
But this text tells us furthermore, what would be the result of teaching the contrary of what is here enjoined—to wit, ”envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings  perverse  disputings  of men of corrupt minds."  Now let the fault lie where it will, none can  deny the fact, that in close connection with abolition preaching, there has gone forth a world of just the moral chaos described by these terms.  And all but those warmly engaged in the movement have ascribed these fierce and profitless contentions to the unscriptural urgency of abolition doctrines.  If Paul, under the spirit of inspiration, had distinctly foreseen how our abolition pulpits would be employed for the last twenty years, together with the bitter results, he could not have described the whole in more fitting terms.  So we see, that the apostles not only refrained from that kind of anti-slavery preaching, but they clearly and pointedly condemned it. So it can no way be assumed, as it often is, that even if our country is perilled by the preaching, we are bound to preach thus, in order to Christian fidelity. 
But here I anticipate an objection, which I will put in this form-“you say, that in Christian truth slaveholding has no valid warrant, and that the master holds his slave by usurpation.  And yet you say, it is the duty of ministers to declare all the counsel of God.  So, is there not an inconsistency here?” In answer, let us first look at a parallel case.  The despotism of the Roman  empire was a monstrous wrong and usurpation, revolting to the moral principles of Christianity.  Yet it appeared to be no part of the duty of the Apostles to preach against it.  Their mission to declare all the counsel of God respecting the way of salvation did not bind them to preach for a direct exposure of all political (!) wrongs, and implicate their embassy in a conflict with all the social abuses of the body politic.  They had a mission to declare all truths needful to open  to the sinner the way of life, and also rightly to divide the word of truth, and select those truths to be applied here and there, which were most conducive to this end.  They were not bound to utter all the truths of science, (!) nor all the details of moral science, any farther than needful, in the best manner, to further the work of conversion and salvation of men. And it seems that they judged that definitions of the morals of the slave system were no more to their purpose, than definitions of the morals of the Constitution of the Roman empire.
 Another objection often urged is, that slavery is worse here than it was when the Apostles preached. But this is simply contrary to historical fact.  If the space of this discourse would allow, we could show that Roman slavery involved immensely more of wrong and cruelty than American slavery.
But it is said that Christianity evaded a direct attack on slavery then, because it was weak, but now it is strong, and can afford to speak in bolder terms. Christianity weak!  Nay; she then stood forth in the first-born of her strength, rocking the heathen world to its centre; because backed by the Holy Ghost in its omnipotence. If she then was weak, when has she been strong?  Surely she was not weak enough to be restrained by fear, from uttering all that was in her heart Her weakness did not compel her to sanction principles that she afterwards would see cause to abandon. And it seems that she had eye to forsee that, even in these days, anti-slavery preaching would produce the, same results as in those days, in the blasphemy of God and his Gospel, in gendering strifes and railing and perverse disputings, and filling the world with fierce contentions without advantage How many of our Christian congregations have been  distracted and wasted by these contentions, I need not say. It had long ago become proverbial, that there was some mysterious element in these anti-slavery agitations that immensely damaged the Christian spirit of any Christian body upon which they had seized.  And we have another proof that Paul spoke by inspiration when we find this virtually foretold by him.
But I have another evil to lay at the door of this  preaching.  It  has  not  only marred the spirit of our churches and ministry, but it has served as a cover to bring in alarming corruptions of doctrine. While it has been undermining the  pillars of our State, and preparing the way for their  present tottering, it has sent a  blight upon interests more sacred than state constitutions This is not the time to give the details of this.  But it is a fact not to be disguised, that serious defections have of late been developed, and vastly more exist, that are not yet as publicly known; and that the individuals prominent in the doctrinal defections are generally as prominent in anti-slavery preaching And few of these defections have yet been found in those opposed to such preaching.  The co-operative connection between the two could be easily shown.  We could easily show you the same young America working with one hand to corrupt the Gospel of Christ, and with the  other to unsettle the institutions of our country, by abolition preaching.  And then, to show that  that abolition heresy has a sympathy with heresy affecting general Christian doctrine, we have the fact that the pulpits of those sects, farthest removed from the evangelical basis, have generally reached the highest heats in abolition preaching leaving the culminating point to be occupied by the avowed infidel.  From the Garrison school down, there has been a descending graduation of heats of this doctrine-they being less and less, according to the nearness to the simple truth of the Gospel. This is a fact to be pondered.
 What more befitting  comment upon a lying and profligate discourse like the foregoing, than the following scathing lines of WHITTIER?.
“Pilate and Herod, friends!
Chief priests and rulers, as of old, combine!
Just God and holy! is that church which lends
Strength to the spoiler, Thine?
How long, O Lord! how long
Shall such a priesthood barter truth away,
And, in Thy name, for robbery and wrong
At Thy own altars pray!
Their glory and their might 
Shall perish; and their very names shall be 
VILE BEFORE ALL THE PEOPLE, in the light
Of a World's liberty!” 
<c03>
THE CLERGY ON THE CRISIS.
CIRCULAR LETTER.
NEWYORK, Jan. 1, 1860.To the Church and Laity of Christian Churches in the Southern States of the Union:
We would salute yon, brethren, in the spirit of the apostolic formula:”Grace, mercy, and peace." As fellow-heirs of a kingdom that ”endureth forever," we have common interests and relations superior to all political bonds, furnishing the basis of fraternal intercourse, even in seasons of greatest civil commotion. Faith in God would seem to be the only alternative in a crisis which reveals the impotence and short-sightedness of man. It is with a profound conviction of the imminence of national perils, and with a deep sense of the solemnity and delicacy of this humble attempt to avert them, that we venture a few suggestions to our dear brethren,touching some of the immediate causes of our danger, and the probable consequences to great moral and religious interests of the threatened disruptionof our civil ties.
A dispassionate view of public affairs constrains the belief that a system of gross and persistent misrepresentation has had much to do with leading the Nation to the verge of revolution. The South has been slandered at the North, and the North as grossly misrepresented at the South. The extreme sentiments or unworthy acts of individuals, and the passionate utterances of inconsiderable bodies, political or ecelesiastical, have been heralded through the land as the deliberate expression of opinion of great parties, denominations or sections of country; whereas, they merely represent the extravagance of their authors, and should have been consigned to the oblivion they merited. Too much of this fratricidal work has undeniably been done by the pulpit, but far more by the press. A distinguished senator, when recently asserting in his place that ”nine-tenths of the complaints” as to a supposed grievance ”are unfounded," added this deserved rebuke of an unscrupulous press: ”Where there is sectional strife and excitement, there seems to be a proneness on the part of the newspaper press, in both sections, to collect and give every fact which would inflame the passions and prejudices of one section against another.In that way, partial and unfair statements are given, which make each section act under an apprehension of the other."
If this view of the question be accepted, does it not vitally affect our relations, and the duty of good citizens, North and South? Do not truth, justice,and self-respect demand extreme delibertions in.the adoption of measures for the redress of grievances, which, on this hypothesis, may prove to be partly unreal, and at best are greatly exaggerated? Mutual misunderstanding has been often enough the occasion of domestic or national calamity to induce the utmost patience and forbearance, before irrevocable action involving the honor and the interests of thirty millions of souls.
In our judgment, dear brethren, the time has come for a more calm, discriminating investigation of the causes of impending perils, and for manly, Christian effort, under  God, to avert them.  It is not true that intelligent, Christian patriotism has succumbed to fanaticism and demagogism.  It may be disheartened or stifled, for the time, by the misguided passions of men in one locality or other; but it lives and glows in millions of hearts all over the land, and in them all it is loyal to the Constitution, the Union, and the Bible.  We should hazard nothing in thus pledging the great body of the people in these Northern States: we do not, will not, distrust the great body of the people in this behalf in the Southern States.  Why then should we not seek to put an end to the existing spirit of mistrust and alienation, to stay the progress of groundless recrimination, and join hands, according to the grace and wisdom God may bestow, in the blessed office of peace-makers for our distracted country?
It is our appropriate work.  Besides the  interests common to all citizens, we have a vital stake in the perpetuation of our Federal Union on other and higher grounds.  The honor and prosperity of Protestant Christianity are involved in the issue. A failure in our great experiment of self-government, besides affording sad proof of recreancy on, the part of American Christians, would be interpreted in all lands as evidence of the powerlessness of the only system of religion that claims to furnish an adequate basis for  self-governing institutions. Disunion, too, would involve the rupture of cherished ecclesiastical ties, and the abandonment of cooperative benevolence at home and abroad.  The noble example of American Christian enterprise, and the rising influence of our Christian civilization, must wane and react, as the life-currents of charity dry up, and the night of our brief and brilliant day gathers gloom.   And should prevalent apprehensions ripen into fact, so that armed strife should essay the adjustment of difficulties insoluble to reason, patriotism and religion, and thus pave the way for popular infidelity, Sabbath-breaking, licentiousness—all the terrible concomitants of civil-war how justly would the guilty authors and abettors of this misery be  visited with  the  maledictions of Christendom, and how bitter must be the self-reproaches of those who neglected any part of their duty in arresting or averting the dire catastrophe!
We cannot doubt that a spirit of candor and for bearance, such as our religion prompts, and the exigencies of our times demand, would render the speedy adjustment of our difficulties possible, consistently with every constitutional right.  Unswerving fealty to the Constitution, justly interpreted,and a prompt return to its spirit and requirements, wherever there may have been divergence from either, would seem to be the first duty of citizens and legislators. It is our firm, and we think intelligent conviction, that only a very inconsiderable fraction of the people of the North will hesitate in the discharge of their constitutional obligations; and that whatever enactments are found to be in conflict therewith will be annulled.  And it is our farther belief, that an instructed and corrected public sentiment will constrain a stricter regard for truth and for the rights and feelings of men, on the part alike of the press and the pulpit, in the popular discussion of political and moral questions.  Thus will the more immediate causes of alienated feeling be suppressed, and the healing touch of time, the seasonable exertions of patriotic men, the peace inspiring influence of religion, the spirit of fervent prayer, and the favoring providence and grace of the Triune God, will cement anew the bonds that unite the North and the South, the East and the West, in one thrice-blessed American brotherhood.
To this end, dear brethren, and for the sake of those spiritual gifts so imperatively needed by our American Zion. let us unceasingly implore the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the rulers and people of these United States.
GARDNER SPRING, Pastor of Brick Presb. church,
New York.
W. W. PHILLIPS, Pastor of First Presb. church, New York.
<c04>
GEORGE POTTS, University-place Presb. church, New York. 
J. MCELROY, Fourteenth-street Presb. church, New York.
JOHN M. KBEBS, Rutgers-street Presb. church, New York. 
CHARLES P. MCILVAINE, Bishop of the Prot Epis. church in Ohio, Cincinnati. 
G. T. BEDELL, Assistant-Bishop, Gambier, Ohio. 
FRANCIS L. HAWKES, Rector of Calvary Prot.Epis. church, New York.
THOMAS HOUSE TAYLOR, Rector of Grace Prot.Epis. church, New York. 
WILLIAM F. MORGAN, Rector of St Thomas Prot. Epis. church, New York.
JOHN COTTON SMITH, Rector of Church of the Ascension, New York. 
H. DYER, Secretary Evangelical Knowledge Society, New York.
N. BANGS, Methodist Epis. church, New York.
J. P. DUBBIN, Methodist Epis. church, New York.
JOSEPH HOLDICH, Secretary American Bible Society, New York. 
ABEL STEVENS, Methodist Epis. church, New York.
EDWARD LATHROP, Pastor of Baptist Tabernacle, New York.
A. E. GILLETTE,  Pastor  of Calvary Baptist church, New York. 
THOMAS DE WITT, Senior Pastor of Collegiate Ref. Dutch church, New York.
GEORGE W. BETHUNE, Pastor of Twenty-first street Ref. Dutch church, New York.
ISAAC FERRIS, Chancellor of New York University.
THOMAS H. SKINNER, Union Theol. Seminary, New York.
JOEL PARKER, Fourth avenue Presb. church, New York.
N. MURRAY, Pastor of First Presb. church, Elizabeth, New Jersey. 
DAVID MAGIE, Pastor of Second Presb. church, Elizabeth, New Jersey.
CHARLES HODGE, Theol. Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey.
ALEXANDER T. MCGILL, Theol. Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey.
JOHN MACLEAN, President Nassau Hall College,
Princeton, New Jersey.
HENRY A. BOARDMAN, Philadelphia. 
CHARLES WADSWORTH, Philadelphia.
CHARLES W. SHIELDS, Philadelphia.
WM. P. BREED, Philadelphia. 
ROBERT WATTS, Philadelphia. 
JAMES M. CROWELL, Philadelphia. 
JOSEPH M. JONES, Philadelphia.
Selections. 
REPORT OF HON C.F. ADAMS.
The Select Committee of Thirty-Three, to whom was referred so much of the President's message as relates to the present perilous condition of the country, made a degrading and villanous (majority) report to the U. S. House of Representatives, last week, through its chairman, Mr. Corwin, of Ohio.  The following is the report of the Hon. Charles Francis Adams, submitting the following reasons for his disagreement with the action of the Committee:—
The subscriber has labored earnestly in the committee to make himself master of the causes of the present discontent.  So far as they were divulged there, they may be comprised under three heads: 1st, The Personal Liberty Laws in some of the free States;  2d, Exclusion from the Territories;  3d, The apprehension of some future danger to the rights of the slave States from the adoption of constitutional amendments interfering with them.  Without <illegible> in the belief that there are very serious grounds for this uneasiness, the subscriber is too well convinced of its existence not to be disposed to apply any reasonable remedy to quiet it.  He was, therefore, for this reason, induced to give his concurrence, at first, in several of the measures reported by the committee.  He did so under a conviction that they contained the only reasonable as well as practicable adjustment of the differences unhappily existing in the country, without the sacrifice of principle on either side, that has thus far come within his observation.  And although not entirely approving of them in the abstract, he was ready to give his co-operation in adopting them if there was good reason to suppose that they would effect the object aimed at. He endeavored to act in good faith, and with a view to the restoration of the kindly relations between the opposite sections of the country, which seem to be so rudely threatened. That this spirit has been fairly reciprocated by a portion of the Representatives of the aggrieved States, he takes great pleasure in acknowledging.  Had that portion constituted only a bare majority of the whole number, he would still have pledged all the limited aid in his power to unite with them.  But the fact is wholly otherwise. While three States have refused to be represented at all, seven more-making ten out of fifteen—have decided to reject the conclusions arrived at by the committee.
This fact alone would seem to render all prospect of a general adjustment very dim.  And when it appeared, on the other hand, that a number of the representatives of the free States were equally disinclined to accept them, what hope was left of any advantageous result from perseverance?
Another significant incident happened, which put an end to all further doubt in the mind of the subscriber, because it convinced him that even if all the measures recommended could be adopted, the adjustment anticipated would be as far off as ever; that the causes of the difference are but superficially touched in the alleged grievances which have engrossed the attention of the Committee; and that the true source of discord lies altogether too deep for the plummet of Congressional legislation. 
By reference to the journal of the Committee, it will appear that on Friday, the 11th of January, a resolution was offered by the subscriber in direct response to one portion of the President's message, specifically referred to the consideration of this Committee.  As finally amended, it was in the following words:—
Resolved, That peaceful acquiescence in the election of a Chief Magistrate, accomplished in accordance with every legal and constitutional requirement, is a high and imperative duty of every good citizen of the United States.
Great was the surprise of the mover on perceiving that the annunciation of this indisputable proposition, in his belief, of vital moment to the permanence of any Republic founded on the consent of men, was met by hesitation on the part of several members. The President, in his annual message had distinctly affirmed the same thing in another form of language. No reason seemed to exist why the Committee should not, by responding unanimously to his sentiment, aid in giving to the country confidence in the belief that
<Co5>
the discontents existing in some quarters were merely such as a conciliatory policy might remove.  Instead of this, a written paper was presented by seven members, assigning reasons for their refusal to record their votes at all.  The substance of that paper is found recorded in the journal.  It alleges that voting upon such a declaration would, in the opinion of the signers, do more harm than good.  Why it would have that effect, it does not explain.  If the proposition be true, and if there exists no intention in any quarter to deny its truth, either by word or act, surely it could do neither harm nor good to vote for it.  It would fall powerless like any accepted truism of society.  It is only in the alternative, when some portion of a community is determined at all hazards to act in direct contravention of it, that it can do harm For it may then indeed serve to excite the public attention to the true nature of the issue presented, and to embitter the animosities which radical differences naturally produce.  While the subscriber would not venture to intimate a doubt of the sincerity of the members in assigning the reasons for their hesitation to accept so undeniable a proposition, he cannot abstain from expressing his profound regret that their course should unavoidably raise up anxious doubts in the minds of great numbers of people as to the nature of the struggle now presented to the country.  Is it, after all, only the election of a President of the United States whom one section of the Union did not nominate and support, that constitutes the main grievance and stimulates to a dissolution of the Union?  If it be indeed so, then is there no necessity for organizing legislative Committees to find a remedy.  The Constitution becomes a mere bit of paper, if men determine with their eyes open to violate and annul its most fundamental provisions.
The subscriber is yet reluctant to believe the case quite so desperate as this would show it.  He still believes that much of this extreme conduct is the effect of sudden impulse and excited passions, and that there is a fund of reason and loyalty at bottom, which may be relied upon ultimately to turn the current in favor of the Constitution and the enforcement of the laws; and he is encouraged in this faith by observing that the Representatives of some of the dissatisfied States cordially came forward and recorded their names, as well as their reasons, for voting in favor of the resolution.  Yet, on the other hand, it cannot be denied that they constitute only a minority of the disturbed States.  The majority stand on the record as refusing all terms of adjustment they do not dictate, and declining to commit themselves to the support of a principle without the acknowledgment of which, constitutional government is impossible.  In this state of things, it is at least doubtful whether the legitimate powers of Congress, if fully exerted, would avail to reach the seat of the disease.
The general conclusion to which the subscriber has arrived, from a close observation of the action of the committee, is this: That no form of adjustment will be satisfactory to the rescusant States which does not incorporate into the Constitution of the United States a recognition of the obligation to protect and extend slavery.  On this condition, and on this alone, will they consent to withdraw their opposition to the recognition of a constitutional election of the  Chief Magistrate. Viewing the matter in this light, it seems unadvisable to attempt to proceed a step further in the way of offering unacceptable propositions.   He can never give his consent to the terms demanded.
For this reason it is, that, after having become convinced of this truth, he changed his course, and declined to recommend the very measures which he in good faith had offered.  It certainly can be of no use to propose as an adjustment that which has no prospect of being received as such by the other party.  Hence he feels it his duty now to record his dissent from the action of a majority of his colleagues in introducing any measures whatever for the consideration of the House. 
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.
THE MARYLAND REVOLUTIONISTS TO BLOCK LINCOLN'S WAY.
The Railroad Tracks to be torn up-the Senate to be Dispersed-Assassination 
BALTIMORE, Jan. 11, 1861.
 The atmosphere is loaded with the wildest kind of rumors as to the purposes of the rebels.  After a careful sifting, I am disposed to think that the following notions are actually entertained, and I wish to draw public attention thereto, in order that the people may be prepared for emergencies.
The rebels are moving heaven  and earth, or think they are, to overturn the government of Maryland by means of a self-constituted  Convention, which shall seize upon the sovereignty of the people.  There is now sitting in this city a nest of conspirators for that purpose.  They propose to ignore the Governor, and to hold a Convention without authority of law.  The plan is to have a voluntary election, at which none but the revolutionists will vote.  I am prepared to see this thing done, and I do not see how it can be prevented.  The only anti-dote is for the friends of the Union to hold a similar election and assemble a similar Convention.
A public man of some standing, and belonging to the revolutionary  party, openly declared to-day that Mr. Lincoln would not be permitted to pass through Maryland on his way to Washington to be inaugurated, and that he never would be inaugurated in Washington!  One of the plans to keep him from passing over our territory is to tear up the rails of the three great lines of communication leading into Baltimore from the West and the North.  It is due to the public and to themselves, that the Presidents and Directors of these roads should forthwith establish extra watches upon the whole route within this State, and prevent any such movement.  If the Legislature should ever get together, they design to prevent the transportation of any passengers at all over Maryland territory until after the 4th of March; and, what is more, it is their declared purpose to seize upon the Capitol, in conjunction with Virginia. They will do more.  They will assemble a Convention that will vote us out of the Union in double-quick time; and, if the Capitol can be seized, the revolutionists intend to declare themselves the United States, and proceed to invite the Free States into a new Confederacy, with such changes in the present Constitution as Mr. Breckinridge asks for!  In other words, they will insist on devoting all future territory acquired under the new regime, in the direction of Mexico, to everlasting slavery.
An effort is to be made to break up the Senate, when it shall proceed to count the votes on the first Wednesday in February.  This movement does not seem to be abandoned.  If it is, then the city of Washington is to be seized on or about the 22d or 25th of February, or somewhere about that time. The arrangements for defence made by Gen. Scott and the city authorities are the only means of arresting this design; but much will depend upon the convening of the Maryland Legislature.   Even then, if Gov. Hicks holds out, the more violent of
<c06>
The United States Constitution is “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell
What order of men under the most absolute of monariches or the most aristocractic of republics was over invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exculsive representation of less than half a milllion owners of slaves in the Hall of this House in the chair of the senate and in the presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of the one species of property concentrated in the highest authorated of the nation and disseminated through thirteen a privileged order of men in the community more adverse to the rights of all and more pernicious to the interests of the whole than any order of nobility ever known.To call government thus of mankind.....It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery.There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history,or in the political theories of Aristotle,with which it can be likened.It was introduced into the constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons.Little did the members of the convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."--JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
 the Legislature propose to meet without his call, while others are for the self-constituted  Revolutionary Convention doing everything, in conjunction with that of Virginia.  Nothing can nullify the acts of such a Convention but the prompt assembling of a self-called Union one, as I have already intimated.
The grand Union meeting last night was a triumphant success, and Reverdy Johnson’s great forensic speech against the constitutional right of secession, and the heresy of this Union being a mere compact of sovereign States, may serve to arrest the tide of rebellion in Maryland.  If the Federal Government would only act as promptly as the rebels do. a counter current would speedily sweep the traitors into oblivion; but while South Carolina is permitted to defy the Federal Power, it is difficult to prevent the spreading of the infection.’Let Major Anderson strike but a blow in vindication of the.Federal sovereignty, and instantly you will see the border Slave States rally to the side of the Colossus. Let Gen. Scott be but made Commander-in-Chief of the Army, and a similar result will follow.  We all feel and know, here, that had Major Anderson made good his threat to Gov. Pickens, without referring the question to his Government, all would now be well. People would have seen that we have, indeed, a Government worthy the name of one.  The attempts at disturbing the Union meeting last night were crushed out instanter 
In certain quarters there is a statement afloat that five Alabamians intend to impose themselves upon Mr. Lincoln's suite as Republicans, and design to accompany him on his way to Washington, for sinister purposes. Whether there be any truth this or not, a word to the wise will be enough.Knowing the prejudices against the President elect, among the ignorant, engendered and fanned into fury by the Toombses and men of their ilk, it becomes the friends of the President elect to be prudent, at least.  As for the President himself, he is the honored choice of thirty millions of people, and he rests secure in their protection, even though a portion of them may be alienated from him by misrepresentation, but his history shows he is a man to go just where his duty calls him, regardless of consequences.   The Nation will find him a second Jackson within an hour after he gets into the White House.—N. Y. Tribune.
THE SPIRIT OF THE NORTHWEST.
Some idea of the feeling of the Northwest on the subject of” Secession and Mississippi Navigation" may be inferred from the following, which we take from the Cincinnati Gazette of Monday:—
"A mob has taken possession of the government defences near the mouth of the Mississippi River. Another mob is reported to have planted cannon on the banks of the river at Vicksburg, with the avowed purpose of sinking every steamboat that offers to pass without consenting to be overhauled and examined.  The former act is palpable treason against the federal government, and requires prompt attention from the administration.  The demonstrations at Vicksburg, as stated, have a special interest for the people of this city.  BOTH ARE OFFENCES SO INJURIOUS AND INSULTING TO THE WHOLE NORTHWEST, THAT, whatever the federal government may do, THEY WILL NOT BE  TOLERATED BY OUR PEOPLE 
It is needless to say that the Vicksburg dispatch referred to has created much excitement and indignation among those more immediately interested, and, in fact, among all classes of our people.  No idle threats or bravado are uttered, but no disposition prevails to submit to any interference with the free navigation of the Mississippi.  No rash or ill-advised steps will be taken, but on the first insult or hindrance to any boat's pursuing its customary and lawful business, measures will be taken to put a permanent stop to this insolence.
What we have before said, we now say again: The Northwest will be a unit in maintaining its right to a free and unobstructed use of the Mississippi River throughout its entire course. Of this, all intermeddlers and traitors to the Union may take note, and govern themselves accordingly.
No forts of the United States Government, anywhere upon that stream, or in its vicinity, will be permitted to remain, for any length of time, in the hands of a belligerent enemy, foreign or domestic. The insurgents who have stolen possession of Forts Jackson, St.  Philip, and  Pike, will speedily  be cleared out by the government, or by some other agency, not hostile to the Northwest.  It is not likely, however, that  any  forces  on that errand would choose the route by Vicksburg.  Here the lawless proceedings referred to at that point do not result from any reasonable fear. They must have some other purpose.
There are other modes of warfare than exploding gunpowder or  hacking with  steel.   The Prince of Orange, when his country was assailed by a dangerous  invasion, found  much  more  effective remedies.  He opened the dykes, overflowed the country, and put the otherwise victorious enemy to flight.
The same element, but in a very different manner, can be used for the discomfiture of any rebellious community on the lower Mississippi.  The Father of Waters has already volunteered on several occasions to teach this lesson. The fact that the bed of the river is at considerable elevation above the surrounding country is well ‘known. The terrible effects of a crevasse have been repeatedly witnessed. All the lower country, if aggression is made upon ‘northwestern rights,’ can be subdued by the work of a single night.  We say this in no threatening mood; but violence, meddlesome interference with legitimate river business, any sort of injury or abuse to our vessels, their passengers, their crews, or their lading, will inevitably lead to hostilities, and when these actually come, the most effectual methods of ‘conquering a peace’ will be adopted.
We regret much to see the spirit of alienation and fanaticism which appears now to be in the ascendant at New Orleans.  We should regret still more if the day ever comes when in defence of our rights-particularly that of the free navigation of the Mississippi, obtained by an outlay of millions of dollars— New Orleans and Cincinnati should be parties, on opposite sides, to actual war.  But we say distinctly, that the mouth of the Mississippi shall not pass into the hands of a foreign power, or our trade and intercourse up and down that river be left at the mercy of a mere treaty, until after a long and desperate struggle, in which the Northwest shall have been vanquished.  And this last result we do not seriously apprehend.  We are disposed to think, rather, that New Orleans would first find itself submerged in another Dead Sea, should it causelessly provoke and madly persist in a warfare like that.
We suspect that the southern malcontents are far less ignorant of the material strength, of the States of the Northwest, than of the spirit which has been excited among our people by constant menaces and by recent events.  There is no division of sentiment in this section  The madcap disunionists are known

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
to be wickedly wrong. Forbearance toward their insolence has ceased to be consistent with a decent self- respect They are raising a storm at the North, which will have none the less force and fury because it has gathered slowly. We want no strife. There is need of none. With loyal citizens we are prepared to talk over mutual grievances, and to reconcile all differences in a peaceful way. But we are not to be coerced by South Carolina, or Louisiana, or Mississippi, into a dishonorable surrender of our indisputable RIGHTS, or into unfaithfulness to our manifest DUTY. This is our position; and be is the result what it may, this position we shall maintain.

THE LESSON OF THE HOUR.
A DISCOURSE BY WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
At the Music Hall, Sunday, Jan. 20, 1861.
The office of the pulpit is to teach men their duty. Wherever men's thoughts have any influence on their laws, it is the duty of the pulpit to preach politics. If it were possible to conceive of a community whose opinions had no influence on their government, there the pulpit would have no occasion to talk of government. I never heard or knew of such a community. Though sheltered by Roman despotism, Herod and the chief priests abstained from this and that because they "feared the people."The Sultan dared to murder his Janissaries only when the streets came to hate them as much as he did. The Czar, at the head of a government whose constitution knows no check but poison and the dagger, yet feels the pressure of public opinion. Certainly, where pews are full of voters, no question but the sermon should be full of politics. 
"The Lord reigneth; let the earth rejoice." "The Covenant with Death" is annulled-"the Agreement with Hell" is broken to pieces. The chain which has held the slave system since 1787 is parted. Thirty years ago Southern leaders, sixteen years ago Northern Abolitionists, announced their purpose to seek the dissolution of the American Union. Who dreamed that success would come so soon? South Carolina, bankrupt, alone, with a hundred thousand more slaves than whites, four blacks to three whites within her border, flings her gauntlet at the feet of twenty-five millions of people in defence of an idea. I would New England could count one State as fearless among her six. Call it not the madness of an engineer who places himself in front of his cannon at the moment of discharge;-call it rather the forlorn hope of the mariner, seizing plank or spar in the fury of the storm. The mistake of South Carolina is, she fancies there is more chance of saving slavery outside of the Union than inside. Three States have followed her example. Probably the rest of the slave States, or many of them, will find themselves unable to resist the infection-and then the whole merciless conspiracy of 1787 is ended, and timid men will dare to hate slavery without trembling for bread or life.
Let us look at the country-the North, the South, and the government. The South divided into three sections-lst, Those who hold slaves exactly as they do bank stock or land-and of course love the Union, which enables them to treat man as property-timid wealth shrinking from change, but so timid as to stand dumb. 2d, Those who have ruled the nation sixty years, monopolizing Presidents' chairs and embassies; defeated now, these plan, in earnest sincerity, for another nation with Presidencies and embassies all to themselves. 3d, A class made up from these two, who cling to the Union in their hearts, but threaten loudly, well knowing the loudest threats get the best bargain. 
The object of the South is a separate confederacy- hoping it will stand long enough for the North to ask for annexation on their terms. 
Then comes the government, so-called-in reality a conspiracy against justice and honest men-some of its members pilferers and some traitors-the rest pilferers and traitors, too. Like all outgoing administrations, they have no wish to lessen the troubles of their successors by curing the nation's hurt-rather aggravate it. They have done all the mischief in their power, and long now only to hear the clock strike twelve on the 4th day of March. 
Then look at the North, divided into three sections- 1st, The defeated minority, glad of anything that troubles their conquerors. 2d, The class of Republicans led by Seward, offering to surrender anything to save the Union. (Applause) Their gospel is the Constitution, (applause,) and the slave clause is their  sermon on the mount. (Laughter and applause) They think that at the judgment-day, the blacker the sins they have committed to save the Union, the clearer will be their title to heaven. 3d, The rest of the Republicans, led by the Tribune-all honor to the Tribune, faithful and true! -who consider their honor pledged to fulfil in office the promises made in the canvass. Their motto is: "The Chicago platform, every inch of it-not a hair's breadth of the Territories shall be surrendered to slavery."(Applause.) But they, too, claim the cannon's mouth to protect forts, defend the flag, and save the Union. At the head of this section, we have every reason to believe, stands Mr. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
All these are the actors on the stage. But the foundation on which all stand divides only into two parts- those who like slavery and mean it shall last, those who hate it and mean it shall die. In the boiling gulf goes on the perpetual conflict of acid and alkali-all these classes are but bubbles on the surface. The upper millstone is right, and the lower wrong. Between them, governments and parchments, parties and compromises, are being slowly ground to powder.
Broadly stated, the South plans a Southern confederacy to uphold slavery-the North clings to the Union to uphold trade and secure growth. Without the Union, Mr. Seward tells us we can neither be safe, rich, strong nor happy. We used to think justice was before thrift, and nobleness better than happiness. I place no great reliance on that prudent patriotism which is the child of interest. The Tribune, unusually frank, pre-eminently honorable and lofty as has been its tone of late, still says, "Be it the business of the people everywhere to forget the negro, and remember only the country."(Applause.) 
After drifting, a dreary night of thirty years, before the hurricane, our ship of State is going to pieces on the lee shore of slavery. -Every one confesses that the poison of our body politic is slavery. European critics, in view of it, have pronounced the existence of the Union hitherto a "fortunate accident."Orators floated into fame on one inspired phrase-"irrepressible conflict."Jefferson died foreseeing that this was the rock on which we should split. Even Mr. Webster, speaking with bated breath, in the cold chill of 1850, still dared to be a statesman, and offered to meet the South on this question, suggesting a broad plan for the cure of our dread disease. But now, with the Union dropping asunder, with every brain and tongue active, we have yet to hear the first statesman word, the first proposal to consider the fountain and origin of all our ills. We look in vain through Mr. Seward's speech for one hint or suggestion as to any method of dealing with our terrible hurt. Indeed, one of his terrors of disunion is, that it will give room for "an European, an uncompromising hostility to slavery. "Such an hostility, the irrepressible conflict of right and wrong, William H. Seward, in 1861, pronounces "fearful"! To describe the great conflict of the age, the first of American statesmen, in the year of Garibaldi and Italy, can find no epithet but "fearful." 
The servile silence of the 7th of March, 1850, is outdone, and Massachusetts yields to New York the post of infamy which her great Senator has hitherto filled. Yes, of all the doctors bending over the patient, not one dares to name his disease, except the Tribune, which advises him to forget it! Throughout half of the great cities of the North, every one who touches on it is mobbed into silence! This is, indeed, the saddest feature of our times. 
Let us, then, who, unlike Mr. Seward, are not afraid to tell, even now, all and just what we wish-let us look at the real nature of the crisis in which we stand. The Tribune says we should "forget the negro."It
<c02>
seems to me that all our past, all our present, and all our future command us at this moment to think of nothing but the negro. (Slight laughter, derisively.) 
Let me tell you why. 
The first duty of society is JUSTICE. If any other basis of safety or gain were honest, it would be impossible. "A prosperous iniquity," says Jeremy Taylor, "is the most unprofitable condition in the world."We were not sent into  the world to plant cities, to make Unions or save them. Seeing that all men are born equal, our first civil duty is to see that our laws treat them so. The convulsion of this hour is the effort of the nation to do this, its duty, while politicians and parties strive to balk it of its purpose. The nation agonizes this hour to recognize man as man-forgetting the color, condition, sex and creed. 
Our Revolution earned us only independence. Whatever our fathers meant, the chief lesson of that hour was that America belongs to Americans. That generation learned it thoroughly; the second inherited it as a prejudice; we, the third, have our bones and blood made of it. When thought passes through purpose into character, it becomes the unchangeable basis of national life. That Revolutionary lesson need never be learned again, and will never die out. Let a British fleet, with Admirals of the blue and red, cover our Atlantic coast, and in ten days Massachusetts and Carolina will stand shoulder to shoulder, the only rivalry, who shall die nearest the foe. (Loud applause, with cries of 'Good.")
That principle is all our revolution directly taught us. Massachusetts was hide-bound in the aristocracy of classes for years after. The bar and the orthodox pulpit were our House of Lords. A Baptist clergyman was little better than a negro. The five points of Massachusetts decency were to trace your lineage to the Mayflower-graduate at Harvard College-be a good lawyer or a member of an orthodox church- either would answer-(laughter)-pay your debts, and frighten your child to sleep by saying "Thomas Jefferson."Our theological aristocracy went down before the stalwart blows of the Baptist and Unitarian- before Channing and Abner Kneeland. Virginia and Carolina slaveholders, making the oretical democracy their passion, conquered the Federal Government, and emancipated the working classes of New England. Bitter was the cup to honest Federalism and the Essex junto. To-day, Massachusetts only holds to the lips of Carolina a beaker of the same beverage. I know no man who has analyzed this passage in our history so well as Richard Hildreth. The last thirty years have been the flowering out of this lesson. The Democratic principle, crumbling classes into men, has been working down from pulpits and judges' seats, through shop-boards and shoe-benches, to Irish hodmen, and reached the negro at last. The long toil of a century cries out "Eureka "-I have found it-the diamond of an immortal soul and an equal manhood under a black skin as sure as under a white one. For this Leggett labored and Lovejoy died. For this the bravest soul of the century went up to God from a Virginia scaffold. (Hisses and applause.) For this, young men gave up their May of youth, and old men the honors and case of age. It went through the land writing history afresh, setting up and pulling down parties, riving sects, mowing down colossal reputations, making us veil our faces in shame at the baseness of our youth's idols, sending bankrupt statesmen to dishonored graves. 
We stand to-day just as Hancock and Adams and Jefferson stood, when stamp act and tea tax, Patrick Henry's eloquence, and the massacre of March 5th, Otis's blood, and Bunker Hill, had borne them to July, 1776. Suppose at that moment John Adams had cried out, "Now let the people everywhere forget Independence, and remember only' God save the King!' "(Laughter.) The toil of a whole generation, thirty years, has been spent in examining this question of the rights and place of the negro-the whole earnest thought of the nation given to it-old parties have been wrecked against it, new ones grown out of it-it stifles all other questions-the great interests of the nation necessarily suffer because men refuse to think of anything else-it struggles up through all compromises, asserting its right to be heard-no green withes of eloquence and cunning, trade, pulpit, Congress or college, succeed in binding this Sampson-the business of the seaboard begs it may be settled, no matter how-the whole South is determined to have it met, proclaiming that it does not secede because of Personal Liberty Laws or a Republican President, but because of the state of Northern feeling of which these are signs It is not Northern laws or officers they fear, but Northern conscience. Why, then, should not the North accept the issue, and try to settle the question forever? You may run the Missouri line to the Pacific, but Garrison still lives-and while he does, South Carolina hates and fears Massachusetts. (Applause.) No resolves can still our brains or stifle our hearts-till you do, the slaveholder feels that New England is his natural foe. There can therefore be no real peace till we settle the slave question. If thirty years of debate have not fitted us to meet it, when shall we be able?
But the most honest Republicans say a State has no right to secede-we will show first that we have a government, and then, not before, settle disputed questions. Suppose a State has no right to secede, of what consequence is that? A Union is made up of willing States, not of conquered provinces. There are some rights, quite perfect, yet wholly incapable of being enforced. A husband or wife who can only keep the other partner within the bond by locking the doors and standing armed before them, had better submit to peaceable separation. (Applause.) A firm where one partner refuses to act, has a full right to his services but how compel them ? South Carolina may be punished for her fault in going out of the Union, but that does not keep her in it. Why not recognize soberly the nature and necessity of our position ? Why not, like statesmen, remember that homogeneous nations, like France, tend to centralization-confederacies, like ours, tend inevitably to dismemberment. France is the slow, still deposit of ages on central granite; only the globe's convulsion can rive it! We are the rich mud of the Mississippi-every flood shifts it from one side to the other of the channel. Nations like Austria, victim States, held under the lock and key of despotism,-or like ourselves, a herd of States, hunting for their food together,-must expect that any quarrel may lead to disunion. Beside, Inter arma, silent leges-Armies care nothing for constables. This is not a case at law, but Revolution. 
Let us not, however, too anxiously grieve over the Union of 1787. Real Unions are not made-they grow. This was made, like an artificial waterfall or a Connecticut nutmeg. It was not an oak which today a tempest shatters. It was a wall hastily built, in hard times, of round boulders, the cement has crumbled, and the smooth stones, obeying the law of gravity, tumble here and there. Why should we seek to stop them, merely to show that we have a right and can? That were only a waste of means and temper. Let us build like the Pyramids, a fabric which every natural law guarantees; or, better still, plant a Union whose life survives the ages, and quietly gives birth to its successor. 
Mr. Seward's last speech, which he confesses does not express his real convictions, denies every principle, but one, that he proclaimed in his campaign at dresses; that one-which, at Lansing, he expressly said "he was ashamed to confess "-that one its this, everything is to be sacrificed to save the Union. I am not aware that, on any public occasion, varied and wide as have been his discussions and topics, he has ever named the truth or the virtue which he would not sacrifice to save the Union. For thirty years there has been stormy and searching discussion of profound moral questions; one, whom his friends call our only statesman, has spoken often on all; yet he has never named the sin which he does not think its saving of the Union would not change into a virtue. 
Remembering this element of his statesmanship, let us listen to the key-note of his late speech: "The first object of every human society is safety or security-for which, if need be, they will and they must sacrifice every other."
<c03>
I will not stop to say that, even with his explanations, his principle is equivocal, and, if unlimited, false; that, unqualified, it justifies every crime, and would have prevented every glory of history; that by it, James II. and Bonaparte were saints; under one sense, the Pilgrims were madmen, and under another, the Puritans did right to hang Quakers. But grant it. Suppose the Union means wealth, culture, happiness and safety,-man has no right to buy either by crime
Many years ago, on the floor of Congress, Kentucky and Tennessee both confessed that "the dissolution of the Union was the, dissolution of slavery."Last month Senator Johnson of Tennessee said, "If I were an abolitionist, and wanted to accomplish the abolition of slavery in the Southern States, the first step I would take would be to break the bonds of this Union. I believe the continuance of shivery depends on the preservation of this Union, and a compliance with all the guarantees of the Constitution."In September last, Mr. Seward himself said, "What are they [the Southern States] in for, but to have slavery  saved for them by the Federal Union ? Why would they go out, for they could not maintain and defend themselves against their own slaves?" In this last speech, he tells us it is the Union which restricts the opposition of slavery within narrow limits, and prevents it from being, like that of Europe, a "direct and uncompromising" demand for abolition. 
Now, if the Union created for us a fresh Golconda every month, if it made every citizen wise as Solomon, blameless as St John, and safe as an angel in the courts of Heaven, to cling to it would still be a damnable crime, hateful to God, while its cement was the blood of the negro-while it, and it alone, made the crime of slaveholding possible in fifteen States. 
Mr. Seward is a power in the State. It is worth while to understand his course. It cannot be caprice. His position decides that of millions. The instinct that leads him to take it shows his guess (and he rarely errs) what the majority intend. I reconcile thus the utter difference and opposition of his campaign speeches, and his last one. I think he went West, sore at the loss of the nomination, but with too much good sense, perhaps magnanimity, to act over again Webster's sullen part when Taylor stole his rights. 
Still Mr. Seward, though philosophic, though keen to analyze and unfold the theory of our politics, is not cunning in plans. He is only the hand and tongue; his brain lives in private life on the Hudson river-side. Acting under that guidance, he thought Mr. Lincoln not likely to go beyond, even if he were able to keep, the whole Chicago Platform. Accordingly he said, I will give free rein to my natural feelings and real convictions, till these Abolitionists of the Republican ranks shall cry-"Oh, what a mistake! We ought to have nominated Seward; another time we will not be balked."Hence the hot eloquence and fearless tone of those prairie speeches. He returns to Washington, finds Mr. Lincoln sturdily insisting that his bond is pledged to keep, in office, every promise made in the platform. Then Mr. Seward shifts his course, saying, "Since my abolitionism cannot take the wind from my rival's sails, I'll get credit as a conservative. Accepting the premiership, I will forestall public opinion, and do all possible to bind the coming administration to a policy which I originate."He offers to postpone the whole Chicago Platform, in order to save the Union- though last October, at Chicago, he told us postponement never settles anything-whether it is a lawsuit or national question, better be beat and try again, than postpone. 
This speech of Mr. Seward I regard as a declaration of war against the avowed policy of the incoming President. If Lincoln were an Andrew Jackson, as his friends aver, he would dismiss Mr. Seward from his Cabinet The incoming administration, if honest and firm, has two enemies to fight, Mr. Seward and the South. 
His power is large. Already he has swept our Adams into the vortex-making him offer to sacrifice the whole Republican platform-though, as events have turned, he has sacrificed only his own personal honor. Fifteen years ago, John Quincy Adams prophesied that the Union would not last twenty years. He little thought that disunion, when it came, would swallow his son's honor in its gulf. 
At such hours, New England Senators and Representatives have, from the idea of their very ultraism, little or no direct weight in Congress. But while New England is the brain of the Union, and therefore foreshadows what will be public opinion in the plastic West five years hence, it is of momentous consequence that the people here should make their real feelings known-that the pulpit and press should sound the bugle-note of utter defiance to slavery itself -Union or no Union, Constitution or no Constitution, freedom for every man between the oceans, and from the hot Gulf to the frozen Pole! You may as well dam up Niagara with bulrushes as bind our anti-slavery purpose with Congressional compromise. The South knows it. While she holds out her hand for Seward's offer, she keeps her eye fixed on us, to see what we think. Let her see that we laugh it to scorn. Sacrifice anything to keep the slaveholding States in the Union ? God forbid! we will rather build a bridge of gold, and pay their toll over it-accompany them out with glad noise of trumpets, and "speed the parting guest."Let them not "stand on the order of their going, but go at once "! Take the forts, empty our arsenals and sub-treasuries, and we will lend them beside jewels of gold and jewels of silver, and Egypt be glad when they are departed. (Laughter and applause.) 
But let the world distinctly understand why they go-to save slavery; and why we rejoice in their departure-because we know their declaration of independence is the jubilee of the slave. The eyes of the world are fixed on us as the great example of selfgovernment. When this Union goes to pieces, it is a shock to the hopes of the struggling millions of Europe. All lies bear bitter fruit. Today is the inevitable fruit of our fathers' faithless compromise in 1787. For the sake of the future, in freedom's name, let thinking Europe understand clearly why we sever. They saw Mr. Seward paint, at Chicago, our utter demoralization, Church and State, government and people, all classes, educated and uneducated-all brought by the Slave Power, he said, to think slavery a blessing, and do anything to save it. So utter did he consider this demoralization, that he despaired of Native Americans, and trusted to the hunted patriots and the refuse of Europe, which the emigrant trains bore by his house, for the salvation of the valley of the Mississippi. To-day they see that very man kneeling to that Slave Power, and begging her to take all, but only consent to grant him such a Union-Union with such a Power! How, then, shall Kossuth answer, when Austria laughs him to scorn? Shall Europe see the slaveholder kick the reluctant and kneeling North out of such a Union? How, then, shall Garibaldi dare look in the face of Napoleon? If, therefore, it were only to honor self-government, to prove that it educates men, not pedlars and cowards, let us proclaim our faith that honest labor can stand alone; its own right hand amply able to earn its bread and defend its rights (applause); and, if it were not so, our readiness, at any cost, to welcome disunion, when it comes bringing freedom to four million of hapless slaves! (Applause.) What a sad comment on free institutions, that they have produced a South of tyrants, and a North of cowards; a South, ready to face any peril to save slavery, and a North unwilling to risk a dollar to serve freedom! 
Why do I set so little value on the Union ? Because I consider it a failure; certainly, so far as slavery is concerned, it is a failure. If you doubt me, look at the picture of its effects which Mr. Seward painted at Chicago. 
Under it, 700,000 slaves have increased to 4,000,000. We have paid $800,000,000 directly to the support of slavery. This secession will cost the Union and business $50,000,000 more. The loss which this disturbing force has brought to our trade and industry, within sixty years, it would be safe to call $500,000,000. Is the Union a pecuniary success? Under it, slavery  has been strong enough to rule the nation for sixty
<c04>
years, and now breaks it to pieces because it can rule it no longer. Under it, public morals have been so lowered, that while, at its outset, nine men out of ten were proud to be called abolitionists, now, nine out of ten would deem it not only an insult, but a pecuniary injury, to be charged with being so. Ever since it existed, its friends have confessed that to save it, it was necessary and proper to crush free speech. Witness John Adams's sedition laws. Witness mobs of well-dressed merchants in every Northern city now. Witness one-half of the Republican party lamenting free speech, this hour, throughout the North. 
Mr. Seward confessed, at Chicago, that neither free speech nor free suffrage existed in one-half of the States. No Northern man can trade, live or talk there. For twenty years, men have been mobbed, robbed, lynched, hung and burned there, solely for loving liberty; and while the Federal Government never lifted a finger to prevent or punish it,  the very States whose citizens have been outraged, have been too indifferent even to remonstrate. Massachusetts, who once remonstrated, saw her own agent mobbed out of Charleston with her full consent.
Before the Union existed, Washington and Jefferson uttered the boldest anti-slavery opinions; to-day they would be lynched in their own homes; and their sentiments have been mobbed this very year in every great city of the North. The Fugitive Slave Bill could never have been passed nor executed in the days of Jay. Now, no man who hopes for office dares to insist that it is unconstitutional. Slavery has turned our churches of Christ to churches of commerce. 
John Quincy Adams, the child of our earlier civilization, said the Union was worthless, weighed against that liberty it was meant to secure. Mr. Seward, child of the Union, says there are few men, and there ought to be few, who would not prefer saving the Union to securing freedom; and standing to-day at the head of nineteen million of free men, he confesses he does not deem it prudent to express this "most cherished convictions" on this subject, while every honest man fears, and three-fourths of Mr. Seward's followers hope, that the North, in this conflict of right and wrong, will, spite of Horace Greeley's warning, "love Liberty less than Profit, dethrone Conscience, and set up Commerce in its stead."You know it. A Union whose despotism is so cruel and searching that one-half our lawyers and one-half our merchants stifle conscience for bread-in the name of Martin Luther and John Milton, of Algernon Sydney and Henry Vane, of John Jay and Samuel Adams, I declare such a Union a failure. 
It is for the chance of saving such a Union that Mr. Seward and Mr. Adams break in Washington all the promises of the canvass, and countenance measures which stifle the conscience and confuse the moral sense of the North. Say not that my criticism of them is harsh. I know their philosophy. It is, conciliate, compromise, postpone, practise finesse, make promises, or break them, do anything to gain time and concentrate the North against slavery. Our fathers tried that policy in 1787. That they miserably failed is proved by a Capitol filled with knaves and traitors, yet able to awe and ruin honest men. It was tried in 1821, and failed. It was tried in 1850, and failed. Who is audacious enough to ask another trial ? The Republicans say-"Conciliate-use soft language-organize, behind the door, bands of volunteers; and when we have saved Washington, we may dare speak out."That is good policy for midnight conspirators. But if we are a government, if we are a nation, we should say-"Tell the truth! If coercion is policy, tell the truth. Call for volunteers in every State, and vindicate the honor of the nation in the light of the sun!" (Applause.) 
The Union, then, is a failure. What harm can come from disunion, and what good?
The seceding States will form a Southern Confederacy. We may judge of its future from the history of Mexico. The Gulf States intend to re-open the slave trade. If Kentucky and Tennessee, Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina secede, the opening of that trade will ruin them, and they will gravitate to us, free. Louisiana cannot secede, except on paper; the omnipotent West needs her territory as the mouth of its river. She must stay with us as a State or a conquered Province-and may have her choice. (Laughter.) Beside, she stands on Sugar, and free trade bankrupts her. Consider the rest of the slave States as one power-how can it harm us ? Let us see the ground of Mr. Seward's fears. Will it increase our expenses or lessen our receipts ? No, every one of those States costs the Union more than it contributes to it. Can it harm us by attacks ? States without commerce or manufactures, and with an army of four millions of natural enemies encamped among them, have given bonds to keep the peace. Will they leave us so small and weak by going that we cannot stand alone? Let us see. There is no reason to suppose that the free States, except California, will not cling together. Idem velle, idem nolle-to like and dislike the same things, says the Latin proverb, is friendship. When a great number of persons agree in a great number of things, that ensures a union-that is not the case with the North and South, therefore we separate; that is the case with the whole North, therefore we shall remain united. How strong shall we be ? Our territory will be twice as large as Austria, three times as large as France, four times as large as Spain, six times as large as Italy, seven times as large as Great Britain. Those nations have proved, for a considerable period, that they had sufficient land to stand on. Our population will be about nineteen millions- more than the Union had in 1840. I do not think we were much afraid of anybody in 1840. Our blood is largely Yankee, a race that saved Carolina from her own Tories, in the Revolution. (Laughter.) Without that hindrance, we could fight certainly as well as we did then; and then, with three millions men only, we measured swords with the ablest nation of Europe, and conquered. I think, therefore, we have no reason to be very nervously anxious now. Indeed, Mr. Seward's picture of the desolation and military weak ness of the divided States, if intended for the North, is the emptiest lie in his speech. I said lie-I meant it. I will tell you why. Because one William H. Seward said, last fall, at Lansing-"We are maintaining a standing army at the heavy cost of one thousand dollars per man, and a standing navy-for what? to protect Michigan or Massachusetts, New York or Ohio? No, there is not a nation on the face of the earth which would dare to attack these free States, or any of them, if they were even disunited. We are doing it in order that slaves may not escape from slave States into the free, and to secure those States from domestic in surrection; and because, if we provoke a foreign foe, slavery cries out that it is in danger."Surely, the speaker of those words has no right to deny that our expenses and danger will be less, and our power to meet both greater, when the slave States are gone.
Indeed, everybody knows this. And this trembling dread of losing the Union, which so frightens the people that, in view of it, Mr. Seward, as a practical man, dares not now tell, as he says, what he really thinks and wishes, is the child of his and Webster's insincere idolatry of the Union. To serve party and personal ambition, they made a God of the Union; and to-day their invention returns to plague the inventors. They made the people slaves to a falsehood; and that same deluded people have turned their fetters into gags for Mr. Seward's lips. Thank God for the retribution! 
But the Union created commerce; disunion will kill it. The Union the mother of commerce? I doubt it  I question whether the genius and energy of the Yankee race are not the parent of commerce and the fountain of wealth, much more than the Union. That race, in Holland, first created a country, and then, standing on piles, called modern commerce into being. That race, in England, with territory just wide enough to keep its eastern and western harbors apart, monopolized, for centuries, the trade of the world, and annexed continents only as coffers wherein to garner its wealth. Who shall say that the same blood, with only New England for its anchorage, could not drag the wealth of the West into its harbors? Who shall say that the fertile lands of
<c05>
Virginia and the Mississippi enrich us because they will to do so, and not because they are compelled?  As long as New England is made of granite and the nerves of her sons of steel, she will be, as she always has been, the brain of North America, united or disunited; and harnessing the elements, steam and lightning, to her car of conquest, she will double the worth of every prairie acre by her skill, cover ocean with her canvas, and gather the wealth of the western hemisphere into her harbors.
Despite, then, of Seward's foreboding, our confederacy will be strong, safe and rich. Honest it will be, and therefore happy. Its nobleness will be, that, laughing at prophets, and scorning chances, it has taken the prop from the slave system, and in one night the whole fabric will tumble to pieces. Disunion is Abolition! That is all the value Disunion has for me. I care nothing for forms of government No foreign State dare touch us, united or disunited. It matters not to me whether Massachusetts is worth one thousand millions, as now, or two thousand millions, as she might be, if she had no Carolina to feed, protect, and carry the mails for. The music of Disunion to me is, that at its touch,  the slave breaks into voice, shouting his jubilee.
What supports slavery? Northern bayonets, calming the masters' fears. Mr. Seward's words, which I have just quoted, tell you what he thinks the sole use of our army and navy. Disunion leaves God's natural laws to work their good results. God gives every animal means of self-protection. Under God's law, insurrection is the tyrant's check. Let us stand out of the path, and allow the divine law to have free course.
Next, Northern opinion is the opiate of Southern conscience. Disunion changes that. Public opinion forms governments, and again governments react to mould opinion. Here is a government just as much permeated by slavery as China or Japan is with idolatry. 
The Republican party take possession of this government How are they to undermine the Slave Power? That power is composed, 1st, of the inevitable influence of wealth-2,000,000,000 of dollars- the worth of  the slaves in the Union-so much capital drawing to it the sympathy of all other capital; 2d, of the artificial aristocracy created by the three-fifths slave basis of the Constitution; 3d, by the potent and baleful prejudice of color. 
The aristocracy of the Constitution! Where have you seen an aristocracy with half its power? You may take a small town here in New England, with a busy, active population of 2500, and three or four such men as Gov. Aiken, of South Carolina, riding leisurely to the polls, and throwing their visiting cards in for ballots, will blot out the entire influence of that New England town in the federal government That is your Republicanism! Then, when you add to that the element of prejudice, which is concentrated in the epithet which spells negro with two "gg's,"you make the three-stand cable of the Slave Power the  prejudice of race, the omnipotence of money, and the almost irresistible power of aristocracy. That is the Slave Power. 
How is Mr. Lincoln to undermine it while in the Union? Certainly, by turning every atom of patronage and pecuniary profit in the keeping of the federal government to the support of freedom. You know that the policy has been always acted upon ever since Washington, and it has been openly avowed ever since Fillmore, that no man was to receive any office who was not sound on the slavery question. You remember the debate in the Senate, when that was distinctly avowed to be the policy of Mr. Fillmore. You remember Mr. Clay letting it drop out accidentally. In debate, that the slaveholders had always closely watched the Cabinet, and kept a majority there, in order to preserve the ascendancy of slavery. This is the policy which, in the course of fifty years, has built up the Slave Power. Now, how is the Republican party ever to beat that Power down ? By reversing that policy, in favor of freedom. Cassius Clay said to me, five years ago: "If you will allow me to have the patronage of this government five years, and exercise it remorselessly, down to New Orleans-never permit any one but an avowed Abolitionist to hold office under the federal government-I will revolutionize the slave States themselves in two administrations."That is a scheme of efficient politics. But the Republican party has never yet professed any such policy. 
Mr. Greeley, on the contrary, avowed in the Tribune, that he had often voted for a slaveholder willingly and he never expected the time would come when he should lay down the principle of refusing to vote for a slaveholder to office;-and that sentiment has not only been reiterated by others of the Republican party, but has never been disavowed by any one. But suppose you could develop politics up to this idea, that the whole patronage of the government should be turned in favor of Abolition-it would take two or three generations to overthrow what the Slave Power has done in sixty years, with the power of aristocracy and the strength of prejudice on its side. With the patronage of the government in its "control, the Republican party must work slowly to regenerate the government against those elements in opposition, when, with them in its favor, the Slave Power has been some sixty years in bringing about such a result as we see around us. To reverse this, and work only with the patronage of the government, it would take you long to effect the cure. In my soul, I believe that a dissolution of the Union, sure to result speedily in the abolition of slavery, would be a lesser evil than the slow, faltering, diseased, gradually dying out of slavery, constantly poisoning us with the festering remains of this corrupt political, social and literary state. I believe a sudden, conclusive, definite disunion, resulting in the abolition of slavery, in the disruption of the Northern mind from all connection with it, all vassalage to it, immediately, would be a better, healthier, and more wholesome cure, than to let the Republican party exert this gradual influence through the power of the government for thirty or sixty years. 
We are seeking the best way to get rid of a great national evil. Mr. Seward's  way is to put down the Union a "fixed fact,"and then educate politics up to a certain level. In that way we have to live, like Sinbad, with Gushing, and Hillard, and Hallett, and O'Connor, and Douglas, and men like them, on our shoulders, for the next thirty or forty years,- with the Deweys and President Lords, and all that class of men,-and nil this timid servility of the press,-all this lack of virtue and manhood,-all this corruption of the pulpit,-all this fossil hunkerisni,- all tills selling of the soul for a mess of pottage,-is to linger, working in the body politic for thirty or forty years, and we are gradually to eliminate the disease! What an awful future! What a miserable chronic disease! What a wreck of a noble nation the American Republic is to be for fifty years!
And why ? Only to save a piece of parchment that. Elbridge Gerry had instinct enough to think did not deserve saving, as long ago as 1789! Mr. Seward would leave New York united to New Orleans, with the hope (sure to be baulked) of getting freer and freer from year to year. I want to place her, at once, in the same relation towards New Orleans that she bears to Liverpool. You can do it, the moment you break the political the. What will that do? I will tell you. The New York pulpit is to-day one end of a magnetic telegraph, of which the New Orleans cotton market is the other. The New York stock market is one end of  the magnetic telegraph, and the Charleston Mercury is the other. New York statesmanship! Why, even in the lips of Seward, it is sealed, or half sealed, by considerations that take their rise in the cane-brakes and cotton-fields of fifteen States. Break up this Union, and the ideas of South Carolina will have no more influence on Seward than those of Palmerston. The wishes of New Orleans would have no more influence on Chief Justice Bigelow than the wishes of London. The threats of Davis, Toombs and Keitt will have no more influence on the Tribune than the thunders of the London Times on the hopes of the Chartists. Our Bancrofts will no longer write history with one eye fixed on Democratic success
<c06>
nor our Websters invent "laws of God" to please Mr. Senator Douglas. We shall have as close connection, as much commerce; we shall still have a common language, a common faith and common race, the same common social life; we shall intermarry just the same; common social life; we shall have streamers running just as often and just as rapidly as now. But what cares Dr. Dewey for the opinion of Liverpool? Nothing! What cares he for the opinion of Washington? Every thing! Break the link, and New York springs up like the fountain relieved from a mountain load, and assumes her place among decent cities. We mean no special praise of the English courts, pulpit or press by these comparisons; our only wish is to show ever close that however close the commercial relations might continue to be between North and South, and in spite of that common faith and common tongue and common history, which would continue to hold these thirty States together, still, as in the case of this country and England, wedded still by the same ties, the mere sundering of a political union would leave each half free, as that of 1776 did, from a very large share of the corrupt influence of the other.
That is what I mean by Disunion. I mean to take Massachusetts, and leave her exactly as she is, commercially. She shall manufacture for the South just as Lancashire does. I know what an influence the south has on the manufacturers and clergy of England;-that is inevitable, in the nature of things. We have only human nature to work with, and we cannot raise it up to the level of angels. We shall never get beyond the sphere of human selfishness, but we can lift this human nature up to a higher level if we can but remove the weight of this political relation which now rests upon it. What I would do with Massachusetts is this-I would make her, in relation to South Carolina, just what England is. I would that I could float her off, and anchor her in mid ocean?
Severed from us, South Carolina must have a government. You see now a reign of terror-threats to raise means. That can only last a day. Some system must give support to a government. It is an expensive luxury. You must lay taxes to support it. Where will you levy your taxes? They must rest on productions. Productions are the result of skilled labor. You must educate your laborer, if you would have the means for carrying on a government. Despotisms are cheap; free governments are a dear luxury-the machinery is complicated and expensive. If the South wants a theoretical Republic, she must pay for it-she must have a basis for taxation. How will she pay for it? Why, Massachusetts, with a million workmen-men, women and children-the little feet that can just toddle bringing chips from the wood-pile-Massachusetts only pays her own board and lodging, and lays by about four-per cent, a year. And South Carolina, with one half idlers, and the other half slaves, only doing half the work of a free man-only one quarter of the population actually at work-how much do you suppose she lays up? Lays up a loss! By all the laws of political economy,"she lays up bankruptcy-of course she does! Put her out, and let her see how sheltered she has been from the laws of trade by the Union! The free labor of the North pays, her plantation patrol; we pay for her government, we pay for her postage, and for every thing else. Launch her out, and let her see if she can make the year's ends meet! And when she tries, she must educate her labor in order to get in order to get the basis for taxation. Educate slaves! Make a locomotive with its furnaces of open wire work, fill them with anthracite coal, and when you have raised it to white heat, mount and drive it through a powder magazine, and you are safe, compared with a slaveholding community educating its slaves. But South Carolina must do it, in order to get the basis for taxation to support an independent government. The moment she does it, she removes the safeguard of slavery. What is the contest in Virginia now? Between the men who want to make their slaves mechanics, for the enhanced wages it will secure, and the men who oppose, for four of the influence it will have on the general security of slave property and white throats. Just that dispute will go on, if ever the Union is dissolved. Slavery comes to an end by the laws of trade. Hang up your Sharp's rifle, my valorous friend! The slave does not ask the help of your musket. He only says, like old Diogenes to Alexander, "Stand out of my light!ï¿½Just take your awkward proportions, you Yankee Democrat and Republican, out of the light and heat of God's laws of political economy, and they will melt the slave's chains away!
Take your distorted Union, your nightmare monster, out of the light and range of those laws of trade and competition; then, without any sacrifice on your part, slavery will go to pieces! God made it a law of his universe, that villany should always be loss; and if you will only not attempt, with your puny efforts, to stand betwixt the inevitable laws of God's kingdom, as you are doing to-day, and have done for sixty years, by the vigor that the industry of sixteen States has been able to infuse into the sluggish veins of the South, slavery will drop to pieces by the very influence of the competition of the nineteenth century. That is what we mean by Disunion!
That is my coercion.' Northern pulpits cannonading the Southern conscience; Northern competition emptying its pockets; educated slaves awaking its fears; Civilization and Christianity beckoning the South into their sisterhood. Soon every breeze that sweeps over Carolina will bring to our ears the music of repentance, and even she will carve on her Palmetto, "We hold this truth to be self-evident-that all men are created equal.ï¿½
All hail, then, Disunion! ï¿½Beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace, that saith onto Zien, Thy God reigneth."The sods of Bunker Hill shall be greener now that their great purpose is at accomplished. Sleep in peace, martyr of Harper's Ferry!-your life was not given in vain. Rejoice, spirits of Fayette and Kosciusko!-the only stain upon your swords is passing away. Soon, throughout all America, there shall be neither power nor wish to hold a slave.
We copy the above report of Mr. Phillips's address from the Atlas and Bee of Monday. It was heard by a large audience, which crowded the Music Hall in every part. In consequence of the threats which have so frequently been made of late, that Mr. Phillips should not be allowed to speak, some apprehensions of a disturbance were felt. Application was  made to Mayor Wightman for the protection of the police, (of which a record is given in another column,) which he at first refused to grant, but finally awoke to a sense of his duty, and to the obligation of his recent oath, and stationed a number of officers in various parts of the hall, having a reserved force of seventy-five picked men at the City Hall. On the part of the State government, Gov. Andrews, Cols. Sargent and Ritchie of the staff, Adj. Gen. Schouler and Sheriff Clark were located in the immediate vicinity of Music Hall, prepared for any emergency. Happily, their services were not required.
Before commencing his discourse, Mr. Phillips requested the friends of the Society to preserve entire silence during its delivery; a request which was in the main, complied with, though the temptation to answer, by applause, the tokens of disapprobation which were occasionally manifested, proved too strong for some among the audience.
When Mr. Phillips left  the hall, accompanied by a large number of friends, they found Winter street lined by crowds of genteel ruffian, of the Bell-Everett persuasion, evidently, who vented their spite in howls and groans. A large number of policemen were in the street, who kept the crowd back, and accompanied Mr. Phillips to his residence. On the way thither, at the corner of Washington and Bedford streets, the crush was so severe, that one of the large lights in the apothecary store of Mr. Joseph T. Brown (valued at $50) was broken. No other damage was done, and Mr. Phillips and his friends passed on, the rabble following, until the residence of Mr. Phillips was reached, when he was safely escorted inside, amid enthusiastic cheers by his friends, and some hissing and hooting by the other party.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 1861.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
Delinquent subscribers for the past year,—that is, from January 1, 1860, to January 1, 1861,—are respectfully requested to remember our STANDING RULE, by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1, 1861, unless payment for the same be previously sent in. We shall be extremely sorry to lose a single subscriber in this manner, especially at this crisis in our national affairs; but, as our printed terms indicate that payment is to be made in advance, we are sure if, instead of rigidly exacting it, we allow (as we do) a credit of thirteen months to delinquents, they can have no cause of complaint when their papers are stopped for omitting to make settlement.

THE ANNUAL MEETING.
Our paper goes to press too early to allow us to give any information as to the result of the attempt to hold the twenty-ninth anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society in this city this week; but we are prepared to witness another of those brutal and insane mobocratic demonstrations against it, in order to put down the sacred cause of liberty, and to further the purposes of as selfish and desperate a conclave as ever plotted against the sovereignty of God and the rights of man. All manner of threats to break up the meetings by violence have been belched forth, in advance, by ruffians in broadcloth and ruffians in rags; and since Mayor Wightman has unblushingly, and with unparalleled insolence and lawlessness, proclaimed that he will make no attempt to preserve the public peace,—thus virtually placing himself at the head of the mob, and stimulating them to do their worst,—there is no doubt that an outbreak will follow such as the city has not witnessed since 1835.
To kindle the flame of mobocratic fury yet more fiercely, the Courier of Wednesday morning published leading editorial articles, written with diabolical intent, denouncing the friends of the oppressed as too vile to be tolerated, slandering them in the worst manner, and eulogizing the lawless course of Major Wightman! Here is one of them:-
A CURIOUS PROPOSITION. The Anti-Slavery Society of Massachusetts, proposing to hold one of its annual powows in this city, in the exercise of that wisdom and sense of propriety to be expected, called upon the Mayor for protection. Why should they need protection? Because their meetings are such an offence to the reason and decent feeling of the community, that they do not ensure by their own character the security which attends all legitimate assemblies,—which need no other defence than what their freedom from any objectionable features naturally gives them, and which is uniformly accorded by the self-respect and respect for the laws, so characteristic of our people. What right have they to ask the protection of the laws? They meet to do their best to break up the government, to commit treason, to undermine the very sources of law and social order. They are like the man who intends to knock you down in the street, but first seeks the aid of the police to countenance him in it.
The reply of Mayor Wightman to such a request was highly proper, and will secure him the approbation of all good citizens, who look upon a seditious mob with disapprobation and dread, however organized, or incorporated, or under whatever name it pursues its evil designs.
With such incentives to create a riot, there can be little doubt of its occurrence. We serenely leave the result with Him who "causes the wrath of man to praise him, and the remainder He will restrain." Abolitionism is the eternal truth of God, and all the powers of hell shall fail to put it down.

THE CESSATION OF COMPROMISE.
We seem to be approaching the end of one of the great evils which has stuck, like pitch, (though with a more defiling contact,) to every form of our politics and religion. The present signs of the times seem to indicate that we shall soon cease to be cursed with a mutual agreement between North and South for the indefinite continuance and protection of slavery. But this blessing comes in a guise less satisfactory, because less creditable to our Northern States, than we had fondly hoped and expected.
It seemed as if that freedom of speech and of the press which has (until now ) for many years been enjoyed in the Northern States, combined with the accumulating evidence of the aggressive character of slavery, would, at last, open the eyes of the Northern people to see that their rights are no more respected by the South than the rights of the slaves themselves. It seemed as if people calling themselves Republicans, (not to speak here of the yet more guilty class falsely calling themselves Christian ministers,) must see, at last, that their struggle against the extension of slavery lost all its moral force, and half its practical energy of every sort, while they consented to the existence of slavery. It seemed as if they must realize, after the rapid increase of encroachment upon their rights, and indignity committed against their citizens, for ten years past, that their own welfare, credit, and honor were at stake, and that an effective stand must be made against aggressions worse than those which brought on the first revolution. But, in spite of all these things, they continue to offer precisely the same concessions, and even to incur the shame of inventing and proposing new ones.
Our prospect of a cessation of compromise comes from the fact that the profuse and unjustifiable concessions offered by our Northern merchants, politicians and clergy are no longer accepted by the South. They are not only not accepted, they are scoffed at. Those who humbly present to the Slave Power the evidence that they have eaten a peck of dirt in its service, are told with contempt that this is not enough; that nothing less than bushels will suffice. Even the unspeakable baseness of the petition just forwarded to Washington by the Boston Board of Trade, asking that any compromise may be made, giving the South carte blanche for conditions of dictation, will not find favor in their eyes; what they want is, that the dirty work shall be done in advance of negotiation, voluntarily invented, and energetically accomplished, to the extent of making slavery openly supreme all over the country. Just so, the baseness of Rev. Dr. Spring, and of the New York and Philadelphia clergymen who, with him, have just sent a letter of fraternal sympathy to the slaveholding clergy of the South, will fall short of soothing the ire of those in dignant brethren. The offering is deficient, both in quantity and quality. There are only a dozen or two of Northern ministers who openly and strongly preach in favor of slavery. The majority of the occupants of Northern pulpits avoid this directness, and their influence as the bulwark of slavery, however real and practically efficient, is given only by inference, by such moderate means as always turning the cold shoulder to abolitionism, and, when the subject is pressed upon them, maintaining that slaveholding, however much an evil, is not a sin, and ought not to interfere with church membership. This position has sufficed, has been perfectly satisfactory to the South, in former times, and until the John Brown movement. Now, more is demanded; and those who will give this customary tribute, but no more, abase themselves in vain.
Thus, our prospect brightens. Despised as the preaching of anti-slavery truth has been, and few as have been the instances of full acceptance of the great Christian principles on which Abolitionism is founded, those principles have been working like leaven in the mass of Northern society, and have produced an obvious effect. Not only does an increasing agitation pervade this mass, but the element of sham democracy has been to a great extent neutralized, and a portion of the Republican party has become fixed in the determination to yield no more—to make no further concession. And these changes, concurring most fortunately with the imperative demand of the South for more concession, and also with yet more vehemently aggressive movements on her part, suited to prevent concession,
<c02>
open to us the joyful prospect, first of a secession of the South, which must end in the utter overthrow of slavery, and next, of the formation of a truly free Northern Confederacy.
There will be years of disquiet in our commercial, manufacturing and other relations, necessarily incident to a change of house-keeping on so large a scale; and it will take a century to free us from the deterioration of manners, morals and religion, which we have suffered from contact and guilty complicity with the slave States; but it will be an unspeakable gain to be freed from the sin, shame and ruin of continuance in this complicity; and it will be an unspeakable joy to have, at last, a Constitution, and an executive administration, which shall really secure liberty throughout the land, unto every inhabitant thereof.—C. K. W.

FREEDOM OF SPEECH.
After many shifts and turns to escape the pursuit of vengeful destiny, the fox slavery (fox and wolf in one) is now doubling on its tracks, and running over an early part of its course. Many years ago, in the North, the contest of freedom of speech against slavery was patiently fought and effectually won. That which Gibbon declared of the Romans is equally true of the Abolitionists; though frequently conquered in battle, they are always victorious in war. So it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. But as the actual slaveholders in the South, made desperate by seeing the gradual loss and failure of their party from year to year, are suicidally grasping at the straw of secession, abandoning the Union which would have protected them awhile longer, and venturing the remainder of their fortune on the turn of a die, which they absurdly hope may restore the whole of [it—so their Northern partisans, equally desperate, are returning to the warfare which they vainly tried twenty-five years ago, the attempt to mob down free speech. In Philadelphia, Buffalo and Rochester, in Westfield and Boston, they have tried again by clamor and violence to suppress anti-slavery meetings, expecting thereby to suppress agitation, and to give a new lease of quiet continuance to slavery.
This attempt, as absurd as wicked, even more a blunder than a crime, is vain and powerless, except as it generates new force against themselves. Their attempt is not only ridiculous and futile in the nature of things—seeking to quell agitation by violence, to produce quiet by tumult, to secure silence by clamorous shouts—but external circumstances are even more against them than when this same policy was tried, and failed, in the years from 1830 to 1835. Civilization has advanced since that time; Christianity, however betrayed in pulpits and prayer-meetings, has made progress elsewhere; many lying pretences of pro-slavery priests, politicians and traders have been exposed, past the power of further mischief; the completeness with which, in the slave States, despotic oligarchy has taken the place of republicanism has been shown, and has declared itself, beyond the possibility of further concealment; and we now know, thanks to the thoroughness of these manifestations, that many people in every slave State, their endurance worn out by the increase of tyranny, are now ready for Republicanism and more, whenever a chance comes for their voices to be heard. The coming Conventions in the slaveholding States will show a beginning of the manifestation of this element. Meantime, the course of Abolitionists is energetic perseverance in free discussion.—C. K. W.

WENDELL PHILLIPS AT THE MUSIC HALL.
The Address of Mr. Phillips, at the Music Hall, on Sunday, the 20th inst., before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston, was one of the most impressive and admirable speeches he ever delivered. The full report of it, which has gone abroad in large editions of the Atlas and Bee and of the Traveller, and which now appears in the Liberator, will show the reader that it was not deficient in energy or thoroughness. Yet several persons who have been wont to censure Mr. Phillips's directness of speech praised this address heartily, and said the speaker was "more moderate than usual"; thus showing the unconscious change which had come over themselves in their estimate of slavery and anti-slavery.
But a still stronger evidence of the power of eloquence and truth combined was seen in that very small proportion of the audience which had come to the Hall to express their dislike of the speaker, and their dissent from his ideas.
Before commencing the address, Mr. Phillips requested that his friends, and the friends of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, would observe the accustomed quietness of that time and place; and they did so.
But from a small number of persons, seated in the further part of the upper balcony, came at intervals brief expressions of derisive applause, alternating with hisses, in response to the stronger expressions of the address, whether affirmations of anti-slavery or descriptions of pro-slavery.
There was one amusing instance in which the disturbers, having said A, with hearty good will, found themselves embarrassed in saying B. When the speaker said of the class led by Seward, who are now offering anything and everything to save the Union—"Their Gospel is the Constitution"—clamorous applause came from the upper balcony; but when he proceeded—"and the slave clause is their sermon on the mount,"—there was a slight pause, and then a feeble attempt to raise another clap. But it died away ineffectually. Even the rowdies of Boston could not cheer that description of their characters and lives. They can practise the slave-clause on week days without a blush; but when it is placed side by side with the sermon on the mount, even they could not help feeling the shameful contrast.
When Mr. Phillips said that even now, in case of any assault from a foreign foe, Massachusetts and South Carolina would stand shoulder to shoulder to repel it, the applause (still proceeding from the same persons) was genuine and hearty. From that time to the end of the address, it was more frequently an expression of assent than of dissent. And the splendid concluding apostrophe, in which the speaker mentioned John Brown with honor, and mentioned Disunion as the inevitable forerunner of Abolition, was heard with a silence betokening the interest of the whole immense audience.—C. K. W.
SEND IN THE PETITIONS. It is time now for the Petitions against Slave-hunting in Massachusetts to be returned, and laid before the Legislature, without further delay. Those who have in hand the work of canvassing towns or districts should see that not another moment is lost. Now, while the concessionists are at work, trying to vote away the little that has heretofore been gained in this State for liberty, now is the time for those to speak who wish Massachusetts to be made a Free State indeed. Instead of abandoning the law which was found needful to secure our own citizens from the kidnapper, let us take a step FORWARD, and give substantial protection to the man who honors us by pausing in his flight from tyranny when he reaches our boundaries.
We lost the honor of passing the first Personal Liberty Law. Let us now gain the honor of refusing, first of all the States, to recognize any human being as a slave, or to yield to the claim made by any man as a slaveholder. In the name of Heaven, let us begin to be a FREE State.—C. K. W.
The Fast-Day Sermon of Rev. NATHANIEL HALL, of Dorchester, on our last page, is worthy of the closest perusal, the highest praise, and the widest circulation. What a world-wide contrast it presents to the malignant and impious discourse of Rev. Parsons Cooke, delivered on the same day!
GOV. Medary has resigned the Governorship of Kansas, making ten incumbents of that place who, by one means and another, have ended their career.
<c03>
A. S. CONVENTIONS IN CENTRAL AND WESTERN NEW YORK.
MOBOCRATIC DEMONSTRATIONS!
SYRACUSE, N. Y., Jan. 19, 1861.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Mobs seem to be the rule with us, of late, and orderly, undisturbed meetings the exceptions. The Rochester Convention, of which you will have had some account, was, on the whole, a decided and gratifying triumph. At Utica, the tide of feeling was stronger against us. The Board of Directors of the Mechanics' Association voted deliberately to violate their contract, and so closed the doors of Mechanics' Hall, which had been duly hired for our use. The Common Council held a special meeting, and strongly censured the proposed Convention-appointed a committee to wait upon the owners of all the public halls in the city, and to advise them not to allow us the use of their halls. Another committee was also appointed by the Common Council to wait upon those who called the Convention, and urge them to desist from any attempt to hold a meeting. Excluded from Mechanics' Hall, in violation of our contract, no other public place of meeting could be obtained. Secret meetings of influential citizens, under the leadership of the Hon. Ex-Governor HORATIO SEYMOUR, we were told, were held, to devise plans for breaking up our meeting. Unmerchantable eggs, brickbats, stones, and pails of filth, it is said, were already prepared for us.
The friends of the Convention were invited to meet, in the evening, in the parlors of Mr. JAMES C. DELONG. A good number of abolitionists from the city, and the adjoining towns, assembled. The meeting was organized by appointing J. C. DELONG, President; David Williams, Caroline E. Thompson, and Julius Bisby, of West Winfield, Vice Presidents; Thomas Williams and J. Anne Rice, Secretaries; with Business and Finance Committees.
BERIAH GREEN offered a series of spirited and appropriate resolutions, which were discussed and unanimously adopted.
The meeting was successively addressed by A. M. POWELL, BERIAH GREEN, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, J. C. DELONG, Mr. MILLER, Mr. EZRA THOMPSON; and after a deeply interesting session, it adjourned.
The resolutions and a brief report of the proceedings appeared, the following afternoon, in the Utica Evening Telegraph, much to the discomfiture of those who were so determined that our sentiments should be entirely suppressed.
By the persistent efforts against us, the whole city was resolved into a convention, for the discussion of slavery, pro and con. The agitation became general, and still continues. On Monday afternoon, when Susan B. Anthony and Beriah Green went to the hall, at the hour appointed for the convention, they were greeted by a mob of several hundred persons. A man, officially authorized by the Association to prevent their entrance, was stationed at the door. The Mayor was present; and though he could offer no protection to free speech, he insisted upon acting as escort to Miss Anthony, on her return from the hall, though told that his presence was not desired. Beriah Green has since received an anonymous letter, threatening his personal safety. Ex-Governor Seymour is reported to have said of Mr. Green, "He deserves to be hung." So do the minions of slavery seem, just now, to be awakened to renewed activity in our midst.
Our next appointment was at Rome. Rumors of a mob were rife there also. In the afternoon we had a quiet, undisturbed meeting, including some intelligent and very attentive listeners. I addressed the meeting for half an hour, and was followed by Stephen S. Foster in a stirring, pertinent and excellent speech upon the present crisis in our national affairs. The rioters were on hand at an early hour in the evening for their work. Before our regular proceedings had commenced, a large body of organized ruffians marched to the Hall, and violently pushing aside Miss Anthony, who stood in the entrance way to receive the admission fee, they at once began their operations by taking possession of the platform, and rendering the room a bedlam of confusion, by indescribable yells and drunken rioting. It being clearly manifest that no hearing could be obtained, we quietly withdrew from the Hall, leaving the ruffians to their revellings. After a time, disappointed in their plans, and finding they were left alone, they tracked us to our hotel, and at one time, the proprietor told me, more than a hundred of the mobocrats were in the house, while many more were outside, occasioning not a little consternation and indignation among the managers and guests of the establishment.
It is doubtless well that respectable, conservative people should thus have opportunity to see that these mobs, just now freely interrupting our meetings, with silent acquiescence, if not direct encouragement, are not, once called out, respecters of either persons or places.
We decided to make no farther effort for a hearing in the place, but to leave with the people the responsibility and the credit of the mob demonstration. Leading and influential men of varied political and religious (!) connections are, we learn, implicated in these outrages. At Rochester, I am told that several influential Republicans were among the most active and inveterate of the mobocrats, and the Rochester Democrat and American (Republican) fully equalled its Democratic, satanic neighbor, the Union and Advertiser, in its vile slander and abuse of the Convention and its speakers. Degenerate statesmanship, with truckling, criminal political subserviency, has new and striking illustrations in the late exhibitions of Seward and Weed.
We are to have a Convention at Cortland to-day and to-morrow,—whether to be met there as in other places, by a mob, remains to be seen. A. M. P.

LINDA, THE SLAVE GIRL.
BOSTON, January 21, 1861.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Crowded though I know the Liberator columns to be just now, I am constrained to solicit space for a word in announcement of a book just issued from the press, entitled "LINDA: Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl, seven years concealed in Slavery." It is a handsome volume of 306 pages, and is on sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, price $1.00. I feel confident that its circulation at this crisis in our country's history will render a signal and most acceptable service.
The lamented Mrs. Follen, in her admirable tract addressed to Mothers in the Free States, and with which that indefatigable colporteur, Miss Putnam, is doing so much good in her visits to families, seems to have anticipated just such a contribution to anti-slavery literature as this book, "Linda." It presents features more attractive than many of its predecessors purporting to be histories of slave life in America, because, in contrast with their mingling of fiction with fact, this record of complicated experience in the life of a young woman, a doomed victim to America's peculiar institution—her seven years' concealment in slavery—continued persecutions-hopes, often deferred, but which at length culminated in her freedom—surely need not the charms that any pen of fiction, however gifted and graceful, could lend. They shine by the lustre of their own truthfulness-a rhetoric which always commends itself to the wise head and honest heart. In furtherance of the object of its author, LYDIA MARIA CHILD has furnished a graceful introduction, and AMY POST a well-written letter; and wherever the names of these two devoted friends of humanity are known, no higher credentials can be required or given. My own acquaintance, too, with the author and her relatives, of whom special mention is made in the book, warrants an expression of the hope that it will find its way into every family, where all, especially mothers and daughters, may learn yet more of the barbarism of American slavery and the character of its victims.
Yours, for breaking every yoke;
WM. C. NELL.
<c04>
THE WESTERN FIELD.
TO THE EDITOR:
Our work is so small, away here in the West, in proportion to the extent and wants of the field, that to chronicle accounts of the little we can do seems hardly worth the time and space required for them; and yet we make impressions which must be indelible.
Our Convention in Sterling began on a Saturday afternoon, with less than a dozen present. Our friend, Mr. Grover, being a lawyer, said he would speak when twelve persons and the Chairman were present, equal to judge and jury. We made out that number at length, organized, and adjourned till evening. The sessions and the interest increased, however, so that, on Sunday evening, at a very late hour, it was voted to hold a closing meeting on Monday evening. The people at first were determined not to hear us, but changed their mind materially as we went on. We had, besides Mr. Grover, among the speakers, Mr. E. R. Brown, late of Cummington, Mass., and Mr. Morgan and Mr. Taylor from Wisconsin.
Besides the Sterling Convention, we have held meetings in several places in the vicinity, and always with good attendance. The best Republicans are apprehensive that all may yet be lost through the accommodating spirit so manifest in the party leaders, especially in Congress. The course of Charles Francis Adams has surprised and grieved all his friends this way, not entirely devoid of anti-slavery sentiment.
The Church gives us most inconvenience. All the mob violence we encounter is on her account. At our meeting this week, Mr. Brown and myself were honored with an encounter worthy of twenty years ago. Irish boys, Republican rowdies, Democratic sloughings, and Presbyterian Sunday school scholars, all bore a most lively part in behalf of their respective constituencies. For some time, they made a most melancholy display of the religious and political training they had suffered; and our friends were apprehensive for the result. But before we closed, a better spirit was awakened, and at 10 o'clock we closed, with a seriousness and solemnity not common even at a Sunday sacrament.
Massachusetts mobbed us a dozen years. Boston does it still. But let half the mighty works be done here, that have been done in New England, and you shall see millennial times. We must do here, however, as we did there; labor vigorously, and wait patiently. That is what we are trying to do.
PARKER PILLSBURY. 
Dixon, (III.) January, 1861.

METROPOLITAN POLICE BILL.
In the Senate on Monday, Mr. Whiting, of Plymouth, offered the following order:-
Ordered, That a joint special committee be appointed, to consist of two on the part of the Senate, with such as the House may join, to consider the expediency of so altering the charter of the city of Boston, that its police shall be appointed by the authorities of the State, and that they be desired to report by bill or otherwise.
In support of the order, Mr. Whiting said:—
MR. PRESIDENT,—I suppose there are some considerations, which may be deemed general in their nature, why an inquiry like that contemplated in this order should be made. It is well known, that in some cities in this country, the appointment of the police has been taken from the city authorities and vested in the State. It has not been thought necessary, thus far, in our own Commonwealth, but if I am not mistaken, and have not been misinformed, it has been intimated by the Chief of Police of this city, that the time has arrived when it is important, and perhaps necessary, that the appointment of the police should be vested in other hands than those of the city authorities. But I offer this order here to-day for reasons immediate, special, and urgent; and with the permission of the Senate, I wish to state some facts bearing upon the subject.
And in order to do so, I wish to repeat a little history—going back but a short time. It will be remembered that on the 3d of December last, a meeting was convened in this city, at the Tremont Temple, for the purpose of considering the question, "How can American slavery be abolished?" That meeting was broken up by a mob of well-dressed men-a gentlemanly mob, of course-assisted (I speak the word deliberately) by the authorities of the city. The police then and there present, under the direction of the Mayor, turned all the parties out of the hall—those who called the meeting, and the disturbers of the same—on the ground that there was no other way to preserve the peace. A new method, it must be confessed! Something like that of a man, whose house has been invaded, being turned into the street by the police, with the disturbers of his peace. Well, sir, at that time, that mob, taking possession of that meeting, legally called, for a very proper purpose, passed certain resolutions, among which was the following:-
Resolved, That the people of this city have submitted too long in allowing irresponsible persons and political demagogues, of every description, to hold public meetings that disturb the public peace and misrepresent us abroad; that they have become a nuisance, which, in self-defence, we are determined shall henceforward be summarily abated.
Well, sir, the Mayor of that day has passed from office, and another has been elected, by the party claiming to be, par excellence, the law-abiding party—in favor of "the Constitution, the Union, and the enforcement of the laws." During the present week, it is contemplated to hold the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society—a private corporation, that has been in existence, and accustomed to hold its meetings here, year after year, for something like twenty-eight years—and in view of the warning that had been given by this self-constituted tribunal, headed by Mr. Richard S. Fay and J. Murray Howe, and others of like kidney, the Trustees of the Tremont Temple thought it wise to go to the Mayor of the city, and see whether they could be protected in the lawful use of their property. The Mayor, in reply to the application of Mr. Joseph K. Hayes, Superintendent of Tremont Temple, says:-
MAYOR'S OFFICE, CITY HALL,
BOSTON, JAN'Y, 1861.
MR. JOSEPH K. HAYES-
Sir: I do not consider any action necessary on the part of the city government in reference to the holding of a fair by the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society at the Tremont Temple on the 24th and 25th of the present month.
If, as you intimated, public meetings are to be held in the evenings, it is for you and the trustees to decide whether they will be of such a character as to render a breach of the public peace probable. If you anticipate any result of this nature, the responsibility will rest upon you, as you cannot be justified in wilfully putting the peace of the city in peril.
Yours, respectfully,
JOSEPH M. WIGHTMAN.
Well, after such an intimation as that, Mr. Superintendent Hayes, in company with another gentleman, called upon the Mayor, and they report the conversation that took place between them, in substance, under their own signatures, to which they are willing to make affidavit, as follows:-
BOSTON, Thursday, Jan. 17, 1861.
We the undersigned, Joseph K. Hayes, Superintendent of the Tremont Temple, and Ezra H. Heywood, acting General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, called this day upon His Honor Mayor Wightman, to ascertain if the regular annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, advertised to be held in Tremont Temple, Thursday and Friday, Jan. 24th and 25th, would be protected by the city government against threatened mobocratic interference. We showed the Mayor the call for the meeting signed by its regular officers, and also a copy of the Resolutions passed by those who forcibly broke up the Anti-Slavery Convention held in the same place December 3d, 1860, as evidence, 1st, that the projected meeting would be legally assembled; and 2d, that it was likely to be disturbed in the lawful exercise of the sacred rights of voluntary association and freedom of speech. The Mayor said that he knew nothing of the character of the meeting, or of the threats to "summarily abate" such assemblies as a "nuisance;" but if the originators of the meeting and the Trustees of the Tremont Temple thought that anything would be said daring the sessions of the convention disrespectful to the government, or likely to peril the peace of the city, they would be responsible for any disturbance or violence which might follow.
Mr. Hayes asked him if it was not probable, from the aforesaid resolutions, that Richard S. Fay and J. Murray Howe, with their allies, were already pledged to violate the peace of the city by forcibly preventing citizens of Boston from lawfully and peaceably assembling to discuss the subject of American slavery. The Mayor replied that,
<c05>
since in the present excited state of the public mind, it was evident an anti-slavery meeting could not be held in Boston without serious and perhaps violent opposition, we ought not to hold one, and if it was held, and such opposition was provoked, he should ARREST those who called and conducted the meeting as the aggressors upon the public peace. Mr. Hayes then asked him if the proprietors of the Tremont Temple therefore cannot, without the consent of irresponsible disturbers, open their building to public assemblies, legally called. The Mayor replied that he thought they had no right to let the Temple for meeting, to discuss exciting subjects, but they must decide that matter for themselves, and take the consequences.
Mr. Heywood then asked the Mayor if he regarded the regular annual meeting of a society that for more than twenty-five successive years has regularly and annually convened in Boston under the protection of law, as now illegal. He answered that he cared nothing about the legality of the meeting, but that certain things beyond the reach of the law must be controlled by other means, which it might be his duty to employ.
This is a true statement of the substance of the conference between ourselves and His Honor Joseph M. Wightman, Mayor of Boston.
J. K. HAYES.
EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
Now, if you will allow me one more specimen of this model of a Mayor:-
The undersigned, part of the Standing Committee, and members of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston, holding regular weekly religious services at Music Hall on Sunday mornings, called on Mayor Wightman Saturday morning, January 19th, and, through Mr. John R. Manley, stated to the Mayor, in substance, that Wendell Phillips was to conduct the services and address the Society the next morning; that they had reason to expect a disturbance of the meeting, and that they came to him, as Mayor of the city, to request him to protect it in case of disturbance.
The Mayor replied: "If that is your request, my answer is a very short one. If you have reason to expect a disturbance, you are not authorized to hold the meeting."
The Mayor then called in Mr. Silas Peirce, Chairman of the Board of Aldermen, and repeated to him the substance of the conversation.
Mr. E. G. Dudley, one of the Committee, then proceeded to state to the Mayor that he and his associates represented a religious society that had held regular meetings on Sundays for fifteen years, and that Mr. Phillips was to conduct the services in accordance with an engagement made some months since; at which point, the Mayor interrupted Mr. Dudley, and said: "There is no need of any discussion. You have already had my answer to your request. If you wish to say any thing further, you can address me in writing."
The Committee thereupon took their leave.
The foregoing is a correct statement of the substance of the conversation between the Committee and the Mayor.
JOHN R, MANLEY,
HENRY W. WELLINGTON,
FREDERIC H. HENSHAW,
E. GERRY DUDLEY,
GEORGE W. SMALLEY. 
Boston, January 21, 1861.
It seems, then, Mr. President, that it has come to this, that we cannot hold a meeting here to discuss any question about which there may be differences of opinion in this community, and in relation to which there may be any effort to create a public disturbance. It does not matter, it seems, whether our purpose is legal or illegal, proper or improper; if it is likely to create excitement, or to fan the flames of excitement already existing, we have no right to hold such meeting, and no owners of any buildings in this city have a right to let them for such a purpose.
Now, Mr. President, if this is really the state of things in this community, it certainly presents itself to us in a very serious light. For if meetings of this character may be put down, what safety have we for the discussion of any question whatever? Why may not this sapient Mayor of Boston, who, in the mutations of party politics, has been placed in the executive chair of this city, "clothed with a little brief authority"—why may he not, if he thinks the public peace requires it, send his mob, headed by Richard S. Fay and J. Murray Howe—that new firm of patent Union-savers—Beacon street, North street & Co.— why may he not send them up here, and abate this Legislature as a " nuisance"?—discussing exciting topics, about which there is great difference of opinion in the community, and in which, possibly, somebody may speak disrespectful words about the government? I say, according to the declaration of the Mayor of Boston, we only sit here by his permission—because he has not yet seen fit to abate this Legislature as a public "nuisance." Why cannot they stop the temperance meetings that are holden from time to time, and are to be holden in the other part of this building, the Representatives' Hall, on the ground that they may cause an excitement—that they may disturb the public peace—that they may interfere with somebody's pocket who is engaged in the manufacture and sale of alcoholic drinks? What religious society in this community has any security for a single moment against being set upon by a mob—set on and countenanced by the Mayor of the city of Boston—on the ground that somebody may give utterance to something that will create excitement, that will disturb the public peace? It seems to me, Mr. President, that really we have no protection at all, and I think it is time we looked this matter in the face.
Sir, there are times, in the life of individuals, when men become insane, and we shut them up in mad houses, for their own benefit and for the safety of the public. There are times when men become so lost to principle, to all sense of justice and right, as to invade the prerogatives of other men—the rights of property—and we shut them up in houses of correction, or the State prison; or we hang them on the gallows. It is just so with communities; and, sir, if it has come to that pass, that this compound of stupidity and ruffianism is the representative of the city of Boston, in the year of grace 1861, certainly, if we cannot hold a public meeting, on a lawful question, in a proper manner, without being liable to be disturbed by a mob, or arrested as disturbers of the public peace, it seems to me that the time has arrived when, at least, we should make the inquiry—we should make the inquiry—whether the interests and the rights of our people cannot properly and rightfully be placed under the guardianship of the State; and it is for this reason, Mr. President, that I have offered this order to-day, that, if the Legislature thinks it wise and proper, the inquiry, at least, shall be made; that we shall look at the facts; that we shall endeavor to understand where we are; that we shall settle this question, whether men can meet and discuss legal, lawful subjects, without being set upon, either by a lawless mob, or by the constituted authorities of the city of Boston.
The order was adopted, with but one dissenting vote—Mr. Slade, of Suffolk.
In the House on Tuesday, the order of Mr. WHITING came down for concurrence. Mr. SMITH, of Boston, opposed it as an insult to Boston. He said he did not sympathize with the mob which broke up the meeting in Tremont Temple, nor with the men who held the meeting. Boston would always be ready to defend law and order.
Mr. SLACK, of Boston, defended it. He loved loyalty wherever he saw it. He even appreciated the sentiment in the misguided citizens of South Carolina, who rallied and defied nineteen millions of people because they thought the rights of their State were endangered. His loyalty was involved in this order. He reviewed the several disturbances of meetings in this city within forty days, and also the mobs which had threatened Anti-Masonry and William Lloyd Garrison. He also advocated a metropolitan police on the ground of the present insecurity of Boston property, while the police force is under partizan leaders. He spoke, he said, as a citizen of Boston, with all the pride of a native, and he alluded to the magnificent present which Rev. Theodore Parker made to the city of Boston, and said the city was now unwilling to defend the very congregation which he founded and loved.
Mr. HYDE, of Newton, said that he had very little sympathy with the Abolitionists, but he would defend free speech with his vote, and he believed that this was the way to do it. Any way, he wished to have it sent to the Committee.
Mr. TYLER, of Boston, said he was not one who voted for the present Mayor, nor did he think the course which he had adopted, which had given rise to this discussion, was a particularly wise one. But he opposed the order. It was intended as an insult to the city of Boston. Such a course would end in despotism, if carried out. He had been a citizen of Boston more than fifty years, and he believed that life and property were as safe here, under the present police regulations, as in any place in the world. He believed
<c06>
the proposed scheme was a manifestation of hatred to the city of Boston, existing because it was not utterly and openly anti-slavery. He would go as far as any body in opposition to slavery, but under certain limits, suitable to the public exigency. He moved the <illegible> and nays, and they were ordered.
Mr. PARSONS, of Lawrence, was in favor of sending the order to a committee, and he strongly defended free speech. But still he would not lightly accuse Boston of doing wrong, and he was sorry to hear anybody else. He liked the spunk of John Brown, but disliked his principles. He wished to God the present Chief Executive of the nation had as much pluck. He was for a hearing of the thing before a committee.
Mr. HILLS, of Boston, defended the city, but said he should vote for the order, as he would for any order of inquiry.
Mr. CHASE, of Haverhill, agreed with the last speaker, and thought that the yeas and nays were not needed on the question of reference. The vote by which they were ordered was reconsidered on his motion.
Mr. SLACK spoke again, chiefly in reply to Mr. Hills, of Boston, who said that the police were present at the Music Hall last Sunday, and that some high authority had told him that the statement signed by Mr. Hayes, Superintendent of Tremont Temple, was untrue in many particulars, as printed; also that Mr. Phillips might have gone home on Sunday without trouble, if he had followed the advice of the police. Mr. Slack said that back-door exits and close carriages were not for Wendell Phillips, and that he would be defended in the city of his birth. He read from a letter purporting to be written by Senator Lucius Slade, which was printed some time ago, and he called upon that gentleman to come into Court and tell what he knew of an organized body to put down free speech.
The House then concurred in the Senate reference by nearly a unanimous vote.

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Collections by H. Ford Douglass.
At Lunenburg, $1; Winchester, 3 08; Westminster, 2; South Gardner, 3 59; Hubbardston, 2 83; Barre, 2 16; Clinton, 8 82; Pepperell, 2 30; Sterling, 3; Ashburaham, 2; Gardner Centre, 3 21; East Templeton, 3 06; Leicester, 2 63; Oakdale, 1 25; Harvard, 1 32.
Donation.
Mrs. Sarah S. Russell, $200 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
NEW YORK STATE CONVENTION.-The Fourth Annual New York State Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Albany, in Association Hall, Monday evening, Tuesday and Wednesday, afternoon and evenings, Feb. 4, 5, 6. Hon. Gerrit Smith, Lucretia Mott, Rev. Beriah Green, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Oliver Johnson, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions will commence at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission, 10 cents.
WORCESTER NORTH A. S. SOCIETY.-The annual meeting of this Society will be held in Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Feb. 10.
A. T. FOSS, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., S. S. FOSTER, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and others, will be present. The public are cordially invited. JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and H. C. WRIGHT, will speak at
Bellingham, Sunday, Jan. 27.
North Bellingham, Monday, Jan. 28.
West Wrentham, Sunday, Feb. 3.
H. FORD DOUGLASS, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at
East Abington, Sunday afternoon and eve'g, Jan. 27,
Bridgewater, Tuesday, Jan. 29.
Pembroke, Thursday, Feb. 1.
Middleboro', Sunday, Feb. 3.
Titicut, Monday, Feb. 4.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.-A meeting will be held on Sunday evening next, on the subject of "Capital Punishment," at Boylston Lower Hall, commencing at 7 o'clock. Charles Spear, Hon. M. H. Bovee, of New York, and Mrs. C. S. B. Spear will speak on the occasion.
MUSIC-The Lay of P6stal,-composed by a Polish of ficer the night previous to his execution.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS.-The Second Annual New York State Woman's Rights Convention will be held at ALBANY, in Association Hall, Thursday and Friday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 7 and 8.
Lucretia Mott, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Hon. Gerrit Smith, Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony, and others, will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cts.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge. 
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn. Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov. 23-3m
SITUATION WANTED.-A lady who has had large experience in matters of house-keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either as housekeeper, or matron of some establishment, either in this city or vicinity. The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. 
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE,
Fourth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, A. J. DAVIS & CO., 
05 6m 274 Canal, street, New York.

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board Terms moderate.
Jan.11. S. NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
STANZAS.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
“The despotism which our fathers could not bear in their native country is expiring, and the sword of justice in her reformed hands has applied its exterminating edge to slavery. Shall the United States-the free United States, which could not bear the bonds of a king, cradle the bondage which a king is abolishing? Shall a Republic be less free than a Monarchy? Shall we, in the vigor and buoyancy of our manhood, be less energetic in righteousness than a kingdom in its age?”-Dr. Fellen's Address.
Our fellow-countrymen in chains!
Slaves-in a land of light and law!
Slaves-crouching on the very plains 
Where rolled the storm of Freedom's war! 
A groan from Eutaw's haunted wood-
A wail where Camden's martyrs fell-
By every shrine of patriot blood,
From Moultrie's wall and Jasper's well!
By storied hill and hallowed grot,
By mossy wood and marshy glen,
Whence rang of old the rifle-shot,
And hurrying shout of Marion's men!
The groan of breaking hearts is there-
The falling lash-the fetter's clank!
Slaves-SLAVES are breathing in that air,
Which old De Kalb and Sumter drank!
What, ho!-our countrymen in chains!
The whip on WOMAN'S shrinking flesh!
Our soil yet reddened with the stains,
Caught from her scourging, warm and fresh!
What! mothers from their children riven!
What! God's own image bought and sold!
AMERICANS to market driven,
And bartered as the brute for gold!
Speak! shall their agony of prayer
Come thrilling to our hearts in vain?
To us, whose fathers scorned to bear
The paltry menace of a chain;
To us, whose boast is loud and long,
Of holy Liberty and Light-
Say, shall these writhing slaves of Wrong
Plead vainly for their plundered Right?
What! shall we send, with lavish breath,
Our sympathies across the wave,
Where Manhood, on the field of death,
Strikes for his freedom, or a grave?
Shall prayers go up, and hymns be sung
For Greece, the Moslem fetter spurning,
And millions hail with pen and tongue
Our light on all her altars burning?
Shall Belgium feel, and gallant France,
By Vendome's pile and Schoenbrun's wall,
And Poland, grasping on her lance,
The impulse of our cheering call?
And shall the SLAVE, beneath our eye,
Clank o'er our fields his hateful chain?
And toss his fettered arms on high,
And groan for Freedom's gift in vain?
Oh, say, shall Prussia's banner be
A refuge for the stricken slave?
And shall the Russian serf go free
By Baikal's lake and Neva's wave?
And shall the wintry-bosomed Dane
Relax the iron hand of pride,
And bid his bondman cast the chain
From fettered soul and limb aside?
Shall every flap of England's flag
Proclaim that all around are free,
From “farthest Ind” to each blue crag
beetles o'er the Western Sea?
<illegible> shall we scoff at Europe's kings,
When Freedom's fire is dim with us,
And round our country's altar clings
The damning shade of Slavery's curse?
Go-let us ask of Constantine
To loose his grasp on Poland's throat;
And beg the lord of Mahmoud's line
To spare the struggling Suliote-
Will not the scorching answer come
From turbaned Turk, and scornful Russ:
“Go, loose your fettered slaves at home,
Then turn, and ask the like of us!”
Just od! and shall we calmly rest,
The Christian's scorn-the heathen's mirth-
Conte<illegible> to live the lingering jest
An by-word of a mocking Earth?
Shall our own glorious land retain
That curse which Europe scorns to bear?
Shall our own brethren drag the chain 
Which not even Russia's menials wear?
Up, then, in Freedom's manly part,
From gray-beard eld to fiery youth,
And on the nation's naked heart
Scatter the living coals of Truth!
Up-while ye slumber, deeper yet
The shadow of our fame is growing!
Up-while ye pause, our sun may set
In blood, around our altars flowing!
Oh! rouse ye. ere the storm comes forth-
The gathered wrath of God and man-
Like that which wasted Egypt's earth,
When hail and fire above it ran!
Hear ye no warnings in the air?
Feel ye no earthquake underneath?
Up-up-why will ye slumber where
The sleeper only wakes in death?
Up now for Freedom!-not in strife 
Like that your sterner fathers saw-
<illegible> awful waste of human life-
The glory and the guilt of war:
<illegible> break the chain-the yoke remove-
And smite to earth Oppression's rod,
With those mild arms of Truth and Love,
Made mighty through the living God!
Down let the shrine of Moloch sink,
And leave no traces where it stood;
Nor longer let its idol drink
His daily cup of human blood:
But rear another altar there,
To Truth and Love and Mercy given,
And Freedom's gift, and Freedom's prayer,
Shall call an answer down from Heaven!

SNOW.
Silently down, gracefully down,
Over the forest and over the town,
Robing the earth in a pure white gown,
Wafting to and fro;
Drifting, circling, eddying round,
Comes the feathery snow.
Gently it falls, quietly falls,
Covering huts and covering halls,
Building its miniature cities and walls
Over the earth below;
Spreading in sheets, rolling in balls,-
Dancing, frolicking snow.
Cold and bleak, frozen and bleak,
Flying about in a merry freak,
Twirling around the mountain peak
Down to the valley below;
Losing itself in the rippling creek,
Fickle and fleeting snow.
Over the ground, the frozen ground,
The crystal flakes chase each other round
Forming a valley or building a mound,
When the north winds blow,
With its icy breath and mourning sound,
Drifting the virgin snow.
Clinging to trees, the evergreen trees,
Forming fantastic images,
Scattered as the merry breeze
Rushing onward doth go;
Losing itself in the snowy seas,
Fair and fragile snow.
Sweeping away, melting away,
When the sun with its golden ray
Into the arbor creeps to play,
Where the violets grow;
Melting, wasting, hiding away,
Frail and beautiful snow.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE ORISIS.
A SERMON,
Preached at Dorchester, Mass. on the occasion of the late National “Fast.”
BY REV. NATHANIEL HALL.
ISAIAH, 1: 16.-“Put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; learn to do well; seek judgment; relieve the oppressed.”
I deem it becoming the good citizen to respect, so far as he conscientiously can, the recommendations of the constituted authority. A respect to the authority, as such, does not imply a respect for the person in whom, for the time, it is vested. Nor does a compliance, in general, with a recommendation like that in response to which we are assembled, imply an acceptance of the views in which it originated, or the policy which dictated it. If I thought it did, I, for one, would have nothing to do with the occasion. But, believing, as I do, that Religion and the Pulpit have something to do with Politics, or with the unrighteousness they may favor and empower; (a proposition no longer, it would seem, the heresy it was;) believing in the efficacy of prayer-which is not hollow and hypocritical; in the efficacy of fasting-such as consists in an abstinence from cruelty and fraud; believing, moreover, that we are a people laden with a great iniquity, who ought to humble ourselves therefore, before Heaven, and seek light and strength for a crisis which wicked compromises and wicked rulers have brought upon us;-believing thus, I see nothing less than a holy propriety in an occasion when, in the language of the Proclamation, “with deep contrition and penitent sorrow, we may unite in humbling ourselves before the Most High, in confessing our individual and national sins, and in acknowledging the justness of our punishment.”
I referred to the views in which the occasion originated, and the policy which dictated it. Judging them to be what I do, I reject and repugn them. They are heaven-wide from those which my convictions compel me to accept as true and worthy. I am ashamed for my nation that such views and such a policy should find adoption by its Chief Magistrate. For, what are they? They are views which accept slavery as a thing to be tolerated, deferred to, compromised with, and this at the cost of moral loyalty, of honor, conscience, manhood, and the welfare and rights of millions of men; views which practically deny the truth of human brotherhood, the equality before God of races and of men; which put expediency before justice, self-interest before mercy, Satan before God. It is a policy which, in consistency with such views, would seek peace by unrighteous concessions; by playing into the hands of despotism; by betraying the cause of the poor and helpless; by blinking the issue which Providence is presenting, through an atheistic dread of consequences,-the consequences of placing oneself in alliance with the Almighty. And this is the Religion of the nineteenth century, as witnessed to in the Chief Executive of the model republic!-allowing 
him to appeal to God, while the veriest traitor to his cause; allowing him to talk about “deep contrition” and “penitential confessions” and “humiliations” and “beseeching” before Heaven, while violating, and urging others to violate, and seeking to have the nation more grossly violate, Heaven's plainest requirements, as writ in the universal soul-rising above all human enactments, testing the divinity of all verbal scriptures. Have we got no farther than this? Do we linger in the old Pharisaic superstition, which Jesus reproved when he said, speaking for God-“I will have mercy, and not sacrifice” and the prophet, when he said, in the same dread name-“Your solemn observances my soul hateth: put away the evil of your doing from before mine eyes: cease to do evil, learn to do well: seek judgment, relieve the oppressed”? Does the President really think that the doings he thus advises will move God to avert his impending judgments; that any sacrifices avail with Him but the sacrifices of righteousness? The inward shudder with which I read his Proclamation, for its seeming blasphemy, was only relieved by the thought that such was his superstition;-illustrious specimen of the cursed fruit of that Theology which separates Religion from Morality, which puts Pietism for Goodness, Sacrifice for Mercy, places the Letter above the Spirit, the Bible above the Soul, and which allows the Bible, by the undiscriminating and idolatrous recognition of it as the “Word of God” to be a justifier and patron of slavery. And yet, it is beyond belief that a man should be superstitious to the extent of supposing that a prostitution of his official influence for the stability and extension of a palpably immoral and inhuman institution was uncondemned of God, and, still more, that God's interposition in its behalf-which is the thing sought for-may be secured by a nation's whining supplications and canting confessions and foodless stomachs, and the “Lord have mercy upon us, miserable sinners,” of those who have no thought of being other than just the miserable sinners that they are. Monstrous delusion, if it be one! Monstrous impiety, if it be not! God help us to cling the closer to the faith, that the availing prayer is that alone which echoes through the life, in accordant deeds; the availing confession that with which is bound the heart's resolve to abandon, and to tread under foot, wholly and forever, by the grace of God, the sin confessed; that the accepted service is a loyal fidelity to the Heavenly Law, a cheerful reception of the Heavenly decrees, a manly righteousness, a self-devoting beneficence.
If, then, we are here to make a reality of this occasion, and not a sham, let us seek, in the love of truth and the fear of God, as accountable to Him alone, but to Him most solemnly accountable, to know the causes, so far at least as they are moral, of “the present distracted and dangerous condition of our country”; to seek to see God in it, and our duty; and to cheer ourselves, if we may, amidst its threatening evil, with the thought of what may prove its providential good-to catch glimpses of a light within the portentous cloud, or to trust, at least, that it is there.
Its causes are not hidden. So palpably manifest are they, so evident have been their tendencies towards the arrived result, that it needed no gift of prophecy to have long ago predicted it. In the allowed procedure of things, it was inevitable, as by the natural workings of unalterable law. Far back, in the very infancy of our national existence, is found the initial error from which all that we see has grown,-that recognition in the constitutional compact of Slavery's rightful claim to existence and consideration under it, and of certain obligations to which the several members of the confederacy are held in its behalf, bind ing them to a complicity with it. Error, as surely it was, we should bear in mind in our judgment of those who, though unwillingly, consented to it-among them great and noble men-that they did so by the constraint of what they deemed an imperative necessity, as being the only condition by which a Union could be effected; that it was done under secret protest, and in the idea that the slave-interest would gradually become extinct-with no conception that it would ever come, as it has, to rally around that in definitely phrased clause as the sanction and charter of its perpetuity and extension, of its nationality and sovereignty. It is a memorable instance of the truth, that all compromise with Wrong, to secure whatever ends, to avert whatever peril, is inexpedient as it is unjustifiable. The error-for such, whatever the seeming presumption, we must judge it-of allowing slavery a legal footing under the Constitution, (trusting to the spirit of freedom for its ultimate abolishment,) an act in glaring inconsistency with the solemnly uttered sentiments of the Declaration of Independence and the heralding assertion of the Constitution itself-was succeeded, in after generations, by the positive crime, with one section of the country, of unscrupulous efforts to perpetuate and extend it, for sordid and political ends, and with the other, for like ends, and for the sake of peace, of consenting to this-
<c03>
a crime continually and augmentingly renewed, against the spirit of the age, and the example of the nations, and the teachings of Christianity, and the plainest dictates of justice and humanity in the universal heart-until the public conscience became blinded and blunted to its enormity; until, from being a thing to be tolerated, under the circumstances and for a time, as a necessary evil, slavery came, first, to be extenuated, as having favorable aspects and providential ends, and scriptural precedents; and then to be advocated, as positively good and beneficent-openly advocated within its borders, and silently acquiesced in almost everywhere, before a public sentiment, that, for commercial or political ends, or in a cruel prejudice of color, demanded it;-Northern statesmen bending the knee in ignoble obeisance to it; ridiculing, in its interest, the idea of a Higher Law that should overrule its own inhuman one; and Northern pulpits, in instances not a few, doing, in effect, the same thing.
But this could not be without a protest, passionate or calm, spoken or silent, in thousands of hearts. The heart cannot lose its instinctive humanity, its love of justice, its sympathy with the wronged; cannot be unresponsive, in this age and land, to the appeals which come from every noble and generous sacrifice for human redemption and human rights, from every field where Freedom struggles against Despotism, where the People confront their oppressors with the claim for their unalienable heritage; cannot be insensible to the inconsistency of a Republic dedicated to Freedom, giving itself, as if that were its only function, to the maintenance and spread of Slavery; cannot but feel how every throb of instinctive sympathy that greets the heroism of a Garibaldi, risking his life for his down-trodden countrymen, or the nobleness of a Russia, giving freedom, in the present week, to twenty millions of her serfs, rebounds, in hot rebuke; cannot, above all, be insensible to the appeals of that Religion whose Law is Righteousness; whose Spirit, Love; whose God, a Universal Father; whose Christ, the brother of the humblest,-Friend, Savior of all.
The indifference of the Free States has been, also, overcome, the anti-slavery sentiment evoked and deepened, through their aroused apprehensions as to what the end should be to themselves; lest their most sacred rights, the chartered privileges of Freedom, should be withdrawn from them; lest their own soil should become, in effect, slave-soil-in the power of the slave-interest, and subject, without constitutional remedy, to its sway. Thank God, that what the conscience of the North might not have done, nor its humanity, alone, a sense of danger, a view to its own self-protection in its dearest interests, too long delayed, has, at length, accomplished. In the South's continually growing demands upon it for the sacrifice of sentiment, principle, manhood, to the interests of its barbaric institution; in its Fugitive Slave Law; in the inhuman decisions it has compelled from the national judiciary; in its purpose to reopen the foreign slave trade; in its purpose to make slavery national, by causing the Government to recognize its victims as “property” subject to no restrictions which do not appertain to other property, to be carried and used and protected as such, wherever in the Union its owners will; in its purpose to suppress all utterance in the interests of Freedom and Humanity, all advocacy of primal principles, all intimations of the right of a human being to himself-a purpose in which (shame to us!) it has received, beforehand, the promise, by their acts, of ready tools, among the “freemen” of the North; in the spirit of a contemptuous domination-inseparable from its system, educated by it, essential to it-more and more manifest towards those whom that system offends,-in these and thus has the North seen at last its danger, and rallied, with unprecedented unity, for self-defence.
And because of this rallying, and its success; and because Slavery sees in it, and in the rising spirit of the age, of which it is the-too tardy-expression, the forewarning of its doom,-therefore, as the more immediate cause “the present distracted and dangerous condition of the country.” And the Proclamation suggests that we go into humiliation for the offence of inducing it, and repent of, and annul it, and not “in a false pride of opinion, and for the sake of consistency, persevere in the wrong.” It asks us, in other words, to pray God, that He would please put back His own cause, undo His own work, suspend the operations of His own laws, in order that the Slave-Interest may renew its triumphs, and consummate its iniquity. For, surely, this is the work of God-this rising of a yet free people. He is behind and in it, as surely as the instincts of Justice and Humanity are His inspiration, as surely as He works His ends, through the human instrumentality that is true to these.
Our humiliation, as citizens, should be for past unfaithfulness,-to the spirit and genius of the Republic; to its noble Founders; to our Puritan lineage; to our brethren in bonds, “as bound with them.” Our prayer should be for strength to stand in whatever fiery trials may await us, panoplied in Faith, girt with Righteousness; our Leader, Christ; our Sovereign, God;-to act and to suffer, in no spirit of bitterness or hate or angry contention; nay, but in a calm and hallowed resolution, with all the forbearance possibly consistent with a due fidelity to truth and right; in that spirit by and through which God may make us the instruments of His blessed Will. It seems to me that the predominating feeling in our hearts towards our Southern brethren, at this crisis, can hardly be other than that of sorrowing pity, for their persistency and devotion to a system accursed of God; for the perils that surround them-its own legitimate fruit; for the evil-none can know how great-they are voluntarily bringing upon themselves by their insane movement. God save us from too harshly judging them! as we would not ourselves be judged. They do not see slavery as we do. They cannot, perhaps; brought up in the midst of it, taught to regard it as allowable if not right; having associations with it, it may be, pleasant and tender, and seeing in its abolishment destitution and desolation. But we must be true to ourselves and to our light. We may not withhold the condemning testimony which conscience and heart compel against their system, as in itself and essentially wrong and evil. “We may not, for the sake of peace, or for the sake of anything, be, in any manner, accomplices with them in upholding it. We may not refuse the word or action in our power to give, in behalf of its helpless victims. It is to be lamented that the door is shut against the possibility of representing to the South the real feelings towards her of the North; infamously misrepresented by the only Northern sheets she permits to reach her. The hatred she supposes does not, I am sure, to any considerable extent, exist. There is a hatred of her Institution, not its victims-the voluntary, any more than the constrained, save as its hateful spirit dominates in the latter. I wish it were less certain that her feeling towards the North is hatred. But it is more pardonable in her than it were in us, with her misapprehensions as to the object and motive of our hostility upon her pecuniary and domestic prosperity.
As to Disunion, it seems of necessity. Not alone from the present attitude of the Slave States, but from the nature of the differences which separate between them and the rest. So that the concessions which might restore a nominal Union would leave the parties still, as ever, in virtual conflict; bringing the congratulations of “Peace” when, in fact, there would be no peace. But the concessions will not be made. The Free States have taken a stand from which they cannot essentially, because they cannot conscientiously, recede. The degree in which they might be willing to would not avail, nor anything, short of an allowed nationalization of slavery, an unprotesting submission to its odious projects, its despotic sway. “How can two walk together unless they be agreed?” We cannot agree. We are, in truth, two civilizations; more separate in principle, policy, feeling, than any two nations in Christendom. Saddening as is the idea of disunion, afflictive as, in some respects, may prove its issues, seeing it is thus forced on us by the Providence of God, what have we to do but to accept and make the best of it?-assured that the good which
<c04>
shall come as the consequence of loyalty to conscience, will be worth all, and infinitely, its cost of evil. We need faith in God-a cheerful faith in a living God-whose very judgments are merciful, whose prerogative it is to bring light out of darkness, order from confusion, from night and chaos the dawn and beauty of a new creation; who is guiding the march of Humanity, nor less of every single soul, however circuitously, by reason of its perversity, yet on, forever on, toward the ever receding goal of its possibility.
I have no competency to judge concerning the probable effect of a severance of the Union upon the commercial and industrial interests of the North. It might be evil. I see not how, for a time, at least, until things should adjust themselves to their new relations, it could be otherwise. But what of that-would not every true heart say-where the alternative is falseness to conscience and humanity? Who would not be willing to bear his full share of the suffering and loss?-gaining thereby, as surely he would, an inward satisfaction and gain beyond the giving of prosperity. Do we imagine that any good cause can be advanced in this world without sacrifices on the part of its adherents? Such is not the law. So reads not History. And strange, indeed, would it be, if this giant evil, to which we have so long consented, basely or thoughtlessly; this moral Upas, which has struck its poisonous roots through the very core of our civil and social life,-if it could be destroyed without suffering and loss, at the North as well as elsewhere. Ought we-I had almost asked-to desire it?-to desire exemption from a retributive woe, for the long allowed sin of our connivance with it? This seems certain enough, that the danger and evil are but augmented by the delay to meet them. Would we, meanly and wickedly, for our own escape, predoom our children to that more fearful reckoning? And who that knows the profligate and criminal treachery, to the North and to Freedom, of the outgoing administration; who that sees the danger we have but just escaped-if indeed we have-from the tyrannizing and lawless spirit which slavery engenders; from the unscrupulous efforts, in a feeling of revengeful hate, to humiliate and compel the North, at whatever cost,-who, I say, that sees this, can help but feel that the sooner the crisis is met, the better?
For myself, when I think of Southern slavery,-of what it is, and what it does; the wrong it is in the sight of God, the calamity it is to millions of His children; when I think what a human being is, and of the atrocity of the crime that holds and treats him as if he were a brute,-that subjects him, without remedy or redress, to the selfish will and lawless passions of a fellow-man; that denies him knowledge, denies him a home, denies him a right to his own children, a right to himself, a right to any rights “that a white man is bound to respect”; that makes and brands him as “property,” buys and sells him, overworks and abuses him, as interest or caprice or passion may will; when I think that this is done to four millions of individual beings, and that the power which does it is striving, with desperation of effort, to increase, indefinitely, the area and multiply the victims of slavery; and when I think that to this foul iniquity and inhumanity the Free States are, constitutionally, a party; are held, by compact, to favor and protect it; to return its flying “property”-return those who, in a love of freedom, (with a heroic daring which, on any other soil, in any other race, we should admiringly applaud,) risk life for freedom's sake;-to return such to their despotic claimants, and to their avenging cruelties; when I think of the demoralizing and debasing influences which come, are seen to have come, from this connection and fellowship with slavery,-how it blinds and debauches the public conscience, how it represses, even in youthful hearts, the native nobleness that would side with the wronged and helpless,<illegible> it fosters the spirit of violence and lawlessness, <illegible> it affects the very administration of religion, and tempts Church and Pulpit to deny their Lord;-when I think of these things, I am forced to say, all that is true and noble and human and divine within me, impels me to say, let us, at whatever cost, be freed from this connection and fellowship and complicity; for the sake of the oppressed, for our children's sake, for our soul's sake, for the sake of God's kingdom that we pray may come, as we call ourselves Christians, disciples of him who came “to break every yoke” “to give deliverance to the captive,” who knew no distinction of color, caste, clime, race, in his regard for humanity, but saw in all men children of God, and stood in awe before the lowest, as more sacred than Jerusalem's Temple; whose cross stands forever the witness of a self-sacrifice that included a world in its embrace.
Oh, that Christ might be our master and leader here, as in all things,-his truth guide us, his spirit fill us! Come, that spirit,-so strong and yet so gentle, so brave and yet so meek, so just and yet so compassionate, daring all things, enduring all things, hoping all things,-come, that spirit, and fill and lead us!

Selected Articles.
THE ABOLITION CONVENTION:
THE MOB SPIRIT RAMPANT-FREEDOM OF SPEECH COUCHANT-INEFFICIENCY OF THE CITY AUTHORITIES-ROCHESTER DISGRACED!
The secret conspiracy, hatched by a few riotous spirits within a few days past, against Freedom of Speech in Rochester, last night developed itself in a most disgraceful and scandalous disturbance of a public meeting, held by an insignificant cabal of fanatical men and women, and at last broke out in open and flagrant defiance of the constituted municipal authorities.
Every reader of the Express knows that our party views and political action are diametrically opposed to the sentiments and the policy entertained and inculcated by the so-called Garrisonian school; and furthermore, that the Republican creed, to which we subscribe, looks with equal disfavor and offers equal resistance to the principles of extremists, in both North and South. But, at the same time, in common with all conservative and law-abiding citizens, we recognize the imperative necessity, as well as sacred obligation, of maintaining Law and Order-of affording to every class and every individual protection in the enjoyment of free and untrammeled SPEECH! Neither does the political crisis which we now experience,-the complication and danger of public affairs,-in the least impair that right or that obligation. On the other hand, it is more vitally important to maintain it now than in the ordinary peaceful condition of affairs.
Hitherto the Abolitionists have held their annual meetings in this city, and their deliberations have not only been undisturbed, but have failed to attract general public attention or concern. In every city, however, there is a large element of the population who are restive under restraint, and will exultingly seize every opportunity of displaying their bad manners, malignant spirit, and brutish instincts; and they wait only the relaxation of public vigilance, and the suggestions of “respectable” instigators, to break forth into violence and riot.
Thus it was apparent in the meeting last evening, that a large majority of the disorderly congregation were either young men who, stimulated by bad advice and worse spirits-and countenanced by those whose position in society and whose education should have taught them better-were on hand in full force; while the remainder of the rioters was composed of hackneyed and bankrupt politicians of Democratic and pro-slavery-American antecedents-of men who could listen to the treasonable dogmas of Yancey with silence, if not approbation, and of men who turned out with concealed revolvers to protect the Angel Gabriel in his denunciations of the “Scarlet Woman”!
At 7 1/2 o'clock, Corinthian Hall contained a congregation of nearly five hundred persons. An admission fee of ten cents was exacted at the door, and from the character of the audience it was evident they were not generally of a class who rally to the standard of moral reforms, or who often sit down to intellectual repasts. We noticed, however, among the audience, many of the solid men of our city-men of intelligence, worth and position-who had been attracted from the best of motives.
The platform was occupied by the persons who
<c05>
had rented the hall, and were announced to speak-Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. E. C. Stanton, Rev. S. J. May, and Aaron M. Powell. Before the arrival of the speakers, the time was consumed by the <illegible> portion of the audience by an intermittent stamping of the feet, smoking of cigars, wearing of hats, and other marks of indecorum, foreign to well regulated assemblies.
When Miss Anthony stepped forward to introduce Mrs. Stanton as the first speaker of the evening, she was greeted with a moderate broadside of hisses and ironical applause. But when Mrs. Stanton commenced her address, she was interrupted by a yet more noisy demonstration, and, although she persevered for some time in her attempts, she was unable to complete a single sentence, and consequently stood quietly facing the audience. 
Voices-Go on-go on!
Richard L. Swift, Constable-Go on! That answers my time exactly (flourishing his cane). I'm a gentleman. (Applause, “Ha, ha!”)
Sheriff Smith, approaching Swift, commanded him not to disturb the meeting, under the penalty of being taken out of the Hall.
Swift at first questioned the Sheriff's authority, but finally promised to keep still.
Mrs. Stanton-I would say (hisses) to the (hisses) audience-(prolonged hisses, and yelling and stamping).
The Rev. S. J. May next attempted to speak, but was likewise unsuccessful, and was defeated by a storm of hisses, stamping of feet, and demoniac yells.
A Southerner-Well, I may as well go back to Kentucky, for this is ahead of any demonstration against free speech that I ever saw at the South. Hisses.)
A Voice-Put him out! (Applause.)
Another-Try it, you-
A. M. Powell next came forward, and for several minutes talked aloud, but his voice was entirely drowned by the mob.
After a long silence, Mr. May made another unsuccessful attempt to address the audience, and retired, saying, “Well, then, we'll have a Quaker meeting;” only let us think-let us all think a little.” (Bah! bah! Get out!).
Constable Swift-I understand this is a meeting for free discussion. I don't know, Chairman, whether I should call you Mister or Miss, but I propose we all keep still and hear what is to be said. Will you do it? (“Yes! oh yes!” Uproar and applause.)
Mr. May then undertook the reading of some “uncompromising” resolutions, but was not permitted to proceed. The words “denounce Gov. Morgan” were distinctly heard, and then followed an indescribable tumult, and “three cheers and a tiger.” 
Jacob S. Gould moved that a committee of four be appointed to carry the resolutions out of doors. (Applause.)
A son of the late lamented Rev. Dr. Penny seconded the motion.
S. J. May-Will any one here defend the African Slave Trade and the Fugitive Slave Law?
Swift (excitedly,)-I will, as long as the Constitution protects, and I will carry back any fugitive slave! (Applause and yells.)
The sheriff again approached Swift, and threatened his arrest. Acting Mayor Angevine also attempted to calm the turbulent constable, and he temporarily subsided.
Mr. Powell again essayed to speak, but could not be heard.
Constable Swift— What do we live upon-(sentence lost).
A Voice-Whiskey! (Screeching and yelling-Swift sat down.)
Mr. Powell continued talking against time and “Bedlam.” Mrs. Stanton left the stage, and took a seat in the audience.
Jacob S. Gould-I came in here in good faith; expended ten cents; I want some one to preserve-order, and 
I nominate E. F. Smith for Chairman, and O. L. Angevine and Hiram Sibley, as committee to conduct him to the chair. All in favor say aye. (Cries of “aye.”) Carried.
Mr. E. F. Smith did not show himself, however.
Dr. Hillman-All gentlemen who are in favor of sustaining free speech in Rochester, come over to the west side of the hall.
Almost every person on the opposite side left his seat and rushed to the side indicated, and the greatest confusion prevailed.
The Chief of Police here mounted the platform, and stated that the persons who had called the meeting declared it adjourned till tomorrow (this) afternoon, at 2 o'clock.
This announcement created the wildest excitement among the rioters. They had “paid their ten cents,” and had not their anticipated fun.
Voices “We won't adjourn!” “We've paid our money!" “Give’em hell!”
Such cries prevailed for several minutes. Meantime the managers of the hall began to turn off the gas.
A man named Kendall jumped upon the platform, and bellowed lustily and incoherently, but could not be understood.
Constable R. L. Swift elected himself chairman, mounted the rostrum, and put a resolution adjourning the meeting till to-morrow night-then till tomorrow (this) afternoon.
H. P. Merrill got upon the platform, and “resolved” that the meeting repudiate the resolutions read by the Abolitionists. (Applause.) 
Voices-“O! yes.” “Bully for you!” “Go it!” “Three cheers for Major Anderson!” “Hurrah!”
Mart. Young-Don't let's adjourn. Reorganize!
A Voice-Oh! go it while you're Young!
The gas was finally shut off, the audience gradually retired, and the rowdy element, clamoring for the restitution of their “ten cents,” jostling and yelling as they proceeded through the hall, at length dispersed.
Thus ended this triumphant imitation of Southern intolerance of freedom of speech. With whom the responsibility rests, there is no difficulty in determining. Private citizens, scandalized by “such proceedings, would 
have taken the law into their own hands, had they not relied on the vigilance and efficiency of those who are sworn to execute it. All who have the good name of our city at heart must have blushed for the supineness of the police authorities, who, though present in large numbers, made no adequate effort to suppress the disturbance or arrest the offenders. This is not a time for catering to the prejudices of the political “scruff” of the community. Officers must have the public weal, and not their own personal popularity in view. Those whose hearts are faint and nerves tremulous, are unfit for such exigencies as we have described. If Sheriff Smith had received prompt support from the city authorities, in his early attempts to quell the disturbance by the summary arrest of a ringleader, doubtless the effect would have been most salutary, and we should have been spared the humiliation of chronicling an occurrence which has its only parallel in those “Southern outrages” which our citizens generally profess so heartily to condemn!-Rochester Evening Express, Jan. 12th.

THE COMMON COUNCIL AND THE ABOLITION MEETING.
The Mayor being absent from the city, and Ald. Angevine occupying his position by request, the latter thought it prudent, in view of the excitement apparent among citizens, some of them very respectable persons, to convene the Common Council yesterday, and take an expression of their views as to the means proper to be adopted to preserve the public peace. Sixteen Aldermen responded to the call. The meeting was held in the Mayor's room, and Ald. Angevine was appointed to preside. On motion of Ald. Buell, Ald. Angevine was appointed to act as Mayor in the absence of His Honor Mayor Scrantom.
Ald. Angevine briefly stated the object of calling the Board together, and asked advice as to what should be done in case a breach of the peace occurred during 
the evening, in consequence of the Abolition meeting.
Ald. Cushing moved a resolution, that Mr. Reynolds be 
requested to close his Hall against those who had engaged it for Abolition meetings.
Ald. C. claimed that he was entitled to express an opinion on this question; for he had aided to organize one of the first Anti-Slavery Societies in this State, and knew much of the workings and something of the motives governing these societies. Very good sentiments are often made the cover for bad designs; and he knew that the Anti-Slavery sentiment was made use of to promote objects which no patriotic citizen could desire to see successful. He could not assent to the denial of the right of free speech, but he believed there should be a line drawn somewhere between what is admissable and what is to be prohibited, “for the greatest good of the greatest number.” Free speech must not be permitted to become licentious, and deprave society or endanger
<c06>
our institutions. He did not promise to vote for the resolution he offered, but would like to have it discussed.
Ald. Buell did not believe it the duty of the Common Council to advise Mr. Reynlods as to what course it was proper for him to pursue. He was master of his own property, and as capable of judging as this Board, as to whether he should let it for one purpose or another; and as to the preservation of the peace, the whole power to that end was vested in the Executive, who has the police at his command. He was willing to repose confidence and power in the hands of the acting Mayor.
Ald. Holmes took the position that these Abolitionists were engaged in exciting the public mind, at a time when every citizen should exert himself to allay excitement. They preach disunion, and are traitors equally with those who rebel at the South, and assault the forces of the United States. He would quell treason wherever it shows its head; and would Lang Mr. Toombs, or any one who practiced treason. These Abolitionists even devote the Sabbath to their nefarious purposes, a day sacred to other uses. He thought the Hall should be closed against their entrance.
Ald. Woodbury had reflected upon this subject a good deal, and had heard much said of a threatening kind. He was disposed to give every one their just 
rights, but he would not permit assemblages of a disturbing character if he could prevent it. It had been told to him that some of the most prominent 
men in the city, such men as Judge Gardner and E. F. Smith, had advised the suppression of these meetings, and it was even said that they would be
present this evening to assist in putting the speakers down. This greatly surprised him; but if true he thought the necessity for such interference should be prevented. He moved an amendment, that Mr. Reynolds be requested to close the Hall this and tomorrow evenings, and on Sunday.
Ald. Bradstreet remarked that it had been said in his hearing, by an Ex-Mayor, that the reputation of Rochester abroad had become very bad on account of the isms which had found origin and harbor here. 
It had become a perfect nest of ultraisms, and its reputation was dark and foreboding. We had now an opportunity to wipe out some of the stains resting 
upon us in consequence, and he thought it should be done by preventing these agitators from holding forth as advertised.
Ald. Stone differed with Ald. Bradstreet as to the reputation and character of Rochester. No city in the Union ranks more deservedly high, in respect of good morals, social order, intelligence, thrift and fidelity to obligations, pecuniary or patriotic, than Rochester. For one, he was not ashamed of his own city, and would cast no evil reflections upon her. As to the meetings of the Abolitionists, he thought if those who did not agree with them would not attend their meetings, no disturbance nor any great evil would be the consequence of them. Further than that, he was willing to leave the preservation of the public peace in the hands of the constituted authorities. 
Ald. Shelton moved as a substitute, that this Common Council regret that Mr. Reynolds has leased his Hall for meetings of an exciting and agitating character, at this crisis in public and national affairs.
Ald. Shelton briefly supported his motion. He was disinclined to meddle with the Abolitionists, and thought this Board had no right to interfere. If a breach of the peace was committed, let those whose duty it was to preserve the peace attend to it.
The motions to substitute and to amend were voted down, 4 to 10, and 8 to 8. Ald. Cushing's motion was also lost, 7 to 10.
Ald. Holmes moved that the proceedings of this meeting be expunged, and that they be considered and kept secret.
This motion was opposed quite generally.
Ald. Seward advocated it, and said that he had no idea there would be a mob of any seriousness. He had witnessed one in this city, many years ago, and was not afraid of such demonstrations, because they amounted to nothing. He repeated what he had said on a former occasion, that our institutions are based on a free press and free speech; and if these rights cannot be sustained, the sooner we abandoned our present form of government and reverted to the rule of Great Britain, the better for all concerned.
He did not agree with the Abolitionists, but believed them wrong in their course of action. Still they had a right to the expression of their opinions and sentiments, and no one should attempt to a bridge it. In this country there is no constructive treason; but every man has a right to say what he pleases, subject to the laws which protect the rights of others. He would hang traitors as soon as Ald. Holmes, but he would not deny the right of free speech to any one.
Ald. Holmes having withdrawn his motion. Ald. Seward renewed it. It was lost nearly unanimously.
Ald. Bradstreet moved that treason at the North was no better than treason at the South, and that this Common Council deprecate any unnecessary agitation, by public meetings, upon the subject of slavery, in our city, at the present time.
Ald. Stone moved that this resolution lie on the table. Carried.
And the Board adjourned.-Ibid.

THE RESOLUTIONS.
The following are the Resolutions presented to the Anti-Slavery Convention yesterday afternoon, by A. M. Powell, and discussed and attempted to be again read last evening, by Rev. Samuel J. May:-
Resolved, That in the present condition of our national affairs, the universal agitation, the aroused public feeling, and in the dismemberment of the 
Slaveholding Confederacy of the United States which is now taking place, we have increased hope and encouragement that the day of deliverance to the nearly five millions of enslaved men and women at the South is near at hand.
Resolved, That as by the terms of the original compromises, the national government, baptized as the American Union, has ever been the bulwark of slavery and the shield of a slaveholding oligarchy, by guaranteeing for twenty years the thrice accursed African Slave Trade, by the three-fifths representation in Congress, by putting down slave insurrections, and by the rendition of heroic fugitive slaves from all parts of the Confederacy, its support has ever involved blood-guiltiness; therefore, not only should there be no more compromises with slave-holders, but those which have so long been maintained in unpardonable complicity with oppressors and men-stealers should be at once and forever repudiated. 
Resolved. That heartily opposed as are nineteen-twentieths of the people of the State of New York to slave-hunting, and the rendition of fugitive slaves, we emphatically denounce the humiliating subserviency, the inexcusable disregard of the convictions of his constituents, and the interests of liberty, exhibited by Gov. Morgan in recommending the repeal of the so-called Personal Liberty Bill of this State, gratuitously including the Personal Liberty Laws of other States, so that the whole North may be free and unobstructed hunting ground for innocent, heroic, but deeply injured men and women, by the ravishers and despots who unhesitatingly imprison, hang, or banish all suspected Northern citizens found within their own dominions.
Resolved, That deprecating the professed allegiance of the Republican party to compromises in favor of slavery “where it is,” we would remind them that South of Mason's and Dixon's line, by the madness of “those whom God would destroy.” for their opposition to slavery in the abstract and to its extension into the Territories, Republicans are driven to make common cause with slaves and Abolitionists, and are persecuted and exiled by the power of the Union they would falsely maintain.
Resolved That if concession to the demands of the slaveholding oligarchy could be made to appear morally excusable, it has been manifestly proved to be ineffectual and inexpedient, having only encouraged them in their aggressions; until it is seen of all men that nothing will satisfy them but the entire control of our national policy, domestic and foreign, the universal acceptance of their demoralizing principles, and the subserviency of our Federal Government to their protection and aggrandizement-that is to say, the utter subversion of American Liberty. 
Resolved, That the saddest fact in the past history of our country is the subserviency of the Church and its ministers (with a few most honorable exceptions) to the slaveholding oligarchy that has ruled our Republic, and that no where is this vital reform, for which we plead, more needed than in the so-called House of God, where the professed people of God should be diligently taught in accordance with the declaration of a distinguished minister of this city, that even “to save the country, we should not be willing to give up those ETERNAL PRINCIPLES which no man can surrender.”-Ibid.
