THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind. 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 52. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1664.
Refuge Of Oppression.
<c01>
WAR AND “REFORMS”
Those People who advocate what they call new ideas in human progress, (as if most of them had not been repeatedly tried and rejected in the history of the race.) seem to have received a quietus from this stunning, practical, fact of war. It has always been recorded as an incidental benefit of this scourge of mankind, that it puts an end to the whole brood of absurd fantasies which are hatched out by the very prosperity of nations in time of peace. People must think, and when they have no war on hand, to task their thinking powers to the almost, they cast about for the first subject that is new. (or appears so to limited readers of history,) and set to thinking about that, it this country, the number of these uneasy thinkers, both men and women, always on the lookout for intellectual problems, is large. They take a pride in encouraging so called new ideas. They subscribe to newspapers which are addicted to the support of all notions claiming to be reforms, no matter how chimerical and absurd. They also furnish audiences for strolling lectures who profess to own patent plans for the regeneration of the human family. They do not at least all of them do don’t- fully believe in every preposterous antiquity, revamped and labeled” novelty” which is brought upon them; but they give it a hearing, or an examination, (always paying for it is some shape,) which is al that the professors on the old-fashioned reforms desire. This generous patronage, which our people – more than any other in the world- give to all ideas which are set up as new, seems to have been almost entirely cut off by the war. We have no means of judging of the pecuniary receipts of reform organs of reform professors: but we observe that none of them are making any stir in the community, and it a well-known fact that when reform ceases to make a stir, it is dying. Agitation, discussion and continual fuss are the very conditions of its existence. When the air no longer reverberates with the fierce declamations on its advocates, reform may be safely regarded as in a moribund state. Judges by this law of experience, Woman’s rights, as they used to be expounded in the New York conventions, must be pretty high extinct. The public have not heard “Woman’s Rights” mentioned for over a year. Spirtualism has been dropped out of the public mind for at least the same period. The spasmodic attempt recently made to life in into notice in connection with “spiritual photographs,” proved a total failure People no longer feel any interest in its pretensions. They have quite forgotten (so rapid is the American mind in its reception and rejection of professedly new ideas) that there ever was such a thing. After this form of spiritualism has been dead four or five years, it can be brought out under a new name as a bran new philosophy, and if the country is at peace, will have another good run. Let the professors, now bereft of their subsistence, wait till then! Other reforms might be enumerated which have been hastily tossed overboard by the public in the tempest of this war; but the notorious fate of the two above mentioned, illustrated the law which applies to the whole of them. New York Journal of Commerce.

POLITICAL CLERGY, &C.
HARTFORD, (Conn.,) Dec. 11, 1862.
GENTLEMEN, I have just read your article on the late political movement of our clergy at the Cooper Institute, and regard it as eminently appropriate and timely.
Just so certain as they attempt in an organized capacity to influence political legislation, so certain and to a like degree, will they damage the cause of their professed Master, and bring both themselves and the religion which He cam to establish on earth into contempt. This radical error of the clergy, however, is attributed not solely to their own disposition to “mix in,” pugnacious as too many of them are, with the prevailing political agitation, but in a measure to the stimulus and encouragement which they unfortunately receive at the hands of number of their adherents and supporters, who believe that both and Gospel and party are to be best sustained by setting and keeping the people “by the ears,”
As illustrative of this, we witness, in this goodly city of ours, the disgraceful, spectacle of certain leading men, in one of our heretofore most prosperous churches, systematically and very actively operating to drive their minister- a man whose excellences and good works are known and cheerfully acknowledged throughout our entire community- out of his pulpit, which he has occupied for the last ten or twelve years, because, forsooth, they cannot compel him to reach the Gospel according to Abolitionism on Sunday. He prays for his and our enemies, and that peace may again return in God’s good time to a distracted country, and hence is a traitor and secessionist, and must be driven forth from the flock which he has so long watched over and led in the paths of peace and righteousness.
It has been the unhallowed ambition of men and stamp among us, to bring not the pulpit only, but so far as possible, their secular and religious press, our schools, and library societies, under their control, that they may make them fountains for the dissemination of the pestilent doctrines of abolitionism. They are incessantly at work in their mischievous vocation; bold and outspoken, when this course promises success, but still and wily as serpents whenever this kind of strategy promises the best results.
Into our Young Men’s Institute, a literary society have they presumed to set their cloven foot, to the discredit of our city and the serious impairment of its former happy influence.
We are to be treated, the coming winter, to course of lectures before this society, supported though it is by all classes of our citizens, I which Mr. Horace Greeley figures in the programme, and other of the same stripe, though beyond a doubt the enemies of its direction. Further, while newspaper constitute a feature of the reading matter to be found on its tables, not a single Democratic paper, outside of our city press, appears there, excepting only a single weekly, and this, I learn is a gift to the society; while all the leading New York papers and other of the Republican school are spread out in lavish profusion before the young men who spend their evenings at these rooms.
The end of all this will be a revolution and if we do not sooner or later go to the extreme of hearing Democratic politics in our pulpits- which God forbid, for partisan politics never ought to find utterance there – and getting nothing but democracy in our schools and institutions for the moral and intellectual improvement of the young, it will be a piece of good fortune for which we shall not be indebted to our abolition friends. The pendulum still swings; and it behooves our political parsons
<c02>
and anti-slavery agitators to see to it, that they carry 
their favorite topics not much further in their chosen direction, lest its opposite movement land them, with all their pet schemes, in a fathomless abyss.
Pray, gentlemen, keep this ball in motion, and oblige not VOUT subscriber and friends only, but benefit mankind. T.
—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
CLERGYMEN AS CLEBGYMEN, IN THE POLITICAL ABENA.
MESSRS. EDITORS,—I send you an extract from a letter from one of the most intelligent Christian ladies in a neighboring State, noted wherever she is known fur her faith and charity, and the fruits of her Christian faith. Similar proofs might be indefinitely multiplied of the deep grief of Christians at the degrading spectacle of distinguished men, whom the Church and the community generally have held in respect, so long as they kept within the legitimate bounds of their high duties, stepping down from their elevated position to play the partizan in the political strife of the day. She says:—
"Mr.—has just called my attention to an article in the Journal of Commerce which has made him quite indignant. It is n meeting of clergymen of the different denominations at the Cooper Institute to propose an address to President Lincoln, expressive of their approval of his Emancipation Proclamation, mentioning the venerable Drs. Spring, Ferris, Tyng, &c. It is to be regretted that men who have attained such eminence as divines should stoop so low at to sully their clerical fame by advocating Mr. Lincoln's wild projects, which are only adding fuel to the flame and sharpening the sword of vengeance. Would it not be advisable for each church pertaining to these pastors to call a meeting for special prayer, that the spirit may be poured out, and these deluded men receive a fresh baptism, a reconversion, —that their attention may be turned from political strife to preaching the gospel and laboring for precious souls? Surely God's people should sigh for the abominations that are rife in our land, especially for our ministers, who, instead of wielding the sword of the spirit, and fighting the fight of faith, are brandishing the sword of contention, and advocating the cause of abolition heresy which is to flood our country with beggary and crime. It seems as if they were- given over to strong delusion to believe a lie. Oh that God would arise, and have mercy on our Zion, and bring our ministers into the dust, and keep them there till they disrobe themselves of their defiled garments, and come forth clothed in humility," &c.
These are the sentiments of a devout and pious mind, with which thousands in the Church most cordially sympathize. No move could be more in
opportune than these clergymen have proposed, none more calculated to bring religion, as represented in these persons, into disrepute. I must suppose them men of common sense, and then let me ask them in what capacity do they address the President of the United States, in behalf of a political measure? Will it be said that we arc citizens, and have our rights as citizen, and therefore
we may give our opinions on any political measure? Granted: no one will dispute that position so long m you give it as citizens: but when you leave that
position and make use of your position as clergymen, intending, as you must intend, that the influence of your ecclesiastical position shall be brought to bear in the support of a political measure, then I think I
am safe in saying you have exceeded your rights. I will not insult your understandings, by supposing you do not comprehend the difference between your
official and individual position. Mr. Spring, Mr. Ferris, Mr. Tyng, may undoubtedly support any political measure they please, and their opinions
will go for what they arc worth, more or less valuable than Mr. Jones, the barber, Mr. Smith, the car man, or Mr. Brown, the tailor; but the Rev. Dr.
Spring, the Rev. Chancellor Ferris, and the Rev. Dr. Tyng, have no right to give a factitious importance to their address, as citizens, by clothing them
selves in a garb unacknowledged in the legitimate political costume of the country. MILTON.
—Journal of Commerce.
Se1ections.
THE CLEEGY AND THE EMANCIPA1I0N PROCLAMATION.
Some two or three hundred of the clergy of New York and the adjacent cities assembled last evening, at the Cooper Institute, for the purpose of considering the duty of the Church and ministry, in the present state of the country, in reference to the proclamation of emancipation. Among those present were Chanceller Ferris. Rev. Drs. Vermilye, Tyng. Hodge, Burchard. Cheever, Spear, and Hitch-cock. and Rev. Messrs. J. Q. Adams, Cuyler, Dunbar, Canfield, Matteson, and Rev. Mr. Conway, chaplain of the Ninth New York Regiment.
At the commencement of the meeting, there were several ladies and laymen also present. The majority of the clergy seemed to be of the exaggerated radical class.
Rev. Dr. Tyng called the meeting to order, and nominated Rev. Dr. Burchard for chairman. Rev. Dr. Ferris, the chairman of the previous meeting, not being then present. Rev. Dr. Burchard, on taking the chair, said their object in coming together had been very clearly stated at the last meeting; it was to take into consideration what is the duty on the part of the clergy of this city and the neighboring cities.
Rev. Dr. Tyng here raised the point that there were many lay and many female friends present, whose society would be agreeable for him when the occasion was suitable. This was a meeting exclusively for clergymen, and the report to be presented to them was of a nature so delicate and important, that it could not properly be presented to any other; than an adjourned meeting of the clergymen present, when the committee who were to present the report were appointed.
The ladies and several gentlemen now left the room, and at the same time the clergymen who called the first meeting were requested to step out of 
the room for conference.
These gentlemen having re-entered, Rev. Dr. Ferris, who had now arrived, assumed the chair, and Rev. Dr. Burchard offered prayer.
A clergyman wanted to know if the meeting was meant for the Protestant clergy, or were Roman Catholics included?
Rev. Dr. Burchard.—It is for the clergy—the term is generic.
Clergyman, (going toward the door.)—The. first duty of the clergy is to come oat from the rest, and be separate in that case. (Hisses and laughter.)
The Secretary having been called upon to read the minutes. proceeded to do so, but had read but a few lines, when 
Rev. Dr. Vermilye, rising rather excitedly, stated that the meeting was intended to be one purely of
<c03>
clergymen; that the minutes about being read were. a private affair; they contained that which belonged exclusively to the clergymen who were present at the other meeting: it never was intended to be a public affair: it was in no sense a public, matter;! that paper gave information which belonged entirely to the gentlemen who had met previously; he I would submit the question to the chair.
Rev. Dr. Ferris stated that such publicity as had been given to their proceedings at the other meeting was entirely unauthorized, and the brethren at that time present were not in any sense responsible for the notice given of the present meeting; who were the parties giving the notice, he knew not.
Rev. Dr. Hitchcock'—The Committee caused no advertisement to be made, and the many representations made in the public prints were entirely inconsistent with the spirit and aims of the gentlemen who met the other evening.
 Rev. Dr. Spear referred to the gross misrepresentations of the. press. and he regarded it as grossly indelicate that the reporters should remain after what lie had said—he was amazed that no hint was taken. He then moved that the reporters be requested to leave the room.
The chair, instead of putting the motion, referred to the large number of persons present other than the clergymen at the other meeting, and stated that,
 if it was thought proper that they should remain, he must vacate the chair, and decline, to participate in the proceedings. Rev. Drs. Canfield, Smith, and others, spoke to the same effect. 
Rev. Dr. Vermilye.—As chairman of the committee appointed to present a report to this meeting, I would say that we have no report this evening to make. On the contrary, advices from Washington, just received, intimate distinctly that there will be no necessity, and in fact no propriety whatever in our taking action in this matter. I therefore move that the meeting adjourn.
The motion was carried, only the fifty or so clergymen present at the other meeting being requested to vote. As these were leaving the room, a clergyman not of this number requested that those not at the other meeting remain, and organize for the consideration of their duty in the present crisis of the country. After some consultation, another clergyman announced that as they had made no arrangement for the use of the room, and therefore could not properly hold a meeting there, he thought they had bettor adjourn with the rest. (Laughter.)
The remaining clergymen then dispersed.—New York World.
THE PRESIDENT'S EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
To the Christian Public, Clergymen and Laymen
Throughout the Union:
Being desirous to sustain the President of the, United States in his responsible and critical duties in upholding the Government and overthrowing the Rebellion, and having given the subject our careful deliberation, we submit to you the following memorial:—
While we, clergymen and laymen of various Christian denominations, acknowledge our present national humiliation as a just chastisement from God for our national sins, we believe that his paternal hand is directing the sore calamities in the interest of human freedom, as well as for the moral and civil education of the American people.
Though we regard slavery as the original and immediate cause of the rebellion, we would not exculpate ourselves from guilt. We have permitted this flagitious system to grow up under our Government to its present fearful proportions. But we believe that God is turning the war which slaveholders have waged for the extension and perpetuity of slavery, to work its prospective and final destruction.
We regard the confiscation of the property of the rebels, as we do the proclamation of prospective emancipation, as just, and necessary to bring this wicked war to a close, and to secure a righteous and permanent peace. And for all the loyal citizens of the land, and in the name of humanity and our holy religion, we thank the President for the prudent and well-considered manner in which he has accepted and met the responsibility thrust upon him by the terrible crisis.
We are profoundly impressed with the conviction that in the Providence of God, and under our Constitution, sustained by a loyal people, he holds in his hands the destinies of our free Government and the precious interests depending on it for generations yet unborn; and we pledge him, in support of these measures for the restoration of the nation, our sympathy, our prayers, and, if need be, our lives; for when our free Government is overthrown, then also is the free exercise of our religion, and with it every thing which renders life desirable.
We therefore urgently request Pastors of Churches of all denominations, (with all other Clergymen,) throughout the Union, and members of their congregations, immediately and without further notice, to join us in signing the following petition, addressed and to be forwarded, through their several Senators and Representatives, to the President of the United States. We also request Clergymen, after forwarding the petition as suggested above, to return their names, titles, denominations, and the number of signatures to the petition, to BENJAMIN H. WEST, M. D., Secretary, Boston, Mass., that we may obtain complete lists of clerical names, and the number of the petitioners.
Religious and loyal papers, by inserting this article, will advance the cause.
To ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
President of the United States: We, the undersigned, hereby express to you our cordial approval of your late Proclamation of Prospective Emancipation, as a measure intrinsically right, and necessary to secure for the country a righteous and permanent peace; and we earnestly hope that it may be carried into full effect. In so doing, be assured that you have our entire support and most hearty prayers. Boston, Dec'5, 1862.
Rev. L. D. Barrows, D. D., Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Hon. Simon Brown, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee. 
John G. Webster, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Rev. J. N. Murdock, D. D., Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Edwin Lamson, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Rev. Edward E. Hale, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Otis Clapp, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
John M. Forbes, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Rev. E. O. Haven, D. D., Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Charles W. Slack, V Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee. 
Julius A. Palmer. Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee. 
Rev. Edward Edmunds, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee. 
Warren Sawyer, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Rev. J. G. Bartholomew, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Samuel G. Bowdlear, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Edward G. Tileston, Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Benjamin H. West, M. D., Members of the Christian Emancipation Committee.
Secretary.
[Signed by Rev. Drs Stow, Neale, Kirk, Cleaveland, Hague, Warren, Parker, Dunean, and two hundred and 1 twenty-two others, clergymen and laymen.]
<c04>
FRENCH BRANCH OF THE EVANGELIOAL ALLIANCE AND THE AMERICAN WAR.
The following is a copy of an Address from the French-speaking branch of the Evangelical Alliance to Christians in America:—
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE DIFFERENT EVANGELICAL DENOMINATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES..
PARIS, October 25.
BELOVED BRETHREN,—" When one member suffers, all the members suffer with it." This is what we feel regarding yon, since the calamities which have fallen on your nation. Though the Universal Conference of Geneva sent you last year an address of sympathy, we feel constrained to reiterate that expression of our fraternal love. In fact, the year which has elapsed has seen your sacrifices multiplied in a fearful proportion. United to you by the bond of common faith, to which must now be added that of a civilization based on human liberty, we feel that what touches you, touches us. It is true the Evangelical Alliance is bound to raise itself above all differences which separate religious or political parties. But here it is not a question of one of those accessory points of doctrine, of discipline, or of organization, which may divide Evangelical Christians. It is a question of those great notions of justice and injustice, and of the supreme law of charity in the name of which our Alliance was formed. It would be a lie, if it interdicted itself from protesting against those great social iniquities which dishonor the Gospel under which it is attempted to shelter them. It cannot remain indifferent while, in an age when the conscience of the world condemns slavery, and all the countries of Europe, except Spain, have abolished it at the cost of great sacrifices, and when Russia has just emancipated, by an admirable effort, thirty-five million of serfs. Protestant theologians are seen attempting to justify that institution by the Bible, and men inspired with their doctrines excite an atrocious war to maintain the enslavement of an unfortunate race. The Alliance feels itself directly wounded in the faith which it professes, when it assists at so monstrous a spectacle as that of a Confederation which boosts of being Evangelical, (Evangelique,) yet at the same time is founded (as one of its principal magistrates has said) on slavery, as "the stone refused by the builders," but which is precious in the sight of God. The Evangelical Alliance would no longer be the great association of fraternal love that it is, if it forgets those hundreds of thousands of brethren in Jesus Christ, who are now sold in the South like wretched cattle, marked with red-hot iron, and who often perish under the lash of pitiless drivers. Nor should we be less wanting in our duty towards those of our brethren in the South, who have voluntarily associated themselves with a colossal enterprise formed to perpetuate and to extend slavery, if we did not declare to them the profound sorrow which we feel at that spectacle, the fearful scandal which results from it, and the immense damage which they are causing to the interests of our Divine Mister.
Suffice it for us to say to you. Evangelical Christians of the United States, that without wishing to enter into questions of nationality, of country, and of constitution, which are not within our domain, we can assure you that you have our most lively sympathies. If you have to suffer, it is for a grand and glorious cause. That which has let loose on your people all the miseries of war is a first step taken in resistance to the extension of slavery. We have heard with thankfulness of the measures which have been already taken to destroy this odious institution, and of the many symptoms which make us foresee the speedy disappearance of the prejudice against color, that grievous corollary of slavery. We pray God soon to blot out the last traces of it; and we can assure you that nothing will be so well calculated to counteract those prepossessions in Europe, which are grounded chiefly on the manner in which the black race is still treated in the North.
We entreat the Lord to keep you in this path. Each step made in this direction will bring you nearer to the close of your sufferings. Since God permits this horrible carnage, it is doubtless in order to deliver America from an evil which is even more awful than war, because it is more lasting, and because it poisons more completely the springs of a nation's life. When your country shall have done everything which lies in its power to restore liberty to the captives, it will be able to take to itself that promise of the Lord: " Is not this the fast that I have chosen, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily." Then, also, whatever the extirpation of this scourge may have cost you, you will feel that such a benefit could not be too dearly bought.
In the name of the Committee of toe Evangelical Alliance of Paris,
The President—GUILLAUME MONOD. 
The Secretary—GEORGES FISCH. 
The representatives of the French-speaking branch of the Evangelical Alliance, assembled at Geneva on the 29th of October, 1862, have taken the above address into consideration, and given it their hearty approbation.
In the name of the general conference,
The President—CHARLES BARDE, (Pasteur.)
The Secretary—DAVID TISSOT.

EMPLOYMENT FOR LIBERATED NEGROES.
We believe it to be of vital importance to the complete success of the Proclamation of Emancipation, that its friends immediately take measures to furnish profitable employment to those slaves who shall come within the Union lines, and claim their liberty under it. Unless this is done, only a few of the able-bodied, middle-aged men, who can be employed for military purposes, will be able to find employment, or the means of support; the remainder will become an immense burden to the Government, and remain in idleness.
Every day's labor which the people will be able to do, during the coming year, in the cotton-field, can be made worth two dollars at least, and will leave an immense margin of profit on the capital required to employ them, at that price, with anything like respectable management; for the same labor that was required to grow one dollar's worth of cotton in 1860, when it sold for ten cents per pound, will grow six dollars' worth to-day, when it sells for sixty cents per pound. The labor of a good field hand cost the master sixty-three cents per day in 1860. This cost consisted of the following items, viz.:—Twelve per cent, interest on the cost of a good hand, say twelve hundred dollars, which amounts to forty-eight cents per day; fifteen dollars per annum for clothing, equal to five cents per day; twenty-four dollars per annum for provisions furnished, equal to eight cents per day; time lost daring sickness, expenses for medicine and negro quarters, equal to two cents per day,—making the total cost per hand sixty-three cents per
<c05>
day. We think that no one will claim that twelve percent is too high a rate of interest on perishable property like slaves, who are sure to become valueless in a few years; or that any of these estimates are too high. If, then, the negligent, slothful management of a Southern planter, with the rude, inconvenient, ill-conditioned tools and machinery used on most of the plantations, could pay sixty-three cents per day for slave labor, and grow cotton at a profit when it sold for ten cents per pound, what per cent, of profit would a Northern man make in the same business, with improved Northern tools, when the same labor could be obtained at one dollar per day, and cotton selling, as at present, at sixty cents per pound? Certainly five hundred percent.; and there is little prospect of its selling below thirty cents per pound for some time, as only a small amount has been grown this season, or is likely to be next, and the profit of employing these laborers, at reasonable wages, could not fail to be extremely large. It would also add very much to the effect of the Proclamation, if the slaves could be assured constant employment for themselves and families, with wages at one dollar per day for the labor of an able hand.
This being true, what greater mistake can be made than for the Government to add to the present enormous expenses, the burden of supporting tens of thousands of liberated slaves brought into our lines by the President's Proclamation, after the first of January, who are living in idleness and learning vicious habits, while large tracts of the best cotton lands in the world are in our possession, and remain uncultivated, and our people suffer for the want of cotton that might be grown on them? How shall this be avoided?
Capital should be raised at once—a large number of confiscated plantations purchased from the Government—arrangements made for tools, teams supplies, transportation and superintendents. No time should be lost: the planting season will soon arrive. When it has passed, it will be impossible to furnish profitable employment to liberated slaves, if no crop has been planted.
The amount of capital required to commence an enterprise like this successfully, in the outset, must necessarily be large; as those who engage in it at first must furnish their own transportation for supplies from New York to the plantations cultivated, and for the crop grown, to market, as no freight lines are running to the South now. After a careful investigation of the subject, we estimate that about two hundred dollars of capital will be required for each hand employed. How shall this capital be raised? As there is danger of being driven off by the rebels before the crop is gathered, and the whole investment lost, no one will be willing to invest a large amount in it; but many will risk a small amount far the purpose of seeing this experiment tried, and the fact demonstrated that cotton can be grown cheaper with free labor than with slaves, and a movement initiated, which will be the means of inducing other parties to engage in many similar enterprises before the season is put, and thus furnish employment to a large number of emancipated slaves.
The amount of capital required being greater than private parties would be willing to risk, there is clearly no method of raising it but by means of a stock company with a comparatively large capital, whose stock is divided into small shares.
We are willing and anxious to engage in this enterprise, and will invest three thousand dollars in its stock, provided others will join us and make up an
amount of capital sufficient to go on with it successfully. Who will join us? Any one willing to take stock in such an enterprise to the amount of
 ten dollars or more, is invited to advise us of the fact by mail. Friends of the cause, let us bear from you. ELLIS, BRITTON & EATON.
 Springfield, (Vt.,) Nov. 15, 1862.

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION IN TENNESSEE.
THE NEGRO EXODUS—THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR IS HARD.
The rebel slaveholders of Middle Tennessee—an they comprise, perhaps, five-sixths of the slaveholders—are filled with alarm at the approaching ev: which menaces them with ruin. It is evident that they do not regard the President's Emancipation Proclamation as brutum fulmen—mere thunder an no lightning—as some newspapers regard it. O. the contrary, they look upon it as the most terrible wound yet inflicted upon the peculiar institution which, as it is the chief corner-stone of the Butternut Confederacy, so it is the chief corner-stone the rebellion, whose death involves the death of the Southern rebellion. The slaves have heard of the proclamation, and are following the example of rebellion set them by their masters. Whoever els may affect to doubt that the proclamation is a live document, the rebels of Middle Tennessee do not doubt it, and they quake in the extremity of their terror as the day draws near when it shall take effect in Wilson, in Williamson, in Maury, in Rutlerford, and in Davidson counties. The rebel master have, for two weeks past, been gathering up their slaves, and running them off as expeditiously possible. Whole plantations, which once counter their scores of bondsmen — coal-black, chestnut brown, saddle-colored, olive-tinted and Saxon-hue—are now depopulated. Their former inhabitant have
" Laid down the shovel and the hoe, 
And hung up the fiddle and the bow;”
and have been driven off to Dixie—to the land cotton, cotton-mouth snakes, and cotton-beaded politicians.
We have our doubts whether these fugitive matters will find the change for the better. It looks us like leaping out of the frying pan into the fire What will they do with their slaves when they go them South? There is no work for them to do, n cotton or tobacco to raise, and nothing for them t eat. It does not seem to us that to collect hundreds of thousands of restless, excited negroes together, is exactly the best method of securing an strengthening the divine institution of slavery, which is sanctioned by the Lord's prayer and the Sermo on the Mount! To use a plain term, these rebel slaveholders are a set of asses; they never were troubled with much brains, and they have improve very much, of late—the wrong way. If we wanted to stir up mischief, insubordination, and the dev generally, in the cotton States, we would advise these dare-owners of Middle Tennessee to do jot as they are doing. Just let them pile up their negroes four deep, over Mississippi and Alabama, until those States look like the deck of a slaver, and be yond all doubt we shall speedily witness an irrepressible conflict, compared with which all other conflicts will appear tame and spiritless! Who would have believed, twelve months ago, that during a bloody civil war, the rebel slave-owners, who have always dreaded insurrections among their stave even when they were separated from each other o isolated plantations, would, at the most dangerous
<c06>
period of the war, mass the slaves in the formidable body, and thus render them immeasurable more powerful to inflict injury? This is precisely wink the rebels are doing. But we have heard nobody object to their doing so. It' they can stand it, we guess that we can endure it, cot only patiently but comfortably. In fact, we confess we rather like the movement. The rebels are kindly putting their heads so close together, that we can soon sever then at one blow, an if they had but one neck. Nor does it require the gift of prophecy to foretell what will follow in this State.
These splendid plantations, whose area is vast, whose fertility is unsurpassed, and whoso climate is delightful, will not be allowed to lie idle. An army of hardy, enterprising immigrants from the northwest will soon pour in to fill the places left vacant by the slaves; and in the place of half-savage, woody-headed, coal-black ragged Africans, as uneducated as the mules they drive, there will be a multitude of industrious, thinking, well-clad, educated, newspaper-reading, church and school-going, white fanners, able and willing to serve the State in peace and in war. The exchange will not be a bad one: it will soon double our wealth.—Nashville Union.
PROCLAMATION FOR A DAY OF PUBLIC THANKSGIVING AND PRAISE.
I hereby appoint and set apart THURSDAY, THE TWENTY-SEVENTH DAY OF November, as a day of public thanksgiving and praise; and I earnestly recommend to the Superintendents of Plantations, Teachers and Freedmen in this Department, to abstain on that day from their ordinary business, and assemble in their respective places of worship, and render praise and thanksgiving to Almighty God for the manifold blessings and mercies be has bestowed upon us during the past year; and more especially for the signal success which has attended the great experiment for freedom and the rights of oppressed humanity, inaugurated in the Department of the South. Our work has been crowned with a glorious success. The hand of God has been in it, and we have faith to believe the recording angel has placed the record of it in the Book of Life.
You, freedmen and women, have never before had such came for thankfulness. Your simple faith has been vindicated. "The Lord has come" you, and has answered your prayers. Your chains are broken. Your days of bondage and mourning are ended, and you arc forever free. If you cannot yet sec your way clearly in the future, fear not; put your trust in the Lord, and He will vouchsafe, as lie did to the Israelites of old, the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night, to guide your footsteps "through the wilderness," to the promised land.
I therefore advise you all to meet and offer up fitting songs of thanksgiving for all these great Mercies which you have received, and with them, forget not to breathe an earnest prayer for your brethren who are still in bondage.
Given at Beaufort, S. C, this ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two. R. SAXTON,
Brig.-General, and Military Governor.
A NEW ENTERTAINMENT.
A COLORED WOMAN READING THE AMUUCAX POETS.
The little semi-circular hall of the Stuyvesant Institute was opened last night to such of the public as knew of the fact, and chose to attend. The attraction announced was a poetical reading by " Mrs. Louise DeMortie’, a colored lady of Boston," and as the affair bad not been advertised, except among our colored citizens, there were only about half a dozen white persons present. The rest of the audience, which half filled the room, included negroes of every hue, from the deep brown and dark black to the pale olive. There were several splendid-looking women, as elegant in dress and feature as the rich Creoles of Louisiana. There were one or two colored preachers, of raven complexion and garb, and not a few of the more elegant and dandyish " colored gemmen" who may be seen in fashionable hotels and hair-dressing rooms One man, bald on the top of his head and magnificent as to whiskers, was the very bust in chocolate of General Burnside. There were several men and women so white that they could scarcely be distinguished from those of the Caucasian race who were present. While waiting for the reader, two men—a harpist and a violinist—played upon their
 instruments very indifferently.
 At a little after eight o'clock, Mrs. DeMortie’ appeared, and sat down before a snail pine table, on which were placed a few books and a pitcher of water. A splendid-looking woman she was—complexion of a flushed creamy tint, hair dark and wavy, eyes large and lustrous, and features oval and almost classic. She was dressed in black silk, and wore white kid gloves. She could not be considered a type of the African race, for, though the African blood evidently tinged her skin, she might easily have passed for a Creole. Yet she at once identified herself with the negro race, of which there were so many undoubted members in the audience, and opened her readings with some passionate stanzas by Whittier, on " The Slave and Slavery."
The voice was superb—rich, deep and musical— the pronunciation admirable, without the slightest touch of negro accent, while the (restores were always easy and graceful Whittier's exquisite pastoral, " Maud Muller “ followed, read with the quiet ease and half-hidden pathos the piece requires. Extracts from " The Honeymoon " exhibited in the reader considerable sprightliness and baser. A selection from the " Hero and the Slave, "written by J. Sella Martin, a black Ban, again called forth her fire and energy, but, though well written, and containing many passages of genuine poetic fervor, the piece was too long to interest the audience. In Longfellow's " Skeleton in Armor" there was a marked deficiency; several lines were so carelessly read that some words were entirely omitted, and others inserted, thus quite destroying the rhythm. Nor was the - Pied Piper" rendered much better; but in the next piece, an anonymous little gem, entitled “ Magdalena," Mrs. De Mortie fully, equaled in pathos and effect any lady reader who has ever attempted to read to a Haw York audience; nothing is this style could be batter.
The listeners were attentive, quiet and decorous, but strangely lacking in applause or enthusiasm. In fact, the programme was, with a few exceptions adapted to a more scholarly audience, and it was hardly to be expected that it would be fully appreciated by all of thorn present.
This “colored lady” will probably read here again soon.. There are many families in this city who, without being at all prominent in the work, sympathize, at least in talk, with the colored race, and are not even afraid of the dreadful word Abolitionist." These families can enjoy an agreeable evening listen to martin fully up to the average, and encourage, by their presence, a colored woman of un
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
doubted talent. They will bear or see nothing to offend the most delicate susceptibilities, and we trust hat some of them will attend the next reading of Mrs. De Mortie’, whose talents as a reader have only been developed during the past year, and will improve with experience.—New York Eve. Post.
WASHINGTON UNIONISM.
In this city of Washington, I can proclaim myself a Union man, and remain in good standing with such facile politicians as George D. Predict, George B. McClellan, Gov. Seymour, James Gordon Bennett, John Van Buren, Fernando Wood, Ben, his brother, and that renegade puritan, Misther Brooks, as well as with Abe Lincoln, Horace Greeley, the Cabinet, the citizens of Washington, and all the aiders and abetters of Treason, from Richmond to New Orleans. To be a Union man is to be a man: popular everywhere and with ever body. This is, desirable. Just see how the thing looks!
As a Union politician. I can be opposed to Abolitionism and Black Republicanism, (which latter is only a modification of the former,) to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and to the emancipation policy of President Lincoln. 1 can favor compromise with Rebellion for the sake of Union, and sympathize with the most damnable treason of our “Southern brethren.” while they unsympathizingly cut the throats of loyal Northern brethren. I can regret Northern outrages on Southern and "sacred soil," and denounce the cruelty that keeps the chivalry barefoot for want of leather, and their teeth chattering for want of quinine. As a Union man, I can feed at the public crib, and cajole the Administration that gave me place, while I am secretly praying, if not working, for its overthrow. As a Union partisan, I can blatantly denounce as Abolitionists the honest fools who thought this Administration intended to stand by the men who fought its battles, and on the stump and at the ballot-box, won the victory that placed them in power. The motto of all Union men is, " The Constitution as it is, and the Union as it was." Not only is this Unionism, but it is also Democratic. It is the war-cry of Seymour, of Prentice, and of Brooks, of Fernando, of Ben, and of Prince John. It is the principle for which hundreds of thousands of our brethren have died in the camp. on the field, and in the hospital. It is the principle which, triumphant, secures to our country its part greatness, the white man his supremacy, and the black man his inevitable servitude.
There never was, since I can remember, such a convenient political formula presented to any people for their adoption. It is for the reason that I am at this hour a Union man, watching carefully the moment when to call my political bias by some other name.
Don't you think your four friends in Iowa had better abandon the name of Republicans, and hereafter call themselves Unionists? The Democracy North and the traitors South will then have some hope of redeeming the State from Abolition rule! If Union men are flattered and fawned upon a little while longer in the Border Stales, and Abolitionism, and its counterpart. Black Republicanism, (which seek to continue this war until Southern aristocracy and slavery are "squelched out,") are repudiated, this rebellion will soon be terminated by friendly compromise with traitors, reestablishing the “Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is.” In the mean time, the army must be freed from the presence of Generals disposed to pursue a policy differing from the one I have just indicated.— Washington corr. of Iowa State Register.
THE AMERICAN EMANCIPATION MOVEMENT.
On Friday evening, a meeting was held at the hall of the Metropolitan Institution, Cleveland street, to protest against recent expressions of opinion in favor of the South, and to promote the success of the American emancipation movement. Mr. J. A. Nicholay presided, and on the platform were Professor Newman, Mr. Washington Wilks. Mr. James: Beal. Mr. H J. Slack. Mr. R. Moore, Mr. Elt, Mr. Chamerovzow, Mr. P. Sinclair, Mr. Evans, Mr.
Malleson. &c. The room was crowded.’
The Chairman briefly opened the proceedings. The war they now saw raging in America was lamentable, and he might say unparalleled: but amid the horrors which prevailed, be thought he could see that the slave was to have an opportunity of gaining his freedom. They knew what the great and good Garibaldi had said with respect to the American struggle. (Cheers.) His sympathies were with the Federal cause, on account of the disposition which its adherents manifested to free the slaves. (Loud cheers.) He (the speaker) had always been on the side of liberty; he had often I fought the battle of the working classes; and he would have considered himself disgraced, if he had not come forward to assist the slaves in freeing themselves from bondage. (Applause.)
Professor Newman then rose, and proposed the following resolution:—"That this meeting, looking with pride and sympathy on the great free Republic which draws its blood and its principles of constitutional liberty from England, most earnestly desires that in the future England and the free American Union may be found united in brotherly friendship." The question, he said, had sometimes been asked, What had England most reason to be; most proud of? Some would reply, that England had preserved her freedom when despotism had covered Europe. Others might say that England had produced a free literature and a sound morality: while otters might reply that England had spread freedom and a free literature over the world. Where, he asked, was the truth of this most readily to be seen? In the United States of America., (Applause.) That Union was England's greatest progeny—that of which Englishmen had the greatest reason to be proud. Certainly, any cause of hostility between the two peoples was deeply to be regretted. What was the test of a true civilization? It was the condition of the masses: and that test was answered in America. Three millions of Englishmen bad gone to the United States, and, therefore, it was true that they had drawn a large portion, of their blood from among ourselves. They had gone to the United States in preference to Canada. Perhaps be might mortify their national pride when he said that England, which in former times solved various important problems, had now somewhat got into a tangle. That difficulty was in many respects solved in the United States. Here we had a hierarchy which impeded education, whereas in the United States there were great educational advantages. (Cheers.) The people had a motive to educate their children, for there was no hereditary aristocracy to stop their rise in society. The people in America had also the advantage of being rid of secret diplomacy, and the result was that a few persons could not get up a war. (Applause.) Still, nobody would say that the diplomacy of America was worse conducted than that of Russia, or of other countries, He hoped the beat feeling would always continue between England and America—that England would readily forgive the offences America had committed against us, which he thought had been small, and that America would forgive the offences committed against her by England, which he feared had been great. (Applause.)
Mr. Sinclair seconded the resolution. He had, he said, travelled a great deal in America, and he could, from his own experience, assert that the people of the Northern States were not actuated by any feeling of hostility against us. He knew that Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Seward cherished the most friendly feeling towards England. He then discussed, at some length and with much eloquence, various questions connected with the war, which be argued was carried on by the South in behalf of slavery. (Applause.)
Mr. Evans supported the resolution. He had also travelled extensively in America, and he confirmed the statement of the preceding speaker in regard to the feelings with which England was generally regarded in the Northern States.
Mr. Ball here asked the Chairman if it was open to any one to move an amendment.
 The Chairman answered in the affirmative, and invited bit questioner at once to move an amendment, if he desired to do so.
Mr. Ball then ascended the platform, but his remarks being irrelevant, the meeting refused to hear him. 
Mr. Lempriere, barrister, next moved an amendment, to the effect that the meeting deprecated the continuance of the war, and desired that it should be stopped by meditation (Noise, and cries of “That is no amendment.”)
The audience being indisposed to hear Mr. Lempriere, the Chairman and Mr. Wilks made an appeal on his behalf. It was the desire of the promoters of the meeting that any advocate of the South should have a fair and impartial hearing
<c02>
Mr. Lempriere then proceeded with hit address, amid much interruption. He read copiously from the speech recently delivered by Mr. Buxton, M. P., and was understood to endorse the opinions Mr. Buxton had enunciated. These opinions were received with vigorous expressions of dissent, and Mr. Lempriere was somewhat peremptorily requested by several persons in front of the platform to state his own arguments, and not to take op the time of the meeting by reading a speech which they had all seen in the newspapers.
After some further irregular discussion, the amendment was put, and it secured a few supporters.
The resolution was next put, and it was carried by an overwhelming majority.
Mr. Slack then proposed—" That this meeting, adhering to the principle of non-intervention, is gratified to learn that the Government has declined the mediation proposed by the French Emperor in the affairs of the United States, which was obviously calculated to obstruct the measures of President Lincoln for the emancipation of the slaves.”
Mr. Slack supported the resolution in a speech containing numerous pertinent arguments and illustrations. He examined the arguments by which the advocates of the South had justified secession, maintaining that they were false and unfounded. The North bad waged a modified war against slavery, while the South was waging an unmodified war in support of slavery. (Applause.)
Mr. Wilks, in seconding the resolution, expressed his (satisfaction that the Government had declined; the French Emperor's proposal of mediation. He then, amid great cheering, read Earl Russell's reply to the despatch of M. Drouyn de I'Hnys. He proceeded to contend that President Lincoln's Proclamation bad prevented a servile war, and having stated that a society had been formed for the express purpose of helping the American emancipation movement, fervently appealed to the meeting to give the society cordial support. He concluded a speech which was much applauded by drawing a vivid picture of the different aspect America would present to the world after effect bad been given to Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation.
The resolution, on being put, was carried almost unanimously, there being only three or four dissentients.
The meeting, which had been protracted to twenty minutes past eleven o'clock, terminated with a vole of thanks to the Chairman.—London Morning Star.

SYMPATHY WITH THE OOHFEDEBATE STATES.
A correspondent writes as follows:—You are probably not aware of the existence of the London Confederate States Aid Association. Let me, therefore, inform you of a fact which is fraught with so much significance. It boss in the most piteous terms for money, and I fear on false political pretences. I have just got a printed address of this association, and the document must be the source of much amusement to all who have the perseverance to read it through. Towards the conclusion of this wonderful production, the ladies of Britain—flatteringly described as the "fairest and best of earth "— are earnestly implored to come down with their subscriptions for the sake of "violated innocence" and " insulted virtue." But, sir, not only has this association issued an address—it has commenced a lecture crusade. Yesterday evening, Dr. Lempriere appeared as tie champion of "violated innocence" and u insulted virtue," the arena of the display being the drawing-room of a house in Devonshire-street, Portland-place. The company was not particularly numerous. The doctor commenced by some very general observations, and then went on to condemn the North for cruelty to his proteges. At this juncture, Mr. James Beat mildly interposed an observation to the effect that the South had been duly represented in the councils of the nation, whereupon Dr. Lempriere waxed awfully indignant at the interruption. Mr. Beal then asked if there was to be no discussion, and Dr. Lempriere answered in the negative. The doctor then said he could not go on with his lecture until Mr. Beal had retired; and he requested Mr. Beal would leave the room. Mr. Beal in turn objected, and reminded Dr. Lempriere that be had been heard in favor of the South at the meeting convened by the friends of the North. Dr. Lempriere rejoined that discussion was not to be allowed, and that Mr. Beal must go out. Mr. Beal said he had come it Dr. Lempriere's invitation, that he bad not disturbed the meeting, and that those who turned hint out would do so at their responsibility. A policeman was then sent for. Mr. Beal meanwhile maintaining his position with perfect coolness. After some further altercation, Mr.
Beal said he would retire, if, on a show was hands, it was decided he should do so. The show was then taken, and the meeting, which numbered between forty and fifty, pronounced by a decided majority, for Mr. Beal's retirement. Mr. Beal then asked Dr. Lempriere to declare the numbers of the voting, j but the doctor declined, and requested Mr. Beal to leave. Mr. Beal asked him again to state the numbers, adding that if they were declared against him I he would retire. The doctor paid no attention to the request, and, seizing Mr. Beal, ejected him, with the aid of a policeman. The doctor then went on with his lecture, which was rambling and illogical in the last degree.—London Horning Star.

The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DEC£MBER 26, 1862.
C0NCERHING THE LIBERATOR.
The war has not only crippled the circulation of the newspaper press generally, but it has produced such a scarcity in the materials fur making printing paper,— owing chiefly to the failure of the cotton crop,—that the price per ream is now more than doubled, with a strong probability of a further upward tendency for some time to come. The consequence must be, universally, cither a diminution in the size of the sheet or in the quantity of reading matter, or else a proportionate increase in the subscription price. Another alternative is, speedy extinction. In numerous cases, a stern necessity will doubtless compel the acceptance of the last, especially by weekly newspapers, as comparatively' few of these have, hitherto, been able to preserve more than a precarious existence. It was the extra ounce that broke the camel's back: in this case, it is a ton's weight, instead of an ounce.
In common with all other publishers, we find oar-selves in a very tight place. Our subscription list has been seriously reduced, by various causes, during the last year; and this, alone, is a source of pecuniary embarrassment. To attempt to go on at the same rates, with this loss, with the enormous advance in the price of printing paper, and with no immediate prospect of extending our circulation, would inevitably terminate the publication of the Liberator at an early day. On the other hand, to increase the forms to $300 per annum,—which, supposing our present list of subscribers should remain firm, would barely cover the additional cost of the white paper,—may cause such a further diminution in the number of our patrons as to hasten the same fatal result. The first course, if panned, is certain suppression; the second furnishes the only chance of continuance. In these trying circumstances, we cannot hesitate which to adopt. The price of the Liberator, therefore, at the commencement of the new year, will be enhanced fifty cents per annual, until the market value of printing paper be restored to its normal condition. Other weekly papers throughout the country have been obliged to make a similar advance in their own case.
This it a simple statement of our situation, and our readers can easily cipher oat the absolute necessity for this change in oar terms.
Death has made serious ravages among our earliest subscribers, especially within the last two or three yean; bat we still retain on oar subscription list the names of a number of cherished friends, in different parts of the country, whose untiring cooperation and unwavering confidence call for the warmest expression of oar gratitude. Such will continue to stand by as, while we remain faithful to the cause of the enslaved as in the past.
Of course, we shall reduce the altered subscription price to its former state, at the earliest practicable period.
<c03>
THE EVENTFUL DAY.
On the 22d of September last, President Lincoln made to the country and the world the following Proclamation:—
I, ABRHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, and Commander-in Chief of the Army and Nary thereof, do hereby proclaim and declare, that hereafter, at heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the Constitutional relation between the United States and the people thereof, in which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed; that it is my purpose at the next meeting of Congress to again recommend the adoption of a practical measure, tendering pecuniary aid to the free acceptance or rejection of all the slave States, so called, the people whereof may not then be in rebellion against the United States, and which States may then have voluntarily adopted, or thereafter may voluntarily adopt, immediate or gradual abolishment of slavery within their respective limits, and that the effort to colonize persons of African descent, with their consent, upon this continent, or elsewhere, with the previously obtained consent of the governments existing there, will be continued; that on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State, or any designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward and forever, free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom; that the Executive will, on the 1st day of January
aforesaid, by proclamation, designate the States, or parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof respectively shall then be in rebellion against the
United States; and the fact that any State or people thereof shall on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the United States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such State shall have participated, shall, in the absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such State and the people thereof are not then in rebellion against the United States; that attention is here
by called to an Act of Congress, entitled, 'An Act to make an additional Article of War,' approved March 13th, 1862, and which act is in the words and figures
following:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, that hereafter the following shall be promulgated as an additional article of war, for the government of the army of the United t totes, and shall be obeyed and observed as such:—
"Article —. All officers or persons in the military or naval service of the United States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective commands for the purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor who may have escaped from any persons to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be found guilty by court martial of violating this article shall be dismissed from the service.
"Section 2. And be it further enacted, That this Act
 shall take effect from and after its passage."
Also the 9th and 10th sections of an Act entitled " An Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes," approved July 17, 1862, and which sections are in the words and figures following:—
"Section 9. And be it further enacted, That all slaves of persons who shall hereafter be engaged in rebellion against the Government of the United States, or who shall in any way give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such persons, and taking refuge within the lines of the army, and all slaves captured from such persons, or deserted by them, and coming under the control of the Government of the United States, and all slaves of such persons found on or being within any place occupied by rebel forces, and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be deemed captures of war, and shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held as slaves.
"Section 10. And be it farther enacted, That no slave, escaping into any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, from any of the States, shall be delivered up, or any way impeded or hindered of his liberty, except fur crime, or some offence against the laws, unless the person claiming raid fugitive shall first make oath that the person to whom the labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due is his lawful owner, and has not been in arms against the United Hates in the present rebellion, nor in any way given aid and comfort thereto; and no person engaged In the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide on the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or surrender op any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service."
And I do hereby enjoin and order all persons engaged in the military and naval service of the United States to observe, obey and enforce within their respective spheres of service the Acts and sections above recited; and the Executive will in due time recommend that all citizens of the United States, who shall have remained loyal thereto throughout the rebellion, shall, upon the restoration of the Constitutional relations between the United States and their respective States and people, if the relations shall have been suspended or disturbed, be compensated for all losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 Done at the City of Washington, this 22d day of September, in the year of our Lord 1862, and of the independence of the United States the 87th. By the President,
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
The eventful day indicated in this Proclamation is at hand, and, as it draws near, the hearts of all true friends of freedom are palpitating with hope and fear as to its enforcement or possible modification. No doubt, a tremendous pressure has been, and up to the last hour will be, brought to bear upon the President, by those who desire his downfall and the success of the Southern traitors, to induce him to postpone indefinitely the operation of his Emancipation Act. That he will stand by it seems to be the general conviction, though we shall not be greatly surprised if he substitute some other project for it. A man to manifestly without moral vision, so unsettled in his policy, so incompetent to lead, so destitute of hearty abhorrence of slavery, cannot be safely relied upon in any emergency. But having solemnly committed himself to the recognition of the freedom of every slave in the Rebel States, January 1, 1868, both in his Proclamation and Message, to retract at this late period would subject him to the opprobrium of mankind, and lead to the most fearful convulsions. The slaves are every where, throughout the designated rebellious regions, patiently waiting for the day of their deliverance; but should they be disappointed, by any infidelity on the part of the President, their hope will give way to despair, and bloody slave insurrections speedily follow.
It will be seen, by notices in another column, that the day is to be celebrated by a Grand Jubilee Concert at Music Hall, on the afternoon of January 1st, and also by meetings in the Tremont Temple, forenoon, afternoon and evening, by the colored citizens of Boston and their friends, under the direction of the Union Progressive Association. These, no doubt, will be largely attended.
The colored citizens of New York intend celebrating the event by a Grand Emancipation Soiree, and also a Mammoth Demonstration in the Cooper Institute, on the evening of January 5th, on which occasion addresses, interspersed with music by a full band, will be made by Rev. Dr. Cheever, Rev. H. H. Garret, Professor William J.,Wilson. Lewis Tappan, Esq., Rev. R. H. Cain, John Peterson, Esq., and William Wells Brown.
The colored people of Hampton, Virginia, propose celebrating the 1st prox. as a holiday.
May there be no drawback upon the anticipated joy of these celebrations, by any act of the President to modify or suspend his Proclamation!
AID FOR THE LIBERTOR. Hon. Gerrit Smith, of Peterboro', N. Y., has kindly sent us $20, and the Hon. Edward Harris, of Woonsocket, R. I., $25, to enable us to meet the pressure arising from the unparalleled increase in the price of printing paper.
 We would call attention to the Circular, headed "Employment for Emancipated Negroes," printed on our first page. With regard to the responsibility and good faith of Messrs. Ellis, Burton and Eaten, the public are referred to the Exchange Bank, Springfield, or Connecticut River Bank, Charleston, N. H. It is manifest that, in the liberation of so large a body of the slave population, some extensive plans, similar to this, conducted in good faith by Northern associated skill and enterprise, will be needed to turn the labor of the emancipated to the beat advantage for all concerned.
<c04>
CONGRESS.
Congress, as yet, has done nothing of special importance, excepting the passage in the Home of Representatives of a resolution, approving of the President's Emancipation Proclamation. The vote stood— ayes, 78; noes, 51. A strict party rote, we pre-sume—the Democratic party still continuing, as from the beginning, the natural ally of slavery.
The following is a copy of a bill introduced by Mr. Hickman, of Pennsylvania:—
A Bill for the suppression of rebellion, treason, and insurrection, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President he, and is hereby authorized to raise as many regiments, not exceeding one hundred of Africans, or colored persons of the. United States, as, in his discretion, he may consider necessary; to be uniformed in some marked or special manner, and armed and equipped as he may direct; their term of service to be for seven years, unless sooner discharged; the pay of the private soldiers and musicians to be six dollars and fifty cents per month, one half of which is to be retained till the end of their period of enlistment; the pay of the non commissioned officers to be the same as that of like grades in the respective corps of the regular army; the commissioned officers of these regiments to be men of collegiate education, either white or colored, and to receive twice the pay and emoluments of officers of corresponding grades in the infantry arm of the regular service; the non-commissioned officers to be either white or colored, as the commanding officers of regiments may see fit; each company to have one- teacher or chaplain's clerk, with the pay and allowances of orderly sergeant, and the whole to receive the same allowances of clothing, rations, quarters, fuel, et cetera, as arc now provided by law for the other troops of the United States.
SEC 2. And be it further enacted, That a line of semi-monthly steamers, of not less than fifteen hundred tons burden each, be established by contract or otherwise, between New York and one or more ports in Liberia, Africa, to touch on the outward passage at Norfolk, Virginia, and at Port Royal, South Carolina, for the purposes of carrying mails, passengers, articles of commerce, and such persons as the various colonization societies of the United States may desire to send; and that for the purposes of superintending the said line of steamers and the emigration of Africans from the United States, three commissioners shall be appointed, whose term of office shall continue during good behavior, with the pay of three thousand dollars a year each, and whose duty it shall be to send to Liberia such freed men of the African race as are or may become dependent upon the United States for support; to furnish them with suitable agricultural implements, and with clothing, provisions, and medical attendance for the period of one year, rendering an annual account of the same to the Secretary of the Navy, for the information of Congress.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That all the sums accruing to the United States, through the confiscation of the property of persona in rebellion against the Government of the United States, by the act entitled " An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes," approved July seventeen, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, be, and hereby are, appropriated for the purposes of education in the respective States wherein the confiscated property lies, to be paid over to, and expended by, the legitimate authorities of those States, when reestablished in the full and complete exercise of their appropriate power under the United States: Provided, That the said education shall teach that liberty is the fundamental principle of the Government of the United States, and shall be extended equally to all persons, without distinction of race, sect, or color.
We are sorry to see so anti-slavery and intelligent a man as Mr. Hickman giving any countenance to foreign colonization; and we trust it will be voted down as needless, injurious, and disgraceful to the country.
Mr. Clark, of New Hampshire, has introduced the following resolution into the U. S. Senate:—
Resolved, by the Semite and House of Representatives, That they cordially approve the policy of the President of the United States, in setting free slaves in the insurrectionary districts, as indicated in his proclamation, dated September 22, 1862, and recommend to him the employment of that and every other means known to civilized warfare to terminate the present rebellion, and assert the supremacy of the government of the United States over its entire territory and people.
The following resolutions have been introduced in the U. S. House of Representatives by Hon. Thaddeus Stevens, of Pennsylvania:—
Resolved, That this Union must be and remain one and indivisible forever.
Resolved, That if any person in the employment of the United States, in either the legislative or executive branch, should propose to make peace, or should accept, or advise the acceptance of any such proposition, on any other basis than the integrity and entire unity of the United States and their territories as they existed at the breaking out of the rebellion, he will be guilty of a high crime.
Resolved, That this government can never accept the mediation or permit the intervention of any foreign nation in this rebellion, or in for domestic affairs.
Resolved, That no two governments can ever be permitted to exist within the territory now belonging to the United States, and which acknowledged their jurisdiction at the time of the insurrection.
Mr. Vallandigham of Ohio offered the following, which he proposed to debate:—
Resolved, That the House earnestly desire that the most speedy and effectual measures be taken for the restoration of peace in America, and that no Time be lost in proposing an immediate cessation of hostilities in order for a speedy and final settlement of the unhappy controversy which brought about this unnecessary and injurious civil war, by just and adequate security against the return of like calamities in times to come; and this House desire to offer most earnest assurances to the country that they will in due time cheerfully cooperate with the Executive and States for the restoration of the Union, to make such explicit and most solemn amendments and provisions of the Constitution as may be found necessary for securing the rights of the several States and sections within the Union under the Constitution.
This Vallandigham is as much a traitor at heart as Jeff. Davis or any of his rebel associates, giving them "aid and comfort" in every possible way. He should be promptly expelled from the House.
THE AMERICAN CAUSE IN ENGLAND. We are favored with another interesting letter from our clear-sighted, untiring English coadjutor, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., in which a modest reference is made to hit truly valuable and indefatigable efforts to remove the strange prejudices and correct the wide-spread misapprehensions of his countrymen in regard to the true nature of the portentous struggle going on in America. Whatever may be the incongruities, paradoxes and weaknesses attending the action of the American Government in dealing with the rebellion and slavery, Mr. Thompson instinctively and intelligently perceives that the conflict is essentially between the elements of freedom on the one hand, and the powers of despotism on the other; and, as he has ever nobly done, in the face of popular opinion, he adheres to the right, trampling all the temptations of a selfish expediency beneath his feet. America has no truer friend in the world than George Thompson; yet how base has been her requital of his self-sacrificing efforts to bless and save her! But the day is coming when his name shall be honored from one end of the land to the other.
It will be seen that a new Emancipation Society has been formed in London, having for its special object the enlightenment of the public mind at to the course which justice, honor, humanity and liberty demand should be pursued by the British people and government towards the contending parties in this country. May it obtain liberal support, and its efforts be rigorously prosecuted!
A JUST REBUKE. Garibaldi writes to a friend, in reference to our war, that he " it at a loss to understand why a nation like the American Republic, with such absolute and soul-inspiring declarations of freedom engrafted in her Constitution and laws, should be so regardless of the dictates of humanity, and the enlightened civilization of the nineteenth century, as not to hare slavery, the barbarous relic of a barbarous age, at once and forever abolished."
To the poetical effusion on our last page, entitled" THE CHAMPION," should lure been appended the following
MORAL.—Strike when you speak. Works. more than words, your perill’d country needs. 
The sword should be the soldier’s pen—is proclamations, deeds.
<c05>
LETTER FROM GEORGE TH0MSON, ESQ.
LONDON, Dec. 5, 1862.
MT DEAR GARRISON,—I am so worn down by much lecturing upon the American question, that I am not fit for writing, and can do no more than give you a general idea of what U doing.
Our London Emancipation Committee has merged in a Society, the objects of which you will learn from a circular and an address which I enclose. We have an active Executive Committee, and a general Committee, which already numbers about two hundred; composed of good men and true in all parts of the kingdom. We are making daily additions to it. We hare commenced holding meetings in the metropolis, and shall multiply them as rapidly as possible. I address one this evening. On the 8tb, 9th and 10th, I lecture in Staffordshire, on " Freedom or Slavery? That is the Question! The Slaveholders Rebellion: Lincoln's Proclamation, and the Duly at Englishmen in relation thereto." I return to London for a great meeting in Spa Field's Chapel on the 11th, and on the 12th give a lecture at Stratford, near London.
Here you have a specimen of my labors to bring my countrymen to take an interest in the awfully momentous crisis of your country. I try to furnish some antidote to the poison diffused by our public men in their addresses. I send you a reply, recently made to a speech delivered by Charles Buxton, M. P. (1) Next week I shall be refuting the falsehoods and calumnies of an ex M. P., Beresford Hope. You will not have forgotten my campaign on the " Send back the Money Question; " nor the one on the conduct of the Evangelical Alliance. The present is like unto those; but my strength is not as great now as then. Nevertheless, I am doing all I can, and, with God's blessing on the efforts of myself, and other and better men, England shall be saved from her delusion.
William A. Jackson [Jeff! Davis's ex-coachman] will be able to do a good work here. He is still my guest. My wife and daughter give him elementary instruction. He has been to several meetings, and has acquitted himself well. He attends one this evening. If he is not called away to America soon, we will send him to school, so that ho may return better qualified to serve his brethren than he is at present.
I have just become aware of the existence of a Society in London, calling itself " The London Confederate States Aid Society." It professes to be originated by Englishmen, and has issued an address " To the British Public, and all Sympathizers in Europe." I have procured a copy of this document. The night before last, the association held a meeting at its office, No. 8 Devonshire Street, Portland Place, near the American Embassy. Having a meeting of my own at the same hour, I sent William A. Jackson, who brought me back an account of the proceedings. There also appeared, in the Star of yesterday morning, an account of what took place. This I send you for insertion in the Liberator. (2) Jackson's account confirms what is there stated. Mr. Confederate Commissioner
Mason, of Fugitive Slave Law notoriety, was present. On the retirement of that person from the meeting, he was confronted at the door by men exhibiting a placard, three feet long by two wide, in which was represented a negro in tattered garments, with an iron collar round his neck. Beneath the figure were the words,—
"Dudley Wells, of Montgomery County, Missouri, as he appeared when, after two months hiding in the woods, he was rescued by a party of Federal soldiers "—Sc., And then, the following:—
"Fellow countryman! Remember that the ' Southern ' chivalry,' which asks your sympathy and admiration, is composed of the wretches who perpetrate these atrocities on the weak and defenceless. Will you not, then, with a spirit worthy of the tons of Freedom, rather (live, your moral support to the men who ore shedding their blood (as thirty years ago you gave £20,000,000 of money) to purge this nation from the foul shame and guilt of complicity with slavery?"
The Fugitive Slave Law ex-Senator, and now Rebel Commissioner, on beholding this placard,
"Grinned horribly a ghastly smile," and. as soon as he was able, got beyond right of the apparition of Dudley Wells!
The Address of the Confederate States Aid Association is a virtual appeal for pecuniary contributions, to enable the rebels to " continue their war against their unscrupulous enemies." It begins by charging the North with having " insulted, imprisoned, flogged, violated and outraged the women of the South in the most inhuman and savage manner." Further, " The North, in executing their fiendish and demoniacal purpose, are bent on mischief, robbery, murder, arson, and crimes of the most revolting nature; glutting their hellish rage by inflicting every kind of torture, spreading wild ruin, devastation, destruction and universal desolation, for the purpose of revenge and hatred. In their fury, madness and malice, the atrocities, cruelities, crimes and outrages committed against the South are without a parallel in the history of the world." After much more of the same sort, Englishmen are invoked, in the names of " Civilization, justice, peace, liberty, (!) humanity and Christianity, to rouse themselves to arrest the horrors of the bloodstained march of tyranny, and to rush to the aid of the South with—their pence, shillings and pounds."
This anticlimax is followed by an appeal to the women of our country. Here are the words:—
"Fairest and best of Earth! For the sake of violated innocence and the honor of your sex, come in woman's majesty and omnipotence, and give strength to a cause that has for its object the highest aims—the amelioration and exaltation of humanity."
This address is followed by a statement of the case of the North against the South, which is thus put:— The non-execution of the Fugitive Slave Law was a virtual dissolution of the Union, and absolved the South from their allegiance to the national compact. The Republican party is a political conspiracy, and Mr. Lincoln " the head of vigilant <illegible>, under a higher law than the laws of the land. “The South” is Invaded by hordes of mercenaries, collected
from the scum of almost every nation." “The South has no rival, either in commerce or in glory." England's neutrality has starved the South, while it has replenished the North. The conduct of the South should extort the admiration of all lovers of law and order; and, finally, the South implores England, with tears, to help her own children.
I shall, to-night, notice this new society, and compare the spirit of the North with the spirit of the South. I have a choice selection of elegant extracts from Richmond Examiners, and Whigs, and Enquirers, and Dispatches; with some Memphis Avalanches and Appeals, New Orleans Deltas and Crescents, Petersburg Expresses, Mobile Registers, Charleston Mercuries, South Carolina Presbyterians, Scalping Letters, Ac, Ac Ever, most truly yours,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
[1] This reply we printed in last week's Liberator.
[2] For the ankle here referred to, see a preceding column.
L0ND0N EMANCIPATION SOCIETY? 
This Society has been formed for the purpose of giving practical expression to the convictions of the British people on the question of Negro Slavery, and to protest against the degrading assumption that the countryman of Granville Sharpe, Clarkson and Wilberforce can sanction the proceedings of any community that contravenes the fundamental principles of religion and morals, by blasphemously declaring that MAX can be the property of his fellow MAN.
It offers no opinion upon the purely political aspects of the American Civil War. That terrible contest has palpably had its origin in the existence of the un-Christian and inhuman institution of Slavery in the Southern States, and in the culpable toleration of the iniquity so long shown by a large portion of the people of the North. The question of union or separation chiefly concerns the Americans themselves; bat the whole civilized world is interested in the purification of their community from the shame and guilt which Slavery entails. The Emancipation Society, therefore, cans for an earnest expression of public sympathy with
<c06>
every movement tending to the liberation of the slave, and for the strongest reprobation of every pretence to prolong his bondage.
In such measure as the recognition of Liberia and Hayti; the concession to England of a Right of Search; the Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia and the Territories; the offer of compensation to the Slave States; and the Emancipation proclamation of President Lincoln, the United States Government has displayed a wise and humane feeling.
No effort should be spared in England to do justice to noble endeavors of the most enlightened American citizens, and to give them moral aid in their arduous efforts to arouse their country men to the duty of treating the African with the same political justice which they demand for themselves.
The Emancipation Society will act in conjunction with other Anti-Slavery Associations in England and the United States, and it appeals to every friend of LIBERTY and Human Rights for subscription of personal aid.
OFFICE: 65, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.

ADDRESS OF THE LONDON EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
FELLOW COUNTRYMEN- The Abolition of Negro Slavery-always an object of earnest desire to the philanthropist – has become now an object of urgent political necessity. Thirty years ago, England found it impossible any longer to tolerate the existence is her colonies of 800,000 bondmen. Since that time, France, Holland and Portugal have decreed the abolition of slavery in their colonial possessions. Slavery I the United States of America has at length produced a crisis as much more terrible than that which threatened us, as the strength of the system is greatest and the strength of the slave-owner more formidable If, in our own country, slavery had occupied half the soil, had counted as votaries or victims a third of the population, had for many years controlled the government, and had diffused the poison of its influence through all our religious and social institution we should not have got rid of it by so easy a process as the payment of £20,000,000 Sterling. It would probably have provoked a civil war, and have threatened to destroy the commonwealth it could no longer rule. Thus has slavery in America armed in its defence the States that proclaim themselves an independent confederacy, and demand European recognition in the capacity.
The Government of the United States has tardily but decisively advanced from the principle of Free Soil Territory to that of Free Labor throughout the Union. It has proposed and earnestly recommended voluntary emancipation, offering partial or entire indemnity from the Federal exchequer. To the States and slave-owners in arms against its authority, it announces the cessation of their legal title to property in human beings; and appoints the first day of the next year as the epoch of emancipation through all the States then in rebellion.
The Southern slaveholders respond by the denunciation of this measure as a violation of the law of war, and threaten act of retaliation that imply a rooted resolve to hold the negro race in the deepest degradation as well as the hardest bondage.
To such a struggle, England cannot be indifferent Neutrality must be to the end, as it has been from the beginning, the rule of our governmental policy. But our people cannot regard with unconcern a conflict the origin and issues of which are so closely allied to the question of personal slavery of freedom to four millions of human beings.
To make more plain this connection–to make it everywhere perceived and confessed, by the force of indisputable testimony, that the South is fighting for slavery, whilst the North is fully committed to the destruction of slavery is the principal object for which this Society is organized. Its promoters do not believe that English anti-slavery sentiment is dead, or even enfeebled. They are confident that when the demands and designs of the South are made clear, there will be no danger of your being enticed into complicity therewith. They trust that an unequivocal expression of English feeling in favor of the Republican North of its Free Soil platform and its Free Labor proclamation will powerfully encourage the friends of negro freedom in America; and so hasten the satisfactory termination of the war the now devastates the New World and afflicts the Old.
By Order of the Committee,
WILLIAM EVAN, Chairman.
F.W. CHESSON, Hon, Sec.
Office, 65 Fleet Street, London E.C.

MEETINGS AT ABINGTON. It will be seen by notice in the appropriate column, that our estimable friend, THEODORE D. WELD, will lecture next Sunday, at Hatherly Hall, In Abington. We bespeak for him & crowded audience, assuring all who attend that they will enjoy even an intellectual treat not often presented from any platform or pulpit; while they will also witness a presentation and defence of the highest political, moral and spiritual truths, that never fail of producing a marked effect upon his hearers. Much and most excellent speaking as we have heard from the Anti-Slavery platform, for upwards of a quarter of a century, we have seldom, if ever, been privileged to listen to a speaker who more entirely satisfied and delighted us, that Mr. Weld. Having had large experience in Anti-Slavery cause, when it periled every prospect in life, and life itself, to be known as its advocate, and having watched with a most vigilant eye every change and movement of the cause since, 50 man living is better qualified to instruct his hearers, or wisely interpret the signs of the times. We hope that Abington will do itself the justice to throng his meetings.
Mr. Weld, we are glad to hear, will also speak in East Abington and Randolph early in the week.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for January, 1893, commences the new year under brilliant auspices, and offers the following attractive table of contents; 1. Happiest Days; 2. The Promise of the Dawn. 3. In the Half-Way House; 4. Mr. Buckle as a Thinker; 5. Recollection of a Gifted Woman; 6. Axtal (conclusion); 7. The Legend of Rabbi Ben Levi; 8. My Friend the Watch; 9. Benjamin Banneker, the Negro Astronomer; 10.The Sleeping Sentinel; 11. Iron-Clad Ships and Heavy Ordnance. 12. Andrew Rykman’s Prayer; 13. The Strathsays; 14.Lyrics of the Street; 15. A Reply; 16. The Soldier’s Rally; 12. Overtures from Richmond, Reviews and Literary Notices.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, For January, 1863, presents the following variety of papers; -
1. Huguenots of New Rochelle. Hon G.P. Disosway. 2. Maccaroni And Canvas. No.10. 3. Thought. 4. Consequences of the Rebellion Hon. F.P.Stanton. 5. “I”; or Summar in the City. 6. The Ivy Charles Godfrey Leland. 7. The Mishaps of Misa Hobbs. William L. Williams. 8. The Union. No.4. New York and Virginia Compared, &c. Hon. Robert J. Walker. 9. Promise. Edward S. Rand, Jr. 10.American Destiny. John Stahl Patterson. 11. Was He Successful? Richard B. Kimball. 12. The Physical Survey of New York Harbor and its Approaches. Henry Mitchell, Assistant U.S. Coast Survey. 13. An Englishman in Carolina. (Concluded) 14. Pen, Pallet, and Piano. Literary Notices. Editor’s Table
John F. Trow, 50 Greene St., New York, Publisher.
PRELIMINARY REPORT ON THE EIGHTH CENSUS-1860. We are indebted to Hon. T.D. Eliot for a copy of this valuable Report, which makers a volume of 300 pages, crowded with valuable statistics relative to the agricultural and manufacturing interests of the country an also numerous tables, giving the population of the several States and counties in the United States,-the whole indicating a vast amount of patient research and elaborate preparation, and furnishing a great variety of useful information.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE SLAVES OF REBELS PROTEOTED BY THE AMERICAN FLAG.
INTERESTING NABRATIVE
We have kindly permitted to publish the following highly interesting narrative, copied from the log book of the U.S. barque Kingfisher, JOSEPH P. COURTHOCT, A.V. Lieut. Commanding, U.S.N., and transmitted in letters to friend in Boston. This humane, energetic and accomplished officer has jest been called to take command of the U.S. steamer Columbia. No one better understands the nature and cause of the rebellion than himself, and the true governmental method to quell it. Wherever he is called to act, the cause of freedom and emancipation will find a whole-souled brave, uncompromising defender. 
[Written at St. Marks, Florida.]
Tuesday, 15th April We have given shelter, this evening to not less than six escaped slaves from Georgia. Five of them are pure Africans-the sixth, a light mulatto-and their ages range from 20 to 60. It happened in this way: About quarter past 4,a sailboat was discovered under the land to the westward, apparently heading toward the ship; and in the course of half an hour we could, with the glass, make out that it was a very small craft, with a very rude sail, and something meant for a white flag at the mast-bead-partly paddled, partly rowed, by half a dozen sitters, it at once occurred to us that they might be “contrabands,” and if they should be described from the shore, their escape might be cut off; so at 5, the fourth cutter was dispatched with an armed crew to the rescue, with orders, in case of their being fugitive slaves, and any attempt made at their recapture, to defend them to the death. Our flag was hoisted as we pulled toward them, to let them know we were friends; and in half an hour we had them in tow, and by a little past 6. they were safe on board. They were sent aft, to tell their story. One look at them was a better refutation of the arguments of the “ South-side Adams” theorists than any that even Wendell Phillips, with all his <illegible> eloquence, could present;-six bundles of rags and tatters, with a human body and soul inside of each. Their story has the material for half a dozen” Dreds” or” Uncle Toms” in it One of them-the old man-escaped from the plantation seven months ago, and has been hiding in the bush ever since; living God, who feeds the young ravens when they cry, alone can tell how. He was picked up by the others, on their way down from Georgia. They started ten in number, but five were retaken, (One after being shot seven times before he fell,)”catched by de nigger dogs dey set on ‘em.” Early this morning, following the Waculla river to its month, they found a little skiff with a couple of oars; and with these and four stakes for paddles, a ragged blanket for sail, and the remnant of an old frock for a flag of truce, they started on a pull of some twenty miles for their floating “city of refuge.” They were very much exhausted, and it was touching to hear their replies to some few questions that were asked them.
After hearing where they came from, and how they get away. The Captain asked them, “Well, why do you come to me! Do you suppose I am going to keep you? What can you do here? What can I do with you, better than to send you back?” “What we is gwine to do, sir? Why, we is come to stay ‘long wid you, and do anything you tells us, sir.” 
“Well, suppose I tell you to go ashore at once, where you belong” “No, no, mass’ cap’n, we isn’t ‘ feared fo’ dat, bless de Lord! We knows you never send us back to de rebels and we is gwine to stay ‘long wid you.” He asked if they heard our guns at noon? “For sure, Mass’ cap’n, but it don’t bin skear use’s bin chase by de nigger dogs, and we only pull de harder cas we thought; who knows, please de Lord, but we mought git dere, an’ help a bit?”
One of them brought on board what we took to be a leg of venison; but, in reply to a question what it was, and where they got it, he said it was wild hog, and they ran it down last evening. The Captain made them all take a good wash, threw their rags overboard, and rigged them out in a suit of new flannel clothes, just like the men’s; and they are dappy set of FREE MEN, this night! I look upon this as the greatest day’s work of our cruise.
April 16th. I must tell you something more of the poor creatures who came to us. Yesterday, more than half naked; and wholly bewildered between the perils they had escaped, and their joy at deliverance, but who are now” sitting clothed, and in their right mind.” Or cheerfully employed in little jobs about the deck. It was not the old man “ Bot” as you will see, but one of the younger, who had been so many months “in de bush.” They are named Dick White, Dick Rowse, Frank Lynes, Bob, John, and Isaac the last three having no surnames. Frank was the “farm thrall” of one Joseph Lynes, who has a cotton and tobacco plantation five miles south of Quincy, Gadsden Co., Florida, and owns ten working “hands,” and as many more women and children. Frank made his escape early last May, taking with him two suits of old clothes, and about a peck of corn, tied up in a bundle. He has been like the rest, wandering about in the woods and “hummocks” ever since, living “On whatever de good Lord please to give dis poor nigger,” trying to get down to the coast, but without success, till last Thursday, when they fell in with Issac, who knew the way, and “ took dem to de mouf of Slopshoddy Creek,’ to Mr. Farrall’s landing, on de Wakulla river, what dey foun’ de skiff, and last night but one dey start so to pull along do coas,’ to what dey seen de mast of de Yankee ship. Dey Know’d she was a man o’ war and dey would be all right once dey fotch to her; and so dey is, mass’ cap’t bless de Lord!”

Dick White, who is ebony black, cannot tell how old he is looks 18 to 20 heavy featured and stolid was a” chattel” of Dr. Robert White, and a field hand on his cotton and tobacco plantation near Quincy, adjoining that of Mr. Lynes. He got away “a day befo’e de big storm dey had long heah jes befo’e Christmas has been living in the bush ever since, most of the time, together with all the others, except Bob. He says, “De nigger dogs ran dis chile once in de swamp in de night; but he ran into a bayou, up to his chin in de water, and trow’d em off de track.” “Suppose they had caught you,” said I, “what would they have done? “ “Don’ know, sir-‘spose dey’d a worried me dey’s lamed to do dat-‘spec’ I never come out ‘o dat swamp, ‘cep in pieces.”
Dick Rowse, dusky jet, quite intelligent, 23 years old last may “held to service” by Kennedy Rowse-worked on corn plantation, (cotton till last year-significant!) on Lake Jackson, ten miles above Tallahassee; get away five days before Christmas, and has been with the rest since about the middle of January, living in the woods and hummocks on corn and roots now and then a few sweet potatoes, gathered in the fields at risk of recapture-and pork, when they had the good luck to run down a pig.
Isaac-pure African-22years old. Ran away last Thursday night from the cotton and corn plantation of John I.S. Mauran, on the Wakulla river, about three leagues from the coast. There were eighteen working hands, and about thirty women and children, on the plantation. He ran away because a whit gentleman, Mr. John Murrell, told him Mr. Mauran was going to take him up to Faulkner’s (a Floridian Legree, no doubt) and have him whipped, to get more work out of him; and would bring the nigger dogs to set on him, so he could not get clear on the way. Thus advised, he determined to escape that night, if possible. The next day, striking for the coast, he met the other five, and showed them the way. Monday night they started with the skiff as related by the others and pulled all night and the next day, till they saw our boat’s flag, and then gave out, “but dey knowed dey was safe den.”
John is a tolerably intelligent mulatto doesn’t Know his age guesses he must be between 30 and 35 Like most of the lower orders of the “ patriarchal institution.” as soon as a good chance opened, he ran
<c02>
from the master to whom he was "devotedly attached"—a Mr. Edmund Hawley, whose plantation is in Gadsden county, eight or ten miles west of Tallahassee. This was early in January, and he hat been with the crowd ever since a few days after be got clear There were ten of them at one time; bat the planters came down on then (after the benevolent Southern patriarchal fashion in such cases) with " nigger dogs," and caught live, one of whom must have died soon after, a he had seven balls put into him before he could be brought to listen to the affectionate entreaties of his pursuers to return! The dogs chased the
others into the swamp, where they turned, and with clubs killed two and maimed the other three, and so escaped.
Last comes Bob, between 60 and 60 years old, a field hand of Dr. Robert Butler, on his corn and tobacco plantation on Flint river, near Bainbridge;—got away early-in March—met, on his way to the coast, with the rest of the party, a fortnight ago. Bob is the gentleman of the lot—looks like Touissaint— converses fluently, and expresses himself more correctly than half the officers on board this ship. 
If you see Wendell Phillips, recall me to hit memory, and say I thought of him at we received these hunted fugitives under the protection of that banner which he stood under, for the first time, when it was our good fortune to hear him speak after the shot fired against Sumter had pealed the death-knell of slavery; and tell him that there will be a North, even in this region, before long. Every slave in the South knows to what this war it tending—better at this moment than the North, at a people, or its rulers—and God sits watchful between the cherubim ever.
April 17th. I am more and more impressed with the general intelligence and correctness of language of Bob, the old man of whom I was telling you. There it no attempt at fine speaking, using long words and the like, but a singular clearness and terseness of expression that reminds me of John Brown, I of whom, by the by, I must a»k him if he ever heard. He says that this rebellion was discussed, and all arranged, in case, of a Northern man being made President, for more than a twelvemonth before it broke out; that the common people—the poor white folks—were made to believe that they could take Washington at once, and whip the North "all to pieces" in less than six months; and that even now, the general belief was, that the Yankees would have to give in soon—that they could not live without the cotton and corn (!) of the South—were starving already, their last dollar gone,—and they had now to depend for money entirely on the sale, in Cuba, of the slaves they stole and sent to that market—and that pretty soon England and France were going to raise the blockade, and then all the cotton would be shipped, and they would have free trade with all the world, and the South would be stronger and richer than ever, while the North would die out, starved to death!
Did he believe all this? I asked. "Well, mass', to tell you the living truth, at first the slaves thought it must be so, else their masters would not have made the war; but pretty soon they saw that there was too much talk about whipping the Yankees, and they was all the time getting whipped themselves, and a calling for more soldiers—more soldiers—and then the black people was of opinion that the North was the one that was agoing to whip, after all, and then they would all be free to work for themselves."
"But," said I, "do you suppose if the slaves were all free tomorrow, that they would work for themselves? Don't you suppose the cotton would all be lost, and the planters ruined for want of labor?" "No, sir; no, sir! I tell you the truth—there is not a slave in the South that would not do twice the work, and raise twice the cotton and tobacco he does now, if he was paid for it. The planters, sir, would be a great deal richer; but they don't want to see it, because they like to own slaves, and whip them when they takes a fancy, or sell them if they are pushed; but if we was free, they could not do this, you see,
sir. And then, I think sometimes, sir, the Lord He shuts their eyes, so they can't see what is best for them."
To day, passing by Bob, who was refreshing himself by drinking in the full sunshine, as he lay stretched his length on the forecastle, I asked him if he ever heard of such a man at John Brown. " O, yes, I have heard tell a great deal of him, sir. He came down to Virginia to free the slaves. He was a very brave soldier, sir; but the South was too strong for him there, and so they conquered him; and then they was skeered he might get away, and come down again with an army, and so they hung him, sir! But I 'spect the army is come, fo' all that, sir, and plenty of John Browns that the South keant conquer, along with it, please the Lord! "
Who can doubt, with such facts before them, whether "John Brown's soul is marching on"? Bob says that he was too fast—that every slave in the South would have risen then, if they could only have had a certainty of any one to back them, or finding arms to defend themselves; " but they was all watched too close to get a start then."
I have tried to give you his very words, as nearly as possible. Don't you think this poor unlettered African, who can neither rend nor write, capable of reading a lesson in wisdom, or teaching political economy, to many of hid late matters, and the South-Side Adams school among ourselves?
[Written at St. Josephy’s Bay, Florida]
Sunday, Aug. 24th. We have had quite a break in the monotony of our blockading work, (or want of work.) this forenoon; and I enjoy the satisfaction of having impoverished George Walker, of Albany, the I county town of Dougherty County, Georgia, by the equivalent, according to the arithmetic of chivalry, of $1000 and upwards, in the form of an able-bodied, intelligent contraband named Henry, whose surname is Walker, after his late master and pretended owner. Just before 9, a small boat was descried through the mist off the eastern shore, paddled by one man, and heading directly for the ship. We had the 4th cutler down, and after him, in a twinkling, and in half an hour, Henry, erst the bondman of Walker, the Georgian, stood on the deck of the Kingfisher, a free man! He reports the salt works as being on quite an extensive scale, having steam engines, and eight large boilers, capable of manufacturing more than 200 bushels a day; and that there are several smaller establishment, higher up the bay. Also, that there is a company of mounted "gorillas" at a place a little way back, called the "Cross Roads." In reply to the question, how many persons there were at the steam saltworks, he said, "Dere is about twenty '. A of negroes, leastwise, dere was las’ night, but now I is got clear, dere is only nineteen head left, and six white men "—having been, at you perceive, trained to regard himself and fellows like "dumb, driven cattle," whose only estimated value is that of so much per head. It pleased me to find that, in speaking of the two, he gave the black "stock " precedence of their white owners. Learning from him, that when he started at daybreak, in his frail cockleshell of a punt, (which looked more like a shell coffin than like a boat, being only two rough boards a font wide for sides, and I another for bottom, with a stake for paddle,) seven others set out through the woods for a point about three miles abreast of us, and ought to reach it by ten, we sent at once armed boats to bring them off, should they reach the point When the boats had got about a third of the way to the shore, we saw the seven come out of the woods and down to the beach. But while our boats were yet a mile from shore, the party was joined by an eighth person, conspicuous in a white shirt, and presently the seven "head of negroes" withdrew to the woods again, followed by him of the shirt, who, no doubt, was an overseer—as, an hour later, we saw them all on the beach again, some distance higher up, making directly for the saltworks, of which we intend making short work very soon. We will have the whole "nineteen head" of human stock transformed into free men yet, if they are not driven inland.
<c03>
LATER. The day has been more fortunate than I had ventured to hope. Let me tell you what has happened since the last page was written. About 8, we discovered another party of fire persons on the beach, near where we saw the "seven head of negroes" this morning. We sent in our boats as before, and by the time they had got within musket shot, three others came down; and as soon as we were near enough, the whole eight waded oat to the boats, each scrambling for the nearest, and in half an hour were on board of us, the happiest crowd we have seen since their fellows escaped to us at St. Marks. They all belong (or did) to parties living on Flint river, near Albany, and, with the exception of two old men who are past service, and were sent down here to be " worked out," are able bodied men—four of them quite intelligent. They were divided equally between the U. S. barque " Pursuit," lying near us, and this vessel; and it was explained to them that they were now as free as any of the ship's company, but that they must not expect to be fed and clothed for nothing; that they would have to work while they remained on board, like the rest of the crew—would be paid $10 per month, and only the value of the clothing supplied them deducted from it; and if any preferred returning, to remaining on these conditions, they should be landed to-morrow. But they all declared they were willing to work, and would be glad to only for their food, so they were allowed to stay on board. They tell a pitiful story of the destitution that prevails in all this section of the country—nothing in the way of food or clothing to be had, save at exorbitant prices, and little even at these.
It would be idle to attempt giving any idea of their dress. Such remnants of nondescript hats, tatters of clothing that was once a coarse shirt and pants, and fragmentary shoes, I never beheld before! Better might be picked from any dust heap at the North. About 5, a sail-boat was seen standing out to us from the saltworks, and one of the cutters was sent after her. She was manned by three whites, in the seediest kind of apparel, yet evidently their Sunday's best. They were asked what they meant by running their heads this way into the lion's mouth, and said that they were the owners of the saltworks—good Union men, &c. (of course—none other would be here, making salt for the rebels!)—and had reason to believe that several of their men had got on board of us, and so came off to see if they could not make some arrangement to have them returned! Was not that cool—for the season and latitude? They were very anxious to know if we intended to break up their works. We had not quite determined yet in regard to that. If we did, would they have notice and time to remove their engines, &c.—The notice? Yes, to get out of harm's way; but if they were molested at all, their machinery would be demolished, every particle of it, the first thing. They thought this would be rather hard upon them—good Union men as they were! Perhaps so; but they must remember they were in very bad company, and, moreover, doing their best to furnish the enemies of the Union with an article, to prevent the introduction of which from abroad was one of the objects for which we were stationed here. They hoped, too, that we would not attempt to take any more of their workmen, as, being hired hands, they would have to pay for them in case they escaped.
In reply to this, I repeated my declaration that, till my men who were, in the most cowardly manner, fired upon, when peacefully filling water—and twelve of them carried prisoners to Tallahassee—were returned, and the two murdered ones restored to life, I would shelter every slave that came within my reach—bring them within it, whenever and by every means I could—and work their so-called owners evil and injury to the utmost of my ability, till this infernal rebellion was crushed, beyond possibility of rising again, or my own life ended;—with which understanding I sent them on their way. These men fully confirm the statements of the contrabands, in regard to the scarcity of food in all this section. Corn is $4 a bushel, flour $24 a barrel in all the interior, salt $10 a bushel, pork $40 a barrel, tea and coffee—myths. Slaves' allowance of 3 1-2 lbs. bacon and peck of meal weekly, reduced everywhere in Georgia, Florida, and the adjoining Gulf States, to one half these quantities. Has not rebellion been a profitable and pleasant business for the South, so far? And "the end is not
yet"!
THE SEWARD EMBROGLIO.
The New York Times contains a circumstantial account of the events which preceded the resignation of Secretary Seward. The writer says that the first motion adverse to Mr. Seward, in the Senatorial caucus, was made by Mr. Grimes of Iowa, and was supported in speeches by Mr. Fessenden, Mr. Trumbull, Mr. Wade, Mr. Field, the new Senator from New Jersey, and several others. The burden of their remarks was that Mr. Seward was largely responsible for the tardy and ineffectual prosecution of the war. The more conservative Senators, taken by surprise, endeavored to delay action, and Mr. King of New York, in particular, exerted himself against the motion. At the second caucus, Mr. Harris of New York offered a substitute resolution, calling for a "reconstruction of the Cabinet," in order to take away the appearance of a personal aim at Mr. Seward. Mr. Fressenden moved to amend by inserting" partial " before " reconstruction," which Mr. Harris accepted, and then the resolution was adopted by 28 votes, Mr. King declining to vote at all. A committee was then chosen to report the matter to the President, consisting of Messrs. Cot-lamer, Fessenden, Sumner, Wade, Trumbull, Grimes. Pomeroy, Harris and Howard. Their interview with the President began with a brief paper read by Mr. Collamer, expressing the general desire for a reconstruction of the Cabinet. Then each member of the committee gave his individual views. The reported reply of the President is so pithy that we copy it as follows:—
"President Lincoln listened with attention to all that was said. He then expressed the profound solicitude which he felt on the subject they had brought before him, and the overwhelming anxiety which oppressed him concerning the condition of the country and the progress of the war. What the country wanted, he said, was military success. Without that, nothing could go right; with that, nothing could go wrong. He did not see how the measure proposed by the committee would furnish the remedy required. If he had a Cabinet of angels, they could not give the country military successes, and that was what was wanted and what must be had. But he promised his most careful attention to the subject, and another interview was appointed for the next evening, in presence of the Cabinet."
A second interview was had on Friday, when the President proposed the question whether more harm or good would result from the acceptance of Mr. Seward's resignation. Mr. Fressenden and Mr. Grimes declined to discuss the matter; Messrs. Wade, Sumner and Trumbull advocated the acceptance; and Messrs. Collamer, Harris and one or two others were against it. It was reported that reach member of the caucus pledged himself not to accept any Cabinet office if a new organization was made. The Times, as if speaking by authority, says of Mr. Seward:—
"He did not oppose the issuing of the Proclamation. He did not resist the removal of McClellan. He did not originate, direct, or in any way interfere with the Banks expedition. He had nothing whatever to do, directly or indirectly, with the movement of General Burnside. He has attended exclusively to the affairs of his own department, and has sustained, with cheerful and hearty loyalty, whatever measures the President has deemed essential to the public good."
THE BATTLE or PRARIE-GROVE. This severe engagement, near Fayetteville, Arkansas, between our forces under Generals Blunt and Herron, and the rebels under Gen. Hindman, which occurred on the 7th inst., resulted in a Federal victory. Our loss in killed and wounded was 1000, and that of the enemy 2000. Four caissons filled with ammunition and a large quantity of small arms were taken. The enemy lost five Colonels killed and wounded. Col. McFarland, of the 19th Iowa, was killed.
OUR HEROES AT FREDERICKSBURG. The rebel officers who witnessed the efforts of our volunteers on that fatal field of Fredericksburg are enthusiastic in their commendation of the daring wherewith they scaled the slippery steeps, charging bayonet against long lines of defenses held by deadly marksmen, under the murderous fire of enfilading batteries, vomiting grape and shell. Never was death more nobly laughed to scorn—never did patriots died their blood more lavishly in defense of their country's integrity and perpetuity.
<c04>
THE TWENTY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
In view of the colossal magnitude of the Southern rebellion, on the one hand, and of the corresponding efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the other, the Managers of the NATIONAL AXTI-SLAVERY SCBSCHJPTION ANNIVERSARY hare deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUAL APPEAL to this late period—not knowing what events might occur, in the mean time, to render a modification or suspension of their established plan of action desirable, and wishing to be guided by the highest wisdom in such a momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitation the hand of God in righteous judgment for oar great national transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land; believing that the Proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever all slaves held in States found in rebellion on the first day of January, 1863, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced, inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that the uncertain-tics of civil war are too great, and the expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement of vigilance, activity, seal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so disinterestedly consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully "bearing the cross and despising the shame." With no personal or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish ends to promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain,—animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism,—it is not for such to commit their sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction even by the most cheering signs of the times, to regard their special mission as accomplished, or to abandon their organized efforts and efficient instrumentalities which have hitherto been crowned with such animating results. Their work is, by Divine help, the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in his fetters, and they are able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be "the forlorn hope "to the end, leading the way, and taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birthright and possession of every inhabitant of our land from sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti-Slavery cause has grown from infantile weakness to manly strength—from universal proscription to respectful public consideration— from an apostolic number of adherents to a multitudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will include nearly three fourths of the entire slave population. Granted, that the rebels themselves, despairing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus secure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal with stern realities, and roust not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recognized and protected, under the old constitutional guaranties, in all the so-called loyal slave States, and possibly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of State sovereignty, after its subjugation and the withdrawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro-slavery sentiment exists throughout the North, deadly hostile to every scheme of emancipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostracising all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to set the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and reconstruct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis.
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there must be no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind. The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be protracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fiercely contested to the end by all that is hostile to impartial liberty, North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our means and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held, as usual, in Boston, the last week in January, 1863; and to that annual gathering they cordially and urgently invite all who abhor treason, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on an enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness and prosperity of our now distracted, fearfully guilty, but we trust to be regenerated country—bringing with them (or sending, if they are not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations as their means will allow, causing "the riches of their liberality to abound "even in " the abundance of their poverty,"—assured that the proceeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICA ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of slavery by voice and pen, through the press and "by the lecturing agent—to quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppression, and, consequently, to the reign of universal justice and good will. It should be remembered that the pecuniary resource of the Society is largely dependant upon this instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be rendered in the manner already indicated.
To those every where who have so long and so generously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trusting it may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, by reason of the speedy and complete consummation of our labors and aspirations.
L Maria Child, Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary May, Sarah P. Remond,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Abby H. Stephenson,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Arnim,
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Abby Kelley Foster,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mallie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman,
Elizabeth Gay, Georgma Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum.
 At a meeting of the ministers of the various denominations in New York, held on Monday evening in Dr. Cheever's church, a committee, consisting of Rev. Dr. Cheever, Rev. Nathan Brown, and Rev. William Goodell, who were appointed to consider the duty of the church and the ministry hi the present state of oar country, reported a memorial to the President and Congress now in session, begging that they would, in the name of God, Justice and Humanity, immediately enact and execute the decree of universal freedom, as the memorialists believed the whole cause of oar disasters to be our own continued complicity with that crime of human slavery which is the foundation and the inspiring demon of the rebellion.
<c05>
EMANCIPATION DAY.
A meeting in honor of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation will be held at Tremont Temple, January 1st, 1863, under the auspices of the Union progressive ASSOCIATION SEESSIONS WILL BE HELD FORENOON, afternoon, sad evening— during which, speeches may be expected from the following gentlemen:—Rev. Wm. B. Alger, Wendell Phillips, Charles Lenox Remond, William Wells Brown, Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Rev. John T. Sargent, John 8. Rock, Esq.., Boa. Nathaniel H. Whiting, Dr. J. B. Smith, Bar. R. C. Waterston, Charles W. Slack, Esq., John C. CLUER, Esq., and others to be hereafter announced.
Speaking to be interspersed with appropriate music by a select choir, and reading of the President's Proclamation.
Admittance during the day free. A collection will be taken in the afternoon, in aid of the National freedmen. Admission in the evening by tickets, 10 cents each, to defray expenses.
The public are cordially invited.
William C. Nell, George W. Potter,
J. Harrison Shaw, John S. Bock,
Albert Jackson, Edward M. Bannister,
Mark R. DeMortie, John A. Newly,
Charles P. Taylor, George Teamoh,
Committee of Arrangements. 
BOSTON, Dec. 24, 1863.
 ABINGTON—There will be a meeting at HATHERLY HALL, in Abington, on SUNDAY next, 28th inst., at the usual hours, morning, afternoon and evening.
Addresses will be delivered by THEODDORE D. WELD, Esq., and PARKER PILLSBURY.
 ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, win speak in FITCHBURG, on Sunday evening next, Dec. 28th, on "The Nation's Peril."
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American
and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will Lecture as 
follows:—
Cornville, Maine, Sunday, Dec. 28.
Athens, Maine, Monday, Dec 29.
Palmyra, Maine, Tuesday, Dec 30.
Bart Pittsfield, Maine, Wednesday, Dec 31.
 E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on •' The Rebellion and Emancipation," in
Rock Bottom, Saturday evening, Dee. 27.
Marlboro', Sunday afternoon and evening, " 28.
 MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society's office, 221 Washington Street.
MARRIED—At Annapolis, (Md.) Dec. 11, Mr. GEORGE G. DRAKE, of Leominster, (Mass.) and Maas MARY ELIZABETH PARRISH, of Annapolis.

OBITUARY.
DEATH OF DARIUS P. LAWTON.
 FRIEND GARRISON,—The duty falls to my lot of making honorable mention of another of our veteran fellow laborers in the cause of Freedom, who has lately been called to his rest. At East Providence, R. I., on the 19th of last October, DARIUS P. LAWTON came to the end of his earthly labors, after completing a little more than half of the 75th year of his active and useful life. Though occupying no prominent or conspicuous position in our ranks, and little known beyond the circle of the several neighborhoods in which be has at different times resided, be has been, from the first, among the most earnest in purpose, the most devoted and uncompromising in spirit, and the most diligent and faithful in service to the good cause, never omitting an opportunity to bear his testimony to its principles, at whatever risk to his social standing or pecuniary interests; and always ready to give its public advocates a welcome, (of the warmth and heartiness of which I can speak from repeated experience,) and to do his utmost to aid the purpose of their mission.
He began his anti-slavery work before the appearance of the Liberator, of which he gladly hailed the advent, subscribed for it previous to the issue of the first number, and continued taking it to the day of his death. So much had be the cause at heart, that, not content with working for it while he lived, he wished to make his death also furnish an occasion for promoting it, and, as it were, from his very coffin, to plead on its behalf. To this end, when he supposed his last hoar was near, be requested that some one of the anti-slavery speakers should be invited to officiate at his funeral; hoping, be said, that some would listen to truths spoken over his lifeless form, which they were unwilling to bear from his living lips. It was my privilege to use the occasion in accordance with his wish.
In the Temperance cause, also, he was no less decided than in that of anti-slavery, upholding it in word and practice with the same constancy and firmness. Nor was his sympathy wanting to other enterprises aiming at the advancement of truth and right, the redress of wrong, and the promotion of human welfare. He was honest and upright in his dealings, and in a marked degree frank and open-hearted, " without concealment and without compromise," simple in manners, cordial and kindly in feeling, plain, earnest and direct in speech, strong and distinct in his moral convictions, fearless and emphatic in uttering;
them. He seemed to be constitutionally incapable of neutrality
or indifference where he believed that right and wrong were in conflict, however a selfish "prudence" might dissuade from mingling in the contest. In the words of one who knew him well, "he maintained his principles with
a degree of moral courage rare among men. "His attachment to the religious organization of which he was a member—the Society of Friends—gave way to his conviction that it failed to maintain, with the energy and efficiency
demanded by the oxigences of the times, its traditional testimonies against prevailing wrongs, slavery in particular; and, daring his hut few years, he was connected with no religious sect, but left his life alone to testify whether or nut his was that " pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father," of which an apostle speak. C.C.B.
DIED—In Newbury, Ohio, on the 20th of October, HERMAN OBER, aged 56 year. In the same place, on the 25th October, his father, ZACHARIAH OBER,, aged 87 years. Thus, within the brief period of six days, both son and father were translated to a higher and brighter state of existence,—meeting their change with Christian serenity, and feeling assured that, having “ kept the faith," they should eater into rest eternal.
The venerable and much respected father removed from Washington, N. H., in 1833, to Newbury, Ohio. He lived to see forty of his descendants settled within six miles of him, and a wonderful change in the State of his adoption. Deeply religious, and strong to the last in his evangelical sentiments, he was neither pharisee nor bigot, but nobly true to his convictions, upright and just in his actions, deeming good fruits a surer test of character than assent to any creed, and true piety that which delights in progress, and is ever concerned for the welfare of suffering humanity. Consequently, he early espoused the despised Anti-Slavery cause, and was one of the first to plead for the down-trodden slave in the church of which he was a prominent member. Of course, he bad to encounter much opposition at that time, bat his integrity and moral courage to any trial. What was than branded as secular, he regarded as an essential part of "pure and undefiled religion before God," in accordance with the teaching of the apostle James. But he lived to tea a radical change in the views of many who were among his opponents, and died rejoicing in toe prospect of a coming Jubilee at no distant day. The passage of the barbarous Fugitive Slave Law especially shocked his sympathetic nature, and kindled his moral indignation to a flame. He promptly recorded his protest against it in the Liberator, which paper he read with warn approval and delight to the close of life. Truly, “dew of the. The memory of the just is blessed.” HERMAN OBER, his son, was the same religious faith, a lover of impartial freedom, a good, upright, benevolent man, whose doors were ever open to the weary and <illegible>, without regard to complexion or clime His departure is heavily felt and deeply lamented by a large family, and loving friends.
<C06>
BOSTON MUSIC HALL.
GRAND JUBILEE CONCERT,
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, JAN. 1, 1863, 
In honor of
THE DAY!
THE PROCLAMTION!
THE EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVE!
THE SPRIT OF THE FATHERS AND THE CON.
STITUTION!
The exigencies of the war have made necessary, in the judgment of the President, and as an exercise of the military power of the Government, the issue of a Proclamation, emancipating all persons held as salves in such States as shall be in rebellion against the Federal Government on the first of January, 1863.
Confident in the belief that this first day of the new year will prove the complement of the 4th of July, 1776,, and a new era in the history of the Republic, when the soil of America, hallowed anew by the sacrifice of so much heroic blood, shall no longer be trodden by the foot of a slave, we purpose to celebrate the occasion by a MUSICAL FESTIVAL, at the BOSTON MUSIC HALL, on THURSDAY AFTERNOON, JANUARY1, 1863, the proceeds of the sale of tickets to be appropriated to the benefit of the freed slaves, under the auspices of the Educational Commission.
Loading musical artists, orchestra and chorus, heartily consent to lend their aid, and the programme of music presented will, it is hoped, be worthy to give voice to the feelings of the hour.
Henry W. Longfellow, R. W. Emerson,
Josiah Quiney, Jr., J.M. Forbes,
Edward Atkinson, 0. W. Holmes,
Martin Brimmer, Henry Lee, Jr.,
R. W. Hooper, B. Schlesinger,
James M. Barnard, Charles E. Norton,
Edward E. Hale, John a. Whittier.
Francis Parkman, John P. Putnam,
James T. Fields, Otto Dresel,
Wm. Endicott, Jr., E. P. Whipple,
Geo. 8. Hale, F. H. Underwood,
James Sturgis, John S. Dwight,
James T. Fisher, R. E. Apthorp,
Joseph P. Couthouy, U.S.N. J. C. Haynes.
Full particulars of Programme hereafter. Meanwhile the Committee are happy to be able to Philharmonic Orchestra, largely augmented, under CARL ZERRAHN, who will perform the glorious Fifth Symphony of Beethoven, and patriotic overtures; a grand chorus to be conducted by Mr. B. J. LANG, with appropriate choruses from Oratorios of Handel and of Mendelssohn; a Beethoven Concerto, for Piano and Orchestra, to be played: by Mr. OTTO DRESEL, &c., &c.
The Concert will commence at 3 P. M. punctually. Doors open at 2.
THE SALE or TICKETS will commence on Friday, December 26th, at the Mask Store of Messrs. OLIVER DITSON & CO. Every ticket will bear a number corresponding with a certain seat; price $1 or 50 cents, according to location. 

MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Second Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies,
AT 92 GRAND STREET, NEWBURGH, N.Y.,
ON MONDAY, JANUARY 5th,, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Music and Moral Science, Rhetoric, &c.
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS L. E. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages.
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
PROF. T. F. PERKINS, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISS PARKHURST has bad seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this state, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year will be divided into three terms two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60; per year, $165.
References.-Rev. T. J. Sawyer, D.D. Clinton, N. Y.; Rev.. S. W. Fisher, D. D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y-.; De Witt C. Grove. Mayor of Utica, N.Y.;
Rev. A. D. Mayo, Albany, N. Y.; Henry Bigelow. M. D.,
Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M. I)., Boston, Mass.; Prof. H. B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N.J.;
Rev. E. H. Chapin, D. D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig D. D.., Blooming-Grove, N. Y. dec19-3w 

THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION. 
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin's Works on America.
M COCHIN is an ex-maire and municipal councilor of the city of Paris. He has bad great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his forth-coming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the Pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, “among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is at once, cautions and eloquent, candid and enthusiastic; as sagacious as De Tocqueville’s work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo’s Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions”.12mo. Sent FREE BY MAIL, on receipt of the price,-$1.50.
ALSO THE REJECTED STONE; or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia. 12mo. Cloth, 50 cents.
“This remarkable book,” says the Christian Examiner, “discusses the question of Emancipation as the result of the war, with a depth of conviction, a boldness of utterance, cogency of argument, wealth of illustration, and withal a keenness of satire and a fervid eloquence, which insure readers for the book.”
Another critic remarks: “This eloquent, argumentative, electric work is instinct with the passion of the South and the reason of the North.”
The Independent opens its criticism with the significant query: “Have we an American Carlyle?”
ALSO THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH: or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. E. W. REYNOLDS, another of “Records of Bubbleton Parish. ”With Introduction by Rev. S. J. May. 12mo. 75cts.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
Dec12-3t.is 245 Washington Street, Boston.

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday, January 7, 1863, and continue Fifteen weeks. For particulars, please address
WM. S. HEYWOOD,
A. B. HEYWOOD, principals,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec 24, 1862. dec26-28
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collection Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf.

JOHN S. ROCK ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
6,Tremont Street,:: BOSTON,
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
THE  CHAMPION.
Written about the time of General McClellan's spirited proclamation, previous to his peninsula campaign.
BY DANIEL MANN, M. D.
In the days of old enchantment, in whose fables we discern Some, truths that wiser modems are too unapt to learn,
When generous hearts by valiant deeds their knightly faith professed, And raised the "iron hand”. To “crush” th’  oppressor— not th’ oppressed; The sword was honor’s emblem then, and virtue’s strong defence, And lion-valor link’d its cause with lamb-like innocence; No “South-side view” of licensed wrong the saintly parson gave, No reverend doctor then proposed his “mother” to enslave.  Then chivalry meant loyalty-religion stood for right-And he that feared his God the most was bravest in the fight:
The eye to pity most inclined could not be quailed by fear, The heart that terror could not touch was softened by a tear:
No summons mocked by chill delay the nation’s hope deferred, 
Nor laggard chief a second time to honor’s post preferred:  Then victory’s PATHFINDER found favor in the State, And greatness then in power and place was for the truly great.
That age of gold by poets told was not like this-alas!
An age of proclamations, and postage stamps, and brass!
Now listen, gentles, to my tale!  In days of old romance, A youthful knight went forth in fight to prove his maiden lance;
Upon a desert mountain’s side a cavern he surveyed, (Fine opening for a smart young knight just setting up his trade)
With stern resolve our knight advane’d, drawn by mysterious fate,
Leaving, without, horse, lance and squire, the dire event to wait;
When, lo! Within the gloomy depth a hall of wondrous space,
Whose hollow dome ascending far the eye could scarcely trace;
On either side without en bound, the solemn scene he viewed of gloomy grandeur, silent space, and murky solitude.
Then seemed a strange, sepulchral tongue, with unknown accent, spoke-
And, hark! A deep and sullen bell the awful silence broke; And, lo! A rising curtain brought a wondrous scene to light, A thousand knights on stalwart steeds array’d in armour bright.
Each with clos’d helmet, spear in rest, and arm’d from head to heel,
With golden spurs, and sable plumes, and mail of triple steel.
In silence stern and rigid state, it seem’d some wizard hand From quarried marble, steel and gold, had wrought the sculptured band:
One horse alone stood riderless of  all that knightly train, A sheathed sword and bugle-born hung by his bridle rein; And by an altar stood a shield, with this inscription wrought,-
“Knight, whosoe’er thou art whom chance or late bath hither brought, This is thy hour destiny, if to thy knighthood true; Henceforth thy praise to latest days the ages shall renew. Long bow’d beneath the paynim yoke, thy conquered country bleeds, 
And prostrate priest with prayer and mass for her deliverance pleads;
Five hundred years, transformed to stone, await these warriors bold,
The hour, the man, the bugle-blast, by ancient seer foretold. Who in this holy cause shall throw the gage of battle down, Fearless to pluck the victor’s wreath. Or claim the martyr’s crown,
Him highest of the sons of men the bards of earth shall praise,
Him to the loftiest scats above the virgin mother raise. If thou, prepared and self-possessed, shall dare the desperate fight, Mount! Draw the sword, and blow the horn, and GOD DEFEND THE RIGHT!”
Forthwith our knight, disdaining fear, with high heroic <illegible>, Athwart the vacant saddle leap’d, and blew the bugle-horn; At once, with hurried clang of arms, the hosts of war advance, The earthquake tramp of myriad steeds, the crash of shivered lance!
A moment, and the strife is o’er, the fated crisis past, And on the floor in weltering gore our hapless knight is cast.
The fast receding dim of arms dies in the depths away, And gloomy silence supersedes the storm of desperate fray; And from the ground in angry sound of pity and disdain, This scornful sentence smote the knight with still severer pain,-
“WO, WO, UNTO THE CAITIFF, THAT EVER HE WAS BORN, WHO DID NOT DRAW THE SWORD BEFORE HE BLEW THE BUGLE-HORN!”
   
          PROCLAMATION SONG.
The first of January next, Eighteen sixty-three,-So says the Proclamation,-the slaves will all be free! To every kindly heart ‘twill be the day of jubilee, For the bond shall all go free!
John Brown, the dauntless hero, with joy is looking on, From his home among the angels he sees the coming dawn; Then up with Freedom’s banner, and hail the glorious morn When the slaves shall all go free!
We’ve made a strike for Liberty-the Lord is on our side, And Christ the friend of bondmen shall ever be our guide; And soon the cry will ring, throughout this glorious land so wide, 
              “Let the bondmen all go free!”
No more from crushed and bleeding hearts we’ll hear the broken sigh,
No more from brothers bound in chains we’ll hear the pleading cry;
For the happy day, the glorious day is coming by-and-by, When the slaves shall all go free!
We’re bound to make our glorious flag the banner of the free,

The first of January next, Eighteen sixty-three; of every loyal Northern heart the glad cry then shall be, 
          “Let the bondmen all go free!”
“NO COMPROMISE WITH SLAVERY!” –we hear the cheering sound;
The road to peace and happiness “Old Abe” at last has found;
With earnest hearts and willing hands to stand by him we’re bound,
          While he sets the boundmen free!
The morning light is breaking, we see its cheering ray,- The light of Truth and Justice that can never fade away; And soon the light will brighten to a great and glorious day, 
               When the slaves shall all go free!

And when we on the “other side” do all together stand, As children of one family we’ll clasp the friendly hand; We’ll be a band of brothers in that brighter, better land, 
                  Where the bond shall all be free!
Nov.27,1862.                                         J. M. FRIEND.

                  THE BEAUTY OF WINTER.
Even winter to me hath a thousand delights, With its short gloomy days, and its long starry nights! And I love to go forth ere the dawn to inhale The health-breathing freshness that floats in the gale; When the sun riseth red o’er the crest of the hill, And the trees of the woodland are hosry and still; When the motion and sound of the streamlets are lost In the icy embrace of mysterious frest; When the hunter is out on the shelterless moor, And the robin looks in at the cottager’s door When the spirit of nature hath folded his wings, To nourish the seed of all glorious things, Till the herb and the leaf, and the fruit and the flower, Shall awake in the fullness of beauty and power.
                                           JOHN CRITCHLEY PRINCE.                                           




<C02>
The Liberator.
BRUTAL TREATMENT OF SLAVES BY GEN. CORCORAN.
I have just returned from Yorktown, Suffolk, Fort Norfolk, Pest House and Craney Island. The last three places are in the neighborhood of Norfolk, and I vat my foot on the wharf at Newport News only to find the colored people in a state of consternation and confusion. Four weeks ago, we were all full of hope; I had had a building granted to roc for a school-house, and we were getting ready to receive 500 or 600 more of the freedmen and women, who had been in tents all summer at Hampton, to make up a part of the 4000 or 5000 that were to be provided with winter quarters here. On the 9th inst., 400 women, children and decrepit men were landed at night, many of them sick and helpless. Their ghastly and shadowy forms will ever haunt my memory. They were put into large barracks for the remainder of the night, where they slept upon a little hay, with a cold snow storm raping outside. Sunday, Nov. 10th, myself and such others as I could rally were busy, by times, building fires to boil a little coffee which was given to them, but without sugar, as it was not convenient for the commissary to draw a little for them.
At 6 o'clock, we gave them some pork and bean soup and hard bread, and another night all slept again upon the hay,—mothers shivering all night, drawing, if possible, their little ones closer to them, that they might impart the warmth of their person to them. All this time, a day and two nights, their blankets and a few other things had been locked up in another barrack, their new superintendent not deeming it necessary to give them out. On the 11th, before they had bad their morning meal, the steamer Mystic came in with the intelligence that Gen. Corcoran had anchored with his legions before Fortress Monroe, and that Newport News must be cleared of all colored people, to make room for his troops. Here, again, was confusion, for none of the people had had a good sound meal, and had not full time to bury their dead, which was fifteen in two days. By request of Dr. O. Brown, who is superintendent of the freedmen, I went to Craney Island, to see the condition of the place and the quarters. This was a rebel fortification, and is situated on the right bank of the Elizabeth river as you enter it going to Norfolk. There I found three barracks, containing thirteen rooms, in which we had 600 people, over 46 \o each room. They were hurried over, and remained in this condition until tents could be drawn from the Quartermaster, and put up; in the mean time, the suffering for want of food was extreme, especially among the children.
On the 25th, Gen. Corcoran arrived here, and, bating got control of Newport News, he has seen nothing but these colored people. They are before him, like the mysterious cat in the fable which lifted her back to the moon. He sees them a hundred years hence on this Peninsula, with the implements of a new civilization in their hands, the plow and the Bible of which Wickliffe told the priests that the plow boys should soon know more than they did. He threw out his guards, and 300 more of these people, who have worked all summer in the hospitals—a few receiving only five dollars, while many of them nothing—he had forced together upon the beach and -other available places. The steamer John A. Warner took a part of them to Craney Island, and those who were found after she left were driven, by his order, to the end of the wharf over the water. One woman was compelled to take her sick daughter, of thirteen years, in her arms, and carry her half a mile to the place where the rest were. At the same time, every house was robbed by these Irishmen, of both clothing and money, where it could be found. One man, whom I know well, told me that he had a little money, and they forcibly took it from him.
The same night was one of the stormiest of the season. It rained incessantly, and these poor people were forced to remain in this exposed condition on the lower end of the wharf all night, and until next day late in the afternoon. In the morning, the mother of the sick girl informed me that she had died in the night, and that she had neither light nor water to give when she asked for them; and that the other child must soon go too. Here she hid her face in her hands, and asked me what they were going to do with the folks. I had no answer for her question, not even a word of consolation; for whatever was her state of mind, I knew that she was a better Christian than I. My only recourse was to go to the fortress, to Gen. John A- Dix, before any thing could be done, as no one dared even to move the body from the wharf. He quickly sent a steamboat to take the people to Craney island, and an order to have the child buried. All day, Gen. Corcoran's men had been stepping over the corpse, while it lay there in a drenching rain.
There are still remaining some of these, people, who work in the Quartermaster's department, but who are without houses, and must remain so, until Lieut. Alfred Gage, to whom any one interested can write, can provide them places.
Gen. Corcoran may win a great many hard-fought battles ; he may lead his legions as a successful General ; but he win never be able to erase from his history the record which he has to early made at Newport News. The memory of the death of that little girl, and two or three others who will soon follow, from criminal exposure on the wharf at Newport News, Virginia, on the night of the 25ih of November, 1862, his own act, must be his companion for life; and when dead, will make one of the darkest pages of his history. A General without pity is a barbarian; and the military man who would so barbarously treat these docile people, w ho are never found with a murmur upon their lips, no matter what their sufferings, only merits a place by the side of the heartless Quarter-master Talmadge, who both starved, and heat them with wagon whips. A man who is not able to work a reform in his own heart, God has no use or mission for him on the earth.
It seems to me that everything which is despicable and oppressive is used to make these colored people hate freedom. Between forty and fifty of them left here on Sunday night, 22d inst., when they heard what was going to take place, saying that the Union would never see them again. And what man, teeing the condition of things, can blame them? Most of these freedmen, if let alone, would work their way into a good living, and would save a little money.
The Superintendent at Craney Island has sent tugs along the shore, and taken from all the fishermen the boats which they own, saying that he wants them under his control. They can now fish and oyster at his dictation. That colored men shall not think for themselves is of Southern tyranny, and is practiced by any under-official who can get a little authority over us. This is the way, if free, we can't take care of ourselves!
Craney Island, too, is to be the place to which all opposition at Washington to the emancipation proclamation will turn its eye this winter, with the view of defeating it. The banding together of these people to be fed by Government, who would otherwise support themselves, will retard its progress. The New York Herald will not forget this place. It is a grave injury to these people to put them on this island, for this reason: First, it makes them entirely dependent on the Government for support. Secondly, it excludes then from active life and the free use of their limbs, which is necessary to their own health, as evidenced in the fact that they now die from eight to twelve a day. Thirdly, it affords bad men an excuse for bringing forward their old measures of compromise and colonization; of men, the North is full.
JOHN OLIVER.
Newport News, Va., NOV. 27.1862.
We copy Mr. Oliver's letter from the New York Anglo-African. The harsh treatment of the poor contrabands, as described by him, is not creditable to the humanity of Geo. Corcoran, who seems to have been the responsible person in the case.
<C03>
THE MANHOOD OF THE NEGRO,
MB. EDITOR: For ns, in these disturbed and disturbing times, the great question is, how shall we inaugurate justice? How shall we write our page of history so that we may not blush to leave the record to those who are to come after? What shall be the Koran, the thing to be read, from which to draw our inspiration?
To the hundred thousand who hare achieved their liberty, how much depends on our answer! How much to the four millions whose chains yet bind them to the car of slavery! How much to the starving poor of Europe, appealing to us, in the name of Jesus, to decide for God and humanity the great strife between Aristocracy and Democracy! For that is the grand question underlying the whole issue between Freedom and Slavery, and which is to be decided by this generation.
Little by little it is leaking oat, despite the efforts of pro-slavery officials, that the Negro is a Man—that if yon put a gun into his hands, he will fight—if you put a uniform on him, he will stand erect like a soldier—if you give him martial music, he will keep step—if you pay him, he will work—if you offer him liberty, the ungrateful wretch will leave the master or mistress, to whom he is indebted for years of unrequited toil, and bless God for the day of jubilee promised long—he will navigate or pilot your vessels—he will enlist in your armies, standing guard with a right good will over his former master—he will dig your trenches, erect your fortifications;—nobly will he do or die for liberty.
This is now matter of history; the fact is patent to all the world, that the Negro is a man, and he will do the part of a man in the world’s work.
How to do this, that is the practical question for us. And the practical answer is not without its difficulties; for so long has the black man been called a brute, that few of us are untainted by prejudice against color.
This we must and can overcome. Let every anti-slavery person begin for him self or her self a reform in this direction. Let him meet a black man or woman just as he does a white one. If he find in that race one whose gifts and culture render him a pleasant companion, receive him, associate with him, speak with him just as with any other. Let every one, in season and out of season, speak his or her word for justice to the Negro. Is your voice feeble, your circle small, with hold not the good word—you cannot tell what a great tree a little seed may produce.
I want to see Freedmen's Associations formed in every New England village. Let these Leagues petition Congress and besiege the President for the immediate establishment of a Department of Emancipation, whose duty it shall be to assign lands to such as want them, to pay those who labor; in short, to protect the black man from the injustice and treachery of the white man.
"All we ask," said Frederick Douglass, "is, that you treat us as you treat others.” "Protect us in our rights, and if we cannot sustain our selves, let us go down."
Friends, it is but little that the Negro requires of us—no more than we fully give to the Irishman, the German, or the Englishman.
It is but little that each of us can do—but the united voice of the churches, the schools, the conscience of New England demanding justice, will be all-powerful with Congress and with the President.     X. T. Z.

REV. MR. FRENCH AT THE CAPITAL.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) Dec. 15, 1862. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON—An old-fashioned Anti-Slavery meeting was held in the hall of the House of Representatives, Sunday, Dec. 14, at 11 o'clock, A. M. Rev. Mr. French, from Vermont, now missionary at-Hilton Head, was the speaker. He gave a very interesting and telling account of his experience among the blacks. The floor and galleries of the great hall were crowded when he began, but the speaker hating the power of "casting our devils," many left before he got through. A reference to John Brown made them skedaddle, in this instance, on the double-quick. The reference was made in stating that the slave children, away back in the interior, had learned to sing.
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave," &c.
The speaker said we never should succeed, and that we ought not to succeed, in putting down the rebellion, until we were trilling to do full justice to
the slaves; that for his part he was determined to take his place by the side of the poor negro, to live I with him, and to die and go to heaven with him.
But he said he believed that in no event could slavery
 be continued long. It was the universal belief of the slaves that their deliverance is at hand; that they claimed to have learned this fact from the Almighty; that they knew that the Proclamation would be made long before it actually came out. He gave many instances illustrating the confiding faith, patient hope, and religious trust of the negroes. He said he had scarcely seen a drunken colored man, or one who used profane language, during his experience among them. He also contradicted the oft-repeated assertion that the negroes will not fight for their liberty, even if they have an opportunity. He knew them to be brave, and willing to fight. The meeting, on the whole, was a splendid success. It marks a new era in the history of Washington Sunday meetings. And, by the way, could not this meeting be followed up by others? Can not some of the old pioneers be heard here on Sun
day, with open doors? It would be a great point gained, if yourself, Mr. Phillips and Parker Pillsbury could be heard here by the masses. There arc many very many Northern men here now, among them many Abolitionists, and I have no doubt that Anti-Slavery meetings could be safely and profitably held
here.	A. J. GROVER.
It is perfectly notorious here, that three-quarters of the Massachusetts men in the field were opposed altogether to the late Republican party,—Boston Courier.
 The Courier knows as much of the sentiments of the soldiers, as it does of the people, of Massachusetts, which is just nothing at all. The fact is just the reverse of what the Courier states, as every one knows who has mingled with the soldiers.—Boston Journal.
The day after the late election, a Democratic newspaper in New York covered its bulletin hoard with the following announcement: "See Indiana! I see Ohio! see Pennsylvania! see Seymour! A friend of ours, stepping up to the bulletin, wrote underneath, "Secesh!"—N. Y. Independent.
AN AWFUL DEATH. The Dubuque Herald closed its existence yesterday morning. Its last Dumber was chiefly devoted to the vindication of the administration of James Buchanan, written by himself. This is  entitled—" His Administration   nobly vindicated,! his policy the true policy "; and so the Herald died ,
praising James Buchanan!   It was an awful death! —Dubuque Times.
 A man and his wife, with six children, came, within a short time, from North Carolina. They forded streams, and swam one river, each carrying one child at a time on their backs, until all had passed over. But though thus eager for freedom, they dread the North—its climate and its ways. Give them freedom, and there is no danger of their leaving the sunny South.
PAPER FROM CORN HUSKS. The London Mechanics' Magazine states that "excellent paper is now made in Europe from the leaves of Indian corn. There is one mill in operation in Switzerland, and one in Austria, in which paper is made from such leaves exclusively. The husks which .envelop the ears of corn make the best quality."
Gen Busteed, of New York, has bees ordered to report to Gen. Dix at Fortress Monroe, where so important command will be arranged for him.
A few of Gen. McClellan's friends clubbed together, bought a fine house on Fifth Avenue, New' York, and made him a present of it.
Among the killed at Fredericksburg, on Saturday, was a brother of George W. Curtis, the distinguished author and lecturer. He was highly gifted and accomplished, and his loss is deeply lamented.
<C04>
INDEX
TO
THE LIBERATOR,
VOLUME XXXII.
A Remarkable Prophecy, 8 
Andrew, Gov., Address of, 6
A Change of Position, not a Change of Principle, 6
A Treasonable Memorial, 9
Arming of Slaves by the Rebels,  9	
Attack on Our Soldiers by armed Negroes, 9
A Thanksgiving Sermons, 12
A Mystery Unsolved, 13
Abolition License, 17
A New Phase of A.S., 26
American Board of Commissioners 26-48
Address to the People of Georgia, 30
A.S. at Washington, 36
An Infamous Proposition, 36
A Colored Orator, 36
Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia, 35
A Loyal Negro Whipped to Death, 38
Address of Education Commission, 39-47
American Bible Society, 58
Anti-Slavery Convention at Barnstable, 60
American Tract Society, 70
Arrest of Col Jennison, 71
A Righteous Retribution, 74
Anti-Slavery Deputation to the American Minister in London, 75
A Philosophic Negro, 76
Abolition Sedition, 77
Annual Meeting of American A.S. Society, 77
                                                                                                          B
Bulldogs versus poodles, 2                     
Brownson, O.A. 10-149 Bishop Mcllvaine on the War, 38
Battle at Pittsburg Landing, (Shiloh,) 59-63-80
Butler and Phelps, 145
                                                                         C
Congress Had Better Adjourn, 1
Change in Washington, 4
Case of Rev. Geo. Gordon, 7
Contrabands in Kansas, 12
Connecticut Democracy, 33
Condit’n of the Fugitives, 36
Com. Goldsborough’s Proclamation to the People of North Carolina, 41
Crispus Attucks Commemoration, 51
Colored Jubilee Meeting, 74-83-104
Church A.S. Society, 86
Constitution of Illinois, 86
Case of Rev. S. Green, 108
Correspondence between Gen. Butler and Gen. Phelps, 133
C.M. Clay on the War, 134
                                                                      D

Democratic Treason, 33-73
Defeat of Abolitionists, 41
Discourse of Rev. Mr. Alger, 44
Death of a Noble Woman, 60
Disguised Disunionism, 65
Democracy on the Message, 69
Disunion Plott’gs Abroad, 74
Discourse of Rev. Samuel Johnson, 88
Drafting—The Trial Hour, 150-154
Darkness made Visible, 154
Duty of the President, 118
                                                                                                         E
Emancipation and the Slave Power, 1
England’s Policy, 20
European Sympathy, 32
Execution of Nathaniel Gordon, slave-trade, 35
Emancipation in the District of Columbia, 65-67-69-80-81-83
Educational Commission, 98
Enlistment of Colored Soldiers, by Governor Sprague, 126-135
                                                                                                            F
Francis Datcher, 68
Free Negro’s in the North, 73
Fugitive Slave Excitement at Washington, 90
Frauds of the Radicals, 125
                                                                                                         G
Gerrit Smith to John A. Gurley, 1; on English Sentiment, 4-31; to G. Thompson, 25; to Montgomery Blair, 64; to W.L. Garrison, 74; Address at Music Hall, 112; Speech at Washington, 45
Garrison’s Speech at New York, 14; Letter to Col. J. McKaye, 38
Guilt of the American Church, 20-69
Gen. Lane on the War, 24-102-146
Gen. Fremont, 36-43-109-146
Gen. McClellan’s Dream, 49
Gen. McClellan, 50-54-111
Gen. Buell and the Contrabands, 54
Glory, Hallelujah, 56
George F. Train, 72-188
General Hunter’s Order, 82-85-87-101-106; Letter from, 109

                                                                             H
How John Brown saved the Capital, 12
How to end the War, 26
Heraldry, 36
Homoeopathy in the’ Army, 50
Hospital Experiences, 81
Haytian John Brown
                                                                                                                   I
Inaugural Address of Jefferson Davis, 37
Indian Atrocities, 50
Is Negro Hate an Anglo Saxton Instinct, 113
Interview of the President with Border State
                                                                                                                     J
John Brown-ism, 53
Jefferson Davis’s Coachman, 81-190
Jeff. Davis to his Army, 115
                                                                                                                 K
Kansas Eman. League, 47
                                                                                                                   L
Loyalty of Colored Americans in the Revolutionary War, 2
Lecture by E.H. Heywood, 3
Letter from Gen. Halleck to Frank Blair, 7
Letter from Col. Crocker, 24
Letter from Elizabeth Cady Stanton, 29
Letter from English Abolitionists, 32
Letters to George Thompson, 30-34-38
Letter from Mrs. Frances D. Gage, 42-91
Letter from Starr King, 48
Letter from G. B. Stebbins, 47
Legal Fiction of State Existence, 49
Letter from Andrew Paton, 50
Letter from H. Martineau, 56
Letter from Rev. Daniel Foster, 59-111-135-147-159-167-171-190-195
Lecture of Miss Dickinson, 63-67
Letter from A.T. Foss, 71-83-147-163-195
Letter from J. Miller McKim, 75-128
Lynn Free School, 80
Longwood Yearly Meet, 98
Letter from Wm. Driver, 81
Letter from Mrs. Cutler, 83-86-95-108

A Voice from Missouri,  80
Anti-Abolition  Movem’t, 109
Abolitionists and Secessionists, 113
Anti-Slavery Celebration at Framingham, 114
Address of J.M. McKim on Port Royal Contraband. 120
Army of the Potomac, 121
A Rebel Proclamation, 123
A Colored Man’s Reply to President Lincoln, 141
Anthony Trollope, 141
Address of Fremont, 141
A Rebel Order, 143
A Chapter From McClellan’s History, 146
A Revolut’n Threatened, 149
A Scriptural Lesson, 149
Abraham Lincoln to Jeff. Davis, 156
By Loyal Governors, 161
By Colored People in Washington, 179
A New-Old Party, 162
Appeal to Working Men, 172
Advice of Gen. Scott, 173
Annual Meeting Penn. A.S. Society, 175
Address of London peace Society, 180
Address of the British and Foreign A.S. Soc., 199
Abolition becoming Respectable, 201
American Emancipation Movement Abroad, 206




baldi, 173; for an Amnesty, 173; on Abolitionists, 177; on England, 181; on Niggerology, 185 
Blackwood on the War, 197
Brutal Treatment of Slaves, 208
Call for Gen. Fremont, 149
Colonization of Blacks, 150
Chicago Christian Memorial to the President, 150
Contrabands at Newport News, 155; at Newbern, 177; at Washington, 177; at  Fortress Munroe, 185; at Port Royal, 198, 201
Change of Base, 162
Confederate Action on the Proclamation, 165
Can’t Live Together, 168
Contraband Labor, 169
Commercial Circular, 174
Conditions of Peace, 200
Concerning Liberator, 202
Commemorative John Brown Meetings, 204
Dr. Hidden and Daniel Foster, 127
Dr. Edson B. Olds, 129
Democratic Invitation, 129
Death of Hannah Webb, 135
Death of  Anthony Burns, 136
D. Plumb’s Defence, 143
Death-Stake of Democracy. 162
Death of Col. Whiting, 163
Dem. Factiousness, 165-167
Death of Eugene Kincade Foss, 172
Death of Gen. Mitchel, 188
Education Progress in Virginia, 144
English Estimate of C. Sumner, 180
English Friends Instructed, 201
Evangelical Alliance in France on the War, 205
Employment for Emancipated Slaves, 205
Effect of Proclamation in Tennessee, 205
First of August at Abington, 126-130
Fremont and McClellan, 150
Free Blacks, North and South 179
Gov. Andrew’s Letter to Secretary Stanton, and Proclamation, 86
Gov. Stanley and the Colored Schools in North Carolina, 94-96-98-100-102-113-118
Gen. Butler on Slave Insurrections, 143
Gen’l Epis, Convention, 170
Gov. Tod on Proclamat’n, 179
Guilt of Sumner and Andrew, 180
Gen. Dix’s Proposition, 181
Gen. Halleck’s Letter to the Secretary of War, 183
Gen. Mitchel on Contrabands, 184
General Order respecting Observance of the Sabbath, 187
G.W.P. Bentinck on American Affairs, 189
Gen. McClellan’s Adieu, 191
Gen. Saxton’s Proclamation for Thanksgiving, 205



Fund, 155
Historical Parallels, 158
Heroism of Colored Soldiers, 183-200
Hickman’s Bill for Suppression of the Rebellion, 207
Congressmen, 119
Indiana Democracy, 129
Ill-treatment of Blacks by the Army, 155
Interview with the President of Chicago Christian Delegation, 159
Jeff. Davis to Abraham Lincoln, 152
J.F. Clarke’s Resolutions at Worcester, 168
Kansas Negro Regiment, 186
Letter from Rev. Mr. Quint, 87
Letter to Hon. J. Collamore, 94
Letter from Dr. Hawks, 99
Letter from Henry C. Wright, 107-142-150-158-167-172-176-178-186-199-203-207
Letter from Gen. Banks, 115
Letter from Gen. Butler, 115
Letter from Gen. Hunter to Rev. Dr. Tyng, 126
Letter from Senator Wilson, 130
Legal Opinion of Attorney Gen. Foster, 134
Letter from L. Maria Child to the President, 139
Life among the Contrabands, 144
Letter from Judge Dutton, 145
Letter from M. L. Whitten, 156
Letter from Gen. Kearney, 169
Letter to Chas, Sumner, 175
Letter from Bishop Polk, 177
Liberia College, 182
Letter from J.H. Fowler, 186
Letter from G. Thompson, 190
Lecture of Geo. Thompson on American Affairs, 191-204
Lesson of the late Elections, 193
Letter from Charlotte L. Forten, 199-203
<C05>
M.
Mrs. Lincoln’s Ball, 34-35-51	MeClellan’s Strategy,      121
MASS Meeting in Cooper	Mr. HOWLAND’S REPLY TO MR. MAY,
Institute, 41	      Mr. May,                      136
Missionary Dishonesty,    44	McClellan and the Government, 146-149 
Metayers,         44-46-58-76	               
Mission School at Chat-	Mr. Dicey’s Opinion,       152
bam,  58-62			Marriage of an Ex-Slave, 155
Major Wightman versos	Memorial  of a Hump-
Gov. Andrew, 101-IOM18	baa,                            204
Maine Democracy,           105	Meetings of Clergy of
Message of the President	New York and Boston

on Compensation,        115	on the Proclamation,   205 N.
Negroes for Soldiers,        13	Nathaniel Hawthorne,   102
National Subscription An-	N. Y. Journal of Commerce,
niversary Report,           18	.                            122
New  Northern   Constitution	Negro Regiment at Port
                               82	Royal,                          125
O.
Our Perils from Abroad,    3	Order of McClellan on
Objects of the War,            6	President's Proclamation  163                               
Oration of Geo. Bancroft, 38	Order of Provost Marshal, 169  Mar-
Offer of Colored Men,      148	our Situation,                  150	Orpheus 0. Kerr,             192
P.
Pills-bury, Parker, Letter	Protect of Colored People
 of,  7 ;   Speech at	against Colonization,     71
Albany, 40 ;  at Mi!-	Port Royal Mission,          T3
ford, 122; Letter of,   200   Parson Brownlow,80-103-l23
Proclamation of Emancition, President Lincoln's Veto, 82
	9   Proceedings of N. E. A.
Phillips. Wendell, Speech	S. Convention.                92
of,    10-17-20-21-42 ;	Progressive  Friends' Interview
at Cincinnati. 53-57 ;	 with the President Chicago, 58-69;  in	dent,                      102-118
Boston,   66-110;     in	Penn. Democracy,            125
New York, 84 ; Letter	Phillips a Traitor,    129-137
from. 137 ;  Address on	Persecution  at Fortress
Public Educators. 184;	Munroe,                         134
Lecture on the President Phillips and the Abolitionists,
 and the Future,   192	                           137
Proceedings  of   Annual	President Lincoln to Horace Greeley,
Meeting of Man. A.	                  139
8. Society,                 17-21	Proclamation of Emancipation 
Perronet  Thompson   on	potion   by   the   President  the War,            24-32-124	dent,           9-154-157-158
Piety without Religion,    28	Pres. Benson in England, 156
Prayer of a Contraband,  32	People's Party in Mass., 16&
Prof. Clarence Butler, 36-64	Prayer instead of Work, 174
-70-82-88	Presentation of a Sword
Prohibition of the Coolie	to (ten. Fremont,          183
Trade,                              35	Prices to Sewing Women, 188
Petition of Mass. Homoeopathic	Phillips and his Celestials,
 Medical Soc'y, 48	                                 193
Proclamation of General	President's Annual Message
McClellan,                      47	                               194
Pro-Slavery Riot in Bar-	Pres't's Plan Examined, 201
lington, N. J.,                55	Pious Seoundrelism,         201
Parable of Jonah,            60	Political Clergy,              205
Q.
Quietism,	13
R.
R. W. Emerson at Washington	Robert Purvis to S. C.
                             27	Pomeroy                       146
Reign of Terror in Richmond	Reply of Colored People
                              32	to the President,          143
Resolutions   of   Indiana	Radical Abolitionism,     153
Democratic Convent'n, 33	Rebel  Seizure  of   Free
Rhode Island Democracy, 33	Colored Persons,           153
Rev.   J.   Sella  Martin's	Return of Black Bride, 15»
Farewell to England,    34	Ransom of J. Sella Mar-
Rev. E. H. Chapin on the	tin's Relatives,              172
People,                            39	Removal of Gen. McClellan
Rebel Atrocities, 68-75-81-	                 182- 185-189
87-&3-125-135-169 ;	Rebel Contempt of McClellan
Report of Joint Committee,	                         182
                             93	Radicalism is Down,        186
Refugees at Newbern,        71	Robert Dale Owen and
Reply to Daniel Foster,  107	Mattie Griffith,            188 Ringbolt on Sumner,        109	Report of Secretary of
Retreat of McClellan,     113	War on  the Contrabands,
Reply of Mr. May to J.	bands,                             197
A. Howland,         127-140	Readings by  Mrs.  DeMortie,
Rights of White Labor	                          205
over Black,          133-144
S.
Sumner, Charles, Tribute	Sermon of Thos. Vickers, 7
to the Memory of Senator	Slaves at Beaufort,             7
 Bingham, 2 ; On	Speech of (Garret Davis,   73
the   Trent  Affair, 9 ;	" of M. R. Miller,           74
Declaratory      Resolutions,	" of B F. Wade,       81-97
 29, 137 ; Speech	" of Vo. Wells Drown, 9t
on the Abolition of Slavery-	Sermon  of Rev.  Daniel
 in the District of	Foster,                           100
Columbia, 61 ; On the	Speech of General Wallace,
Surrender of Slaves by	lace.                     117—129
the Army, 85 ; Letter	Speech of Senator Chandler
on the President. 99 ;	                                 118
Letter to New  York,	Speech of Judge Horton, 122
118 ; Letter to W. H..	Simon, the Cyrenian,       129
Claflin, 145 ; Speech at	Selling into Slavery Free
Faneuil Hall on Emancipation,	Colored Servants,         131
                        162	Slave-Catching   in  New
Speech   of   Hon.  J.  M.	Orleans,                          133
Ashley,                          2-5	Speech of J. B. Haskins, 137
Surrender of Mason and	Seward on the War,        141
Slidell,                3-5-6-24	Speech of Col. Turchin, 145
Speech  of   Hon.   M.  F.	" of (Jen. Wilcox,          145
Conway,                           5	" of Gen. Busteed, 110-145
Sermon of W. H. Far-	181
ness,                           8-181	Slavery and its Characteristics,
Slaves used for Insurreetionary	         148-152-156
 Purposes,             7	Speech of Toad. Stevens, 149
Slaveholding    Witnesses	So am Loyalists,                14a
that the  Slaves want	Speech  of lion. Geo. S.
their Freedom,                 9	Boutwell,                       161
Speech of Rev. N. Hall,    9	Speech of General Wads-
Slavery and the War,        20	worth,                            161
Sick of the Negro,            26	Speech of Hon. Daniel 3.
Speech of John S. Rock,  26	Dickinson,                     166
" of Hon. A. G. Riddle, 29	Speech of C. E. Carr,      169
Sermon of 0. B. Frothingham,	"   of A. J. Hamilton, 169
                         30	Sermon of Dr. Bellows,   169
Signs of the Times,          36	Sumner as   a   Practical
Sickness in the Army,      37	Man,                     158-170
Secretary Chase on  the	Specimen of Democracy, 173
Contrabands,                  39	Speech of Gen. Mitchel
8peeeh of Henry Vincent, h&	to Contrabands,            174
" of P. A. Taylor, M. P., 45	Serenade to Fremont,      175
Salmon  Brown and the	Sentiments   of   Leading
49th,                                51	Democrats,                    175
Speech   of  Hon.  Henry	Speech of Wm. Whiting, 177
Wilson on Abolition of	"     of Col. Bullock,   181
Slavery in District of	Spirit Photographs.        188
Columbia, 57 ; On the	Songs of Contrabands,     l91
Confiscation Bill, 87 ;	Sermon of Rev. Dr. Putnam
On   the  Duty  of the	 on the War,          198
Hoar,                             166	Specimens of Democratic
Slavery in Maryland,        Co	Blackguardism,            201
Speech  of Hon.  G.  W.	State of Things in England,
Julian,                   69-101	                             202
T.
True Interest  of Black	The Pro-Slavery Press on
and White,                        1	Hunter's Proclamation, 85
The  Administration and	The Confiscation Bill, 91-115
the Opposition,                 1	The Port Royal Experiment
Taxation without Representation,	                             103
                          3	The President's Last Position,
The last Effort of Abolitionism,	. 106; an Artful
                             5	Dodger,                         141
The Border States,              5	Thurlow Weed on Contrabands,
Thompson, U., Speech of 6-	                      114.
11-22-42-49-64-65	The Master Race,             114
The Sword in Ethics,  12-16	The Slaves of Rebels,     126
Treason Rampant in Boston	The President on  African
_                                 13	 Colonization,      133- •
The Emancipa'n League, 15	134-739'
Tennessee Legislation,       20	The Golden Hour,             133
Trusted Traitors.                24	Tremont Temple Meet ,   145
The British Lion,               29	The Course for McClellan,. 149
The Abolition Traitors,    33	Treason in Washington, 153
The Barons of the South, 34	Thing* that  make  for
The President’s  Message, 42-	Peace,                            157
46-56	T. D. Eliot on Charles
Then and Now,                  48	Sumner,                         158
The Naval fight in Hampton	The Union as It Was,      161
 Roads,                     48	Treason growing Bold,    1«5
The Modern Jonah,          46	Tale of a Hospital,          168
The  President's Proposition	The Golden Gate,              172
            49	The Problem of Race,     179
The state of the country, 68	Theodore parker, 176 
Those Wooden Guns,         68	       .The First Act of Abolit’n,69 Time for McClellan to Go,.178
The Army Anti -Abolition,73	Theodore D. Weld,.          178
The Ex. Com. of American	The Verdict of Events,197
 A. S. Society on the	The Devil an Ass,            198
War,                              4	The Negro's Manhood,    208
U.
U.S. Officers  returning Slaves,	Unitarian Convention at Brooklyn, N.Y.,         143
                          	Brooklyan, N. Y.,         170
V.
Voice of Union Exiles,   185   	Views of as lntelligent Negro,   201
Vermont Anti-Fugitive	                      M
Slave  Law Legislat’n. 193
 Who Did It ?.   37                 	W. L. Garrison at William’s College,   138	- Address at ditto, 136  Who are the Negro Worshippers,  41 Ward beecher on the Abolitionists,     46  	    Washington and Fremont,   153 Wasson’s Sermon,   175         Wendell Phillips in Washington,  46        William Carlos Martin,   50-54-63-70    What Contrabands are Good for,    97        Who are the Traitors,   98          Waterloo Meeting of friends Of Human Progress,      100         Who Rally to the Battlefield,      179-188-193     Wailling in Sodom, 198       Worcester County A. S  Society Meeting,    199    War and Reforms,     205 Washington Unionism,   X  “X.Y.Z. “      208 
<C06>
THE BEST WORK FOR CANVSSING AGENTS.
Harper’s Pictorial History 
                OF
The Great Rebellion.
                 IN
THE UNITED STATES.
MESSRS. HARRPER & BROTHERS have commenced the issue in numbers of a complete HISTORY OF THE GREAT REBELLION IN THE  UNITED STATES. The work has been for many months in course of preparation, by a writer every way qualified for the task.
 The INTRODUCTION contains a clear and suceinet account of the formation of the Confederacy of the States; the formation and adoption of the Constitution of the United  States, and the establishment of the National Government; the origin, development, and progress of the doctrines of Nullification and Secession, and the various phases which they assumed until their final culmination in the Great Rebellion.
The HISTORY comprises a full account drawn from the most authentic sources, of all the Events of the War; the intrignes of the Southern leaders at home and abroad; the gradual defection of one section; the great Uprising of the People for the maintenance of the National Life and Existence; the rapid creation of an immense Army and Navy; and the Battles by Land and Sea.
The ILLUSTRATIONS comprise Portraits of all those who have borne a prominent part in the struggle; Maps of the different localities; Plans of the leading actions; Views of every scence of interest, and of the most important Battles. These Illustrations are mostly from drawings taken on the spot by artists deputed for that purpose to accompany every division of our Army and Navy.
Every facility at the command of the Publishers has been employed in the preparation and execution of the work; and they confidently believe that it will form the most trustworthy and valuable history which can be prepared of THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR THE AMERICAN UNION.

Mode and Terms of Publication.
The work will be issued in Numbers, each consisting of 24 pages of the size of “Harper’s Weekly.” Printed from clear type, upon fine paper, and will probably be completed in about Twenty Numbers.
The Numbers will be issued at intervals, if possible, of about three or four weeks.
The Price of each Number, which contains matter equivalent to an ordinary volume, will be Twenty-five cents.
The Illustrations in each Number are alone worth the price asked. Men out of employment, especially

SICK OR DISABLED SOLDIERS,
 Can find no other work so sure of ready sale and good profits.
For further particulars apply to the Publishers,
HARPER & BROTHERS, dec 19th Franklin Square, New York.
To the Honorable, the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February, A.D. eighteen hundred and sixty-three.
RESPECTFULLY represents Cornelia James, of  Wrentham, in said County of Norfolk, that she married Thomas K. James, at Providence, in the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, on the Twenty-eighth day of July, A.D. eighteen hundred and forty-nine; that her maiden name was Cornelia Taylor; That she and her said husband, from said twenty-eighth day of July, A.D. eighteen and forty-nine, afterwards, lived together as husband and wife, at Wrentham aforesaid, until the eighth day of November, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five; that on said eighth day of November, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five, said Thomas K. James separated himself from her, his said wife, and has not since lived with her; that she has at all times been faithful to her marriage obligations; that on, or about, the first day of February, A.D. eighteen hundred and fifty-six, said Thomas K. James willfully and utterly deserted her, his said wife, without her consent; that said desertion has continued uninterruptedly from that time until the time of the filing of this libel. And your libellant further represents that said Thomas K. James now resides in or near Rochester, in the State of New York.
Wherefore your libellant prays a divorce from the bonds of matrimony between her and her said husband be decreed to her by this Court; that suitable alimony may be decreed to be paid her by her said husband, at such times as to this Court shall seem proper; that she may be allowed to resume her maiden name; and that such other and further order and decree may be passed by this Courts, as justice may require. CORNELIA JAMES.

Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
SUFFOLK,SS.   Supreme Judicial Court,
At Chambers in Boston, Dec. 6, 1862 
On the foregoing libel, it is ordered, that the libellant give a notice to the said Thomas K. James, to appear before the Justices of this Court next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February next, by publishing an attested copy of said libel and of this order thereon once a week, three weeks successively, in the Boston Liberator, a newspaper printed in said Boston, the last publication to be thirty days, at least, before said third Tuesday of February next; also by depositing in the Post Office, postage prepaid, a copy of said libel and order, enclosed, directed to the said Thomas K. James at Rochester, in the State of New York, thirty days at least, before said third Tuesday of February next, and making affidavit that this part of the order has been complied with; that the said Thomas K. James may then and there shew cause why the prayer of said libel should not be granted.
By the order of George T. Bigelow, Esq. Chief Justice of said Court, GEO.C.WILDE, Clerk. 
A true copy of said libel, and of the order thereon, Attest, GEO.C. WILDE, CLARK.
dec12-3w
A GOOD CHANCE TO MAKE $50 to $100 
PER MONTH, AND EXPENSES.
AGENTS WANTED, immediately, to sell J.T. LLOYD’S cheap and elegant Maps in Maine and New Hampshire.
J.T. LLOYD’S Maps of the United States, Map of Virginia, and Map of Southern States. Sent to pedlars and others, without delay, to any part of Maine or New Hampshire by express.
Address H.J.L. STANWOOD & CO., Brunswick, Maine, with stamp inclosed. Dec5tf

   WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 
EUROPEAN and FANCY FURS,
308 Washington Street, 308 OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer.nov7tf 
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St. October 24.
6m

          DENTISTRY.
DD. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years, inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
 Boston, September 20 1862.

          ICE DIEN.
GLOBE HOTEL,
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR, 2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,) NEW YORK.



