THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents— one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial. Committee, but are not 
responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND
QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer’s.
VOL. XXX. NO. 28. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 13, 1860.WHOLE NUMBER, 1542.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION. 
<c01>
From the New Orleans Picayune.
SUMNER'S REVENGE.
Mr. Charles Sumner, of Massachusetts, has made, in the Senate of the United States, the grand demonstration on the subject of slavery which it has evidently been the task of his life to prepare in the most effectual form, since the cane of Preston Brooks left its stripes upon his person for the malignity of his former public invectives against the men and the society of the Southern States.
We have never spoken of that chastisement, well merited as it undoubtedly was by the coarseness of the insult it undertook to punish, except as extremely rash and thoughtless, the impulse of an impetuous indignation, which forgot in its heat the properties of time and place, and gave to the enemies of the South an advantage in the plea before the Northern people, that the liberty of speech had been violently assailed by Southern slaveholders on the floor of the Senate itself. The act was deeply regretted for the mischievous uses that could be made out of it, more than he deserved.
He has been for years brooding over his disgrace, and preparing his revenge. His wounded vanity exacted of him that he should seek his reparation for wrong in the place where he was scourged, and his pride is in repeating the offence in the most aggravating form which a thorough search of the vocabulary of abuse for some weary years of self-banishment could supply to a reckless tongue. Supported, as it seems, by a sort of body-guard under the direction of the fighting Mr. Burlingame, as a security against interruption by another cane, he went into the Senate to deliver the most furiously bitter and malignant tirade against slavery and slaveholding, against the slave States of this Union, and the slaveholders of these States, which has ever been uttered in this country by a man above the standard of Fred Douglass or Garrison. For hours he continued to pour out all the hoarded resentment of his heart, in a strain of insult to which the abusiveness which stung Mr. Brooks into the imprudence of chastising him into notoriety was dulcet commonplace. He ransacked ancient and modern history to find offensive comparisons, with which to stigmatize the society of the South as; barbarous' beyond anything known among nations which pretend to civilization. He assumed that the free States of the Union are types of civilized society, the slave States the most odious relics of the worst barbarism. He drew a comparison between the Barbary States of the Mediterranean and the Barbary States of America, and awarded to those nests of piratical Africans a superiority in morals and progress over the slaveholding States of the Union. He took up and eulogized and endorsed the whole strain and substance of Helper's book; and held up slaveholding communities to utter abhorrence, as essentially wicked by their nature, and slaveholders as villains by the law of their existence. He sums up a series of philippics of this class with the assertion that slavery, being 'barbarous in its origin, barbarous in its law., and barbarous in all its pretensions; barbarous in the instruments it employs, barbarous in its consequences, barbarous in spirit, and barbarous wherever it shows itself,' it must 'breed barbarians, while it develops everywhere, alike in the individual and in the society of which he forms a part, the essential elements of barbarism.'
With this text, he declares for the extirpation of the monstrous evil, and repudiates with scorn the plea that it is only to be met as a political question, and declares that it is to be met on every ground as a solemn battle 
between good and evil.
There are two whole sides of a large newspaper covered with the speech, of which the sentence we quote is the key-thought, amplified, illustrated and enforced in every possible form of insult, derision and defiance.
This black tirade went on without interruption, and with no other reply than some brief words from Senator Chesnut, of South Carolina, in which he expressed, in words much more emphatic than complimentary, his opinion of this scandalous exhibition of malignant and revengeful passions. The Southern Senators otherwise sat in contemptuous silence while this railing abolitionist unpacked his heart of its foul passions and his brain of the unwholesome load of revengeful thoughts.
Senator Chesnut would have done quite as well in suffering the harangue to pass without a word of comment. If we are to take Mr. Sumner as the type of a class in the North—the irrepressible conflict men—there are worthier antagonists with whom the contest for our existence can be waged; foemen whom it requires an effort to grapple with, and over whom success will be a substantial victory. But this mouthing Sumner is a ranter whom no party will consent to receive as a leader. He may expound their sentiments, but they shrink from the audacity with which he declares them, and the impudence of making issue of them too soon. They have discarded Seward mainly because he is too directly committed to theories of the same kind with Sumner, to be available as a candidate yet.
The impatience of Sumner will not permit these men to wait that consummation which Mr. Seward has promised, when Republicanism can go as fast and far as it wishes, and has preferred to go with Lincolns, now, as far as it can. Mr. Sumner will, therefore, in all, probability, be disclaimed by the Republicans as an imprudent and inconvenient ally, and before long he will be taken out of the Senate. Republicanism has no need just now of such plain-speaking men, and he will be disavowed, and, at the close of his term, left out of the Senate, unless the election shall have demonstrated such a strength of the Republican idea that it may be advanced and supported more boldly than it is the policy just now to avow.
But the speech is on record—an enlarged and embellished edition of Helper's infamous book, which obtained, for a political object, the endorsement of so many members of Congress. Both have been disclaimed by a portion of the party for whose service they were sent forth. But it is the dictate of common caution to note how far the principles are sustained of which the expression is disavowed; and to watch for the indications of a coming time when both may be taken up again, and set forth as the exponents of a successful party.

SUMNER'S SPEECH.
Never was a speech more calculated to drive the South out of the Union, or to stir up insurrection; for if one-half he said was true, not only would the slaves be justified in taking up arms, but every adventurous anti-slavery man in the world be justified in flying to their assistance. The speech was equally distinguished for its vehemence and falsehood. What can be more untrue than that the slaves receive no compensation for their labor? They are clad, housed and supported, and allowed certain privileges by which they can add to their personal comforts, and they are never reduced to want, as white laborers, both of the South, in the free States and in Europe, frequently are. They are never cheated out of their earnings, as white laborers in the free States are by
<c02>
dishonest contractors, broken corporations, and other insolvent employers. What Mr. Sumner's purpose was in making this speech, passes our comprehension. It was nominally in favor of the admission of Kansas; but if it could produce any effect at all, it would be to unite in solid column all the Southern Senators against the admission. If he made it for the purpose of revenging the assault of 1856, a more stupid idea can hardly be conceived. The slandered and his avenger are dead, and beyond reach of the Senator's revilings. A speech more destitute of judgment and statesmanship, in every point of view, was never given to the public in any form. The wildest outburst of red republicanism in Europe has furnished no equal to it in want of truth, common sense, and parliamentary propriety.-Boston Pilot.
Mr. Sumner, who during his term in the Senate has signalized himself by no practical proposition, by no good measure, by no co-operation with friends, has waited till the close of the present term of the Senate to make a violent assault upon a portion of the States of the confederacy, an assault which retroactively impeaches the morality, the civilization, the Christianity, the decency, even, of the original States of the Confederacy, and the founders of the Constitution. 
In attempting to affix the stain of barbarism to the original States of the confederacy, Mr. S. not only 'fouls his own nest,' but he spoils his own argument; for he gives us a barbarian Constitution, and then demands the right to interpret it according to his enlightenment; and he proves the growth of the North in property and education only to show how it has prospered and thriven by the generous policy of administrations which for half a century have been controlled by the liberal and enlightened minds of Southern statesmen.—Albany Argus.

SELECTIONS.
From the N. Y. Tribune.
A NEW MISREPRESENTATION.
A late number of the Liberator, Mr. Garrison's paper, contains an article under the well-known initials of Mr. Wendell Phillips, in which Abraham Lincoln is designated as 'the slave-hound of Illinois.' The charge is based upon the alleged fact that, on the 10th of January, 1849, Mr. Lincoln, being then a member of Congress, moved to reconsider the vote instructing the Committee on the District of Columbia to report a bill for abolishing the slave-trade therein, that he might introduce a bill, from which 'W. P.' makes this extract:—
'Section 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and REQUIRED to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners, all Fugitive Slaves escaping into said District.' 
The Tribune is especially called upon to meet this charge, and the writer waits to know 'where to draw that line which shall allow us all our indignation against Mason, and yet save the fame of their (the Republicans') candidate.'
We will try to answer. The first charge is, that 'Mr. Lincoln, in order to introduce this bill, requested the House to reconsider the vote instructing the Committee on the District of Columbia to report a bill for abolishing the slave-trade therein.'
We reply: Mr. Lincoln never did any such thing. He neither requested the House to reconsider its vote, nor did he make any motion to that effect. On the contrary, when, presently, the motion to lay the motion to reconsider on the table was acted upon, he voted with the majority against it. True, when the motion to reconsider was reached, he voted in its favor; but when, soon after, the question came up in a new aspect, under an amendment which changed the phraseology of the original resolution, which was by many thought objectionable, Mr. Lincoln's vote is again recorded in the negative against a second attempt to get rid of the whole subject by laying on the table. 'W. P.' has thus asserted what is false as to the letter of the record, and as evidently false as to the intentions of the man.
What, then, was the course of Mr. Lincoln on which such a charge can be based? Simply this: A motion was made to lay the motion to reconsider the resolution on the table. Mr. Lincoln, at this stage, appealed to the mover—not to the House—to withdraw his motion. He urged him to withdraw his motion, not permanently, but merely to enable him to read an amendment which he should attempt to introduce, if the vote on the original resolution—instructing the Committee—should be reconsidered. This amendment was the bill which 'W. P.' refers to, of which he gives a section, and because of which he says: 'We gibbet a Northern hound to-day, side by side with the infamous Mason of Virginia.' The reader is left to infer that Mr. Lincoln attempted to get the virtual prohibition of the slave-trade in the District, just passed, rescinded, that he might the more effectually and emphatically provide it with a more stringent law against fugitive slaves. Let us see.
Mr. Lincoln, let it be remembered, asked his colleague to withdraw his motion, simply that he might read the proposition which he intended to urge as an amendment, if the resolution prohibiting the slave-trade was reconsidered. Now, this proposition is a bill of eight sections, of which 'W. P.' quotes one. The purpose of this bill was the abolition not merely of the slave-trade, but of slavery itself in the District of Columbia, provided a majority of the people should cast their votes in favor of such a measure. The fifth section, so far from showing the general purport of the bill, is precisely that portion of it from which the character of the rest would never be guessed. It was merely intended to put the District on a footing with all the States in regard to 'fugitives from service,' when slavery should no longer exist there, and nothing more. If Virginia may have the right to take her runaways in Boston, there is no good reason cater is paribus, why she should not in Washington. But this was the exceptional point of Mr. Lincoln's proposed amendment, and not its general purpose, for that was to sweep the system of slavery out of the District, after a fixed time, by consent of the people, giving compensation to the master, and providing for the due education and care of the emancipated. 
This proposition, Mr. Lincoln proceeded to say, he had submitted to fifteen leading citizens of the District, who all approved of it. 'W. P.' refers to this fact, and applying it to the exceptional provision of section five, adds, 'No wonder Mr. Lincoln is unwilling to make any opposition to the Fugitive Slave bill! No wonder the Chicago Convection omitted that point in their resolutions!'
Such misrepresentation as this is to be accounted for only on the supposition that some malignant and unscrupulous person has imposed upon 'W. P.,' and prevailed upon him to give the sanction of his name to a statement which he had never examined, but which, unfortunately, he was too ready to believe.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
'INDEPENDENCE DAY.'
ANTI-SLAVERY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM.
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M.W. YERRINTON.
A Mass Meeting of the friends of the enslaved was held at the Grove in Framingham, on the Fourth, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, to celebrate the day, and, (in the words of the call,) 'to consider the solemn and pregnant issues of the hour—how best to preserve the principles of the Revolution, and carry them forward to a speedy and enduring triumph.' Notwithstanding the heavy rain of the night previous, and the inauspicious aspect of the morning, a large number of persons took the special train for the Grove, at 9 1/4 o'clock, who were joined, on their arrival, by a delegation from Milford, and neighboring places, several hundred strong. In Milford alone, we understand, nearly four hundred tickets were sold. By noon, the company on the ground had swelled to thousands, and we doubt if ever a larger, more intelligent and orderly gathering was ever congregated in that beautiful grove, even on such an occasion, remarkable, as they always are, for the intelligence and high character of those who answer the call.
The meeting was called to order shortly before 11 o'clock, by E. H. HEYWOOD, who read the following list of officers for its organization:-
President—EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
Vice Presidents—Francis Jackson, Boston; Charles L. Remond, Salem; F. B. Sanborn, Col. Wm. Whiting, Concord; Caroline M. Severance, West Newton; Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, R. I.; William S. Haywood, Hopedale; Henry O. Stone, Framingham; Abby Kelley Foster, Worcester; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg; J. T. Everett, Princeton; J. H. Stephenson, Newton; O. W. Albee, Marlboro'.
Secretaries—J. M. W. Yerrinton, Chas. K. Whipple. 
Finance Committee—E. H. Hey wood, Boston; Angelina J. Knox, Boston; Sallie Holley, Sarah E. Hall, Worcester; E. D. Draper, Hopedale; T. C. Severance, West Newton.
After thanking the audience for the honor they had conferred upon him, the President said he was always glad to attend an anti-slavery meeting on the Fourth of July, because it was the only place where one could get away from the noise and dust and turbulence of American patriotism, and the only place, too, where the truth could be heard. Thousands of meetings were being held all over the country, in which the people were congregated to listen to glorifications of themselves, and smell the incense burned to their own vanity, by priests appointed, under the name of orators, for that purpose. Mr. Everett to-day, in Boston, would endeavor to encourage the modest citizens of that metropolis by telling them what admirable fellows they are, and what heroes and patriots and sages their ancestors were, with an exhortation, to be sure, that they should prove themselves worthy of their sires, but with a very strong inference that they are. If any body wanted to hear any thing original, they must go to an anti-slavery meeting, for there they would hear the truth about the Revolution and the government, and the nature of the institutions which the Revolution and the government gave to the country, and true exhortations as to the duties which belong to the inhabitants of the country. To such a meeting as that he welcomed the audience on that occasion.
'Freedom's Battle Song,' by R. Thayer, was then sung, to 'Auld Lang Syne,' after which Mr. GARRISON came forward, and stated that he had received a note from the excellent General Agent of the Society, SAMUEL MAY, Jr., which he would read:— 
LEICESTER, July 2, 1860. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
The 'Fourth' draws nigh, and that crowd of bright, intelligent, and earnest faces,—the flower of Massachusetts' best moral and religious culture,— upon which I have looked with delight so many a year, will once more gather in the beautiful Framingham grove, to redeem their share of the day from its prevailing false and shallow uses, and to consecrate it to the noble ends of Liberty, Justice, and the Right. May the skies be fair above them! I am sure that needful and soul-stirring truth will be uttered, and I know the occasion will, as it has so many times before, make its impress deep and strong on the thought and feeling of the community. I have never before missed one of these occasions. Now I must be absent. The state of my health forbids my participating in the pleasures and duties of your meeting. But in thought I shall be with you, and every word and strain you utter, that the most uncompromising anti-slavery spirit can inspire, will have my heartiest God-speed. And thus offering to all present my warmest congratulations, that you are permitted to enlist in the services of this noblest, best, and most Christian cause of our age, and with the prayer that we may all be faithful to it unto death, I remain,
Sincerely your friend,
SAMUEL MAY, JR. 
I have also, said Mr. Garrison, some lines appropriate to the occasion, which were written by our friend Miss BACON, of Barre, who has once or twice before favored us with the contributions of her genius on such occasions. I will read them, with your permission. [See poetical column.] 
These verses were listened to with undivided attention by the audience, who testified their sympathy with the sentiments expressed by frequent applause.
THE PRESIDENT. In introducing the speaker who will next address you, I shall have occasion to mention a name which I think will surprise you to hear, in connection with this company, and this place and occasion. When I say that the next speaker is to be Mr. Douglass, and Mr. Douglass, of Chicago, (!) I think it will naturally excite a thrill of surprise in the breasts of all the inhabitants of this country—Democrats of all types and shades, Belleverett men, and Republicans—that Mr. Douglass, of Chicago, should appear at an anti-slavery meeting on the Fourth of July, just at the very opening of the canvass! (Laughter.) I have never had the pleasure of seeing the candidate for the Presidency who bears that name, and therefore I cannot answer for you whether this is the gentleman or not, but you will probably find out by the time he is through. (Laughter and applause.) Mr. DOUGLASS, of Chicago. 
<c04>
SPEECH OF H. FORD DOUGLASS.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: 
I hope that my friends will not do me the injustice to suppose, for a single moment, that I have any connection, either by blood or politically, with Stephen Arnold Douglas, of Chicago. I am somewhat proud of the name of Douglass. It was once, in the history of dear old Scotia, a tower of strength on the side of free principles; and so firmly did they oppose the usurpations of royal power, that, on one of the kings of Scotland coming to the throne, he issued an edict, expelling from his realm every man who hore that hated name; and I cannot account for the signal departure from the ancient and hereditary principles by one who bears that name, upon any other theory than that of bastard blood. (Applause.) 
There are a great many people in this country who seem to be in love with Stephen A. Douglas, and to regard him as a great statesman. It seems to me that there are certain elements necessary to true statesmanship. In the first place, a statesman must have a heart—that is one of the essential elements of statesmanship. Now, who supposes that Stephen A. Douglas has a heart? I cannot account for the existence of so mean a man as Douglas on any other theory than that of the transmigration of souls. It was held by one of the old philosophers of Greece, that when a man died, somebody was born, and that the soul of the dead entered the body of the newborn; but, when Douglas was born, nobody happened to die! (Laughter and applause.) 
But, ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of making these remarks. We are here for the purpose of celebrating the Fourth of July. Eighty four years ago to-day, this nation had its birth. We stand, to-day, a governmental prodigy, surpassing, in our extra-ordinary growth, any of the States of ancient or modern times. But nations who seek success amid the possibilities of the future are not measured by the accumulation of wealth, nor by breadth of territorial domain. Far down beneath the glittering splendor which the jewelled hand of Croesus has lifted up to intoxicate the gaze of the unthinking multitude, there will be found a silent and resistless influence, working its way beneath, the surface of society, and shaping the destiny of men.
When John Adams wrote that this would always be a day of bonfires and rejoicing, he did not foresee the evils which half a century would bring, when his own son, standing in his place amid the legislators of the Republic, would shame posterity into a brave indifference to its empty ceremonies. John Quincy Adams said, twenty yean ago, that 'the preservation, propagation and perpetuation of slavery is the vital and animating spirit of the national government,' and this truth is no less apparent to-day. Every department of our national life—the President's chair, the Senate of the United States, the Supreme Court, and the American pulpit—is occupied and controlled by the dark spirit of American slavery. We have four parties in this country that have marshalled themselves on the highway of American politics, asking for the votes of the American people to place them in possession of the government. We have what is called the Union party, led by Mr. Bell, of Tennessee; we have what is called the Democratic party, led by Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois; we have the party called the Seceders, or the Slave-Code Democrats, led by John C. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, and then we have the Republican party, led by Abraham Lincoln, of Illinois. All of these parties ask for your support, because they profess to represent some principle. So far as the principles of freedom and the hopes of the black man are concerned, all these parties are barren and unfruitful; neither of them seeks to lift the negro out of his fetters, and rescue this day from odium and disgrace.
Take Abraham Lincoln. I want to know if any man can tell me the difference between the anti-slavery of Abraham Lincoln, and the anti-slavery of the old Whig party, or the anti-slavery of Henry Clay? Why, there is no difference between them. Abraham Lincoln is simply a Henry Clay Whig, and he believes just as Henry Clay believed in regard to this question. And Henry Clay was just as odious to the anti-slavery cause and anti-slavery men as ever was John C. Calhoun. In fact, he did as much to perpetuate negro slavery in this country as any other man who has ever lived. Henry Clay once said, 'That is property which the law declares to be property,' and that 'two hundred years of legislation have sanctioned and sanctified property in slaves'! Wherever Henry Clay is to-day in the universe of God, that atheistic lie is with him, with all its tormenting memories. (Applause.) 
I know Abraham Lincoln, and I know something about his anti-slavery. I know the Republicans do not like this kind of talk, because, while they are willing to steal our thunder, they are unwilling to submit to the conditions imposed upon that party that assumes to be anti-slavery. They say that they cannot go as fast as you anti-slavery men go in this matter; that they cannot afford to be uncompromisingly honest, nor so radical as you Garrisonians; that they want to take time; that they want to do the work gradually. They say, 'We must not be in too great a hurry to overthrow slavery; at least, we must take half a loaf, if we cannot get the whole.' Now, my friends, I believe that the very best way to overthrow slavery in this country is to occupy the highest possible anti-slavery ground. Washington Irving tells a story of a Dutchman, who wanted to jump over a ditch, and he went back three miles in order to get a good start, and when he got up to the ditch, he had to sit down on the wrong side to get his breath. So it is with these political parties; they are compelled, they say, when they get up to the ditch of slavery, to stop and take breath.
I do not believe in the anti-slavery of Abraham Lincoln, because he is on the side of this Slave Power of which I am speaking, that has possession of the Federal Government. What does he propose to do? Simply to let the people and the Territories regulate their domestic institutions in their own way. In the great debate between Lincoln and Douglas in Illinois, when he was interrogated as to whether he was in favor of the admission of more slave States into the Union, he said, that so long as we owned the territories, he did not see any other way of doing than to
<c05>
admit those States when they made application, WITH OR WITHOUT SLAVERY. Now, that is Douglas's doctrine; it is stealing the thunder of Stephen A. Douglas.
In regard to the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, Abraham Lincoln occupies the same position that the old Whig party occupied in 1852. They asserted then, in their platform, that they were not in favor of the repeal of that law, and that they would do nothing to lessen its efficiency. What did he say at Freeport? Why, that the South was entitled to a Fugitive Slave Law; and although he thought the law could be modified a little, yet, he said, if he was in Congress, he would have it done in such a way as not to lessen its efficiency! Here, then, is Abraham Lincoln in favor of carrying out that infamous Fugitive Slave Law, that not only strikes down the liberty of every black man in the United States, but virtually the liberty of every white man as well; for, under that law, there is not a man in this presence who might not be arrested to-day upon the simple testimony of one man, and, after an ex parte trial, hurried off to slavery and to chains. Habeas corpus, trial by jury,-those great bulwarks of freedom, reared by the blood and unspeakable woe of your English ancestors, amidst the conflicts of a thousand years,— are struck down by this law; and the man whose name is inscribed upon the Presidential banner of the Republican party is in favor of keeping it upon the statute-book!
Not only would I arraign Mr. Lincoln, in regard to that law, for his pro-slavery character and principles, but when he was a member of the House of Representatives, in 1849, on the 10th day of January, he went through the District of Columbia, and consulted the prominent pro-slavery men and slaveholders of the District, and then went into the House of Representatives, and introduced, on his own responsibility, a fugitive slave law for the District of Columbia. It is well known that the law of 1793 did not apply to the District, and it was necessary, in order that slaveholders might catch their slaves who sought safety under the shadow of the capitol, that a special law should be passed for the District of Columbia; and so Mr. Lincoln went down deeper into the pro-slavery pool than even Mr. Mason of Virginia did in the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. Here, then, is the man who asks for your votes, and for the votes of the anti-slavery people of New England, who, on his own responsibility, without any temptation whatever, introduced into the District of Columbia a fugitive slave law! That is a fact for the consideration of anti-slavery men.
Then, there is another item which I want to bring out in this connection. I am a colored man; I am an American citizen; and I think that I am entitled to exercise the elective franchise. I am about twenty-eight years old, and I would like to vote very much. I think I am old enough to vote, and I think that, if I had a vote to give, I should know enough to place it on the side of freedom. (Applause.) No party, it seems to me, is entitled to the sympathy of anti-slavery men, unless that party is willing to extend to the black man all the rights of a citizen. I care nothing about that anti-slavery which wants to make the Territories free, while it is unwilling to extend to me, as a man, in the free States, all the rights of a man. (Applause.) In the State of Illinois, where I live-my adopted State—I have been laboring to make it a place fit for a decent man to live in. In that State, we have a code of black laws that would disgrace any Barbary State, or any uncivilized people in the far-off islands of the sea. Men of my complexion are not allowed to testify in a court of justice, where a white man is a party. If a white man happens to owe me anything, unless I can prove it by the testimony of a white man, I cannot collect the debt. Now, two years ago, I went through the State of Illinois for the purpose of getting signers to a petition, asking the Legislature to repeal the 'Testimony Law,' so as to permit colored men to testify against white men. I went to prominent Republicans, and among others, to Abraham Lincoln and Lyman Trumbull, and neither of them dared to sign that petition, to give me the right to testify in a court of justice! ('Hear, hear.') In the State of Illinois, they tax the colored people for every conceivable purpose. They tax the negro's property to support schools for the education of the white man's children, but the colored people are not permitted to enjoy any of the benefits resulting from that taxation. We are compelled to impose upon ourselves additional taxes, in order to educate our children. The State lays its iron hand upon the negro, holds him down, and puts the other hand into his pocket and steals his hard earnings, to educate the children of white men: and if we sent our children to school, Abraham Lincoln would kick them out, in the name of Republicanism and anti-slavery!
I have, then, something to say against the anti-slavery character of the Republican party. Not only are the Republicans of Illinois on the side of slavery, and against the rights of the negro, but even some of the prominent Republicans of Massachusetts are not acceptable anti-slavery men in that regard. In the Senate of the United States, some of your Senators from the New England States take special pains to make concessions to the Slave Power, by saying that they are not in favor of bringing about negro equality; just as Abraham Lincoln did down in Ohio two years ago. When he went there to stump that State, the colored people were agitating the question of suffrage in that State. The Ohio Statesman, a paper published in Columbus, asserted, on the morning of the day that Mr. Lincoln made his speech, that he was in favor of negro equality; and Mr. Lincoln took pains at that time to deny the allegation, by saying that he was not in favor of bringing about the equality of the negro race; that he did not believe in making them voters, in placing them in the jury-box, or in ever bringing about the political equality of the races. He said that so long as they lived here, there must be an inferior and superior position, and that he was, as much as anybody else, in favor of assigning to white men the superior position. There is a great deal of talk in this country about the superiority of the white race. We often hear, from this very platform, praise of the Saxon race. Now, I want to put this question to those who deny the equal manhood of the negro: What peculiar trait of character do the white men of
<c06>
this country possess, as a mark of superiority, either morally or mentally, that is not also manifested by the black man, under similar circumstances? ('Hear, hear.') You may take down the white and black part of the social and political, structure, stone by stone, and in all the relations of life, where the exercise of his moral and intellectual functions is not restricted by positive law, or by the aroitrary restraints of society, you will find the negro the equal of the white man, in all the elements of head and heart. Of course, no one pretends that all men are mentally equal, or morally equal, any more than we do that all men are of the same weight, or equal in physical endowments. Here in this country, under the most favorable circumstances, we have idiots and fools, some in the lunatic asylum, and others, in the high places of government, who essay to be statesmen, who ought to be there. (Laughter.) You say to the German, the Hungarian, the Irishman, as soon as he lands here, 'Go out on the highway of the world's progress, and compete with me, if you can, in the race for empire and dominion.' You throw no fetters upon that ever-restless sea of energies that chafes our shores, saying, 'Thus far shalt thou go, but no further.' No, with all that magnanimity which must be ever-present in the true soul, you say to the foreigner, whose liberty has been cloven down upon some disastrous European battle-field, whose fortune has been wrecked and lost amid the storms of adversity abroad, 'Come here and better your condition, if you can!' I remember, that, a few years ago, when a Hungarian refugee—not an American citizen—he had only declared his intention to become one—was arrested in the harbor of Smyrna, for an offence against the Austrian government, Capt. Ingraham, of the American war-ship St. Louis, demanded, in the name of the Federal Government, his instant release, and, under the cover of her guns, the shackles of Austrian bondage melted from his limbs, and Martin Kozta walked the deck of that vessel a free man, as proud of his adopted country as we were of the gallant deed. That poor Hungarian, in the hour of his misfortune, could look at the American flag, as it gleamed in the sunlight of the Austrian sky, and as he looked at its stars, that symbolized a constellation of Republican States, he could feel all the poetic inspiration of Halleck, when he sang,—
'Flag of the seas! on Ocean's wave
Thy stars shall glitter o'er the brave!
When death, careering on the gale,
Sweeps darkly 'round the bellied sail,
And frighted waves rush wildly back
Before the broadside's reeling rack,
The dying wanderer of the sea,
Shall look at once to heaven and thee,
And smile to see thy splendors fly,
In triumph o'er his closing eye.'
But no colored man can feel any of this inspiration. We are denied all participation in the government; we remember that that flag only covers us as slaves, and that our liberties are only respected and our rights only secured to us, when, escaping from the beak of the American eagle, we can nestle in the shaggy mane of the British lion; and, feeling this, we can feel no inspiration when we look at the American flag.
But I was speaking in reference to the gratuitous concessions of some of our Republican leaders. Some three or four months ago, a bill was under consideration in the Senate of the United States for the purpose of establishing a school for the education of free colored children in the District of Columbia. The matter created some discussion in the Senate, and, under the lash of Senator Mason, and other slave-drivers of the South, your own Senator, Mr. Wilson, 'caved in' on this question, and admitted, in the presence of the Senate, and with all Massachusetts to read his words, that the negro was inferior. ('Hear, hear.') Now, I do not believe that the negro is inferior. Man's ability wholly depends upon surrounding circumstances. You may take all of those races that have risen from the lowest estate of degradation to the highest eminence of intellectual and moral splendor, and you will discover that no race has ever yet been able, by any internal power and will of its own, to lift itself into respectability, without contact with other civilized tribes. Rome served as the seaffolding for the erection of the tribes of Western Europe into that huge political constellation whose drum-beats follow the sun round the world. When Julius Caesar landed in Britain, he found the ancestors of this boasted English race a miserable set of barbarians, bowing down to stocks and stones, and painting their bodies in fantastic colors. They were, carried to Rome by the soldiers of Caesar, and sold in the streets for five dollars; and so thoroughly brutalized were they, that Cicero, the great Roman orator, said that the meanest slaves in Rome came from Great Britain; and, writing to his friend Atticus, he advised him not to buy the worthless wretches. (Applause.) Emerson says that it took many generations to trim and comb and perfume the first boat-load of Norse pirates into royal highnesses and most noble knights of the garter; and yet, every spark and ornament of regal splendor dates back to the twenty thousand thieves that landed at Hastings. You will find, after that, I think, that there is no truth in the assertion, that the negro is inferior.
The men who justify slavery upon the assumed inferiority of the negro race, are very slow to admit these facts. They are just as tardy in admitting that the remains of ancient grandeur, which have been exhumed from beneath the accumulated dust of forty centuries, were wrought by the ingenuity and skill of the negro race, are the Saxon was known in history. We are informed that the sceptre of the world passed from the eclored to the white race at the fall of Babylon. I know ethnological writers tell us we do not look like the Egyptian. They dig up an Egyptian mummey, that has been dead and buried three thousand years, that once tripped 'the light fantastic toe' amid the gilded halls of the Pharaohs, over whose grave the storms of thirty or forty centuries have swept, and because it don't look just like a Mississippi negro of to-day, set it down that there is a difference of species between them! (Laughter.) I admit that centuries of oppression, under a vertical sun, may have worked marvellous changes, not only in the physical, but in the intellectual characteristic of the races-I know it has. All other races are permitted to travel over the wide field of history, and pluck the flowers that blossom there,—to gleam up the heroes.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The free States an the guardians and essential supports of slavery. "We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in siding other States, in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blearing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving-of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.' —WILLIAM ELLERY CHANMING. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
philosophers, sages and poets, and put them into a galaxy of brilliant genius, and claim all the credit to themselves; but if a black man attempts to do so, he is met at the threshold by the objection, 'You have no ancestry behind you.ï¿½
Now, friends, I am proud of the negro race, and I thank God to-day that there does not course in my veins a single drop of Saxon blood. (Applause.) The blood that I boast was immortalized in Scotlandï¿½s song and story at a time when the Saxon was wearing an iron collar, with the name of his Norman master written thereon. (Applause.) There was never such a subjugated race in the world as were the Saxons in the days of William the Conqueror. So thoroughly humbled and degraded were they, that Macaulay says it was considered as disgraceful for a Norman to marry a Saxon as it is now for a white person to marry a negro. I am proud of the negro race. I think that 'negro' looks just as well on paper, and sounds just as sweetly to the ear, as 'Saxon' and I believe that by education, by wealth, by religion, the negro may make that name as honorable as ever was that of 'Saxon,' while the Saxon, by the practice of the opposite vices, may drag himself down as low as the negro.
I believe that man, like certain productions of the vegetable kingdom, will grow better in some soils then in others. God has given us a goodly land in which to build up an empire of thought; it ought also to be an empire of freedom. The anti-slavery men of the country intend to make this truly 'the land of the free and the home of the brave,' by coming to such meetings as these on gala days. When Boston conservatism goes down to the Music Hall to air itself in Everett's lying eulogy, we mean to come here and criticise the various political parties, in order to rescue this day from priestly cant and from political mockery.
Oh, no, friends; we colored men may well feel proud of our ancestors. Why, we were held in very high esteem by the ancient Greeks. There is a Grecian fable that we descended from the gods. Virgil says that Jupiter, in his aerial chariot, sailing through the skies, went so near the sun that it burnt his face black; and on that hypothesis they account for the existence of the colored race! The father of Grecian poetry, standing away back in the gray dawn of history, has struck some noble lines from his lyre, in praise of our ancestors of the sunny clime:-
'The sire of Gods, and all the ethereal train 
On the warm limits of the farthest main. 
Now mix with mortals, nor disdain to grace 
The feast of Ethiopia's blameless race.'
Friends, I have no idea that those men who talk about the inferiority of the negro race really believe it. They think it is absolutely necessary, for the success of their party, to cater to the dark spirit of slavery. But, after, all, I my say that the negro is a man, and has all the elements of manhood, like other men; and, by the way, I think that, in this country, he has the highest element of manhood. Certainly he has developed here its highest element. I do not believe that the highest element of manhood is the ability to fight. If he is the noblest man who can do the most fighting, then you ought to elect John C. Hecnan, the 'Benecia Boy,' as President of the United States. If muscle is evidence of the highest manhood, you will find any of the 'short boys' of New York, any of the 'plug-uglies' and ugly plugs (laughter) of Tammany Hall, better qualified to be President of the United States than Abraham Lincoln. The negro is emphatically a Christian man; patient under long suffering, as ready to forgive an injury as the Saxon is to inflict one; he would rather 'bear the ills he has, than fly to others that he knows not of.' (Applause.) You may dwarf his manhood by the iron of bondage, you may dry up the fountain of his intellectual life, but you can never destroy his faith in God, and the ultimate triumph of his almighty purpose. Over a sea of blood and tears, he catches, in every lull of the midnight storm that breaks around him, the music of that 'still, small voice,' that bids him 'Hope on, hope ever!' He constitutes the very oxygen of civilization, potent in that arterial action that imparts life and health to the permanent and successful achievements of the human race. Therefore, I do not like these gratuitous admissions on the part of men who go to Congress from New England with an anti-slavery purpose in their hearts.
But, my friends, I must bring my remarks to a close; and I say, that in view of the fact that the influence of slavery is dominant in every department of the government, I would rather curse than bless the hour that marked the fatal epoch in American history, when we threw off the yoke of a decent despotism, to become, in turn, the slaves of a mean and arrogant Democracy. Mark Antony said over the dead body of the old Roman, 'I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.' (Applause.) Four million of my countrymen in chains to-day, ground between these two huge lies,-like the upper and the nether millstone,-the Constitution of the United States and the Fourth of July, send me to this platform to bury the memories of that hour that witnessed the separation of these colonies from the mother country; for had we remained linked to her by political and social ties, we should inevitably have marched to freedom and equality, as she has done. England stands to-day with the trophies of a thousand years clustering around her head, as young and as vigorous in all the elements that promise future physical and intellectual development, as when, upon the fields of Cressy and Agincourt, her sons shattered, as with an iron mace, the embattled legions of France. She stands to-day, and has stood, for a quarter of a century, upon the side of freedom; while here in Republican America, we have, for the last eighty-three years, been constantly tending towards a despotism baser and blacker than any thing that history has yet recorded. I say, then, I would rather curse than bless the day that marked the separation. Hunkerism, every where, as I said before, will go out to-day to be glorified in the sunlight of lying eulogy poured upon the dead fathers, whose faithlessness to every principle of freedom will yet cause their names to become a hissing and a byword to the ages yet to come. 'Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants, thereof,' is the inscription upon the hell that hangs in 'Independence Hall,' in Philadelphia; but the old bell, a more modest than the people, cracked the first time it was rung, because it had not brass enough to tell the lie again;! (Laughter and loud applause.) 
Hypocrisy is not a growth peculiar to American soil, but it has reached its most hateful development here. American slavery, the worst form of despotism ever imposed upon any people, is endorsed by Church and State as a great missionary institution. Eighty-four years ago to-day, your fathers, true to the impulses that brought them from the father land, spoke this nation into existence, breathed into it the breath of life, by asserting the selfhood of every human being. They had descended from men who, for two hundred years, had battled for freedom of conscience against the despotism of the bloody Stuarts; and when, in 1765, the British government passed the Stamp Act, and attempted to enforce it by British bayonets, against the will and wishes of the American people, the Roundhead and the Cavalier went up to Bunker Hill, and entered their bleeding protest against George the Third, 'by the Grace of God.' In this, I say, they were true to their manly impulses. They declared that 'all men are created equal'; and brave men from beyond the Rhine, and from the vine-clad hills of France, viewing from a distance that sublime struggle for the establishment of a free government, threw themselves at once into the conflict, and by their noble devotion to our cause, gave their names to history as a part of the glories of the Republic. But what did the fathers do to justify the expectations of these gallant strangers? Let four millions of slaves in our land answer the question.! The liberty that Lafayette fought for, our fathers, in an hour of compromise,
<c02>
forgot, and went into a convention and sold the liberty of the black man, in order to form this guilty 'covenant with death and agreement with hell'; and I say, that so long as that compromise exists, we are bound to stand outside the government, and not commit ourselves to the dark spirit of slavery and to the political expediency of the hour.
The Constitution of the United States is the Janus of the American Capitol, looking both ways, assuming any color, according as we turn the political kaleidoscope. This is the one redeeming feature in it-that we cannot understand its carefully concealed purpose without the aid of contemporary history. Goethe says that no work is complete, unless it involves some mystery. I believe that the Constitution, in that respect, may be tortured into a virtuous instrument. It does involve a great mystery. But, as anti-slavery men, seeking the overthrow of slavery in the shortest possible way, we have to deal with the facts of the government as the fathers made it and construed it, while they lived. I am willing, for one, to accept the unbroken testimony of three-quarters of a century against the anti-slavery character of the American, Constitution, and not dodge behind its equivocal phrases for the purpose of cheating the slaveholder, and saving the memory of our dishonest and time-serving fathers from the gibbet of impartial history. Achilles, the hero of the Illiad, is introduced by Homer as saying these memorable words: 'I detest, as the very gates of hell, the wretch who has the baseness to say one thing, and mean another.' I do not believe that the fathers wrote that Constitution, intending it to serve the purposes of freedom, and then turned round and construed it on the side of despotism and slavery. If they did, then were they a mean set of contemptible hypocrites, and deserving of the scathing denunciation of every friend of humanity. I do not believe it.
My friends, you may think this is a little radical, and you may, on this account, be unwilling to receive some of the other truths that I have been trying to impress upon you. There is some danger of anti-slavery men saying too much. I remember an anecdote that illustrates this very well. In a little town in the State of New York, there lived a very pious family,-a father and mother, and two children, a son and daughter. They all belonged to the village church, except the son. He was rather a wild young man; but during a revival of religion in the village, he was induced by his parents to make application to the church for admission to membership. The deacon was somewhat of an old fogy, and did not believe in receiving him without first putting him through the catechism, to find out what his opinions were in regard to religion. So the first question he thought he would put to him was this: 'Do you believe that Jonah was swallowed by the whale, and that he was three days and three nights in the whale's belly?' 'Does father believe that?' asked the young man. 'Yes,' said the deacon. 'And mother, too?" 'Yes.' And the church, too?' 'Yes.' 'Well,' says he, 'I believe it.' 'Well, sir, do you believe that Daniel was thrown into the lion's den. and that those ferocious lions refused to eat Daniel, but as soon as his accusers were thrown in, they devoured them? ' 'Does father believe it?' 'Yes,' 'And mother?' ï¿½Yes.' 'And the church?' 'Yes.' 'Well, I believe it, then.' 'Well,' says the deacon, 'do you believe that Shadrach, Meshech and Abednego were thrown into a fiery furnace, heated seven times hotter than was necessary, and that those Hebrew children passed through the flames, and came out without so much as the smell of fire upon their garments?ï¿½ 'Does the church believe it?' ' Yes.' 'And father, too?' 'Yes,' 'And mother?' 'Yes.' 'Well,' says he, 'I'll be d-d if I believe it, nor the fish story either!' (Loud laughter.) You see, friends, there is danger of saying too much!
But what shall I say, in closing my imperfect remarks? I know very well how imperfectly I have said my say. What can I say, then, as a black man, other than to thank the men and the women of New England who have so nobly stood by the rights and liberties of my unfortunate race during these long ears of suffering and sorrow, feeling, as their only compensation, that every wrong and every outrage which we suffer
'In the hot conflict of the right, shall be 
A token and a pledge of victory'?
I know that, as anti-slavery men, occupying the high vantage ground of right, entering our earnest protest against government and church, there are many difficulties yet to be overcome before men shall fully realize the grandeur of our position. As our dear good friend, GERRIT SMITH, has said, 'The cause is too sublime, in its all-embracing purpose, for the hypocrisy and cowardice of the age.' But the martyr spirit that inaugurated this movement to free a deeply wronged and injured people is not dead. As Romeo says,-
'Beauty's ensign yet 
Is crimson in thy lips, and in thy cheeks,
And Death's pale flag is not advanced there.'
What an army of brave men the moral and political, necessities of twenty-five years ago pushed upon this platform to defond, with more than Spartan valor, this last Thermopylae of the new world! Then it was that our friend Mr. GARRISON could, with inspiration not of earth, brave a Boston mob, in defence of his convictions of right, in words of consuming fire for the dastardly, mean and craven cowards that thirsted for his blood. THEODORE D. WELD, then in the freshness of youth, full of hope in ultimate success his lips touched with a live coal from the altar of God, such as inspired the Hebrew prophet, plead like an angel, trumpet-tongued, against the deep damnation of human slavery. Then it was that the noble BERIAH GREEN, with a logic as strong as the concatenations of an almighty purpose, was preaching himself out of every pulpit in New England. Then it was that ELIJAH P. LOVEJOY, whose mantle now covers a noble brother, (applause,) gave to the cause the printed sheet and the spoken word within the very sight of the fortress of the evil doer. These were brave men. Then, too, it was that that other good friend, WENDELL PHILLIPS, brought to the Anti-Slavery platform the rare gifts of scholarly culture and a magnificent rhetoric, to meet the rounded periods of New-England's hunkerism in Faneuil Hall. Then it was that such men as QUINCY and HOVEY and ELLIS GRAY LORING placed themselves upon the Anti-Slavery platform, as offerings upon the altar of Freedom. Oh, it costs men something to take such a stand! The men who go out into the desert of old institutions, and attempt to tear down the rotten customs of society clothed in purple and fine linen, will find the 'property and standing' and gilded respectability of the age passing them by on the other side. As James Russell Lowell has sung-
'Then to side with Truth is noble, when we share her wretched crust, 
Ere her cause bring fame and profit, and 'tis prosperous to be just; 
Then it is the brave man chooses, while the coward stands aside,
Doubting in his abject spirit till his Lord is crucified,
And the multitude make virtue of the faith they had denied.'
At that time, colored men had not demonstrated to the American people any of that ability which has since cropped out and developed itself, as a living testimony against the argument of the natural inferiority of the colored race. Many who have since added fresh trophies to American oratory were then in their chains. HENRY HIGHLAND GARNETT had scarcely begun to give an earnest of that splendid ability which has since manifested itself in the orator and the gentleman; the trumpet-notes of my namesake FREEDERICK DOUGLASS, had not yet stirred the Intellectual sea of two continents to the enormities of this country; neither had there flashed over the Bay State the fiery and impetuous eloquence of CHARLES LENOX REMOND. Great changes have bean wrought in the
<c03>
character of this anti-slavery work in thirty years. ALVAN STEWART is dead; JAMES G. BIRNEY is dead; ELIJAH P. LOVRJOY sleeps in a martyr's grave on the banks of the father of waters; ELLIS GRAY LORING is dead; THEODORR PARKER is dead. All these, and many other noble workers, have gone; as Whittier says-
'They diedï¿½-their brave hearts breaking slow,-
But, self-forgetful to the last,
In words of cheer and bugle-glow,
'Their breath upon the darkness passed.'
But, friends, while the busy fingers of our memories are gathering flowers to bestrew the graves of the sainted dead, let us not forget one other name-one other of those 'immortal names, that are not born to die.' We are standing to-day by the fresh-made grave of JOHN BROWN. (Applause.) He has been gathered to his Father's bosom from a Virginia scaffold. Lamartine, the great French orator, said once that Wilberforce went up to Heaven with, a million of broken fetters in his hand, as evidence of a life well spent. JOHN BROWN has gone to join the glorious company of 'the just made perfect' in the eternal adoration of the living God, bearing in his right hand the history of an earnest effort to break four millions of fetters, and 'proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.' (Loud and prolonged applause.)
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the Declaration of Independence, to commemorate which this day has been set apart as holy, has been recognized as the logica1 consequence of the first battle of Concord. I, presume it is fresh in all your memories that we have had, within the last year, a second battle of Concord-a battle in which the enemies of freedom were routed as gallantly as they were eighty-five years ago, last April. I am happy to say, that we have the hero of that battle here to-day, and I understand that he has consented to address you. I have the pleasure of introducing to you Mr. FRANK B. SANRORN, of Concord.
SPEECH OF FRANK B. SANBORN. 
Mr. SANBORN was heartily cheered as he came forward upon the platform. He said:-
MR.PRESIDENT,-You do me altogether too much honor to call me the hero of the Concord fight. It reminds me of a story I once heard of a boy who had; the misfortune to have an intemperate father. One day, he looked out of the door, and saw his father coming home, led by two neighbors. He ran back to his mother, and said, 'Look, mother, look! Here comes father, leading home two men!' (Laughter.)! My own position, sir, in the Concord fight, to which you allude, was so compulsory in its character, that I really cannot agree that I am to be considered, in any sense, the hero of it. 
THE PRESIDENT. I think we must all admit that Mr. Sanborn conquered Mr. Mason and the Senate of the United States. The Americans were driven down the other side of Bunker Hill; but we have always considered that a victory on our side.
Mr. SANHORN continued. If I were an orator-which I am not-I should complain that your President had asked me to speak, and to follow the eloquent man who has just left the stand; for any eloquence of mine, if I had it, must be as nothing, compared with the feeblest accents which fall from lips like his. Every word that falls, on this day, from the lips of one of that race whom we so shamefully hold in bondage, seems to me the most impressive eloquence, and the most scorching sarcasm. What can be more terrible for us, who are not hypocrites, or who, at least, try not to be hypocrites, than to think that, eighty-four years ago to-day, our fathers honestly announced what they hoped to be the programme of a new nation, advancing on the career of liberty, and that, after this time, which is counted but the life of two generations of men, we see such a state of things as exists to-day! By long custom, we become wonted to anything; and we have been so habituated to the miseries and the degradations of the system of slavery, that it needs some frightful event to bring them before us in all their horrors. When I reflect, Mr. President, that Mr. Douglass, with every power, every talent, which, had he been of our own race, would have secured him a prominent position, not only among the citizens, but among the rulers of this country, and remember that, instead of this, in his adopted State-a State which he earned by his heroic escape from slavery-he has not a single political right-when I reflect on this, it seems to me that our, whole nation, our whole system of society, is not worth a straw, when this frightful truth is thrown in the balance against it: because our Union was formed for nothing else, ultimately, than to produce that equality of rights which our fathers hoped for, though they could not then establish, nor, perhaps, fully understand. But when to this deprivation of political rights, we add the thousand miseries of slavery, actual slavery, which can be understood by none except the race who are actually enslaved, words entirely fail-they must fail-any one to approach the magnitude of the subject. It is for that reason that I have seldom attended meetings like this. It irks me, it cuts me to the soul, to hear this matter treated merely with words-this frightful subject served up with the sauce of rhetoric. It is not to my taste. I like to see something done, not to hear something spoken; and, admiring as I do, and praising as I am proud to do, the leaders in this movement, who for thirty years, in the face of all opposition, have carried the doctrines of the anti-slavery cause to their present partial establishment in the hearts of the people, I still must think that there is a better way. I thought so a year ago, and a year ago I had not seen the insurrection of Harper's Ferry. The events of the last year teach me, what I knew before, that there is a better way to reach this subject, than to address any crowd, however large. We waste our strength and our breath in the endeavor to convince people who never can be convinced except by the force of necessity. Therefore I have preferred to do what little I could towards removing this great curse in another way.
I see, or think I see, where the system is weak. John Brown's experience, at Harper's Ferry shows me where the system is weak. All the anti-slavery orators that have spoken from this or any other platform, all the Republican orators that have wasted the time of the nation, in Congress or out of it, have done nothing, compared with the famous success of those six weeks of John Brown in Virginia, simply because, as the priest, in the old sacrifices when he lifted his axe to smite the victim, knew where the fatal point was, John Brown knew where he must strike his blow to kill this monster forever. How many insurrections like that at Harper's Ferry do you suppose it would take to overthrow the system of slavery? Perhaps a great many. But I will tell you what another would do. Another insurrection like that would make it forever impossible that there should be any Republican party holding the position which it now holds, of timid vacillation between the arrogant claims of the South and the demands of the aroused sentiment of the North. Another insurrection would make that impossible; or, rather, it would create a Republican party at the South. It would create there a party, fearful lest this matter be brought to the issue which some of the Southern orators seem to urge on. It seems to me, therefore, that it is the duty of every person who thinks, as I do, that this country is held back, forever held back, in its noble career, by American slavery, to attempt the overthrow of that system by the nearest way. That way, to me, is the encouragement of the escape of fugitive slaves, when that is the best way, and the encouragement of their rising in rebellion, when that is the best way.
What do we hear to-day, Mr. President, from the ocean side of the ocean? The most important news-
<c04>
the only news that we read-is that which comes from the island of Sicily. And what do we see there? We see a noble Italian attempting for his own people, who are merely stripped of their political rights, what John Brown attempted for another race, held down in the most galling bondage. Now, Mr. President, I studied logic at college, and though I know little about it, I can perceive a logical connection between these two movements. I can perceive no difference whatever between the movement of Garibaldi in Sicily and the movement of John Brown in Virginia, except that the movement instituted by Capt. Brown was far nobler, looked to far higher results, and therefore calls more profoundly on our sympathy.
This, no doubt, seems extreme to many who hear me. It has been my conviction for years. And while I advocate this most extreme course, it seems to me that the results of such a course, if carried out, would be far less disastrous than the natural result of things as they move on now. It seems to me that we are in the last days of national existence; that we are in that stage of corruption which has been witnessed in this and that State, and from which the mind of the reader of history shrinks back with horror. We seem to have lost all public virtue; we seem to be fast losing all private virtue, simply because this monstrous iniquity and hypocrisy clings to us so firmly. It is my belief, before Heaven, that our safety from the most utter and wretched destruction which ever befel a nation lies in immediate abolition. And by 'immediate abolition,' I do not mean that it shall take place to-day or to-morrow, but that the measures for its abolition shall now be commenced, and carried on as the prudence of men and the necessity of things shall direct. As long as we set our faces the other way, as long as the whole tone of every political party in the country is in favor of the existence of slavery, I see nothing before us but ultimate ruin; and loving America as I do, with all the patriotism that it is possible for any one to feel, if there be no other, no higher interests involved, than simply the welfare of my country, if all humanity were not interested in this question, I should say, By insurrection, by purchase, by any means, let slavery be terminated; otherwise, we are ruined!
It seems to me, Mr. President, that no one can read the proceedings of the last one or two months in Congress and in political conventions, without, if he has not before, accepting-almost accepting-the doctrine of the 'total depravity' of mankind. When were such infamous doctrines ever maintained before? and when were they ever maintained in such infamous language? It seems as if, with our public and private virtue, we were fast losing our mental power; and the wickedness of the sentiments advanced, by Democratic and even by Republican orators, is only equalled by the meanness of their style. They talk to us in the language of the bar-room, in the language of idiocy. There is not a respectable argument, not a respectable joke, even, in all these speeches. It is like the maudlin talk of the worst of men, in their drunkenness. And this it is which, while it fills me with horror, almost takes away hope. It seems to me that we are losing every thing which could give us greatness as a nation, greatness as a community. It is only when I turn to that despised race, one of whom has just addressed you, or when I notice the career of those few persons who fully understand, as John Brown did, the immensity of this question, that I feel my hope revive; and when I see in a nation like this, with thirty millions of people, even a single family like that of John Brown, who from the cradle have known no principle, no ambition, no love, except this high devotion to the noblest of causes, it seems to me that me must not yet despair of the Republic. But if this year and its lesson shall pass by, if this costly sacrifice shall have been made, and the people not be aroused, if the year 1861 shall see us in the same position in which the year 1859 left us, then I, for one, shall feel like abandoning this last hope of Democracy, and shall wish to give my allegiance to that old and respectable oligarchy from which, eighty-four years ago, we separated ourselves. That is my feeling to-day; it is my constant feeling. We are seeing the best, the only honest experiment at Democracy ruined before our eyes; and if it does not last through its first century, when can we expect it to be again successfully tried?
But this is all, perhaps, the excited feeling of the moment. It is true, that there is much to be said on the other side. It is true that many unfortunate circumstances, independent of the baseness of men, have; led us into our present position. I must say, that while I sympathize with the feeling which Mr. Douglass has expressed about Mr. Lincoln and the party which he represents, I have some hope from the success of that party in the coming election, which I believe is now assured. I do not know what abyss of corruption may have been prepared for the reception of this new President and his new administration, I do not know how for the base doctrines which guide the leaders of the Republican party have been infused even into their hearts, and I do not know how far the people, the source of all power, are corrupted. I hope that, after the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln on the fourth of March, we shall see the wheels of the Administration reversed in their course; that we shall see some stop put to our present lamentable decline. That is my present hope for freedom. Beyond that, deeper than that, because always working, lies the faith which I have in the few men in the country who are possessed of the magnitude of the issue, and my faith in that Eternal Power who, though He destroys our hopes, though He builds and unbuilds nations, always, in all His changes, has seemed to carry forward the advancement of mankind.
I have already occupied too long-longer far than I intended-your time, and claimed your attention. As I said at the beginning, I am no orator; it is always with pain that I find myself called upon to speak. My vocation, if I have any in this matter, is to ACT; and if by what I have said, I shall have induced a single person to reflect more on this particular mode of action which I have suggested, I shall feel some satisfaction in having so long trespassed upon your patience. (Applause.) 
Mr. DOUGLASS-I wish in justification of myself to make a brief explanation, in regard to something that has transpired since I took my seat. I understand that a distinguished Senator from Massachusetts is now in the audience-the Hon. HENRY WILSON-and that he, sharing largely in the prejudices of that class of Republicans and Democrats in Illinois, who think that a colored man cannot tell the truth, has said that my statement in regard to Mr. Lincoln's having introduced into Congress a fugitive slave bill for the District of Columbia was a lie. It was introduced on the 10th day of January, 1849. See Congressional Globe, Appendix, second session 30th Congress, page 212:-
'Section .5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and required to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners all fugitive slaves escaping into said District.
I think this is all I need say in reference to that. (Applause.) 
The President was about announcing another speaker, 'when Senator WILSON was observed advancing towards the platform, which was at once yielded to him, and when the applause which greeted his coming had subsided, he addressed the audience, substantially as follows:-
SPEECH-OF HON. HENRY WILSON, 
Mr. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMAN,-I came here to-day, as I often do, to listen to the words of men whose devotion to a proscribed and hunted race has ever won my respect and my admiration; and although they deem it to be their duty to criticize my acts and the acts of those with whom I associate, I
<c05>
have never in any place or on any occasion uttered a word which reflected upon their motives. The gentleman to whose eloquence I have just listened with admiration, has seen fit to make a personal allusion to me in regard to a fact stated, and I feel it my duty here and now to put that matter right. I assert that the statement which he made did not and does not convey the truth to this audience. The fact is that eleven years ago, in that age of compromises and concessions, Mr. Lincoln introduced a bill into Congress to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, with the assent of the people. Or rather Mr. Lincoln rose in his place and asked leave to introduce a bill to abolish slavery and the slave trade in the District of Columbia, and in order to aid in that movement of humanity, he made in that bill the constitutional provision in reference to the return of fugitives coming into that District. If the gentleman had stated the whole truth, I should have been content. But, sir, it seems to me unnecessary, in the presence of the anti-slavery men of Massachusetts, to refer with bitterness to the sets of a public man eleven years ago, who in advance of his age and time asked leave to introduce into the Congress of the United States a bill to make the District free territory, and abolish that odious and infamous slave trade. Mr. Lincoln was born in Kentucky, a slave State, and went to Illinois, and living in a portion of that State which did not entertain the sentiments of this State, and with a constituency living under what he called the Black Laws of Illinois, he went into Congress and proposed to make the District of Columbia free. I think that he should be honored for that and not misrepresented. (Applause.)
As for the remarks of the gentleman against myself, I will say that I have been an anti-slavery man since 1836. It is all the politics I ever had or ever expect to have. To carry out those views I have acted both with and against all parties, just wherever I could strike the heaviest blow against slavery and its power;; and so far as the Republican party carries the flag of opposition to slavery, I am with it; and when it throws by the flag, I shall leave the party, and go on, as I have from other parties. The gentleman has referred critically to me. I would not charge him with intentional unkindness. No doubt he was sincere. He is pleading for a proscribed race, and I bid him God speed in his work. I give him, however, one word of advice. When he criticises the men who are fighting the battles of freedom in this country, I ask him to do them justice.
A bill was before Congress to appropriate $25,000 for education in the District of Columbia, for the poor children, and the Republican Senators moved to include colored children. We met with nothing in the Senate but sneers and remonstrances. I felt it to be my duty to advocate that policy of educating the poor colored children of Washington, and in doing it, I proudly referred to the condition of the colored men of my own State, who have the right of suffrage, of education, and nearly every right I have. A question was put to me by a Senator, whether I believed that the colored men of this country were equal mentally to the white race. I answered no; but there were reasons why they are not. I asked him if it was any reason why a man should be wronged because he was not equal with another. My speeches were in consonance with the idea which I have always carried out, that we have no right to wrong others because they are not our equals. I know that because a man is not my equal physically and intellectually, I owe him a duty to defend him in all the rights which I claim for myself. I have ever denounced the idea that any can wrong or oppress a race on account of inferiority. I felt it unkind to hold me up before a Massachusetts audience as under the dictation of men that I am not accustomed to receive dictation from. Every vote of mine, every word, is open to criticism. All I ask is that I shall have meted out to me what I mete out to you-exact justice-that is all I ask.
I said that I believed in the equality of all men before the law-that is my doctrine. The Republican party believes slavery to be a moral, political and social evil. It has pronounced against human slavery everywhere. It recognizes slavery as a local institution, which Congress may not touch in the States where it exists; but claims the power to keep slavery out of the Territories, knowing that in time it will give us such an overwhelming power as to enable us to check slavery over all the continent. If it fails in 1860, it will be because the country is not ripe enough for it. If it succeeds, it will overthrow the influence of slavery in the government. The Republican party leaves slavery in the South to be dealt with by the people of the South, whenever we can change the heart and judgment and conscience of the people of those States.
This is the Republican position. Place a President it the chair opposed to slavery anywhere and everywhere, but recognizing the rights of the States-carry the government, change the Senate, the Supreme Court, and put the federal government against human slavery and slave influence in America. We leave it then in the States, shorn of its political power. Politicians will no longer worship slavery, because it does not give them control of the country. Leave it open to the influence of Christianity; leave it to be pressed upon by every good influence. How long do you suppose it will live when you take the power of this government from it, and leave it to the legitimate influences of a humane and Christian civilization?
When you undertake to arraign men who, in the halls of Congress, before dominating majorities, in a city where public sentiment is against them, where the sneer and profane word meet them at every step in the streets, are true to the right, I ask you when you deal with such men that you shall do them justice, and that if they have done good deeds and brave deeds, that you say it. And when they make mistakes, if they do so, as men who love the cause of freedom, do not misinterpret them or misrepresent them.
Gentlemen, I do not agree with you in many things. I differ with you in regard to political action, concerning the Constitution and the Union. I agree with you in one thing,-in a deep and profound love of liberty, and a hatred of human slavery. For quarter of a century, when I could do so, I have attended your meetings, and have never uttered one word of unkindness against you, although you know that I differ with you concerning the Union, the Constitution and the mode of action.
How was it at the last session of Congress? John Brown had just been executed. There was great hostility manifested on all hands to all men who are opposed to slavery. The very first day we were put on trial before the country. We were upbraided as traitors. We saw that the great object of our opponents was to create a panic in the country. We stood coldly and calmly, and heard their denunciations. We knew that we were right, and that our time would come. It did come. For the last four months, the aggressive steps of slavery have been resisted by the Republican party. We have seen the chiefs of slavery quail. We have seen the haughty flag of Slave Democracy shivered to fragments, and there never was an hour in the history of the country when anti-slavery men had so much to hope for. We have organized a party to take the government out of the hands of the Slave Power. We would leave the country open to the healing influences of truth and justice and right; and I say to men who cherish gloomy thoughts, that now, above all hours, is the hour of hope for the country.
The anti-slavery movement was begun twenty-five years ago, amid opposition and persecution, by a despised few. To-day, the country is torn by the irrepressible conflict, and men beyond Mason and Dixon's line are coming to aid the cause. It takes time to accomplish the noblest objects. The sentiments of a great nation are not to be changed in a day nor an hour. The cause is going onward, and, through or 
<c06>
over parties, we are marching on to certain success, (Applause.) Even what our friend who spoke here this morning called the black code of Illinois, will yet crumble before this march of progress. The battle is fought by the Republican party on the trust and strongest ground, on legal and constitutional grounds. When it wins against slavery extension, it wins against everything. When the Slave Power goes down in the national government, it goes down forever. (Great applause.)
Gentlemen, the Republican party is not party of abolition. It is opposed to human slavery everywhere-at home and abroad-in the South, in Cuba and Brazil. But the Republican party recognizes the fact that slavery in America is local-a State institution, existing by the force of State laws, for which the nation is not legally responsible. The Republican party recognizes State rights-it does not assume federal powers not granted in the Constitution. But the Republican party claims the power and <illegible> the duty of excluding slavery from the Territories. It was organized upon that idea. It has engraved upon its flag this great doctrine of Fathers embodies in the Ordinance of 1787. Its mission is to save the vast Territories of the United States to freedom-to bring that Territory into the Union as free States-to overthrow the power of slavery in the government, and put the nation on the side of freedom, and leave slavery in the States to go down under the holy influences of all that is pure and noble in the universe of God.
Mrs. FOSTER. I wish Mr. Wilson would answer one question before he leaves the platform. It is this: Wherein is the Republican platform, on the subject of slavery, better than the Whig platform, when that party when that party made its last effort, and Mr. Wilson left the party because he could not stand on that platform? If he will answer that question, I think we shall all be editied.
SENATOR WILSON. I hope I shall not be kept on the platform answering questions; but if they are put, I shall certainly answer them. (Applause.) The question put to me is-and it is a fair question, and I will meet it fairly-wherein the Republican platform differs from the platform of the Whig party, on which I refused to act? I will state the difference.
The Whig party of Massachusetts, from 1837 to '48, maintained, on the slavery question, the precise position of the Republican party to-day. [A VOICE 'Amen!'] There is an admission. I cooperated with that party during those years, because it professed to be anti-slavery. [ANOTHER VOICE-AMEN!] (Laughter.) How was it with the Whig party of the United States, of which the Whig party of Massachusetts was one branch? The Whig party of the United States never did, as a national party, occupy a position against slavery extension-never! ['Amen!] Its Northern men in Congress were against slavery extension; its Southern men for it, or uncommitted. The party was divided upon that question, and tolerated the difference. In 1848, in the great crisis of the country, when we had obtained, by the peace with Mexico, half a million square miles of free territory, the question arose Shall this territory be continued free, or shall it be slave territory? The Democracy, North and South, went against keeping it free territory. The Southern Whigs were for leaving it open-taking substantially the position of Douglas to-day. The Philadelphia Convention was held. I went there as a member of the Convention. We proposed to the South simply to stand by the Wilmot Proviso, but the National Whig party hurled the doctrine out of the Convention, and trampled it under foot; and when it did so, I took my hat and marched out of the Convention. (Loud applause, and cries of 'Good.')
My friend, (Mrs. Foster,) in measuring the Whig party, measures it, not by the national Whigs, but by the Whigs of this State, and a few other Northern Whigs, who occupied precisely our position to-day.
Now, how stands the Republican party? This party was founded upon the acceptance of the Wilmot Proviso. It separated from the Whig and Democratic parties on that question; it went out because they were false to that principle. It laid its corner-stone upon the doctrine of the power of Congress and the duty of Congress to prohibit slavery in every territory of the United States. (Applause.) Since 1848, when we left the Philadelphia Convention, and, thirteen unknown men, without national reputation, assembled together and made arrangements for calling the Buffalo Convention of that year, were grow up, until we are a million and a half or two million of men, standing upon the fundamental idea that Congress has the power, and that Congress is bound to prohibit slavery in the territories of the United States. That is our position, that is our difference from the Whig party; and I hope my friend now understands the difference.
Mrs. FOSTER. My friend has made quite a speech, but he has not answered my question. I asked him the difference between the Republican platform of to-day and that of the Whig party when he left it. I am talking about platforms, and not about Massachusetts Republicans and Illinois Republicans, or Massachusetts Whigs and Illinois or Carolina Whigs. I know there was a great difference between the Whigs of Massachusetts and the Whigs of the South and the Whigs of Illinois, and that there is a great difference between the Republicans of one place and another; I only ask him this: What is the difference between the Republican platform of to-day and the Whig platform when he left that party? I ask him would he not scout with indignation and loathing the thought that he could have voted for Daniel Webster, after his speech of 1850; and I ask him what is the difference between Daniel Webster in 1850 and Abraham Lincoln in 1860? ('Hear, hear.') I do not care about a long speech; though I do not care how long it is. if he will answer me directly <illegible> two short questions.
SENATOR WILSON.I thought I had answered the question-I am sure that I did so. (Applause.) However, I will endeavor to make myself understood by my friend who has put the question.
In 1848, when the Whig party held its National Convention, it adopted no platform at all; it had no platform and no position. The effort was made to have it take the position of the Wilmot Proviso, and against the extension of slavery; and if it had does so, neither Mr. Allen nor myself, who were in the Convention, nor Mr. Sumner, and others, who were out, would have separated from that party. In 1852, the Whig party did take a position, and it was in favor of the Compromise of 1850, and against the agitation of the slavery question at all, in Congress or out of it. That was the last battle of the Whig party-it perished then.
A VOICE. What was that Compromise?
SENATOR WILSON. I am asked what that Compromise was. It was the organization of the Territories of Utah and New Mexico, without any prohibition of slavery, but with the condition that they might come into the Union slave States or free States, according to their own pleasure.
In 1856, we had our first National Republican Convention. There we pronounced in favor of the power and duty of Congress to prohibit slavery in the Territories. We have gone even beyond that, now, in 1860, for we have put into our platform a doctrine of the boldest character, namely, that slavery cannot exist in the Territories of the United States;-we have assumed the doctrine that a slave cannot treat the soil of the Territories of the United States. That is our position to-day-a position in advance of the Wilmot Proviso. If my friend will study our platform carefully, she will find, that on this subject of opposition to slavery and the Slave Power and slavery extension, the Republican party occupies an impregnable position, and that it does not stand where
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
the Whigs stood when we left them, nor where Daniel Webster stood in 1850, for, in 1850, he made a speech against applying the Wilmot Proviso to Utah and New Mexico. That was the doctrine of his speech. It was a change from the old position of the Whigs of this State, who had held that doctrine for years. They finally abandoned the doctrines, and they died. We took those doctrines, and we have lived; and I hope we shall go into power; and I hope we shall be true to our doctrines, and carry them out. If we are, I believe we shall be sustained by the growing public sentiment of the country, and if we fail to be true to them, we shall perish,-and we ought of perish; and, for myself, I intend to do what I can, in that event, to make the party perish. (Applause.)
Mr. GARRISON said, that as it was time to adjourn, he would not detain the audience, except to say, that if his memory served him, the statement of Senator Wilson, that it is declared in the Republican platform that slavery cannot lawfully exist in the Territories, was incorrect. All that he understood the Republican platform to deny was the extreme Southern doctrine, that slave property, everywhere, is just like any other property, and, therefore, in the territories of the United States, ought to receive the protection of the whole country, ought to be defended by the General Government, with force and arms, if necessary, and that every slaveholder has a right to take his slaves thither, and to hold them as slaves in bondage. He should maintain, until better informed, that between Stephen A. Douglas, with his doctrine of popular sovereignty,' and the doctrine of the Republican party, according to the Chicago platform, there was no essential difference. A copy of the Republican platform, Mr. G. said, had just been put into his hands, which he would examine during the intermission, and when they came together again, give the audience the result thereof.
After the song, 'Sons of Freedom,' the meeting adjourned for an hour.
(Continued next week.)

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JULY 13, 1860.
MR. PHILLIPS AND THE TRIBUNE.
The readers of the Liberator will see, on the first page, an article from the New York Tribune, styled A New Misrepresentation,' being a criticism on an article of mine in a late Liberator.
It will be observed that the Tribune does not give its readers any definite idea my real charge against Mr. Lincoln, or the grounds of it. But, covering that up in equivocal terms, it takes issue on a mere technicality. This could not have been done to save space, since my whole charge (his wishing to extend the Fugitive Slave clause over the District of Columbia, where the Constitution does not carry it) would not have required ten lines.
1st. The Tribune says, 'The charge is based upon the alleged fact that Mr. Lincoln moved to reconsider,' &c.
I never said Mr. Lincoln moved to reconsider, &c. To move is a technical word in parliamentary affairs. Mr. Lincoln made no motion at the time stated. I never charged him with making one. I said, 'Mr. Lincoln, in order to introduce this Bill, requested the House to reconsider,' &c. Perhaps this word is ill-chosen. The reader can judge, for here are the facts:—When Mr. Wentworth, at Lincoln's request, withdrew, for a moment, his motion, (which was to lay on the table the motion to reconsider,) Mr. Lincoln 'said, by courtesy of his colleague, he would say that if the vote on the resolution was reconsidered, he should make an effort to introduce an amendment which he should now read.' The above request to Wentworth, followed by such language, and by two votes for reconsideration, certainly amounts to telling the House that he wished the order reconsidered for the purpose of introducing his amendment, which was the Bill I quoted from. To save space, I used a single word, perhaps too strong a one,—' requested the House.' I still think it a fair one: if the reader thinks otherwise, let it pass. He now knows the exact fact; the value of which he will appreciate more precisely if I add, that when Mr. Lincoln twice voted to get a reconsideration, he voted with Albert G. Brown, Howell Cobb, Rhett and Toombs, against Giddings, Daniel P. King, Horace Mann, Palfrey, Julius Rockwell, Collamer, Wilmot, Wentworth and Greeley. Which side represented Pro-Slavery, and which Anti-Slavery, it will be easy for any one to determine.
The single vote of Mr. Lincoln against laying the whole matter on the table, in which the Tribune takes refuge, was given only to get his own bill the chance of being considered.
2d. The Tribune thinks me unfair in not quoting the whole bill. I quoted all that concerned my accusation, and certainly did not omit the rest from any wish to hurt Mr. Lincoln. The Bill itself is no credit to any man, being one of the poorest and most confused specimens of pro-slavery compromise. It provides, substantially, 1st, that no slave shall be carried out of the District, and no slave shall be brought in, except by United States officials coming from the South, who are about all the persons that wish to hold slaves in the District. Such persons are to be allowed to hold them there forever. 2d. All children born after 1850 were to be free some time or other; it is not stated when. 3d. Slaves in the District were to remain such until their holders wished to sell them, at which time the United States government was bound to buy them. 4th. All this was to be law, if the people of the District voted for it! 5th. The District was to be slave-hunting ground forever!
Marvellous anti-slavery! a proposition to abolish robbery, if the robbers request it! And this is in 1849 of the Christian era; and relates to a territory from which the Constitution excludes all slavery; and of which Congress has the exclusive control. Considering that Republicanism professes to exclude slavery from all our Territories, as its special work, I should style Lincoln's bill, 'A Bill of the Republican President to recognize, extend and perpetuate slavery in one of the Territories of the United States.' If any of Mr. Lincoln's friends consider this Bill a feather in his cap, let it, by all means, be paraded. It strikes me as one of those blunders which a man's well-wishers desire to hush up among his friends.
3d. But my real charge was this:—
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, THE SLAVE-HOUND OF ILLINOIS. We gibbet a Northern hound to-day, side by side with the infamous Mason of Virginia. Mason's Slave Bill is based on that clause of the United States Constitution which provides for the surrender of slaves escaping from on State into another State of the Union.
The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the District of Columbia is not a State with in the meaning of the Constitution. See Hepburn vs. Ellzey, 2 Cranch 445. The District of Columbia is not, therefore, included in the terms of the Fugitive Slave clause. Whoever tries to extend the dominion of that clause over the District of Columbia, exhibits only his voluntary baseness, can have no pretence of constitutional obligation, out-Masons Mason, and stamps himself a hound of special 'alacrity.'
This deed ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Republican candidate for President, has done! Here are the facts: Extract from a Bill suggested by Hon. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, in the U. S. House of Representatives, Jan. 10, l849. (See Congressional Globe, appendix, 2d Session 30th Congressional Globe, appendix, 2d Session 30th Congress, p. 212.)
'Section 5. That the municipal authorities of Washington and George town, within their respective jurisdictional limits, are hereby empowered and REQUIRED to provide active and efficient means to arrest and deliver up to their owners, ALL 
FUGITIVE SLAVES soaping into said District.'
<c02>
Observe his proposition: It provides no safeguards, no jury trial; takes no care to prevent free men from being carried off as slaves;—in these respects, it is worse than even Mason's Bill. The municipal authorities are to 'provide ACTIVE and EFFICIENT means'—that is all.
This was my charge. I now add that the New York Tribune confesses that its Presidential candidate, Mr. LINCOLN, did just this deed. It says, the 5th section of his Bill, quoted above, 'was merely intended to put the District on a footing with all the States in regard to "fugitives from service," when slavery should no longer exist there, and nothing more. If Virginia may have the right to take her runaways in Boston, there it no good reason, coeteris paribus, why the should not in Washington.'
If, as the Tribune says, ‘there is no good reason' why the Fugitive Slave clause, constitutionally valid in Boston, should not be extended to Washington, where the Constitution does not now carry it, then the same may be said of Canada and Liverpool. Once grant that this infamous pro-slavery compromise, which every decent man abhors, may properly be extended one inch, and slaveholders and their New York apologists will show excellent and weighty reasons for extending it to Canada and Liverpool. We might have supposed that the Republican party, which vindicates its existence solely on the ground of its purpose to resist the extension of slavery, and of keeping it within strict constitutional limits, would see many a 'good reason' against extending the area of this pro-slavery and diabolical covenant. To an Abolitionist, saving even five miles square, and specially the residence of the Government, sacred to freedom, seems something, amid this universal wreck. According to the Tribune, such small matters are unworthy of consideration!
Hear, therefore, all ye Republican journals and voters! the New York Tribune sees 'no good reason ' why we may not now doom fresh Territory to slave-hunting—why the Fugitive Slave clause should not be extended further than the Constitution carries it: and it distinctly admits that its Presidential candidate, Mr. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, has expressed his wish and intention so to extend it, for which wish and intention the Tribune has no word of blame.
In these circumstances, if the Tribune really sees 'no good reason' why the area of slave-hunting should not be extended further than the Constitution requires—then, instead of one SLAVE-HOUND, I have discovered two, among Republican leaders—Mr. LINCOLN, of Illinois, and the New York Tribune; and on their collars I shall engrave in black capitals, 'VOLUNTEERS.' I might make up a huntsman's leash, three' hounds: putting Lincoln in the centre, Mason of Virginia on one side, and the Tribune on the other. But this would not balance; since Mason, poor, narrow-souled sinner, only demands what he deems his constitutional rights, while the two 'Volunteers,' more daring knaves, propose to extend the area of slave-hunting, and doom to that base fate soil which the Constitution consecrates to liberty.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
P. S. As the Tribune first introduced my name into this discussion, I might justly claim that it republish this reply. I know it too well to expect such justice. I do claim, for the sake of fair play, that it publish in its columns the first twenty-eight lines of my former article on which it comments. I notify it that the nineteenth line of that article should read, 'Extract from a Bill suggested by Hon. ABRAHAM LINCOLN,' &c. I have quoted those lines above, under my third head.
W. P. 

INDEPENDENCE DAY.
A nation which has really gained its freedom—which is free alike from tyranny without and injustice within—and which has so guarded and fortified this freedom as to feel reasonable assurance of its safe transmission to posterity—will do well to rejoice over this conquest, and mark with joyous festivities the return of its anniversary. On the other hand, a people yet suffering under oppression, and needing a revolution for their deliverance, should never lose sight of these facts; should never sit down in ignoble quietude, indulging the fallacious hope that things will mend of their own accord, or at least grow no worse; but should use all occasions when the word FREEDOM is spoken, to remind themselves and each other that they have it not—and that, while they have it not, they are neglecting a sacred and most important duty.
Instead of joining in the rejoicings of their fellow citizens over a liberty half gained by our Revolutionary forefathers, and, by a carelessness not free from criminality, transmitted thus incomplete to their children, the Abolitionists think they cannot better prove their descent from those heroic Revolutionists than by continuing, to its full completion, the work they left unfinished. Many of them—we charitably believe, the majority—did earnestly and heartily desire to 'establish liberty throughout the land, among all the inhabitants thereof'; but, finding obstacles in this work from the slaveholders with whom they were allied, they admitted, with too easy credulity, the hope that slight remedial measures would cure the fearful disease in question. Feeling a deep veneration for just laws, established by competent authority, they confidently expected to destroy the slave-trade with Africa by making it illegal. And, having never conceived of the possibility that the 'first families' of their aristocratic ally, Virginia, would engage, for pecuniary gain, in the manufacture of mulatto slaves, for home use and exportation, get their infamous living by this practice, and rely for prosperity upon the demand for their 'vigintial crop,' the Massachusetts insurrectionists thought slavery would surely expire with the generation following that year on which they had decreed the abolition of the foreign slave trade. They were miserably deceived in all these expectations. And through their adoption of this innocent looking compromise—through their allowance of the thing, slavery, in the Constitution, while they carefully kept the word slavery out of it—through their toleration of this little sin, this small fragment of matter infected by the plague—it has come to pass that we, their children, are worse wronged, insulted, and degraded by South Carolina, than they ever were by Great Britain. These things being so, it is manifestly our part to complete the Revolution which our fathers left half finished; and never to relax from the needful 'agitation,' until we obtain a Constitution really suited, as well as designed, to establish liberty for all, and a Government faithful in its efforts to reduce that theory to practice.
The great assembly which met at Framingham to help in this work for liberty had a most propitious and delightful day given them for this purpose. The rain of the previous night had freshened the trees and cooled the grove; the clouds of early morning gave place to the cheering sun; the weather was perfectly suited to the convenience of speakers and hearers in the open air; the well-shaded seats of the spacious amphitheatre were not only filled, but a large circle of eager listeners stood outside them; and the addresses, throughout, were of a character so impressive as to command the fixed attention of this great audience.
The proceedings of the meeting, with a phonographic report of some of the addresses, will be found on the previous page.—C. K. W.
We are glad to hear that the untiring and devoted friends of freedom in Milford, as usual, will celebrate the British Emancipation in the West Indies, on Thursday, August 2d. Due notice will be given.
The Class of 1861 have elected the following editors of the 'Harvard Magazine' for the forthcoming Senior year: Wendell Phillips Garrison and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., of Boston, and Albert Stetson of Kingston. Mass. The corps is a strong one and will not fail to maintain the high standard which the magazine has hitherto held.
<c03>
THE LAST ADAMS.'
Hon. C. F. Adams was the Orator of the 'Fourth,' at Fall River. His subject was, 'The Heresies to Liberty." These he handled with a robust vigor and an apostolic earnestness, which must have convinced his audience that the 'last Adams' 'still lives,' despite the scornful flout of the late brilliant and eccentric hunker, who descended to his grave stigmatizing the sublimest verities of politics as 'glittering generalities.' The fiery energy and metallic ring of Mr. Adams's finished periods, continually remind one of his distinguished sire. Of course we do not agree with him, that the mission of the Declaration of Independence is merely to 'prevent the establishment' of slavery ' within the jurisdiction of government,' but to over throw it wherever, whenever, however, or by whom soever it may be, or may have been, established—to lay the axe at the root of this Upas, and not simply to clip its twigs. But we appreciate the services he has rendered his country in making the fundamental principles of our political system a subject of bold, free, analytic discussion upon this anniversary occasion, so long desecrated to 'complimentary flunkeyism' and kite-flying rhetoric. It is a good example, to be followed, we hope, both upon the platform and in Congress, until the country shall 'ring from side to side' with the heroic declaration of the 'Old Man Eloquent,' 'Justice and Liberty, no matter what be comes of the Constitution and the Union.' Read the oration. 

RESISTANCE TO SLAVEHOLDERS OBEDIENCE TO GOD.
Edward Everett—Boston Post—Boston Courier—Boston City—Joseph Garibaldi.
MILFORD, Mass, Sunday, July 8, 1860.
DEAR GARRISON,—The city of Boston celebrated the Fourth by an Oration, by a Festival in Faneuil Hall and by Toasts. Edward Everett, the Union-saving candidate for Vice-President, was the Orator. His great object was to meet the charge brought against the American Federal Government, in the British House of Lords, in a debate on a Bill 'to extend the elective franchise,' on the 19th of last April. Earl Grey led the debate, and asserted that the United States Government, as to the support of justice and liberty, had proved a failure; and had, since the Revolution, been given over to corruption, violence, and a general disregard of public morality.' This charge was made by Earl Grey, and, others, mainly with reference to slavery, the slave trade and fillibustering, basing their charge on the facts of history and on the remarks of J. Q. Adams, that 'the preservation, propagation and perpetuation of slavery had ever been the animating spirit of the national government.’ Their assertion was, that 'there was no tyranny on the globe so murderous and merciless as that of the United States, where the elective franchise was most generally extended.' A simple fact, as obvious as the day.
How does Everett meet it? He makes not one allusion to the facts on which the charge was founded by Earl Grey, but ignores slavery entirely, and his own advocacy and support of it, and occupies his oration in showing up the sins of the British government, and her duty to pull the mote out of her own eyes, before she tries to pull the beam out of her of neighbors.' That oration is a marvel, as a specimen of special pleading and deprecatory eloquence. It deserves to be read, as a sign of the times. 
But mark what follows, at the banquet. After the feast, several sentiments were offered and responded to. The first was offered by Chief Marshal Micah Dyer, Jr., Esq., and is as follows:— 
'The President of the United States. (Slight applause.') [So says the regular report.] 
'Hon. Richard Frothingham, Jr., (of the Boston Post,) responded, and said. On such an occasion as this, such a toast should be received with respect, no matter who occupied the Presidential chair.' [It was not received with respect, but with nearly a dead silence — the silence of scorn and contempt.] 'He hoped nothing would occur to mar the nationality of this festivity, and closed by offering the following sentiment:— 
'The Fourth of July—May it ever keep alive the feelings, the principles, and measures of the American of Revolution.' 
'Nationality,' with a vengeance! One-half of the nation existing by the most cruel tyranny the earth ever saw, and dreading nothing so much as 'the feelings, the principles and measures of the American Revolution.' The guiding spirit and fundamental principle of that revolution, was, 'Resistance to enslavers’; 'Death to slavery '; 'Give me liberty, or give me death.' In a word, resistance, insurrection and invasion to put down slavery, and to free slaves, were the watchwords of the Revolution. Go study the speeches and writings of the Adams’s, the Hancocks, the Otises, the Warrens, the Henrys, the Lees, the Hamiltons, the Paines, the Jeffersons and Franklins of that day—all aiming to arouse the nation to insurrection and rebellion and resistance unto death, against the oppressors and enslavers of men. The Declaration of Independence expresses one 'feeling,' one 'principle,' and points the oppressed of all lands to one 'measure'-i.e., insurrection and revolution, to put down oppressors and free the oppressed. 
'Hon. John C. Park, in response to the third sentiment, (on patriotism,) said that God ever gave to a people struggling for liberty the man they needed, and now was giving GARIBALDI to Italy. He gave, as a closing sentiment,— 
'Life, health and success to Joseph Garibaldi '—[i.e., to the Italian John Brown.] ('Loud applause.') 
So God gave to the four millions of American slaves, kidnapped and enslaved by American Corsairs, and struggling for liberty WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, the man they needed, to summon the nation and the world to their rescue, and to incite the entire North to domestic, social, ecclesiastical, commercial and literary insurrection and rebellion against slave-holders and slave-traders. Hon. John C. Park should also have said, and would have said, had Garrison been an Italian or Hungarian,—'Life, health and success to William Lloyd Garrison.'
This sentiment will yet be offered, on the Fourth of July, in Faneuil Hall. Stranger things have happened in our day. But now, Edward Everett, Gov. Banks, Richard Frothingham, John C. Park, the Boston Post, the Boston Courier, and Boston City, can sympathize with Garibaldi and the Italians 'struggling for liberty;' but if they feel it, they dare not express any sympathy for William Lloyd Garrison; and the American slaves 'struggling for liberty,' nor for John Brown, the Garibaldi of America. 
The fourth regular city sentiment, officially offered in the name of Boston, was,— 
'Garibaldi and his Companions—May the Italian patriots imitate the example of America: may our example always be worthy of their imitation.
'Hon. Thomas Russell responded, alluding to the reference to Garibaldi by the orator of the day, and by previous speakers. It was right that we should turn with sympathy to those who were struggling for the liberty we enjoy. The blood of these martyrs was the seed of the church of liberty. 
i. e.,-The blood of Love joy, the blood of Torrey, the blood of John Brown and his companions, and the blood of every hunted, outraged and murdered slave, constitute 'the seed of the church of liberty.'
What was the reference of the orator of the day-Edward Everett—to Garibaldi? He says, 'The fair Niobe of nations (Italy) claims the title of the Italian Washington, for the heroic Garibaldi.' Garibaldi a hero, an 'Italian Washington, 'because he is arousing all the enslaved of Italy to insurrection and resistance against their enslavers! Was Everett thinking of John Brown and William Lloyd Garrison, when he said that? Invasion and Insurrection to free slaves and crush the power of the enslaver, were the watch words of Garibaldi and John Brown; and such, in the view of Everett, are the heroes of mankind!
The fifth official toast was;-
'The Orator of the Day,' &c. 
<c04>
'Mr. Everett responded and said.' (among other things,) 'I rejoice to have it in my power to bear my humble testimony to the vitality of the principles of the great Declaration. The moral sentiments, not ranks and navies, are the weapons with which the battles of Humanity are fought, and her victories won. Mr. Mayor, there is mighty power in a place, a day, and an occasion like this. Do you suppose that it was to no purpose that Joseph Garibaldi visited Faneuil Hall, several years ago, he being then a sojourner, gaining his honest daily bread by hard daily labor? Did he carry away no lessons from Faneuil Hall? Has he not thought of the stirring words here uttered while rousing his country to resistance?! As he has drawn his entrenchments around Palermo, has he not thought of those thrown up on Dorchester Heights?' 
And this is 'the recreant Northerner who went to Congress to defend slavery on principle,' who 'would buckle on his knapsack and shoulder his musket,' and go to put down American slaves, struggling, like Garibaldi, for freedom, and who, as Governor of Massachusetts, tried to get the Legislature to pass a law making it a Penitentiary offence to discuss, on Massachusetts soil, the right of the enslaved to freedom!
The sixth sentiment was:— 
The Clergy of the Revolution—What they thought and what they said, they did. They did not choose to learn the duty of silence, and they had no time to learn the duty of repose.'
Rev. E. E. Hale responded and said:—
'That what was wanted was men who would preach from the lessons of the times; men who were willing to be forgotten, if by such teaching they could work out the liberties of the people.'
The forty thousand clergymen of this nation have thoroughly 'learned the duty of silence,' and 'the duty of repose'! Their texts are gathered from the dead past, not from the living present. A bottomless pit of shame and infamy yawns to receive them and their pro-slavery churches. They see it not. They fix their eyes on the sufferings of the dead; not on the wrongs and sufferings of the living.
A letter from Charles Sumner was read, written in answer to an invitation to be present. In his letter he says:— 
‘The open denial of the life-giving principles of the Declaration of Independence, now unblushingly made, in stultification of the fathers of the Republic, renders it important that our annual celebration should be something more than a mere ceremony.
The time has come when the fathers must be vindicated. It must be shown that they were intelligent and honest patriots, who knew what the occasion required, and who meant precisely what they said; who, when announcing "self-evident truths" as the justification of Independence, were not guilty of a mere verbal flourish, and who, when solemnly claiming natural rights for all men, did not degrade themselves to the hypocrisy of meaning natural rights for a particular class or caste only. The authors of the Declaration were not idiots nor hypocrites.
Were I able to take part in our annual celebration, I should be glad to speak on this theme, so germane to the occasion, that it seems almost to exclude all" other themes. I hope I do not go too far, if I enclose a sentiment in honor of the day.' 
Accompanying the letter was this sentiment:— 
'The Declaration of Independence—Best celebrated by faithful adherence to its self-evident truths, and by constant efforts to render them every where of practical force, until natural rights, shall become legal rights, and all men shall be admitted to be equal before the laws, as they are equal before God.'
In principle, what more have you and those who act with you, ever said touching slavery and liberty? Nothing. You and your coadjutors have only vindicated the Declaration, and its practical application to all men. This does Charles Sumner. This did Charles Francis Adams, in his oration at Fall River on the 4th. The same did Henry Wilson, at our celebration at Framingham on the same day. What the Post and Courier say of them is true—in theory, 'They are rank Garrisonians, and just as really advocates of resistance, insurrection and invasion to free slaves and annihilate the power of enslavers, as he is.' No man can endorse that Declaration, and not endorse the principle and practice of resistance, rebellion and insurrection to free the slaves and annihilate the power of the enslavers. Charles Sumner, Charles Francis Adams, and Henry Wilson did on the 4th advocate the theory and practice of resistance and insurrection to deliver the spoiled out of the hands of the spoiler, not only as understood by you, but as understood by John Brown at Harper's Ferry—for the Declaration fully justifies resistance and insurrection, by arms and blood, to free the oppressed. 
JOSEPH GARIBALDI—the Italian Nat Turner, the Italian Toussaint L'Ouverture, the Italian John Brown and George Washington, the Italian insurrectionist. to deliver the oppressed—fully endorsed by Edward Everett, the Union-saving candidate for Vice-President, and by the City of Boston! Well, times change and men change. I am thinking of 1835-6-7-8, when that same Boston, headed by its mayor, mobbed you and your coadjutors, dragging you through her streets, with a rope around your neck, tearing off your clothes and treating you with every indignity, for doing what she herself did on the Fourth,—i. e., for sustaining the Declaration of Independence.
'You have been heard. You have not retreated one inch.' Through words, first spoken by you in 1829-30, the nation has become a great convention to discuss anti-slavery.
HENRY C. WRIGHT. 

From the Boston Transcript.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY. At Horticultural Hall last Saturday, Mr. Lewis H. Spear, of Braintree, Vt., exhibited specimens of different fruits put up in glass jars last fall, which were preserved in the most perfect manner, retaining all the original flavor and succulence to a degree hitherto unknown. The process is entirely new, easily applied, and costs but a trifle, while the fruit does not require to be sealed or made air-tight, and may doubtless be preserved for years, in any location, with no farther care than is requisite in the first putting up. Mr. Spear will disclose his process to any parties for a moderate compensation. He deserves to make his fortune, and is entitled to rank as a public benefactor. Dr. A. A. Hayes, State Assayer of Massachusetts, has given the following certificate:
I have been made acquainted with the principles adopted by Mr. Lewis H. Spear, in preserving fruit, so as to prevent change of color and subsequent fermentation, and have made some observations in connection with this process. Analysis proves that nothing is added to the fruit which is objectionable in articles of food, or decidedly foreign in origin. My trials to induce fermentation in the prepared fruit failed, and I am confident that fruit prepared as he directs, will long resist fermentative changes.

From the New England Farmer. 
PRESERVED FRUIT. Some time in February last, Mr. L. H. SPEAR, of Braintree, Vt., left with us a jar of apples, preserved by a new process, of which he is the discoverer. We used part of the fruit immediately, and have kept the remainder until this week, and cannot perceive that it has undergone the slighest chemical change. The fruit was not cooked enough to break it up, and the appearance of the cut sides is to-day as fresh and white as though the knife had just separated the quarters. The jar has never been sealed, being simply a common glass jar with a tin cover loosely fitted.
The cost of preparing this preserve is slight, requiring only about two pounds of sugar to a gallon;; and having tasted strawberries which have been kept by this method for a week, we see not why the discovery may not be applied to all kinds of fruit, and become of great value to the house-keeper.
We heartily endorse, from our own knowledge, the statements made by the Transcript and the N. E. Farmer, respecting this discovery, which is equally simple, important, and valuable.—Ed. Lib.
The U. S. House of Representatives has passed a bill, notwithstanding the most bitter opposition, by which Cassius M. Clay is to be compensated for his losses when he was made a prisoner in Mexico. The amount of judgment against him for breaking into a house in Kentucky to capture deserters, by order of his superior officer, is also to be refunded.
Madame Emilie Zulavsky Kossuth died on Friday morning at her residence, in Brooklyn, aged forty-three years. Madame Zulavsky was a sister of Louis Kossuth, and had been in this country since the memorable visit of the distinguished Hungarian exile. 
<c05>
SUMMER'S SPEECH.—The Republican Congressional Committee at Washington has published Charles Sumner's great speech in a pamphlet of 32 pages—large, readable type. It is supplied to clubs and individuals at $2.00 per hundred copies. They can be ordered through any member of Congress, or of the Secretary of Committee, George Harrington, Washington, D. C. 
A Mississippi planter has paid $7000 for a house in Cleveland for the exclusive use of his daughter, an octoroon, 16 years of age. She goes to Cleveland to receive a thorough education, the daughter of a clergyman in that city having been engaged as her instructor. The young lady, although born a slave, is now free. It is stated that her income while she is in Cleveland will be $3000 per annum.
The Atalanta (Ga.) Confederacy warmly condemns the return to Africa of the negroes lately taken from slavers and brought into the Southern ports. 

AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Collections by Parker Pillsbury.
In Cummington, Mass., $20 00 
Fall River, Mass., 3 20 
Sale of Tracts, Mass., 4 00 
By H. Ford Douglass
In South Danvers, Mass., 16 65 
North Danvers, Mass., 12 00
Lynn, Mass., 10 00 
Valley Falls, R. I., 5 35 
Pawtucket, R. I., 5 00 
Providence, R. I., 9 00 
From Miss Susan C. Cabot—sales of Miss
Emily Taylor's book, 3 00 
For Tract Fund. 
From Benj. Chase, Auburn. N. H., 1 00 
Mrs. Fifield, Weymouth, Mass., 1 00 
H. P. S. Conant, by S. May, Jr., 0 25 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
DIED—In Cambridgeport, July 6th, Mrs. MARGARET SHEPARD FATAL, aged 46. 

ABOLITION TRIUMPHANT!
The Twenty-sixth anniversary of WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION will be celebrated, under the auspices of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, on WEDNESDAY, August 1st, at the beautiful Grove in NORTH ABINGTON.
Amidst the war of factions, the strife of parties, and the social antagonisms which convulse our country, the voice of British Philanthropy, of monarchical Liberty, speaking deliverance to Eight Hundred Thousand CHATTEL SLAVES, proclaims the justice, the divinity, the inevitable triumph of the Anti-Slavery principle; the ineffable baseness and hypocrisy of that Republicanism which holds four million men in chains; and the only method of solution for this problem of chattel bondage, the immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave upon our soil. The day is consecrated to the achievement of this sublime purpose. The friends of impartial freedom, without solicitation, will throng the assembly; its enemies are cordially invited to be present.
A special train will run on the Old Colony railroad, as usual; numerous speakers of ability and eloquence are to address the meeting. Further particulars soon. 
FRANCIS JACKSON, Committee of Arrangement. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Committee of Arrangement.
E. H. HEYWOOD, Committee of Arrangement.
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, Committee of Arrangement.
THOS. J. HUNT, Committee of Arrangement.
SAMUEL DYER, Committee of Arrangement.

MASS MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
The Colored Citizens of New Bedford respectfully invite their brethren, far and near, to meet them in a Convention that will assemble in Liberty Hall, in this city, on Wednesday, August 1st, 1860, at 10 o'clock A. M.
They believe the day should be commemorated in a manner calculated to advance the cause of Freedom.
Several eloquent speakers from abroad have been invited and are expected to participate in the deliberations, and a grand reunion of the oppressed is expected.
Let the voice go forth from this meeting that will convince our oppressors that we are entitled to equal political and judicial rights: that our claim to a seat in the jury box cannot justly be withheld. And we pledge ourselves to agitate the question of our wrongs until justice is bestowed upon all men whose only crime is the color of their skin.
At the close of the Convention a Grand Levee will be held in City Hall. Good music will be in attendance during the day and evening.
Committee of Arrangements-EZRA R. JOHNSON, JOHN FREEDOM, CHAS. H. BROOK, FRANCIS DOUGLASS, LLOYD H. BROOKS, SOLOMON PENETON, JOSEPH. SCOTT, WILLIAM BERRY.

NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVESY TRACTS.
The new Series now consists of Six Tracts, to which we would again call the attention of our readers and of all friends of Anti-Slavery Reform, as just the publications which the times and the cause now require. Call for them—send for them—circulate them:
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 5 cents. 
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. 10 cents.
No. 5. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L. MARIA CHILD. 10 cents.
No. 6. Daniel O' Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. 5 cents.
The prices will be one third less where a dozen or more copies are taken.
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 221 Washington street, Boston.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Lawrence, Sunday, the 15th, and in South Ware, N. H., Sunday, the 22d July.
PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Essex, Sunday. July 22d, day and evening, and at Manchester, Monday evening, July 23d.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Dover N. H., Sunday, July 29.
VERMONT.-WM. WELLS BROWN. is now on a lecturing tour in the State of Vermont, where he Intends remaining, and will visit the principal towns. . Friends of the cause, wishing him to lecture in their localities, can write to Rev. N. R. Johnston, Topsham, Orange Co., Vt.
MIDDLESEX CO. A. S. SOCIETY.-A meeting of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at CONCORD, Sunday, July 15th, afternoon and evening. PARKKR PILLSBURY, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and other speakers, will be present. Friends of the cause and the public generally are cordially invited.
WM. WHITING, President. 
F. B. SANBORN, Sec'y.

TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION. 
JUST published, a full Report of the proceedings of the TENTH NATIONAL WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTION, held in the city of New York, May 10th and 11th, 1860, 100 pp. large octavo. This pamphlet contains the addresses and speeches of Mrs. E. CADY STANTON., Mrs. E. L. ROSE, Rev. Mrs. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWELL, Mrs. J. ELIZABETH JONES, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, and others, with the resolutions, &c., making an exceedingly interesting and valuable document. But a limited number of copies have been printed, many of which have been disposed of in advance of publication. 'A word to the wise,' &c.
Price, 25 cents: by mail, 27 cents.
Address ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street.
Boston, July 13th, 1860. 
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER? 
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—'My age is sixty. One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's 'Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks,-on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue. appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.'
Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. I. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PRE
VENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK, Editor 'Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate, 'Buffalo, N. Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD. D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston, Mass. 
‘Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston. 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., 
N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE;;-HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Present, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.' 
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allan's, she writes to the 'American Baptist,'—'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A, Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamnm, I would be pleased to insert 
advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray, to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. MCFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county. N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few declare try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having them.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1.50 a bottle. Balsam, 37 1/2, cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles—none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgary, and will be prosecuted by us as <illegible> offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
Oct lyeep
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
OUR 'FOURTH.'
Written for the Anti-Slavery Celebration at the Framingham Grove, July 4, 1860.
No bells for us shall echo, no cannon sound to-day;
We'll raise no mocking banner where the summer breezes play:-
The stars and stripes are stained with tears, and every silken fold
Is as a link of adamant the slave in chains to hold!
And our Eagle hath, his pinions in blood all darkly dyed:-
With his talons in our brother's heart, shall he hover by our side?
Alas! once brave and fearless, he is now the Spoiler's bird,
And only sad and mournful thoughts are by his presence stirred.
We'll meet beneath no gilded arch with pomp and show and pride, 
To chant the songs of Freedom, while we swell Oppression's tide;
But we'll meet in 'God's own temple,' with his blue sky bending o'er-
That temple whose wide gates ne'er close upon the friendless poor.
In Nature's grand cathedral, with its dome of living green, 
And Heaven's own blessed sunshine the emerald leaves between;
The free-born birds our minstrels,-and, for fife and stirring drum, 
The air-harp's grand old melody, by the mountain zephyrs strung.
We will not meet to vaunt the deeds of the brave heroes dead,
Of our fathers who, at Lexington, for Freedom's birthright bled;
Within their honored graves they rest, nor need they now our praise,
For Fame hath wreathed their deathless names with green and fadeless bays.
And their memory as a benison upon us yet doth rest,
And we love the rocky hillsides which their free, brave spirit blessed;
'Tis to guard from dark dishonor the land they held so dear,
We meet on this time-hallowed day, with earnest words of cheer!
We meet at Freedom's altar, to pledge ourselves anew,
And for the coming contest our heart-strength to renew;
And, like the knights of olden-time, the solemn vow to take,
That while our deadliest foe survives, no rest or peace we'll seek!
And Slavery!-dark and fearful is that cruel, treacherous foe;
Ever waiting, ever watching, he seeks our overthrow;
His hosts, arrayed for contest, are gathering in their might,
And ever on life's battle-field they seek to conquer Right.
Not content that all the South-land doth yield unto his away,
He has sworn that we, New England's sons, his bidding shall obey;
And if we refuse his mandates, howe'er unjust, to heed,
The prison or the scaffold shall be our only meed.
E'en now, where in our Empire State rise Adirondack's hills,
And the flowers of summer, smiling, bend above the sparkling rills,
Beside a quiet mountain home they'll point you to a grave,
Where lies the martyr BROWN who gave his life to free the slave.
His noble spirit could not brook their wrongs-his soul was stirred.
When their cry of bitter anguish in his Northland home he heard;
He went to set the captive free-and what was his reward?
A dungeon-cell, a felon's death, the tyrant did award!
And where the fair Ohio glides to meet Mississippi's wave,
Are the graves of other martyrs, brave champions of the slave;
They strove to set the bondman free-the tyrant waved his hand,
And, lo! the gibbet reared its head for that devoted band!
Look, where the western prairies glow 'neath their bright summer sheen,
And the Illinois goes singing, mid its banks of emerald green,
There lies the sainted LOVEJOY, by Slavery's minions slain:-
He dared to speak for Freedom, and did not speak in vain!
And can we rest in silence when such fearful deeds are done?
Can we calmly, coldly look upon such scenes of shame and wrong,
And be content to meekly bow unto the despot's power,

Giving to him our birthright-our fathers' priceless dower?
If we can be thus submissive, from Bunker's hill of fame 
Let us bear away the granite shaft-'twill only tell our shame! 
Let Concord's sacred memories be hushed in every breast,
And o'er the deeds of Lexington a veil forever rest!
Let all thought of right be buried, and each pulse of pity still,
And our hearts beat cold and sluggishly, with no touch of Love's warm thrill!
Let us tell to all the nations, that we worship gold alone,
And that to Trade and Mammon we have reared a gilded throne!
Give no more the hand of welcome to exiles o'er the sea-
'Tis all a vain, false mockery to say we love the free!
If we will not raise the fallen who are pleading by our side,
Let us ne'er speak of the oppressed beyond th' Atlantic's tide!
We will not be thus recreant, as we gather here to day;
Nor will we bow in homage to Slavery's demon sway;
We will speak of Truth and Duty, of our country's crime and shame,
Nor kneel at Freedom's alter with the mockery of a name!
Barre, Mass., July, 1860.
CARRIE.
FREEDOM'S BATTLE SONG.
Written for the Framingham A.S. Celebration, July 4. 
BY R. THAYER.
AIR-'Auld Lang Syne.'
I.
A band of FREEMEN we go forth
To battle with the foe;
From East to West, from South to North,
We'll lay the monster low;
We'll lay the monster low,-hurrah!
We'll lay the monster low;
<c02>
From East to West, from South to North,
We'll lay the monster low.
II.
To lead us in this noble strife,
We're men who 're always true;
And we're resolved, come death or life,
We'll fight the battle through:
We'll fight the battle through,-hurrah!
We'll fight the battle through;
And we're resolved, come death or life,
We'll fight the battle through.
III.
If to the fray our foes come forth,
Like Israel's foes of yore, 
We'll show them there is yet a NORTH,
Which they must flee before:
Which they must flee before,-hurrah!
Which they must flee before;
We'll show them there is still a NORTH,
Which they must flee before.
IV.
We'll push the battle till they cry-
'To Freedom's hosts we yield!
Then shout-we've gained the victory!
We 're masters of the field! 
We 're masters of the field,-hurrah!
We 're masters of the field;
Then shout-we 've gained the victory!
We' re masters of the field!

For the Liberator. 
ON THE DEATH OF THEODORE PARKER.
BY ANNA GARDNER.
How tenderly our spirits turn
To that enchanted land, 
Which Nature from her golden urn
Adorns with lavish hand!
Where sweetest vines and flow'rets all
In softest zephyrs wave,
And where the orange-blossoms fall
On Parker's new-made grave!
Oh! green and soft the grass will grow
Where quietly he lies,
'Mid fragrant zephyrs whisp'ring low
Of mystic harmonies;
Fit symbols of the anthems sung
By angel choirs above,
When his freed spirit quickly sprung
To the embrace of Love.
Fresh as the morning was his thought,
Untrammeled by the Past-
Hopeful, from God his strength he sought,
And bravely dared forecast
That higher faith in Truth and Right
A selfish age denies,
Which e'er shall grow more clear and bright
Through widening centuries.
With glowing eloquence of thought
Yet warm upon his lip,
He bade adieu to earth, and saught 
Celestial fellowship;
Communion sacred, sweet and high,
In more congenial spheres;
The faith he taught rebukes the sigh,
And dries the selfish tears.
He needs no sculptor's skill combined
With eulogistic arts;
His memory will be enshrined
Within our heart of hearts.
A life so true-wrought on a plan
Of such sublime intent,
Rears in the beating heart of man
A living monument.
Nantucket, 6th mo., 24, 1860.

The Liberator.
SILVER WEDDING.
[Reported for the Liberator.]
On Wednesday, the 27th day of June, was celebrated, at the residence of the parties in Green street, Boston, the 25th anniversary of the union of Miss HARRIOT K. HUNT and HARRIOT K. HUNT, M. D. To the many personal friends of the bride, and the more numerous friends and admirers of the worthy Doctor of Medicine and of Grace, the occasion was one of peculiar interest. The hearty and healthy nature which the Puritan lady gave away twenty-five year ago, has not lost a single one of those excellent qualities of head and heart, which, long ago, bound to Miss Hunt very many and very dear friends; therefore, the friends of the lady came gladly to honor the occasion. The strong good sense, the healing temper, and the resolute zeal of the professional worker, who has labored, not alone to mend the ills of the body, but to restore violated rights and cure the wounds of the soul which sin and suffering have made, survive in unabated energy, giving large promise of much good yet to be done; therefore, the admirers of the physician, the teacher, and the reformer, heartily united to celebrate this 25th anniversary.
The occasion was not a public meeting, to which reporters could have access, but the public interest in it seems to warrant some account of the proceedings, made from the notes of an invited guest.
It should be mentioned that the residence which Dr. Hunt has occupied for nearly twenty years was purchased from the income of herself and her sister, in the practice of medicine. It was jointly occupied by them until the marriage of her sister. We found the house decorated with flowers, pictures and mottoes most profusely. The arrangement of the flowers was especially pleasing. In the front parlor hung the portraits of Dr. Hunt's parents, and opposite them, on one canvass, striking likenesses of the sisters. This room was prepared for the ceremonies of the afternoon, with which the celebration opened. In the next room was arranged, in one corner, a large mass of flowers and other ornaments, with hosts of pithy mottoes. In the centre of the mass, on a table, was a rich bouquet of rare beauty, bearing the inscription, 'Honor to the brave Pioneer of Female Physicians; long, long may her light shine!' On either side of this were elegant Parian statuettes of Diana and Hebe. Above and around were branches of evergreen, hung with flowers and mottoes. We give a few of these:-‘A handful of good life is better than seven bushels of learning-The myrtle of life's spring gives place now to the laurel of the maturer summer. Science and art, like the gospel, welcome all true worshippers, and know no obstacle of sex.' The following was in the hand-writing of Dr. Hunt:-
But faith should be cheerful, and trust should be glad, And our follies and sins, not our years, make us sad.'
At the other side of the room hung likenesses of three of the saints of our latter day, Wm. Ellery Channing, William Henry Channing, and James Freeman Clarke. As we go into the rooms above, the old dock greets us in full array of decoration, and bearing some verses adapted from Longfellow. 
The small room over the hall was once Dr. Hunt's office, if we mistake not. Here hung; coats of arms of the Hunts, the Windows, and the Wentworths. On the walls we read, 'Health is the jewel of life set in the human frame: it is spirit to the body, and health to the mind'-'Honor to the physician, who, by inculcating a reverent obedience to physical laws, leads to a deeper reverence for, and a more faithful obedience to all Divine laws.' The following is in the spirit of the occasion:-
<c03>
'T was a lucky day 
When Miss Harriot K.,
In seeking for something to grapple,

Met with one Doctor H.
And without further spache,
Concluded to Hunt in a couple.'
'Medicine must become justice and morality,' is one of Dr. Hunt's maxims. 
In the front chamber are a great number of interesting memorials of the family of Dr. Hunt. The bed, the chairs, the sofa, and other articles, are all those which belonged to the family in the olden time. On the bed is the original dimity was honored by the birth of the infant Harriot, and which continues to furnish a stainless honor to the peaceful repose of the successful physician. On the posts of the bed were inscribed the words, 'Love,' 'Trust,' 'Hope,' 'Faith.' A pencil-drawing lay on the bed, representing Miss Hunt's ate—slate-keeping school in the absence of the teacher. On the pillows was the motto, ' Things have cast off their thingly qualities, and are invested with spirits, as it were, to receive and bless us.' Above this was, 'I will lay me down in peace, and sleep.' On the four corners of the bed lay large cards, bearing special messages from the Doctor herself: 'Scholars, there's fruit in each wind-wafted seed waiting its natal hour'-'Friends, our daily joys and pains advance to a divine significance' ‘Patients, a whispered word may touch the heart, and call it back to life'-'Schoolmates, past, present and future to your sight at once their various scenes display.' On the dressing-table lay the family Bible, inscribed on the silver clasp, 'Joab Hunt, 1785.' Above was written by Dr. Hunt, 
"Oh! for the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still!' 
A sketch of the old homestead hung over the mirror. On the sofa was worked a cross, and the inscription, 'Around our restlessness his rest.' On the large chair was, 'Work done may claim wages, REST.' On other chairs was written, 'Mother,' 'Home, 'Heart-Home,' ‘Baby-Home.' Portraits of Mrs. Wright's children, two old pitchers ornamented with Masonic emblems, and many articles which we
have not space to enumerate, were also to be seen in this apartment; not to mention the tastefully arranged flowers.
In the study was shown a fine bouquet from the ‘Ladies' Physiological Institute, Woburn.' On a shelf stood a pair of vases, the gift of a friend, bearing this motto:-'Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.' On the Doctor's desk was conspicuously placed a large vase of flowers, in honor of Elizabeth Barrett Browning. It bore these words:
'In that we have nobly striven at least,
Deal with us nobly, women though we be,
And honor us with truth, if not with praise.'
'The honest earnest man must stand and work;
The woman also;-otherwise she drops
At once below the dignity of man,
Accepting serfdom. Free men freely work;
Whoever fears God, fears to sit at ease.'
Above the desk was a portrait of Spurzheim. The wit of the Doctor also seems to have suggested to her a very saucy thought, to choose, as the guardian angel of her study-desk, 'Cupid in trouble.'
The small room adjoining the study was literally filled with flowers, offered in honor of the departed. Here were memorials of three distinguished pastors of the family. 'For the light without night would be of no advantage. JOHN MURRAY.' 'We have an heavenly, eternal home of infinite bliss. THOMAS JONES.' ‘God will have all men to be saved, and come to the knowledge of the truth. In memory of HOSEA BALLOU.' A small Bible lay near these, inscribed, 'From JOHN MURRAY to HARRIOT KEZIA HUNT, May 20th, 1811.' A likeness of THEODORE PARKER, with an extract from one of his favorite hymns, and a number of daguerreotypes and memorials, were placed among the flowers. Prominent was a likeness of the artist CHENEY.
But it is time that we should attend to the opening ceremonies of this interesting occasion. When all was ready, Dr. Hunt entered, attended by her sister, Mrs. S. A. Wright, and by Miss Matilda Goddard, and preceded by twelve young girls, representing the months, and appropriately costumed. The three ladies having taken their places on the sofa, and the months being arranged on either hand, a reverent and tender prayer was offered by Rev. Samuel Winkley, of the Pitts Street Chapel. After the prayer, Miss Lucy Goddard read selections from Scripture, relating chiefly to woman. We should mention that excellent singing preceded the prayer, and followed the reading of Scripture. Mrs. Edna Cheney, wife of the lamented artist, followed in a brief speech. Alluding in a touching manner to the lesson of religious consecration of daily life to duty, she said that it might fitly be called a marriage, and in the name of the Managers of the Hospital for women and children, she presented to the deeply moved bride a wedding ring. Mrs. Caroline M. Severance then read the following poem, while the months presented offerings to the honored woman and physician, their ‘Maid-Monarch ':-
Standing amid this month of song and blooms,
Beneath this fair June-heaven,
We little dream what wealth of tireless looms
Its royal shades and shapes has given,-
What matchless mother care, thro' weary hours,
Has charmed the music into myriad breasts,
What subtle alchemy in sky and flower
Wrought the perfection in which Nature rests!
Standing upon this century's upward slope,
This sunny height of years,
We may not see the early tender hope
Was sown 'mid pain and tears-
How noble longing in the child was fed-
How anguish taught beside the sister's bed-
Nor how that brave One, in the after needs,
Was hidden source of all these fragrant deeds.
So let us learn the lesson of the hour,
So make our homes the source of noble power,
That in our conquests we may truly say,
To home we owe what we achieve to-day!
Our first glad tribute shall be hers, the goddess of bright hours,
Of hearty Mirth, and rosy Health!-and born of Grecian bowers-
Her of mild eye and thoughtful brow, to whose sweet woman-heart
'Tis given to conquer, where before fell low the healing art,
HYGEIA named, within whose happy sway
First dawned the glory of this marriage day;
Whose wisdom-dropping lips, yet womanly and kind
To paths of noble use the sisters twain inclined.
To her, Maid-monarch though she be, all powers
Of earth, air, sea, bring tribute with the hours-
All ocean waves, all crystal streams that flow,
All clouds above, all mists that rise below-
All winds that sweep the broad earth as they run,
All nights that shade, all beams of daily sun—
Graces and Musee-hand and eye of Art,
All do her homage, all bear loyal heart!
Symbols of these, the tripping months appear, 
Laden with tithes of all the varied year—
Born amid northern frost, or tropic heat, 
Clad in the summer's hues, or winter's sleet,
They do her equal service with their willing feet—
Young January, with her robe of snow and holly,
And February's pastimes, chill but jolly—
And breezy March, with coy young April-bride,
And crocus blooms adorned, come side by side—
And laughing May, with sweet arbutus from the shore,
With June, rose-crowned, and fragrance brimming o'er;-
July and August, with their ripening heats,
Their harvest-home, and wealth of rarest sweets,-
The mild September, with its grateful airs,
Pomona's wealth of fruit and Ceres' grain she bears-
October, underneath whose gracious skies
Decay and Death look forth with radiant eyes,-
November's gymnast grasp, and sturdy drill,
For chills beneficent, but sterner still—
With late December's constant air and green,-
<c04>
All own her sway, all hail her as their Queen!
So may we each her faithful subjects be,
Eager to serve her well, and royally-
Accepting, as the proofs of all-abounding good,
God's ample blessing for our every mood.
In honor of Mrs. Wright, a young lady repeated passages of Scripture. Then followed an anthem. After a short speech from Mrs. C. H. Dall, on the Union of the Priest and Physician, Mrs. Severance presented a silver cup to Mrs. Wright, bearing the following inscription:-‘Sarah Augusta Wright, the generous cup bearer. She drank the cup of suffering, and made it one of thanksgiving. The following note accompanied the cup, addressed to Mrs. Severance:-
MRS. S.:
MADAM,-As you are acquainted with our friend SARAH AUGUSTA WRIGHT, permit me to ask of you to appropriate the enclosed for a silver cup, as symbolic of much in her life.
She drank the cup of suffering in a severe and protracted illness, and used her noble nature meanwhile in investigating the causes and symptoms which baffled others. At length she was enabled to take the cup of thanksgiving, and bless the name of the Lord, not only for restored life, but for other fresh young lives to consecrate her own. She now, in her beautiful home, offers the overflowing cup of hospitality and bounty to friend and to stranger, and gives, as freely, the priceless riches of her years of thought and experience to all who need.
So may this cup, freighted with love, stand beside her own bed in sickness, and comfort her with its union of beauty and use, and its symbolism of so much that is precious in her own life.
With a blessing on her companion, her children, and a benediction on herself, I subscribe myself, one of the readers and admirers of her noble life, as printed in
‘GLANCES & GLIMPSES.'
June 27th, 1860. 
Rev. S. H. Winkley pronounced an affecting benediction, and immediately the bride received the congratulations of her friends.
In the evening, Mrs. Dall read the following poem, sent by Mrs. Frances D. Gage, of St. Louis:-

THE SILVER WEDDING. 
Commemorative of the union of Miss H. K. Hunt and Dr. H. K. Hunt, on the 27th of June, 1835.
'Twas in the flowery month of June,
When poets find all things in tune
Throughout the earth and sky,
A merry wedding came to pass:
The bride, a fresh and comely lass-
The bridegroom, cold and shy.
Musty, and old, and full of gloom;
All aches, and pains, and blues, and rheum,
And lank, and lean, and grim;
And neighbors wondered why the maid
f such a fright was not afraid-
Why loved him with such vim.
He never knew an hour of ease;
His ills but made her love increase;
For well the maiden knew
That, notwithstanding all his pains,
He was a man of heart and brains,
And faith and mercy too.
‘Twas only through the outer man
That all this cruel misery ran;
His inner life was great!
And so this blue-eyed, laughing girl
Took to her heart the suffering churl,
And met impending fate. 
Hippocrates-'tis said-stood by
While Esculapius lovingly
The young bride gave away;
Diana, sent by Mercury down,
To wreathe around her head a crown,
That kept her bride for aye!
Never was husband half so sad,-
Sometimes half crazed, sometimes whole mad;
She only laughed the louder:
He'd storm! She did not mind a whit,
But laughed, and dosed him out of it,
And every day grew prouder.
And, day by day, she cured some ill
By cheerful word or well-made pill;
And, spite of all his trouble, 
She made of him as good a spouse
As ever graced a lady's house,
And gained him honor double.
Now, through a score of years and five,
She's made her sickly bridegroom live,
And cured his aches and pains;
His colds and coughs, his fevers, blues,
Consumption, rheumatics, and stews,-
And pocketed her gains.
This is their silver wedding-day;
And she is just as blithe and gay,
As free from care and woe,
As when in girlhood bright and fresh,
The differing twain were made one flesh,
In the June long ago.
But then, 'its whispered all about,
('Tis ssid there's not a chance for doubt,)
She's found a new affinity,
Lays the old M. D. on the shelf,
And takes a new one to herself,-
A Doctor of Divinity!
But who shall blame her? As a bride,
For twenty-five long years, she tried
To mend the outward man,
And conquered; let her use her skill
To lift the soul above earth's ill,
And cure it, if she can.
And when the golden wedding comes,
If we're not bidden to our homes
In spirit lands above, We'll give her all the honor due
For curing soul and body too,
By science, mirth, and love.
The following 'lines from a friend' were then read:-
BY MRS. HALL, OF CAMBRIDGE.
O, Nature, rich and lavish,
With beauty all abloom,
Her spirit to enravish,
Pour out the wealth of June!
O, Day, be rich in splendor,
Shed o'er her floods of light;
And come with star-light tender,
And dewy eyes, sweet Night!
Teach thou our hands to fashion,
O, wise and wondrous Art,
Some beautiful love-token,
To wear a near her heart!
Breathe thou upon the canvass,
And touch the marble stone,
And pour into our music
Thy fullest, richest tone!
For we keep her silver wedding,
And a royal bride is she;
We keep her silver wedding-
We would keep it royally.
The Bride is sweetly beautiful,
With deeds of love impearled;
And the Bridegroom; O, the Bridegroom,
Is the glory of the world!
And she stood up right womanly,
And he stood like a king,
While she gave up all trustingly
Her heart and hand to him.
Her sister served as bride's-maid,
So nobly by her side,
And't was her loving mother 
Who gave away the bride.
All lovingly, all brightly.
And tranquilly have sped,
All filled with sweetest charities,
The years since she was wed.
Whene'er our bodies languish
Upon the couch of pain,
'Tis she who soothes the anguish,
And makes us whole again,
Her heart is full of kindness,
Of gentleness and truth,
And, like another Hebe, 
She gives us back our youth!
So we keep her silver wedding-
A royal bride is she,
We keep her silver wedding-
We would keep it royally.
Are you Hunting for the Bridegroom?
Then I will introduce
The crown of all nobility,
His Royal Highness, Use,
The Bride, she is all beautiful,
With deeds of love impearled;
And the Bridegroom; O, the Bridegroom,
Is the glory of the world!
Mrs. Dall then introduced Dr. Marie Zakrsewaka, who spoke earnestly of the serious aspect of the occasion.
<c05>
Miss Sallie Holley read the following poem from Mrs. Virginia P. Townsend:-
Thou didst not gather for thy maiden brow 
The roses of that June: thou didst not crown 
Thy hair with orange blossoms, nor thy youth
With shy sweet dreams of wifehood!
And to-day,
Standing on this bright headland of thy life,
And looking downward through the long, slow years
Up which thy feet have walked serene and brave,
Nor faltered by the way, nor turned aside,
We bless thee for thy work!
Oh, by the hearts
Thy words have strengthened-by the homes
Thy hands have blessed-by all the loving deeds
Which hang thy womanhood with precious pearls,
As brides are hung with jewels-by the sick
Whom thou hast healed-and oh, by every life
Whose boughs put on fresh blossoms for thy care,
We consecrate this hour!
As loving wives 
Keep fresh the memory of their marriage morn, 
Through twenty-five green Junes, so keep thou fresh
The memory of that June that wedded thee
To thy life's Purpose; while thy loved ones come
With song and gift, and hold high festival.
As matrons hold on 'Silver Wedding' days!
Honor and peace unto the future years
Which God shall grant thy life!
May silver hairs
Lift their white blossoms softly on the head 
Hearts shall rise up to bless; and may thy work,
Thy strong, brave, loving woman's work,
With graciousness adorn our Womanhood!
Letters from Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell and Mrs. Lucretia Mott were also read. We give them here.
NEW YORK, June 12th, 126 Second Avenue.
MY DEAR DOCTOR HUNT:
Though, to my great regret, I cannot be with you at the time of your approaching celebration, you may be very sure of my hearty sympathy and good wishes, in which my sister cordially joins.
Pray accept from us the enclosed sentiment, in which I am sure all your friends will unite.
Yours, very truly,
E. & E. BLACKWELL.
Medicine, in its relation to mind, as well as body.-In the practice of HARRIOT K. HUNT, M. D., our respected fellow-laborer in the field of Medicine, we recognize a type of the true physician's action on the moral conditions of the sick. May she live to collect her wide-spread family to the golden wedding festival of a good old age!
ROADSIDE, near Philadelphia, 6th mo. 21st, 1860. MY DEAR HARRIOT K. HUNT:
Thy kind letter of invitation to my husband and self was duly received.
You will have a gathering of kindred spirits, at the interesting celebration of a union so rare for woman.
Thy sphere has been filled in such good faith, and with such success too, as will give thy 'merry heart a cheerful countenance'; and thy words of encouragement on the occasion will be remembered as from ‘the laughing philosopher,' whose soul over flows with thanksgiving that' the lines have fallen unto [her] in pleasant places,' [and she has] 'a goodly heritage.'
The day is full of encouragement for woman. She has but to ask, and she receives; but to knock, and the door of medical schools, and of our Legislatures, is opened unto her. The Church, too, is beginning to perceive that, 'in Christ, there is neither male nor female'; and that the words of prophets and apostles are no longer to be perverted to the subjection and degradation of woman.
This awakening has not been without great labor and sacrifice. Contumely and reproach have been meted to these, as well as to other reformers. The untiring exertions of a STANTON, an ANTHONY, a PHILLIPS, &c.-the Liberator's columns heralding each movement-have prepared the way, both here and in England, 'for a great door and an effectual [to be] opened unto us, [even though] we have many adversaries.'
Then let me cheer thee on thy way; and press upon the young, the duty of entering into similar labors; for the work is only just begun-‘the harvest truly is great.' So that when the golden wedding shall be attained, the independence of the husband and wife will be equal, their dependence mutual, and their obligations reciprocal.
Thy card cannot reach thy friend MIRA TOWNSEND. She may be with you in spirit, having passed from earth some months since, leaving the erring and destitute to sorrow 'most of all that they shall see [her] face no more.'
My husband unites with the foregoing, and sends suitable greetings for the happy occasion. Our children, too, were glad to be remembered; and if they or any other of our friends wend their way thitherward, thy kind invitation shall go with them.
'With the salutation of love,' as we Quakers say, in our Epistles,
LUCRETIA MOTT.
On the second day of the celebration, the house being freshly decorated with flowers, and some very beautiful additions having been made to its ornaments, Dr. Hunt received in the afternoon the Physiological Institutes of Woburn and Charlestown.
In the evening of the same day, the Fraternity of the 28th Congregation assembled, by invitation. The occasion was a very social one. There was a little music, a well-spread refreshment table, where the bride-cake was not lacking, and Mrs. Dall read the following poems, and a note from Miss Parsons:
LINES,
On the Occasion of the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of
HARRIOT K. HUNT, M. D.
BY MISS FOSTER.
Of all conventionalities,
A downright violation!
It never had a precedent
In any time or nation!
A Silver Wedding Festival!
For one, may Heaven direct her,
Who never had a lordly spouse-
A masculine' protector'!
Yet, here she stands a wedded Bride,
Of five and twenty summers,
To greet within her festive halls
This throng of welcome comers.
True, it was not at Hymen's shrine
This union's consummation;
A noble art had won her heart,
Her hand, her admiration.
Though friends opposed, and Harvard's halls
Swung their grand gates upon her,
With her 'M. D.' no longer she
Needs look to them for honor.
For now the children of her care
In grateful groups surround her,
To tell how true, how holy too,
The bonds of love that bound her.
BY MRS. BACON, OF THE LADIES' REPOSITORY.
THE SILVER WEDDING.
HARRIOT K. HUNT.
HARRIOT K. HUNT, M. D.
A picture hangs in our hall of art,
That tells the tale of a constant heart,-
Beatrice, the angel bride.
From the spirit-land is her Dante's guide.
Ah these are the tales the poets tell,
Who love in the clouds and mist to dwell;
Be mine of a humaner love to sing,
That circles the world with its marriage ring.
Alone, like Dante, our bride may seem,
But not in the clouds is her bridegroom, I ween;
Though we see him not, she knoweth him well,
And many a tale of his worth can tell.
She has followed him, like a faithful wife,
To scenes of sickness, of sorrow and strife,
Through the lonely streets at breaking day,
And in the twilight's sober grey.
Not in cloned-land, nor up in the blue,
Has our lady M. D. sailed through,
But 'mid earthly scenes and is city homes.
When sorrow comes and sickness moans.
But her laugh is just as silvery now
As before the bridegroom touched her brow;
She may tempt the young and gay to-right
To wed a profession, instead of a wight.
Long may that delicate hand caress
The brow with care and sorrow pressed,
And may her work be far from done
When shineth her golden wedding sun!
I am glad, my dear Dr. H. (ygeia?), that the sun shines so brightly on your silver wedding. I do not know but it may seem superfluous to send you ‘Heart's Ease,' on this occasion, but, to my thought it sets the truest seal on the success of your mission; that, through good report and evil report-amid all your labors, discouragements, trials-the smile of the Lord has rested upon you, and been reflected from
<c06>
your cheerful, buoyant heart upon all those who come within the sphere of your influence. So you must let the little flowers speak this thought to you. Shall I add an impromptu which MARGARET FULLER once sent to a friend, with some of these blossoms she loved so well?
‘Content, with purple lustre clad,
Kingly serene and golden glad;
No demi-hues of sad contrition,
No pallors of enforced submission;
Give me such content as this,
And I'll forego the rosy bliss.'
And I must send, too, a little laurel, to intimate the crown this festive occasion proves you to have won. Since I first stole to your door as friend and companion of one of your earliest patients, society has strode forward, as if in seven-leagued boots. What greater changes shall the golden wedding witness! Ah! that it might be the true marriage of man and woman, to redeem mankind 'from all the ills flesh is their to.' Those old ancients were wise in appointing a god of medicine-a goddess of health; and I do not wonder that 'the faculty' shrink from sharing the ground with women, from an instinctive feeling that their mission will be to prevent evil, and then their own occupation-to cure-will be gone.
I write you in great haste, having had friends with me all the morning. 
All peace and good be with you! Affectionately,
ANNA Q.T.P. 
Jamaica Plain, June 27, 1860.
Thus closed the bright festivity. It would be hardly fair to say, May there be many happy returns!
The floral arrangements sprang up under the genial hands of Miss Lucy Goddard, of Roxbury. Many sentiments and letters were received from well known sources, not printed here, and our Progressive friends were present in the exquisite floral emblems they sent.

BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET, BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address 
GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
Physician and sole Proprietor.
April 20

READ THIS.
THE subscriber will furnish copies of the following Likenesses in response to orders accompanied with the cash, viz:-
Lithograph of THEODORE PARKER,
Lithograph of JOHN BROWN,
Lithograph of WM. LLOYD GARRISON,
Lithograph of ALSO, WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Lithograph of THADDEU'S HYATT,
now in press, and soon to be published by C. H. Brainard, both in the highest style of the celebrated artist D' Avignon, each of these for one dollar.
Also on hand, a few copies each of the Photographs of John Brown, Lydia Maria Child, and Theodore Parker, each for 50 cents. These will be safely mailed without additional cost.
Send your orders to WILLIAM C. NELL, 221 Washington street.
June 15, tf

THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS 
AND 
Wholesale Booksellers
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS.

WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS, FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY 
E. A. TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,. Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, 'At Home,' & c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES.
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18 eop6m.

PROUTY & MEARS'S
CELEBRATED HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the "Clipper Improved', Vernon,' and 'Gold Medal'.
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the 'Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron 'Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY 
ALLEN S. WEEKS.
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,) 
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf

CARPETING
'All the Year Round.' 
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Felting, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
