<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORING,
-AT-
221 WASGUBGTION STREET, ROOM No, 6,
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper arc to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of fire cents per fine.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE liberator.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the papers, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
W. M. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 20.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1586.

Refuge Of Oppression.
SOUTHERN PRESBYTERIANS.
The Presbytery of South Carolina, at its recent session, adopted the following resolutions:-
Whereas, the President of the United States has declared the Confederate States of America to be in a state of insurrection,' and has called for an army of 75,000 men to aid the regular army in quelling this pretended insurrection, and has collected a large fleet to make a descent upon our coast, thereby inaugurating civil war: therefore,
"Resolved, That it is inexpedient to appoint any of our members to represent this Presbytery in the General Assembly about to convene in Philadelphia, in the midst of the enemies of our peace and of our rights.
"Resolved, That the Moderator be requested to offer, at the close of divine service, to-day, a prayer of thanksgiving in behalf of the Presbytery for the manifest favor of God upon the counsels and arms of the Confederate States of America, and to invoke the continuance of the same."
And the Southern Presbyterian of April 27th, says:
"If the Act of 1818 is to be regarded as now the 'opinion.' or the faith, or the law, of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, it would be impossible for the Presbyterians in the Confederate States to bear it.
In the Assembly which will meet at Philadelphia on the 16th of next month, we suppose there will be scarcely one commissioner from the Southern States. If any such appear there, we are convinced it will not be with the, approbation of their constituents. How can we meet with those who are urging on the horrors of a most atrocious and wicked war against our families and neighbors? It is folly to talk of union with those who are desecrating every Christian principle, and combining to destroy all we regard as sacred and precious."
And yet further. According to the, Presbyterian, the An Southern rebellion is religious in its origin, and is supported on religious grounds, and by religious men. Its language is:- 
"Throughout the South, the religious people have acted harmoniously, and sympathetically, and religiously, with the rest of the people. Nay, it is a fact that the rising of the South is an uprising of the religious people of the South. They control and guide the country. They are the country. They are profoundly convinced that this contest is a religious contest. It involves religious truth and principle. It is a contest of Bible truth against infidel heresy; of plain, simple, Scriptural religion, against the abommable corruptions of modern philosophy and fanaticism and the Southern people go into it from their prayers and with the Bible in their hands.
"We have frequently alluded to the character of the men who have entered the ranks of the Southern army. It indicates the real state of Southern opinion and feeling, and the sort of people who are leading in the action of the Southern States. Ministers of all our principal evangelical denominations are found among the volunteers. Fathers and sons of families who occupy the highest social and civil positions are emulous for a place in the army, and often are numbered among the ‘privates.’ Some of our companies contain a majority of professed Christians. A professor in the College of South Carolina is a volunteer. A professor in the Theological Seminary in this city is also a member of a company ready to enter the field as soon as they are needed. Two other professors in the Seminary have sons now in the service. Several students of the Seminary are chaplains of companies in the field, and ready to fight or to pray. The junior pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Columbia is chaplain of a company from this town; and from every part of the land, it is the very flower and pride of our people who are gathering to the defence of our rights."
At the May 1st session of the Congress of the Confederate States, a communication was received from the Baptist State Convention of Georgia, announcing that they had unanimously adopted a preamble and resolutions, in substance as follows:-
"That whereas, the State of Georgia has withdrawn from the Government known as the United States of America, and has united with other States in a new Confederacy: and whereas, Abraham Lincoln is attempting by force of arms to subjugate the States in our Confederation-therefore it is resolved by the Association that it approves, endorses, and will support the Government just established. That as citizens, the members of the Association urge as a duty that all the members of the South unite in defence of the common cause, and express belief that no matter what conflict the madness of Lincoln may thrust upon us, the Baptists of Georgia will not be behind any class of citizens in maintaining the independence of the South by any and all sacrifices of blood and treasure. Also, that all the Baptist Church of Georgia be requested to observe the first and second days of June next as days of fasting and prayer for deliverance from our enemies, and for the restoration of peace. And lastly, that all the Churches of all denominations within the Confederate States be invited to observe these same days in the manner prescribed."
The resolutions were ordered to be spread upon the journals of Congress.

STATE TREASON.
Governor Magoffin’s message to the Legislature of Kentucky says, "the announcement of a pacific policy by the government has been broken, and has involved the country in civil war, and if not successfully resisted will prove fatal to the liberties of the people." He charges the President with usurpation in creating a standing army, mad with sectional hate, to subjugate or exterminate ten or more States. He says seven States have established a Confederacy, which seems to receive a cordial and undivided allegiance of their population. He thinks North Carolina. Tennessee and Arkansas will soon join the Confederacy, while Missouri, Maryland and Delaware, where public sentiment favors a like step, are considering the subject. He declares the American Union. Kentucky dissolved, and war exists, and asks whether Kentucky shall continue with and assume her portion of an enormous war debt being incurred, or whether to declare her own independence and prepare to maintain it single-handed, or make common cause with the Southern States, and refers the subject to the people.
Gov. Jackson, of Missouri, has replied to Secretary Cameron, that his requisition for four regiments to put down secession is "illegal, unconstitutional, revolutionary inhuman, diabolical, and unholy," and "not one man will the State of Missouri furnish for such a crusade."
<c02>
Selections.
SATANIC SPIRIT OF THE SOUTH.
The following extracts from Southern papers indicate the intense malignity, scorn and contempt cherished in that sections of the country toward the people of the North at the present crisis. They are the natural outbreaks of the demon-spirit of Slavery, and teach a most instructive lesson as to the madness and folly of attempting to propitiate that spirit by any thing short of a repudiation of all the principles of justice, humanity and freedom.
"The proceedings of the brutal mobs in Philadelphia, New York, &c., are, of course, what might be expected of those sewers into which the whole world
I has poured its superfluous filth and scum. The action of these, church-burning, flour-plundering, swinish groundlings has no terrors for any but their Northern masters, the cowardly conservatives, or conservative cowards, who succumbed at the first onset of their white? slaves. It is not only easy, but delightful, for bestial and craven natures to be ferocious and blood-thirsty where there is no danger, and Philadelphia, New York, &c., being supposed to be perfectly secure from bombardment, of course the dogs, wolves, hyenas, &c., had it all their own way.
But upon the barbarians who compose the lower orders of the Northern cities, and who are much inferior in humanity and refinement to African negroes, it is a waste of ammunition to exhaust a single invective. The grossness and bestialities of these ‘lewd fellows of the baser sort' are all upon the surface, and, therefore, bad as they are, they are not as contemptible as their masters. With some exceptions, the wealthy classes of the Northern cities are reptiles who have emerged from the same Stygian mud in which the more demonstrative and unclean mob are now wallowing, and in no wise differ from them except in their wealth, which has no power to confer elevated sentiments or purity of character.
Consequently, as their own newspapers testify, the classes of those cities called conservative, which is but another name for men of money, are the most depraved and ignorant of any society in the world which pretends to social elevation and influence. It is believed that Paris, in its worst days, never equalled the corruptions of society among the fashionable classes in the Northern cities.
For true conservatism, we have the most profound respect; and Heaven forbid that, in forming a new government, the South should have root or branch of the accursed levelling and agrarian spirit which has brought this country to its ‘present ruin. But for the whited political and moral sepulchres of the: North, called conservatives, simply because they have money in their purses, and seek to conserve it at the cost of a nation's peace and happiness, we have no sentiments but those of profound loathing and abhorrence."-Richmond (Va.) Dispatch.
That the brutal fanatics who sit in the high places at "Washington are ready to plunge the whole country into contest and blood, we have never doubted. It. was a thorough conviction of their treacherous and desperate hatred of the South that compelled us to urge, as the only course of safety for the South, a prompt and eternal separation from their power.
Events have shown that our estimation of this brutal and bloody faction was correct. Large portions of the people of the seceding States did not believe it. The frontier slave States have not believed it. They have still believed that there were feelings of respect, feelings of fraternity toward the people of the South, from the great body of the people of the North. Hence they have lingered in the foul embraces of a Union mastered by Abolitionism, whose one great policy was the subjection of the South to the dominion of the North whose one great passion was to destroy the South. Slowly, but surely, time has lifted the veil from the hideous and loathsome features of Abolitionism enthroned in Washington. Its inauguration by cannon and bayonets manifested at once its principle and its reliance for success despotism and force. Oliver Cromwell, praying whilst Charles the First's head was being cut off, was the example of its bloody hypocrisy.
With Lincoln's proclamation, and his requisition for troops to march upon the South, the standard for the conquest of the South is at last unfurled. Thirty years' agitation and hate at last breaks forth in its eager cries for blood. It is most natural. Thank God, the consummation is in our day, whilst yet we have the power to resist the capacity to save ourselves from its meditated devastation, insurrection and horrors.
But will Northern hate and fanaticism fail in its prey? Will it not at least carry through the South one long track of blood, which will tell to future ages its fierce invasion and stern efforts for conquest? We answer, no!
Fortunately for the world, it is never all mad. The first great result of the meditated invasion of the South will be to unite the South together. United together, the South is invincible. The North knows this as well as the South. On this account, we rejoice at the late demonstrations in Charleston Bay, and the war policy declared at Washington. Virginia will soon be with us; and the other frontier States will follow her lead. They are forced to take sides, by the Abolition government at Washington. They must help to conquer us, or aid us in our defense. We cannot doubt the result The miserable fanatics and charlatans at Washington are pursuing the very course of policy we most earnestly desire them to pursue, and will defeat and destroy their power for evil in their effort to exercise it. We deprecate war; but we frankly confess, that if war is necessary to consolidate the South, it is far preferable to the slaveholding States being divided. It is very far preferable to a preferable to a mixed confederacy of slave and free States. The demonstration of war upon the South will, however, prevent war, by raising up such a power to meet it, through a united, South, as will ensure its defeat.-Charleston Mercury.
A writer in De Bow's Review, the ablest of the Southern magazines, gets quite beside himself in talking of the North. Hear him!
"Our Southern women are all conservatives, moral, religious and sensitively modest, and abhor the North for infidelity, gross immorality, licentiousness, anarchy and agrarianism. ‘T is they and the clergy who lead and direct the disunion movement. It is a gross mistake to suppose that abolition alone is the cause of dissension between the North and South. The Cavaliers, Jacobites and Huguenots, who settled the South, naturally hate, condemn and despise the Puritans, who settled the North. The former are master races-the latter a slave race, the descendants of the Saxon serfs. The former are Mediterranean races, descendants of the Romans; for Cavaliers and Jacobites are of Norman, descent, and so were the Huguenots. The Saxons and Anglos, the ancestors of the Yankees, came from the cold and marshy regions of the North,
<c03>
Where man is little more than a cold-blooded, amphibious biped.
We are the most aristocratic people in the world. Pride of caste and color and privilege makes every man an aristocrat in feeling. Aristocracy is the only safeguard of liberty, the only power watchful and strong enough to exclude monarchical despotism. At the North, the progress and tendency of opinion is to pure democracy, less government, anarchy and agrarianism. Their hatred of the South will accelerate this noxious current of opinion, and anarchy will soon wind up in military despotism. There will be as many little despots as there are now States, for no usurper will wield means sufficient to conquer or fuse into one several States. It will be a great improvement in Northern affairs, and is far preferable to Northern Democracy, agrarianism, infidelity and free love."
As a commentary upon this, look at this extract from the Charleston correspondence of the Tribune:
"Having now lived in this hotbed of pro-slavery feeling for some time, I cannot help expressing my honest conviction of that truth which you have often inculcated-viz: that slavery is more debasing to the white man than to the negro; but, if debasing to the man, how humiliating is it to the woman! There are many instances in this city of men who breed children from their own father's children, and who do it in their own houses, and under the immediate notice of their own wives."
The New Orleans Delta-the organ of the buccaneering horde which makes that city its head quarters-thus speaks of the enlightened masses of the Free States. The last we heard from the Delta, (says the Boston Transcript,) its agent was in Boston soliciting subscribers, on the ground that it was a Union paper. He obtained about a hundred names, at ten dollars each. That paper now says:-
"There is no doubt that the Northern people are at this moment fit representatives of the barbarian hordes which formerly devastated the world. They are furnishing the very best evidences that they are incapable of thorough civilization; that they possess only the outward symbols of modern enlightenment, while they are by nature cruel, blood-thirsty, arrogant and boastful. But there is really very little danger to be feared from them. Civilization no longer stands in dread of barbarism. One race of savages has already been expelled from the country; but not that it may fall into the hands of another. The Northern people may exhibit all the ferocity of the Huns, but they will never find an Attila to lead them to the conquest of the South."
The following article, copied from the Richmond Examiner, is a choice specimen of the appeals put forth to concentrate a rebel force on Washington:-
"The capture of Washington city is perfectly within the power of Virginia and Maryland, if Virginia will only make the proper effort by her constituted authorities; nor is there a single moment to lose. The entire population pant for the onset; there never was half the unanimity amongst the people before, not a tithe of the zeal, upon any subject, that is now manifested to take Washington, and drive from it every Black Republican who is a dweller there. From the mountain tops and valleys to the shores of the sea, there is one wild shout of fierce resolve to capture Washington at all and every human hazard. The filthy cage of unclean birds must and will assuredly be purified by fire. The people are determined upon it, and are clamorous for a leader to conduct them to the onslaught. That leader will assuredly arise, aye, and that right speedily.
"It is not to be endured that this flight of Abolition harpies shall come down from the black North for their roosts in the heart of the South, to defile and brutalize the land. They come as our enemies-they act as our most deadly foes-they promise us bloodshed and fire, and this is the only promise they have ever redeemed. The fanatical yell for the immediate subjugation of the whole South is going up hourly from united voices of all the North; and for the purpose of making their work sure, they have determined to hold Washington city as the point from whence to carry on their brutal warfare.
"Our people can take it-they will take it-and Scott, the arch traitor, and Lincoln, the beast, combined, cannot prevent it. The just indignation of an outraged and deeply injured people will teach the Illinois Ape to repent his course, and retrace his journey across the borders of the free negro States still more rapidly than he came; and Scott, the traitor, will be given an opportunity at the same time to try the difference between ' Scott's tactics' and the Shanghai drill for quick movements.
"Great cleansing and purification are needed, and will be given to the festering sink of iniquity, that wallow of Lincoln and Scott-the desecrated city of Washington-and many indeed will be the carcasses of dogs and caitiffs that will blacken the air upon the gallows, before the great work is accomplished. So let it be."
"The rapid enlistment at the North of ‘Dead Rabbits,' 'Plug Uglies, 'Blood Tubs,' 'Jackie’s,' 'Soap Locks,' 'Bar-room Loungers,' ' Loafers,' 'Wharf-Rats,' 'Thieves' and 'Pick-Pockets,' reminds us that it is time we had begun to organize, and prepare to defend our wives, our sisters, and our little ones from the menaces of a lawless horde that is now preparing for a descent upon our sacred hearthstones. Thousands of vagabonds at the North, with nothing else to do, are enlisting, not only for their bread, but the plunder that they expect to place their lawless grip upon. Men who have nothing to lose make the best thieves, and the outlawed scoundrels who are now filling the ranks of the Black Republican army are men who have no interest in common with humanity. Their nature is to prey upon their species, and they are prepared, like all other free-booters, to cut the throats of their neighbors, their fathers, or their brothers, for the sake of gold!
"To call them Judases would be a compliment, for that fallen disciple must have been possessed of the devil, and was prompted to betray and deliver the body of Christ, more by the influence of his Satanic Majesty than for the sake of the filthy lucre. But these mercenary hirelings, these ARNOLDS, are influenced alone by the thirty pieces of silver, and are not possessed of a sentiment half so sublime as that which the devil placed in the bosom of Judas.
"Is it to be supposed then, that the CUT-THROATS AND ASSASSINS, who sell themselves to the Typhon at Babylonish Washington, for Gold, for Booty, and for Beauty, will spare our homes and our household goods? Let no man lay that ‘flattering unction to his soul,’ but rather let us prepare for their defence, and wall them in with bristling bayonets, determined hearts and willing hands."-Norfolk Day Book.
We are ready for action-they are getting ready to prepare to act. They may raise plenty of men-men who prefer enlisting to starvation, scurvy fellows from the back slums of cities, whom Flagstaff would not have marched through Coventry with;
<c04>
but these recruits are not soldiers, least of all the soldiers to meet the hot-blooded, thorough-bred, impetuous men of the South Trencher soldiers who enlisted to war on their rations; not on men, they are-such as marched through Baltimore-squalid, wretched, ragged and half-naked, as the newspapers of that city report them. Fellows who do not know the breech of a musket from its muzzle, and had rather filch a handkerchief than fight an enemy in manly combat. White slaves, peddling wretches, small-change knaves and vagrants, the dregs and off-scourings of the populace-these are the levied "forces" whom Lincoln suddenly arrays as candidates for the honor of being slaughtered by gentlemen such as Mobile sent to battle yesterday. Let them come South, and we will put our negroes to the dirty work of killing them. But they will not come South. Not a wretch of them will live on this side of the border longer than it will take us to reach the ground, and drive them over.
Mobile is sending forth to wage this war of independence, the noblest and bravest of her sons. It is expensive, extravagant to put such material against the riff-reff of mercenaries whom the abolition power has called out to war upon us. We could almost hope that a better class of men would fall into the Northern ranks, that our gentlemen might find foe-men worthy of their steel, whom it would be more difficult to conquer, and whose conquering would be more honorable. For the present, however, we need not expect to find any foe worth fighting, with the exception of a few regiments, for the North is now getting ready, and will likely be whipped before it is ready.-Mobile Evening News.
YANKEES COMING. It is reported that one or more regiments from Massachusetts are about to be thrown upon the soil of Virginia. This is the first time that military ardor has inflamed the people of that State so much as to send an army so far from home.
During the Revolution, when we were fighting for a common cause, and when the bones of Virginians whitened every battle-field at the North, and at a time, too, when our State was over run by a foreign foe, we could not get a man from Massachusetts to help us. The war cloud no longer hung over them, and they were content to leave us to our fate. As this is their first military visit to this region, we cannot do less than to fervently pray that every man of them may find a comfortable grave.-Portsmouth (Va.) Transcript.
A squad of Massachusetts militia, confronted by an equal number of Mississippi riflemen, would make better time than ever Lexington made over the Metaire course. Massachusetts pluck and prowess are terrible on paper, but on paper only. The downeasters of Massachusetts are now avowing their ability and their intention of whipping the Southerners, to use their own classic language, "to all darnation." When it comes to the pinch, they will simmer down more quickly than the well-known individual, whose call for the man that struck Billy Patterson was so promptly and unexpectedly answered. The South, so it is threatened, is to be invaded by an army of codfish and onion-fed warriors from the State of Maine. At the first fire from Bragg's or Beauregard's battery, they will scatter like a parcel of young chickens when they see the hungry hawk swooping down on them from the upper air.-New Orleans Crescent.
The cowardly "eighteen millions" North, told us we should not leave the Union. We did it openly and boldly, and they humbly acknowledge our government "as a necessity." They shouted the praises of the "stars and stripes," and dared the chivalry" "to touch the sacred emblem." We have torn it down; we have placed in its stead the flag of the Confederate States; we have dared them to " coerce" us, and resent the insult; we have invited their vaunted numbers to the field; but the only cry that comes from the craven dogs is, " military necessity"; "give up the forts"; "withdraw the troops"; let us "eat dirt and live." It is sickening to think of ever having lived in the same government with such a people; but let us rejoice at our separation, and look southward. The game North is beneath contempt, while, Mexico invites us, by invasion of Texas, to reenact our former achievements.-Houston (Texas) Patriot.
The following gem is taken from the Memphis Avalanche of last Friday:-
"We predict that Jeff. Davis will be on the banks of the Hudson within thirty days; that Mr. Lincoln will fly, with what little may be scraped together from a bankrupt Treasury, from Washington, and that Gen. Scott will bear him company; that nothing will be left a month hence of the Old Union, except possibly New England; and that the special session of Congress, called for the Fourth of July, will not meet nearer Washington than Portland, Maine, if ever it meets at all."
THE VIRGINIA PRESS. The tone of at least a part of the press may be judged from the following from the Richmond Examiner, edited by a recent representative of our Government abroad. He says:
"Virginia is the particular object of abolition envy, hatred and arrogance. As the doomed and damned of Tophet hate the blessed in Paradise, so do the mean, hungry, avaricious, lying, cheating, hypocritical, cunning, cowardly Yankees hate the high-toned, elevated Southerner, but, above all, the Virginian."
The Savannah Republican, in announcing that war had begun in the right place, at Baltimore, says:
"The people of the Monumental City were right in arresting the progress of an army raised to shoot down their Southern brethren. We hope they will keep up the good work, and even strike at home for their honor and independence. There are slumbering fires, not only in Maryland but in States North of her, that await only an opportunity to burst forth, and when they appear, we may look out for a revolution that the world now little expects. Thank God! the time has arrived when these minions of Abolition can never plant a foot South of the Potomac. Virginia will see to it, if tried, that they repent the experiment."
The people of the North are either scared half out of their senses, or they are endeavoring to frighten us with their war bluster. By all accounts they are raking their country from one extreme to the other to catch every poor vagabond that they can either coax, buy or force to enlist.-Savannah News.
The following gem is from the New Orleans Delta:
"It is said that affairs in New York are in a very gloomy state, and that the people have no hopes of a better future state. Of course they haven’t-Heaven wasn’t intended for Black Republicans."
<c05>
A MODEL LETTER FROM A BALTIMORE SECESSIONST. One of the valiant secessionists of Baltimore has written the following curious letter to his brother, a Union man:-
"Baltimore, Md., April 25, 1861.
My Dear Brother,-I received your letter yesterday. All glad to hear from you. We have had stirring times in Baltimore since last Friday. We have driven back the hordes of Negro-worshippers from the North. It is really laughable to read the extracts from the New York papers about sacking and burning our city, when we have fed the half-starved slaves of Lincoln. On last Monday, we sent three car-loads of bread to the Pennsylvania paupers sent to attack us, and Baltimore told Lincoln to order them home, and he obeyed her. You have no idea of the war spirit here. Man and boy are all ready for the attempt to destroy us. In twelve hours, we could have 60,000 men under arms, all eager for the fray. New York is a ruined city; the South is done with her forever; her attitude towards her will not be forgotten soon. Maryland is out of the hateful Union-this will be the battle-ground. I beseech you not to volunteer against your native State. Your brothers and nephews will be in the ranks of old Maryland. I am so much excited that I cannot write any more. I am a rebel.
Your affectionate brother,
HOW THE NATCHEZ PEOPLE FELT. The people of Natchez heard, on the same day, that Gen. Scott had resigned, that the Pennsylvania troops were attacked in Baltimore, and that war was then going on in that city. The Free Trader says of its effects:-
"Forthwith, our citizens thronged the streets, the bells of all the churches and public buildings rang out a long-continued, merry peal, sky-rockets and fire-works lit up the night, guns were fired, the cannon roared, and the people shouted most lustily and harmoniously. A grand mass meeting, gathered in ten minutes' notice, was held at the Court House, which, with its surrounding grounds and the adjoining streets, was thronged. Speeches were made by sundry citizens, interrupted by frequent applause and cheering. Natchez never was so grand, nor her people so jubilant. The pen fails to make the. record a just one. We are hoarse with shouting and exalted with jubilancy."
We are curious to hear how they felt the next day, or when they heard the correct news. It must have been something like the feelings of the Negro who rolled in the dirt for nothing, when he supposed he heard the preaching of White field.
The Richmond Whig, April 22, has two brief but significant paragraphs. Here is one, double-leaded, printed with italics:-
"THE SITUATION!-There cannot be a doubt about one thing, that the palpable and imperative policy of Virginia is an infant, thorough and cordial union with the whole South. It is vital and indispensable to drive back the threatened invasion, and carry terror and war into the heart of the enemy. Junior-perfect union-renders us invincible at home and irresistible abroad. A word to the wise."
From the other, we take the following:-
"The calculation is, that from 30 to 40.000 men may be gathered in thirty days for the defense of Washington, which is conceded to be the weak point. In sixty days, at farthest, it is believed the metropolis may be rendered impregnable. This calculation does not take into consideration the secession of Virginia-a fact not then known-nor the indomitable pluck of Maryland, as lately exhibited in the streets of Baltimore. It rests on the supposition, that the Yankees will be permitted to carry out their plan without hindrance from any quarter-and especially, that Jeff. Davis shall not reach the Potomac in sixty days. The happening of any such rash proceeding as this, on the part of the impetuous rebel, it is very frankly confessed, would mar a great many fine schemes. On this point we can, luckily, relieve the fears of the philosopher of the Tribune. Jeff. Davis has no thought in the world of being on the Potomac sixty days from this time. According to our reckoning, the banks of the Hudson are not more than thirty days' march from Montgomery!"
The Charleston Mercury, after saying that the officers clothed with power by the voice of the people, "would fly like rats out of a burning barn," out-Herod's Herod thus:-
"Let them go. Do not pollute the soil of Virginia or Maryland with their mean blood. Let them go. To keep them in Washington, after Virginia and Maryland have seceded, you will have to put them in a three-story jail. Do not dignify them by chasing them-much less killing them."
The Daily Journal, at Wilmington, N. C, April 20, thus announced the Baltimore attack on Massachusetts troops:-
"Already, blood has been shed in the streets of Baltimore by the Massachusetts troops, who last evening fired upon the mere crowd of citizens assembled. The feeling in Baltimore, as the dead bodies of her slaughtered citizens were carried through the streets, was terrible. Governor Hicks cannot control Maryland, nor lead her against her sisters of the South. The Southern flag has been raised there. The great majority of the people of Maryland, now that the issue has been made up, will take the side of the South.
Owing to the unprepared state of the Marylanders, the Massachusetts troops, or a portion of them, got through Baltimore, and arrived in Washington last night. The New Yorkers, it is said, did not. They ought to render the roads impassable, and we suppose they will."
The Southern Federal Union, Milledgeville, Ga., April 23, says:-
"But one course is left for all honorable Southern men to pursue: that is, to get ready for battle. The man that doubts is damned; he that dallies is a dastard. We feel no apprehension as to the patriotism of the people of the Confederate States. An army of seventy-five thousand men, backed by volunteers from the Border States, will soon be organized by President Davis. But we must not only be ready to defend our homes, our families and firesides: we must can the war into Africa. We must attack the Black Republican citadel, and drive out its infamous garrison. Let Washington city be the point of attack, and an army of 100,000 men be marched against it."
The sort of stuff which passes for news in the Southern States seems to be growing more and more absurd. For instance, in the Charleston Courier, of April 29, we find these items:—
"We learn from a passenger from Passenger from Philadelphia, that one day last week, at Havre-de-Grace, three of the Northern volunteers who were marched from the North refused to go any further, assigning as a reason that they did not volunteer to go into a war of invasion upon the South. An officer who was
<c06>
standing by instantly cut and hacked two of the, inert to pieces. A third, who took the same, ground, gave vent to a similar expression for the Union
cut Ms own throat from ear to ear, rather than allow himself to be hacked to pieces.
Mob law [in New York city] is triumphant, and Southern men, or those known to sympathize with the South, are in constant danger of their lives. Vigilance committees visit the houses of the wealthy, and every man is heavily assessed for the support of the families of those who have volunteered their services to the Administration. Assessments of $5,000, $3,000 and $2,000 on large houses are said to be very common. Those merchants who refuse, or make the slightest hesitation, are threatened with the cleaning out of their stores, and several already have been emptied by the mob.
Three men were set upon in Florence Hotel, New York, and two killed, for expressing sympathy with the South.
Merchants are packing off their clerks, and it is said that several large manufactories have been stopped with a view of forcing the operatives into the ranks of the volunteer soldiery."
This is a pretty good dose for one day’s rations. The story that Munchausen is dead is evidently incorrect.
The Mobile Register of May 1st cheats itself and its readers with the following delectable romances:
"The Massachusetts troops which were so roughly handled by the people of Baltimore, were half armed, badly clothed, and nearly starved. Their colonel behaved like a dastard, gave his men the order to 'run,' and sheltered himself under the wing of the Mayor.
At Gosport, where by Lincoln’s order the public property was burned, all the accounts show that the naval and military officers and men to whom that vandal work was entrusted, behaved in a most cowardly manner, and all hands were drunk, from Commodore McCauley down.
The 5000 rowdies who have seized Cairo are represented as the scourings of the city of Chicago and other Western towns, and they amuse themselves with stopping unarmed boats and stealing hen-coops. An eye-witness says that 1000 firm Southern men could run them from the town, unless the mosquitoes and chills and fever save them the trouble in the meantime. Throughout the war, so far, not one act of courage, not one symptom of generalship and soldierly feeling or ability, have been displayed. Lincoln himself is frightened to death, keeps up his spirits by pouring spirits down, sleeps with his boots on, and his ‘cap and cloak' at hand, with his palace filled with armed men to guard his sacred person. The Government, and the military and the press in its service, are exhibiting at every step unmistakable signs of trepidation.
Woe be to the Northern battalions that meet the first shock and outburst of the fiery valor and fierce indignation that have fused in one compact mass the entire Southern mind and heart! If the war lasts five years, the terms of peace will be dictated at the gales of Boston, But the war will not last so long. The day is not far distant when the North will sue for peace. Until it does, the policy as well as the will of the South is to give them war to their heart’s content-war to the knife and to the hilt."
The Charleston Mercury claims the privilege of the citizen soldiers of the Palmetto State to show the South the way to Washington. Here is a citation from the Mississippian, of Jackson, April 23:-
"It seems that Washington City is the destination of most of Lincoln’s levies. He is evidently determined to secure the protection of his own person against the approaches of the "secessionists,’ who doubtless haunt his midnight dreams. He could not play his card more effectually in the interest of the South. When he collects" as many of his trainbands around him as he may deem essential to his safety, the armies of the South will close in upon them, as the hunter draws his net upon the luckless covey that find their way into its folds in the blindness of ignorance and fear. Maryland and Virginia have joined the South in time to participate in this rare sport."
We are informed that Mr. G. C. Hale, of Antigua county, yesterday tendered to Gov. Moore the services of a company of negroes, to assist in driving back the horde of abolition sycophants who are now talking so flippantly of reducing to a conquered province the Confederate States of the South. He agrees to command them himself, and guarantees that they will do effective service. What will our Black Republican enemies think of such a movement as this? We have frequently heard the slaves who accompanied their masters to "the "scene of action" assert that when fighting was to be done, they wanted to shoulder their muskets, and do their share of it; and we have not a shadow of doubt but what they would be found perfectly reliable. An idea seems to have prevailed at the North that, in the event of a war between the two sections, the slaves would become rebellious. Let them no longer, lay this flattering unction to their souls. It will avail them nothing.-Montgomery Mail.
Well, well: we understand that sort of palaver perfectly. Tell us whether the services of the negroes were accepted.
The following is an extract of a letter from New Orleans, dated April 10:-
"I start in a few days at the head of a thousand of the best men you ever saw, with Maynard rifles and Colt’s navy revolvers. We think we can whip five Abolitionists to one of us. We may meet some of you at Washington-if so, look out for the top of your heads at a thousand yards."
The Raleigh (N M C.) Banner, urging an attack upon Washington, says:-
"The army of the South will be composed of the best material that ever yet made up an army whilst that of Lincoln will be gathered from the sewers of the cities-the degraded, beastly off-scourings of all quarters of the world will serve for pay, and run away just as soon as they can, when danger threatens them."
The following insulting letter has been sent to the President, who is in frequent receipt of such malignant effusions:-
"DEMOPOLIS, Alabama,
Confederate States of America, Apr. 1861.)
His Excellency, Abraham Lincoln:
SIR,-I have just read your proclamation calling for 75,000 mercenaries to invade these States. With all proper respect, I offer you a wager of $50,000 that we meet you half way, and whip you and your Yankee hosts. 
"Respectfully,
Alfred hatch.
P. S. If the bet is accepted, the money will be deposited in the Farmers' Bank of Virginia."
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republies, was ever invested with such as odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Halt of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insults the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of the riches and of slavery. There is no mean inn the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the Eastern (London) Times of April 27.
THE BAPTIST UNION.
American Slavery-Case of Dr. Baron Stow.
The annual session of this body was held in the Library of the Mission House, Moorgate-street, on the 19th instant.
The Annual Report was read by the Rev. J. H. Hinton, the Secretary, from which it appeared that a far greater average increase had been made recently to the churches than at any previous period.
On the motion to accept the report,
The Rev. J. Webb, of Ipswich, rose to inquire if a letter had not been received from Dr. Baron Stow, resigning his office as corresponding member?
The Secretary replied that such a letter had been received, and subsequently a second letter, recalling the resignation. He held the correspondence in his hand, and. if called for, it could be read to the Union. Part of the communications were official, and part not so. The correspondence was, by request, then read. There was no reference to slavery in it. Dr. Stow complained that prominent members of the Baptist Union had taken part in the proceedings of the London Baptist Board of ministers, a body which had censured him, and that self-respect required him to decline being the corresponding member of the Baptist Union. At a committee meeting of the Baptist Union, the Secretary announced the reception and purport of the letter, and it was decided in the committee that it should be laid before the Baptist Union at its annual meeting. At another committee meeting, however, it was suggested by Mr. E. B. Underhill that Dr. Stow had probably confounded the two distinct bodies, the London Baptist Board, and the Baptist Union, whereupon the Secretary wrote a letter to Dr. Stow, explaining the difference, and stating that the former body was composed of about sixty ministers-the latter was an association of a thousand churches; and although he (the Secretary) was chairman at the meeting complained of, he did not approve of what was done; and that only one other prominent member of the Union was present, the Rev. C. Stovel, who expressed at the meeting a willingness to lay the report aside, which had been presented, and was eventually adopted.
Some slips of newspapers were also read, one from the pen of Dr. Evans, of Scarborough, deprecating the conduct of the Baptist Board of ministers; it was published in the New York Chronicle. Owing to these communications, Dr. Baron Stow wrote a second letter, recalling his resignation.
The Rev. C. Stovel. of Whitechapel, rose and remarked that in the observations he had made at the Baptist Board, and which the Secretary had alluded to in the correspondence before them, he had simply wished to change the question from its personal aspect to 
the great issues of the slavery question, He did not know previously that so much prominence had been given to the matter. He held that the churches were bound by their duty to Christ to show constant opposition to slavery. There was no ground to believe that Dr. Baron Stow was the man to be a corresponding member of the Union. Such had been his conduct on the slavery question that he ought not to be countenanced. In the correspondence, too, with him, just read, the animus of the Baptist Board had not been fairly represented nor ought members to throw one another overboard in the way the correspondence evinced had been done. Our churches should maintain their consistency in this matter. An interposition of Providence could never have been more distinctly seen than was shown when the letter against slavery was sent by the Board in 1833, and in its anti-slavery efforts since. In reproving one in complicity with slavery, he would try as little as possible to irritate his feelings. He pleaded for such charity, but he pleaded also for the charily that pitied four millions of slaves. He thought the harmony of this Union should not be sacrificed to the corresponding membership of one individual. They should value their Union more than that. He thought those who in their correspondence created such an impression as the letters evinced ought not to be continued in office. He moved that the letters now read be published, that the resignation of Dr. Stow be accepted, that the Rev. A. L. Post be the corresponding member, and that an address on slavery be sent to America.
The Rev. J. S. Stanton, of Stoke Newington. seconded the motion, in a brief but most able speech.
The Rev. W. Robinson, of Cambridge. Who is the Rev. A. L. Post?
An inquiry was made whether the resignation of Dr. Baron Stow could be accepted, seeing it had been withdrawn.
The Rev. Dr. Steane, of Camberwell. I wish to observe that my health is very infirm. I am about to go to the sea-side, and cannot remain to take part in the future proceedings, but I must, before going, deliver my conscience. I think Dr. Baron Stow has been most deeply injured, without any cause. I deprecate the course taken by the Baptist Board. Why should an unmitigated stigma, one of the greatest, be inflicted on Dr. Baron Stow? In these remarks. I hope it will not be necessary for me to say that I am an opponent of slavery.
The Rev. W. Barker observed, that as Secretary of the Baptist Board, he had brought with him the records, and could furnish evidence on any point desired, respecting slavery for thirty years. He gave an account of the proceedings of the Committee of the Union, in reference to the resignation letter of Dr. Baron Stow, and contended that as the Committee had decided to refer the letter to the Union, it was now regularly before the body, and the resignation could be accepted.
Mr. E. B. Underwood made a speech in favor of setting the whole subject aside.
Rev. C. Stovel showed that the last speaker had carefully set up a man of straw, and successfully demolished it. I have (added the reverend gentleman) furnished arguments, but am unable to impart the power of perception.
The Rev. J. Stent, of Notting-hill, moved as an amendment, that the correspondence be not inserted in the Report.
The Rev. R Morris, of Clifton, Bristol, seconded the motion, and complained of the unhappy controversy which in past times, and now again, had been introduced into the body, specifying the discussion on the corn laws. These discussions he regarded as sad things.
The chair ruled that the motion was not in order.
The previous question was moved and carried, which closed the discussion on the publication of the correspondence.
Rev. C. Stovel gave a brief sketch of the life and anti-slavery labors of the Rev. A. L. Post. He felt glad that in America there were men who would stand in the front rank of those who devotedly pleaded for four millions of slaves. If at home it is our business to check profligacy and bloodshed-if we ought to resist the most fearful form of jealousy, nourished in Christian homes, on the ground of its sinfulness-if it was right for us to oppose slavery in Jamaica-then why ought we not, by the same rule of duty, to oppose slavery in America? You aided, by your efforts, to dash the fetters from 800,000 slaves in the West Indies; and think you that Knibb would have mourned and complained because you were discussing the slavery question? In that controversy, we had to act in opposition to the feelings of many, who afterwards expressed their gratitude to us for our efforts; and if you are faithful to Baron Stow, in this matter, it may be he will yet thank you for your faithfulness. Once he opposed slavery, and denounced it as a heinous sin, but in 1840 he shifted his ground, I shall not say for what reasons, and since that time he has not preached a sermon nor printed a page against slavery. Does not this show the necessity of guarding against slavery in its injurious influence on ministers and the Church of God? While it is pleaded that we should be charitable towards Baron Stow, I plead for charity towards those who, while laboring for the slave, are persecuted on that account. Such is A, L. Post: such is Brother Grosvenor, who, because he labored for the slave, endured great pecuniary trials, and had his spirit almost crushed out of him. I hope, however, he will soon be in England. I hoped to have seen him at this meeting. Finally, it should be borne in mind that many English Baptist Churches sympathize with me in the views I have expressed. I hope, therefore, that the exchange contemplated will take place, and that the resolution will be adopted.
Rev. J. Stent thought that a gentleman, about whom such a diversity of opinion existed, ought not to be a. correspondent of the Union, and thought that the correspondence, part of which was private, ought not to be published. He wished, however, that the Union should have a correspondent in America, representing there the anti-slavery sympathies of the Union. He also expressed his regret
<c02>
that correspondents writing to America had singled out honored brethren and written against them, while they were unconscious of it, and those statements were being widely circulated in America. He did hope such conduct would not be repeated.
Dr. Jabez Burns, of Paddington, fully agreed with the proposition that the American corresponding member of the Union should be above all suspicion on the slavery question. He should hold our views in regard to slavery.
Mr. E. B. Underhill defended Dr. Stow in an elaborate speech, censuring the Baptist Board because it censured Dr. Stow. He did not attempt to disprove a single fact on which the censure rested.
The Rev. J. Webb would be glad if the discussion could be stayed for the purpose of refreshments. ("Go on, go on.") He thought there was a disposition to place more value on the Union than on the Baptist Missionary Committee. I beg to say that the Missionary Board is guiltless. It was proposed that Dr. Stow should be introduced to the British public by the Missionary Board. Some objections were made in consequence of his course on the slavery question. A discussion arose, and Dr. Stow was admitted, much to the umbrage of some of the members. We dined, and some one told Dr. Stow what had taken place. He rose, and represented himself as an anti-slavery man, decidedly so. After that, I did learn that he had vacillated on the question. I hold in my hand the proof, and am prepared to maintain that he has done so. He condescended to accept the pastorship of a church that has a clause in its trust-deed-(a voice," pewdeed";) well, pew-deed, then, that prohibited the letting it to a black person. By that act, he disqualified himself from being a corresponding member of this Union. Mr. Webb proceeded to read portions of the letters which were published in the "Mirror of the Anti-Slavery Struggle" in which Dr. Stow censured the Abolitionists, and eulogized the piety of slaveholders, expressing his willingness to fellowship them.
Such were the statements of Baron Stow. It has been said that Abolitionists were Atheists. Now don't brand me as an Atheist; but I must say that if Atheists are opposed to slavery, I am glad they are right in that thing, and I confess that I have more respect for an avowed Atheist opposed to slavery than for a canting hypocrite pretending to religion, and yet supporting slavery. In all that has been said in support of Baron Stow, not one fact has been adduced. But I judge of him by his course throughout this whole struggle. One of the Secretaries of the Baptist Missionary Society told me he had no opinion of a man who did not look with disapprobation on those who were in complicity with slaveholders. I plead for four millions of slaves, crushed by the fearful slave system. I hope your decision will show that you have hearts to feel for the down-trodden slaves, and I earnestly hope that the leprosy of slavery may not be permitted to 
creep into our churches, or into this body, and anticipate that you will, in this, agree with me. The Rev. W. Elliott. I wish to present, from your own records, some resolutions that will produce harmony. Let them be adopted; and I hope Dr. Baron Stow will place them before his brethren in America. He proceeded to read them. 
The resolutions condemned slavery as a sin, and censured the American churches for its continuance, because they retained slaveholders in their communion. They were adopted by the World's Anti-Slavery Convention, re-adopted by the Baptist Union, signed by W. H. Murch, Joseph Belcher, and Edward Steane, and sent to the American Baptists in 1840.
The Rev. J. J. Brown, of Birmingham, presented a substitute, embracing two points-first, thanking Dr. Stow for his services; second, electing the Rev. A. L. Post in his place.
These were moved as an amendment. The Chair ruled that they must be moved as a separate, motion. 
The Rev. C. Stovel hoped that the Union would I take such a position on slavery as it would permanently maintain.
The Rev. W. H. Bonner, of Newington, Surrey, rose to speak, but the Rev. W. Robinson, of Cambridge, obtained the floor. He thought the censure on Baron Stow was inquisitorial. If Baron Stow came to England, he should welcome him to his heart, his house, and his pulpit. There were a few people in America who held extreme views on this question. Had we been treated as Baron Stow has been, we should have set up our bristles. I do beseech you, with all the weight of the influence of my grey hairs, that you will not proceed in this course.
Dr. Davies, of Regent's Park College. I am not given to talk, but would just say I have been in that country, and know the effect which will be produced on the Americans by your course. I can judge of the circumstances in which they are placed. There are some in America of whom you would no more approve respecting their efforts against slavery, than you could of O'Connor himself. I conversed with Moses Stuart, who, from feelings of regard for his country, wrote in defence of the Fugitive Slave Law. I knew Dr. Sharp; both were right-hearted men. Under the idea that it would save their country from convulsion, they made concessions to slaveholders. I saw Moses Stuart afterwards: he told me he hoped to give peace to his country by what he had done, but they had not earned out the measure in the way he anticipated, and he felt disappointed. We must consider the circumstances in which they are placed, and not denounce them as pro-slavery because they do not go with Garrison or Post. You would not have gone with O'Connor. You should look at the entire confederacy. Unless you understand their feelings, they will say, when you address them, we are entirely misunderstood. It has been said, Who is Mr. Post? He is as unsuitable to represent the American Baptists, as the late Mr. Gadsby of Manchester would have been to represent the English Baptists. He is not the man for the office.
The Rev. Edward Mathews, of America. I beg leave to deny the statement, and ask for the proof. Dr. Davis. Mr. Post represents but a fragment of the American Baptists. I knew Dr. Williams and other American ministers, and in regard to Dr. Baron Stow, I must say he is most worthy of our esteem and confidence.
The Rev. W. H. Bonner, of Newington, Surrey. I would throw myself on the kindness and sense of justice of the brethren. (Cries of vote, vote, question, question, Bonner.) I am an Englishman, and a Christian minister, and (folding his arms) shall stand here till I am heard. For one, I object to the idea that this is a party question. It is not so. Nor have we in any unkind spirit reflected on Dr. Baron Stow. It is a great public question, and is no further personal than the complicity of persons with slavery made it so. In the anti-slavery ranks in America, there may be one or two infidels. But this is not Baron Stow's reason for not uniting in the anti-slavery cause. Does he unite with Dr. Cheever? No! Does 
he unite with his own Baptist brethren engaged in the anti-slavery struggle? No! With no anti-slavery cause is he identified. (Cries of question, question.) I appeal as a Christian minister to Christian ministers, to be heard. The Freeman introduced Baron Stow to the Baptist ministers and churches, as right on the slavery question. But various indisputable facts have proved that he is in complicity with slaveholders. Ought this to be done? And why, I ask, is the American Baptist Free Mission Society ignored?-a body laboring and toiling for the emancipation of the slaves. Yet Dr. Baron Stow who welcomes to his pulpit Dr. Fuller, a man holding more than one hundred slaves, is welcomed on coming to England. He 
is eulogized as worthy of confidence. I object to the vote of thanks proposed to him, because as corresponding member, he has failed greatly in his duty. He ought to have kept us informed of the state of the anti-slavery struggle, which has been going on in America. He has not done so. Mr. Post is the worthy son of Judge Post, of Pennsylvania; he is a fitting correspondent, as was evinced by the Address he wrote responsive to the Baptist Board. He is an upright Post, (laughter,) sound, firm, not easily shaken, one that can be depended on, and can bear any amount of pressure that may be placed upon him. As to the evidence on which the Baptist Board censured Baron Stow, it cannot be contradicted. Mr. Bonner proceeded to express the hope that they would aid in promoting the abolition of slavery by countenancing those who, in the midst of the conflict, are laboring for emancipation. He closed, by observing that the cry of "Question" had caused him to present his thoughts in a more disjointed manner than he should have done had he proceeded without interruption.
The final vote was, that the Rev. A. L. Post be an additional corresponding member.
Rev. C. Stovel then read a very able and faithful Address on Slavery to the Churches of America, which was adopted, and ordered to be forwarded to America, after having been signed by the Chairman.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1861. 
SLAVE INSURREOTIONS
Some time since, a telegraphic dispatch from Annapolis gave the startling intelligence that Gen. Butler of this 
State "had offered the services of the Massachusetts troops, tinder his command, to aid the authorities 
of Maryland in suppressing a threatened 
slave insurrection." There was nothing in the antecedents of Gen. Butler to make us doubt the veracity of the statement: still, knowing how unreliable are telegraphic despatches in these troublous times, we chose to wait for its perfect authentication before making animadversions upon it. All uncertainty is now
 dispelled by the correspondence between Gov. Andrew and Gen. Butler, to be found in another coumn. 
The letter of Gov. Andrew is creditable to him, in the position he occupies. Gen. B's reply to it is marked by heartlessness, absurdity, and special pleading throughout; for, no matter what may be his natural, legal or military ability, it is not in his power to vindicate 
his conduct in this particular. 
He begins by acknowledging that he was accurately reported by the telegraph, and adds-"Fortunately for 
us all, the rumor of such an outbreak was without substantial 
foundation." Fortunate indeed! for what a revolting spectacle it would have been to have seen the Massachusetts troops, with liberty on their lips, and sent to maintain the general government against a widely extended slaveholding conspiracy, rallying to reduce to chains and slavery those who were struggling to recover their God-given, inalienable rights! In such a contest, if every one of those troops had found a bloody grave, the verdict of the world would have been-"Rightly served!" And if Gen. Butler had been the first to fall, he would have met a merited fate, and his memory been execrated in all coming time,-if Lexington and Bunker Hill are worthy of historic renown. As it is, he ought to
"Doff that lion's hide,
And hang a calfskin on those recreant limbs."
His rightful place is on the slave auction-block, or under the slave-driver's lash on Jefferson Davis's plantation, rather than the insurgent slave, who, animated by an unconquerable love of freedom, adopts the motto of Patrick Henry," Give me liberty, or give me death!" and acts accordingly.
There is no occasion for us here to reiterate our belief in the inviolability of human life, and the sacredness 
of the principles of peace; for this does not preclude us from measuring military chieftains and soldiers by their own standard, in order to show their hypocrisy and baseness. Gen. Butler glories in the revolutionary struggle of 1776; in the war of 1812; in resisting tyranny unto blood. He is at the head of the Massachusetts troops, ostensibly to put down traitors and usurpers, whose purpose it is to overthrow all free institutions, and substitute might for right. Yet he is ready, with his forces, at any moment, to "kill, slay and destroy" the most oppressed of the human race, or to reduce them again to hopeless captivity, if they shall attempt to obtain their freedom by the sword! This is a terrible paradox. Could a greater sin be committed against God, or a more shocking outrage be inflicted upon man? We trust Gen. Butler slanders the troops under his command, and that, sooner than they will consent to suppress a slave insurrection, they will choose to be court martialled and shot. What he would do, in such a case, he unblushingly proclaims to the world. And he claims to be a Democrat par excellence-an admirer of the Declaration of Independence-a devotee at the shrine of Liberty! Is not such effrontery astounding? Is not the hypocrisy which matches it intensely disgusting? What did Thomas Jefferson say of such conduct, and of the fate of the Southern slave population? 
"What a stupendous, what an incomprehensible machine is man! who can endure toil, famine, stripes, imprisonment, and death itself, in vindication of his own liberty, and, the next moment, be deaf to all those motives whose power supported him through his trial, and inflict on his fellow-men a bondage, one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which he rose in rebellion to oppose. But we must wait, with patience, the workings of an overruling Providence, and hope that that is preparing the deliverance of these our stiffening brethren. When the measure of their tears shall be full, when their groans shall have involved heaven itself in darkness, doubtless a God of justice will awaken to their distress, and, by diffusing light and liberality among their oppressors, or at length by his exterminating thunder, manifest his attention to the things of this world, and that they are not left to the guidance of a blind fatality."
Is not Gen. Butler "an incomprehensible machine," according to the definition of Thomas Jefferson? What else does Mr. Jefferson say? "Can the liberties of a nation be thought secure when we have removed their only firm basis-a conviction in the minds of the people that these liberties are the gift of God? that they are not to be violated but with his wrath? Indeed, I TREMBLE FOR MY COUNTRY
WHEN I REFLECT THAT GOD IS JUST; THAT HIS JUSTICE CANNOT SLEEP FOREVER; that, considering numbers, nature, and natural means only, a revolution of the wheel of fortune, an exchange of situation, is among possible events; that it may become probable by supernatural interference! The Almighty has no attribute which can take side with its in such a contest."
Gen. Butler, it appears, deems himself more than a match for the Almighty, with all his attributes, and is ready for a trial at arms! Again Mr. Jefferson says:
"THE HOUR OF EMANCIPATION IS ADVANCING, in the march of time. It will come; and, whether brought on by the generous energies of our own minds, or by the bloody process of St. Domingo, excited and conducted by the power of our present enemy, if once stationed permanently within our country, and offering asylum and arms to the oppressed, is a leaf of our history not yet turned over."
Emancipation will come, says Mr. Jefferson." No, it won't," says Gen. Butler," for I will prevent it by the aid of the Massachusetts troops!" It may come "by the bloody process of St. Domingo," says Mr. Jefferson, with no affectation of horror. "God forbid!" sentimentally exclaims Gen. Butler; "let the brutalities, too horrible to be named, that might visit the slaveholders and slave-traffickers in such a case, still be inflicted upon, and confined exclusively to, their miserable and guiltless victims; and then every thing will work charmingly for us!-unless the rebels resort to dishonorable means of defence, and resort to poison and the assassin's knife against me and my men, in which case they shall have the scenes of St. Domingo enacted in their direst aspect!"
It was in Maryland he volunteered to suppress a slave insurrection-after the pavements of Baltimore were stained by the blood of Massachusetts soldiers, treacherously skin while hastening to "defend the national capital against invading rebels-at the time the whole State was rotten with treason, all regular intercourse with Washington cut off by the traitors, he himself compelled to guard every foot of the railroad from Annapolis to Washington by a military detachment, and every requisition of President Lincoln for aid from Maryland had been spurned with contempt by Governor Hicks! It was on the morning following his landing at Annapolis," that he made the dastardly and brutal overture! He would not allow twenty-four hours to pass, without indicating his loyalty to that very system of slavery, out of which all these treasonable movements have as naturally emanated as streams of lava from Vesuvius, and which generate servile insurrections as the malaria does atmospheric convulsions! He was swift in purpose as a bloodhound on the track of a fugitive slave; apparently deeming it a very "patriotic" act to be identified with those "whose feet run to evil, and who make haste to shed innocent blood"! Surely, if any man should be deprived of his liberty, on the ground that he cannot be trusted with it, by a due regard to the safety and rights of others, it is Gen. Butter. 
In one sentence he says, "I landed on the soil of Maryland against the formal protest of its Governor, and of the corporate authorities of Annapolis." In the next, "I received from GOV. Hicks assurances of the loyalty of the State to the Union-assurances which sub.
<c04>
sequent events have fully justified"! Singular loyalty this! Why, at this very hour, the city of Baltimore is under martial law, and subjugated by Northern bayonets; and this is proclaimed to be a great Union triumph-so that bells were rung and illuminations made in honor of the event!

LETTER ON HAYTIEN EMIGRATION.
BOSTON, May 13,1861.
Messrs. George T. Downing, John V. De Grease, and Robert Morris:
GENTLEMEN-You apprise me of a meeting to be held this evening in Joy Street Church, in this city, by our colored fellow-citizens, with reference to the new scheme of Haytien emigration, and desire me to express my views respecting it. This I must do very briefly, for want of time to go into the consideration of the subject with that thoroughness which its importance demands.
It is well known to you, that I have always opposed the scheme of the American Colonization Society,-not because it proposed to aid such persons as might wish to go to Africa, in order to better their condition, for this might be a generous act under appropriate circumstances,-but solely on account of the iniquitous doctrines and hateful designs of that Society, all tending to perpetuate slavery, and to make the condition of the free colored population as hopeless as possible in this their native land. Let me congratulate you all, that the power of that Society for evil, to any considerable extent, has passed away by the general enlightenment of the public mind through the Anti-Slavery agitation.
Within a few months past, overtures have been made, by the President of Hayti, to colored Americans, to make themselves citizens of that republic. How ought these overtures to be regarded?
1. As to their nature. They are certainly generous, and unquestionably to be relied on as made in good faith.
2. As to the motive prompting them, on the part of the Haytien government. I see no reason to doubt its kindness and purity. It can have no design, from such a source, either to entrap emigrants, or to injure the cause of the colored people, whether bond or free, in this country. So broad and liberal an invitation is at least very strong, if not conclusive evidence that Hayti is advancing in civilization, wealth and enterprise, and aspires to be a populous and powerful nation.
3. As to the expediency of emigrating. This resolves itself simply into the question of individual feeling and choice; for, as no compulsion is connected with it, whoever goes will do so voluntarily; and this right of locomotion and adventure naturally belongs to every human being.
"The world is all before him where to choose,
And Providence his guide."
4. As to the probable results of it. No doubt, in many cases there will be good success; in others, disappointment and loss. Every thing will depend on the character and spirit of the emigrants. In all lands, some never fail to thrive; others are ever poor and shiftless. The cause is generally organic, and no change of circumstances can essentially alter it. Thus far, the emigrants appear to be satisfied with the change they have made, with a few exceptions.
If you desire to know whether, as a general rule, I would advise colored persons to emigrate to Hayti, even on the generous terms proposed by its government, my reply is, decidedly, no. Hence it is that I have given no encouragement to that scheme, or any other similar scheme, in the columns of the Liberator. One unavoidable evil attending it is to unsettle the minds of the colored people themselves, in regard to their future destiny; to inspire the mischievous belief, in the minds of the white people, that they can yet be effectually "got rid of"; and to keep law and custom unfriendly to them, so as to induce their departure to a foreign land. In proportion to the magnitude and success of the scheme will be this evil. A few thousands may be colonized without any perceptible effect of this kind; but plans for a general exodus, I believe, would have a very injurious effect upon the cause of the enslaved, and those already free. 
This is their native land. Here they are to remain as a people, as long as men are left to tread upon the soil; here they are gradually to rise in the scale of civilization and improvement; here their fetters are to be broken, and their rights restored. All the signs of the times indicate that a death-blow has been given to the accursed slave system; and when that shall be abolished, the way will be opened for a glorious redemption. Complexional prejudice shall then swiftly disappear, injurious distinctions cease, and peace and good will every where reign. Though I have not a word of censure to bestow upon any one emigrating to Hayti, but, on the contrary, wish him all possible success, yet I specially honor the colored man who cherishes this faith in the future, and is willing to stand firmly in his lot here, hard as it may be, manfully laboring for the" good time coming," at whatever cost to himself, and hopefully bearing his cross, which a just God shall eventually change into a crown of glory.
Your faithful and untiring advocate,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.

RESIGNATION OF FRANCIS JACKSON, ESQ.
BOSTON, May 1, 1861.
To the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society:
DEAR FRIENDS-I am admonished by failing health to decline a reelection to the office of Treasurer of the Society. In making this request, it is not my purpose to escape from any duty to the Society that I am able to perform, but only from that which is beyond my ability to fulfill.
For months past, my health has been too feeble to attend to any business, and I fear it may be so for months to come. Having held the office of Treasurer for the last seventeen years, I respectfully request the Society to discharge me from that office.
With the highest respect for the principles and measures of the Society, and the most ardent desire for the complete accomplishment of its mission,
FRANCIS JACKSON.
BOSTON, May 5, 1861.
DEAR MR. JACKSON-Your letter to the Executive Committee, announcing the necessity of your resigning the office of Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society on account of your long continued illness, was read at their last meeting, and listened to by every member with feelings of profound sympathy. Under the circumstances, they could with no propriety urge you to recall the resignation; and, accordingly, they regretfully accepted it-choosing as your successor our esteemed associate, WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., who kindly consented to serve, and whose eminent fitness will be pleasurably recognized by you.
We were desired to convey to you, in behalf of the Executive Committee, and also of the Society, an expression of their heartfelt gratitude for the disinterested, valuable and efficient service which you have so long rendered the Anti-Slavery cause as Treasurer, in addition to the discharge of other official duties, and the bestowal of a large amount of private labor and generous aid,-all given with an unreserved consecration and an unfaltering purpose worthy of the sacred object in view-namely, the liberation of every slave on the American soil. They proffer you their highest regards personally, and their earnest trust that you may be spared to witness the entire extinction of the slave system, (in view of which event, both heaven and earth will rejoice,) before you are summoned to enter a higher and wider sphere of existence.
In discharging this duty, we beg you to accept the assurances of our warmest esteem, and our profoundest veneration for your character.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON,
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
FRANCIS JACKSON, Esq.
<c05>
NO PROSCRIPTION OF CITIZENS.
The special session of the Legislature of Massachusetts 
convened in this city on Tuesday. It-will probably be a short but busy one, having particular reference to the warlike state of the country. The message of Gov. Andrews is highly patriotic and eloquent, and gives a detailed account of the action of the Commonwealth thus far. He says that this is no sectional war (it looks amazingly like it!)-it is waged to avenge no former wrongs, nor to perpetuate ancient griefs or memories of conflict; but it is the struggle of the people to vindicate their own rights, to retain and invigorate the institutions of their fathers; the majestic effort of a national government to vindicate its power, and execute its functions for the welfare and happiness of the people-(four millions of slaves not included, of course!) The disbursements for military purposes amount to $267,645, to which may be added about $100,000 to cover contracts for clothing and equipments ordered for future use.
The following petition, respectably signed by colored citizens of the State, has been presented to the Legislature, and ought to be attentively listened to and readily granted. It presents the question of the equality of acknowledged citizens, under the Constitution of the United States, in a lucid and cogent manner, leaving no room for cavilling or doubt:-
To the Hon. Senate and House of Representatives, in General Court assembled:
Your petitioners, colored citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully represent-
That, by the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth, their citizenship is as fully recognized as that of any other class of the inhabitants of the State-making them legally eligible to every office in the gift of the people, and therefore the vindication of their inalienable rights and immunities, as citizens of the United States, as sacred a duty, on the part of the State, as is the fulfillment by them of all the duties and obligations imposed by said citizenship;-
That they have never been wanting is patriotism, but have always exhibited the utmost loyalty to the country and to the Common wealth; notwithstanding the great national injustice to which they are in many ways subjected on account of their complexion;-
That, in order to enable them to display their patriotic zeal and unwavering loyalty in the most effective manner in this trial-hour of the republic, and to relieve them from an odious proscription which has so long and so unjustly been directed against them, and all others complexionally identified with them, by an illegal act of Congress; they earnestly desire your honorable body to cause to be stricken forthwith from the militia law of the State the odious word "white," by which they are now precluded from being enrolled in the militia, and thus disabled as citizens from defending the Commonwealth against its enemies.
Your aggrieved petitioners further respectfully submit, that no law of Congress, however long submitted to, which is clearly unconstitutional, or of questionable legality, ought to be permitted to control the legislative action of your honorable body;-
That such is the Congressional law, enrolling only "white" persons in the militia, to the exclusion of all other citizens;-
That this is rendered certain by the 2d Section of Article IV. of the Constitution of the United States, which expressly provides-" The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States"-thereby excluding all unjust and unnatural distinctions among citizens, whether pertaining to the militia or to any other service;-
That, while it is true that Congress is constitutionally empowered "to provide for organizing, arming and disciplining the militia," and" to make rules for the government and regulation of the land and naval forces," it is equally true that this is no warrant for the contemptible proscription of any class of bona fide citizens by Congress, on account of their complexion-the design of the power thus granted being clearly one of necessary arrangement and efficient enrolment, not of odious exclusion.
Congress, therefore, has no more authority to establish a complexional rule in regard to the militia of the several States, than it has to require uniformity in political or religious opinion, or to establish a monarchy. Hence, in enforcing such a rule, it has transcended its constitutional power.
Your petitioners claim, as recognized citizens of Massachusetts, that they ought to be permitted to test the validity of the act of Congress complained of, before the proper judicial tribunals; and to this end they ask the obliteration of the word "white" from the militia law of the State. 
All which is respectfully submitted.

THE SOUTH AND HER ALLIES.
The following spirited lines, copied by the Transcript from some Hartford paper, seem to me to express the prominent point in our country's position with a neat brevity and compactness reminding you of Punch:-
"ALL WE ASK IS, TO BE LET ALONE.'
As vonce I valked by a dismal svamp,
There sot an old Cove in the dark and damp,
And at everybody as passed that road,
A stick or a stone this Old Cove throwed.
And venever he flung his stick or his stone,
He'd set up a song of' Let me alone.'
'Let me alone, for I loves to shy
These bits of things at the passers by-
Let me alone, for I've got your tin
And lots of other traps snugly in-
Let me alone, I'm riggin' a boat
To grab votever you've got afloat-
In a veek or so I expects to come
And turn you out of your'ouse and'ome-
I'm a quiet Old Cove,' says he, with a groan:
'All I axes is-Let me alone.'
Just then came along, on the self-same vay,
Another Old Cove, and began for to say-
'Let you alone! That's comin' it strong!-
You've ben let alone-a darned sight too long-
Of all the sarce that ever I heerd!
Put down that stick! (You may well look skeered)-
Let go that stone! If you once show fight,
I'll knock you higher than ary kite.
You must have a lesson to stop your tricks,
And cure you of shying them stones and sticks,
And I'll have my hardware back, and my cash,
And knock your scow into tarnal smash,
And if ever I catches you 'round my ranch,
I'll string you up to the nearest branch.
The best you can do is to go to bed,
And keep a decent tongue in your head;
For I reckon, before you and I are done,
You'll wish you had let honest folks alone.'
The Old Cove stopped, and the t'other Old Cove
He sot quite still in his cypress grove,
And ho looked at his stick, revolvin' slow,
Vether t'were safe to shy it or no-
And ho grumbled on, in an injured tone,
'All that I axed vos, Let me alone.'"
This, as I said, is good, spirited and just. But
even satire fails to give full expression to the unspeakable 
effrontery of the Slave Power and its Northern supporters.
In the Journal of Commerce, for May 9th, are seven successive articles, from different hands, each not only deprecating war, and earnestly counseling peace, but each beseeching the North to make peace, and pointing her out as the guilty originator of the war. It is as if they united in addressing to the" second Old Cove," in the above story, an urgent remonstrance to keep the peace. This "sarce" is yet stronger than that pointed out by the satirist.
The first of the seven articles referred to contains the following compact and thorough-going specimen of impudent falsehood:-
"The Southern clergy look upon the war as waged without cause by the stronger against the weaker section, and feel themselves bound to do what they can to defend their altars and their homes."
This, be it remembered, is spoken against the second Old Cove, and in favor of the first. It is spoken against the President of the "United States and his fellow-administrators of the-government, who are standing still and waiting for their "'ouse and 'ome" to be attacked, (with a forbearance which the govern-
<c06>
ments of Europe must find it hard to distinguish from pusillanimity,)-and it is spoken in favor of a gang of unmitigated brigands, who, having robbed the United States of all its property accessible to them at home, have started Northward for a career of conquest and plunder, to be perpetrated upon men who are transacting their ordinary, lawful and proper business; business, moreover, formally entrusted to them by the nation of which these brigands are a constituent part! And, thereupon, the Southern clergy cheer on this expedition, and represent it as designed to "defend their altars and theirhomes"! Could outrageous mendacity go further?
The second of the articles referred to in the Journal of Commerce, bears the following title, in which the concentrated essence of "sarce" is interrogatively expressed:-
"AN APPEAL to professed Christians in the North. Are you willing to look on in silence-I will not say satisfaction-and see our land drenched with human blood?"
Here again the second Old Cove is pathetically appealed to, and appealed to on the score of religion, (an additional boiling down of the "sarce" in question,) not to interfere with the quiet amusements of the "quiet" old gentleman in the cypress swamp, but no let him finish rigging his boat for the avowed purpose of piracy, and also to desist from preparation to repel him when he comes! For this is the scope of the article headed as above. It is an appeal to the "professed Christians in the North" to abstain from opposing the invasion of the National Capital by the professed sinners of the South! To let their "'ouse and 'ome" be taken from them by Jeff. Davis's profligate marauders!
I thank God that the "professed Christians in the North" do no seem disposed to "look on in silence" 
and inaction while such things are threatened and commenced by the Slave Power, under whose rod they have so long submissively cowered. We, the abolitionists, have long, unavailing, tried to awaken this numerous and powerful body, first to a Christian interest in the help of the slaves, and next, to the defence of some of their own rights, which were trampled under foot by the Slave Power. They have seemed hopelessly indifferent to both these considerations. But now that Southern enterprise proposes to make a clean sweep of all their rights, to drive off their President, to take possession of their capital treasury and archives, to destroy their commerce, invade their territory and sack their cities, the sleepers seem really aroused, wide awake, and ready for action. I rejoice that, since their eyes are at last opened, they can hardly fail next to recognize the mountainous sublimity of impudence shown in the appeals of the Journal of Commerce! Appeals to them to insure peace! to them to avoid the shedding of blood! to them to avert the terrors of civil war! while it is yet a question whether thirty or forty thousand Northern soldiers can prevent Washington from being carried by assault! While this tremendous uncertainty is yet pending, the Journal of Commerce, speaking in the interest of these Southern ruffians, coolly addresses "professed Christians" with the exhortation-"LET THEM ALONE"!
I listened, not long since, to a conversation in a railcar, in which an elderly gentleman, bearing the outward appearance neither of a fool nor a knave, was saying to his friends-" Yes, men will undoubtedly fight for their country and their flag. Many have done so, and our Northern people will do so. But there is one stronger stimulus, namely, to tight for the fireside. And this is the war the Southern people are now waging."
Slavery, in the main, is upheld by power; by the exercise of brute violence. So far as other support is needed, it is sought, and found, in enormous lies; in representations grossly perverting the truth in regard to every detail of the positions occupied by master and slave. And so long have these impudent falsehoods 
been repeated by the South without shame, and heard by the North without contradiction, that, from the force of habit, they have obtained a sort of currency and customary recognition, and the man who utters them is not taken to task as he would be for the utterance of untruths equally ridiculous in any other department.
He who made the speech above recorded was talking to two friends who bore the aspect of intelligent business men. They knew, as well as I did, that this assumption of the sacredness and the inherent power of a war "for the fireside" was made in behalf of men who were then marching hundreds of miles away from their own homes to invade Washington, and to drive from their firesides the officers recently elected to carry on the United States government. Yet they heard this ridiculous lie, a falsehood not to be exceeded in obvious grossness by any combination of words upon any subject, with faces of serious consideration and tacit agreement.
Northern men, to their shame, have long been accustomed quietly to hear, and servility to echo, just such nonsense as this. The outrageous treatment which they are now suffering from the South, however undeserved from that quarter, is but a just retribution for their betrayal of liberty and justice for the sake of trade. But now, when the trade is gone; when the South, for whom these sacrifices were made, is repudiating her debts, lynching her creditors, and deliberately adding open piracy to highway robbery as her customary means of living; now, surely, it is time to cease from repeating and assenting to these foolish lies which the South has coined; now, surely, it is time to call slavery and slaveholders by their right names, and to give them a treatment corresponding to their character.-C. K. W.
A MANUAL OF ENGLISH PRONUNCIATION AND SPELLING: containing a full Alphabetical Vocabulary of the Language, with a preliminary Exposition of English Orthoepy and Orthography; and designed as a Work of Reference for General Use, and as a Text-book in Schools. By RICHARD SOULE, Jr., A. M., and WILLIAM A. WHEELER, A. M. Boston: Soule & Williams, 129 Tremont St., corner of Winter St. 1861. 8vo. pp. 467. 
This compact little work, the result of careful study and comparison of the best authorities in the departments of which it treats, seems fully adapted to the end which it proposes for itself,-to be a convenient standard of reference in pronunciation and spelling, on occasion of doubt or dispute; and a vehicle of instruction, at 
once simple and comprehensive, in both these respects, for the young or for foreigners. A majority of the words in the Vocabulary are referred by numbers to 
the Preliminary Exposition, where the general principles or difficulties in their orthography or pronunciation are 
plainly set forth. In their preface, the compilers say:-
"It has been a gratifying result of (our) attempt, to find how easily the great mass of English words may be grouped under a comparatively few principles, and how readily the difficulties in the way of learning to spell may be over cede by classifying their difficulties and explaining their causes."
Everybody should be glad of a work which reduces the apparent lawlessness and irregularity of our mother tongue to something like the system which prevails in other languages. We cheerfully recommend this manual, therefore, to all classes, as useful, philosophical, and easy of reference. It is handsomely printed and neatly bound.
SHEET Music, just published by Oliver Ditson & Co. "So you are going to the wars, dear," by George Danskin-" The Music of the Union; a medley on American 
National Airs," by Ch. Grobe-"The Spirit of'76;" a paraphrase from Aytoun's Song of the Cavaliers-"National Music; Star Spangled Banner, Marseilles Hymn, Hail Columbia, Yankee Docdle, America, (vocal and instrumental.)"
We shall publish, next week, an excellent "Sermon on our Civil War," delivered at Syracuse, May 5, 1861, by Rev. Samuel J. May.
Letter of B. G. Wright next week. Also, a Poem by George W. Putnam.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DISCOURSE OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
To the Editors of the Daily Atlas and Bee:
GENTLEMEN-I was somewhat surprised, on looking into the Daily Atlas and Bee of Monday, 22d ult, to find that you had not published the able discourse of Wendell Phillips, at the Music Hall, on the day previous. When I had, a few days before, heard that Mr. Phillips was expected to speak at that time and place, I presumed it would be published in the Atlas and Bee, the next day, as you had hitherto published his addresses in full. As you had published his previous speeches with alacrity, and seeming approbation, when his views did not coincide with those of the Republican party in every particular, I thought that now, when he justifies the war of the Administration to sustain the Government, you would surely publish his latest address upon the subject-that you would publish it with the greatest zest. I should like to know the reason why you fully refused to publish it, as I understand that it was fully reported for your paper. The Journal did not even notice it, though it had, sometimes, published his addresses. I learn that not a paper in Boston published it, except the Liberator.
Many questions arise in my mind why it was suppressed: some of them I will state.
What influence was made to bear against its publication in any Republican newspaper in Boston? Was it a pro-slavery influence? I think it could not be an anti-slavery influence. Was it that you and your contemporaries feel that Mr. Phillips’s influence, where his address is read, will be to induce readers to believe that the war of the North upon the South is an anti-slavery war? Is not the war of the South upon the North a war for slavery-a pro-slavery war? As the South have begun the war, would it not be proper and right for the North to maintain a war of aggression into slave territory, and the slave States, and not sheath the sword until every slave is free, and "liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof"? Do not justice and right demand the entire overthrow of the slave system which has so long cursed the country, and doomed 4,000,000 of human beings now living to hopeless bondage, besides the millions who have heretofore been held, in the same abject servitude, and have passed off the world’s state of action? Is not slavery the cause of our present troubles? As the slaveholders of the South are energetic, and decided in favor of slavery, cannot the freemen of the North be as decided and energetic in the cause of liberty as to demand the overthrow of slavery? Have the North been so long servile to the Slave Power, that they cannot get rid of the idea that we must still longer sustain slavery? Suppose the slaves of Virginia, or any other slave State, should rise against their masters, and fight for their liberty, and said State should call upon our Government to furnish troops to put down said insurrection in favor of liberty-would not our Republican Government respond to the call? I am afraid that it would, notwithstanding those States are in open rebellion against the Government.
It appears that we, of the North, are not yet half awakened to the diabolical evil of slavery. Nothing has yet been said against the institution of slavery by any officer of the National Government, form the President downwards; and it appears that all the Marshals of the free States are as ready and willing to return fugitive slaves back to bondage as they ever were. If the North were as faithful and true to liberty as the South is to slavery, this "vexed question" could be settled, and that speedily.
Why are not our people willing to have companies of colored men formed, to take part in this war? Is it because it would be injurious to the slave system-that slavery would stand in greater danger of being overthrown? The slave system could be overthrown in this war, if those of the Free States were as strongly, decidedly and actively in favor of liberty, as slaveholders are in favor of slavery. Why not?
It really appears that the North are very tender of slavery-do not wish to have it hurt at all. They have so long been in the habit of protecting it, that they cannot consent to have that idea eradicated.
I am really suspicious, if the slave States which have withdrawn from the Union should be awed by the great preparations of the Free States to maintain the Government, that they will hesitate and back down, and ask to be admitted once more into the Union,-only modestly asking to be reinstated into their original rights and power, with the privilege of the United States paying for all the property destroyed, and the whole cost of their rebellion, amounting to millions!! And I am also suspicious that there are men at the North mean and base enough to grant it, with a deal more, for the sake of having the Union restored, and embrace again our most loving, fraternal sister States of the dear South-and then have a jubilee over the event!
It appears that, by the Providence of God, the way is now made plain for the total abolition of slavery in these hitherto United States. It is to be hoped that our rulers will be wise enough not to have this glorious chance for liberty passed by unimproved. If they do, they are inexcusable, and recreant to the principles of human rights and liberty. "Will they do it? We shall see.
I am sorry to find in the Atlas and Bee, instead of the patriotic and able speech of Mr. Phillips, the following article:-
"EXTREMES MEET. Rev. Dr. Adams and Wendell Phillips, Esq., both delivered, yesterday, good Union, North-side addresses. Their conversions are most remarkable."
I think that your "conversion" from applauding and publishing Mr. Phillips’s speeches, to thus ridiculing him, is "most remarkable." It appears that the reason why" South-side Adams" came out on Sunday in favor of a "good Union, North-side address," was because he was threatened "if he did not come out stiff and strong for Northern rights, to have his house burned down over his head"! This is said to be the cause of his conversion! On the other hand, I learn by a writer from Boston, in a New York paper, the following:-
"The same mob that threatened the life of Wendell Phillips, in the Music Hall, in January and February last, stood last Sunday, packed around the same building, applauding whenever the echo of his voice reached them. They wanted to draw him home when the lecture was over, and he was obliged to retire through a back entrance to avoid their ovation. Is not this a turning of the tables?"
What a "conversion"! This seems to be a "conversion" the right way, as you might say, but your "conversion" appears to be the opposite of that. Instead of applauding and backing up Mr. Phillips, you turn to ridiculing and sneering at him! Can you give the true reason for so doing satisfactory to the public?
You appear to be deficient in supplying the public want, as a true journalist, in this respect. The people wanted Mr. Phillips’s address, and expected it in the Atlas and Bee. To supply that want, and your deficiency, the Liberator published an EXTRA, and sold nearly sixteen thousand copies of it, as I learn from that paper.
As the South, which means Southern slaveholders, have produced this war for the purpose of sustaining, perpetuating and extending slavery, human bondage, it becomes the North-I mean the freemen of the non-slaveholding States-to counteract that diabolical scheme. It becomes the free North to carry on the war against slavery-to carry it on throughout the entire South, till every slave slaves is free. It can be done, unless the North prove recreant to liberty, and are willing to basely compromise away every principle of justice, human rights and equal privileges.
Notwithstanding my fears, I have hopes that this conflict, which slaveholders have madly got up, will end in the total destruction of slavery, root and branch; then we can be a free, and happy, and united people, whose Union will be worth everlasting preservation.
Yours, most respectfully,
ISAAC STEARNS.
Mansfield, May 4, 1861.
[The above communication was rejected by the Atlas and Bee, and we therefore publish it at the author’s request.] 
<c02>
THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
I know not when I have attempted any task with more reluctance than I feel in introducing to any readers I may win, the subject of this paper. I have tried to excuse myself-to persuade myself that I might hold my peace, consistently with self-respect and the natural claims of the cherished few, who repeat my name in friendly tones. But I have not been able to succeed; hence the following suggestions. I offer them with a sadness and apprehension which I rarely feel.
I do not deny that a political excitement widely prevails in our country, occasioned by the attitude which the South has assumed in its relations to the Union. Great numbers, here and there-all abroad-are girding on their armor, to fight for what they call" the government." "Rumors of war" are thickly scattered around us-are the occasion of multiplied public meetings, and the subject of many a private conversation. "Politics" have found their way into many pulpits, whence they had before been jealously excluded. Now why should those, who, for the last; thirty years, have devoted arm and soul to the cause of Human Freedom, give up the annual meeting, in which they expected to greet and encourage each other?
"We have now a North"! Then ears, willing to listen to any suggestions which the friends of Freedom may be disposed to offer, must be exceedingly multiplied. Around the earnest, able, consistent Abolitionist, they cannot but eagerly gather in troops and crowds. They are now ready to cheer, encourage, aid him-yield him deep-toned sympathy and effective cooperation. The lessons of wisdom, which he now inculcates, they are prepared to "receive into good and honest hearts," and bring forth the fruits of the broadest philanthropy "a hundred fold." Surely, a more stirring occasion-surely, higher encouragement never quickened his footsteps to the hallowed ground, where he might hope in full assembly to see the faces and listen to the voices of his consecrated fellows. If, instead of such results, he might but too reasonably apprehend discouragement, embarrassment, obstruction, persecution, what sort of a North has been vouchsafed? What we have had in the North, all along, some of us know well enough: A venal, craven, dastardly affair-stupid, malignant, grim-eager to corrupt, degrade, and crush everything significant and sacred in the entire province of Humanity. If something radically other in character has at length arisen, to gladden our eyes and refresh our spirits, surely we might well expect quite other manifestations, corresponding to the mighty transformation, through which it had passed. Why should not the annual gathering of the old Abolitionists at Cooper Institute have afforded, to our converted neighbors, an opportunity to welcome what they had been accustomed to spurn-to cheer what they had been accustomed to discourage-to aid what they had done their utmost to hinder?
"But others are doing our work"! Our work, I have all along supposed, was to promote, word-wise and deed-wise-in the examples we presented and the lessons we inculcated-the welfare of our brothers-especially of our insulted, outraged, crushed brothers. Modesty requires me to speak for myself, and I say, therefore, that I regard it as my work to define, illustrate, commend the constructive principles of Human Nature-to explain and magnify the relations which organically bind man to man-to insist on the mutual claims of every child of Adam on the Human Family, and of the Human Family on every child of Adam-to show that the unity of Humanity is so essential, vital, comprehensive, that the wrongs inflicted on one are an injury to all, and the benefits conferred on one are an advantage to all. On this work, I feel bound to expend my strength and resources, publicly and privately, amidst all the relations of life, and especially in the relations which identify me with the oppressed and enslaved. This is the work in which "I live, and move, and have my being"—from which I derive discipline, encouragement, blessedness. I cannot relinquish it to others.
But who are these "others"? If they are other than I, how can they perform my work? If they are other than I, the results of their activity will be other than the results of my activity. They must be other in their aims and objects, in their-methods and exertions. None but the Abolitionist can perform, can by any possibility perform, the work of the Abolitionist.
But may not others incidentally open the way for the freedom of the enslaved? They may accidentally be the occasion of a deadly and protracted struggle between the slave and his oppressor. Huge and horrid crimes, of every variety and of every degree, may be the frightful result. Freedom, in any proper sense of the inspiring word, is not the child of violence-of rapine, rape and bloodshed. Alas! what chance has the slave, amidst the rage and tumult of war, to honor the all-benignant doctrine of emancipation? Treat him as a man, and he will behave himself manfully-will cherish and respect the rights of those who cherish and respect of right. Of those who cherish and respect his rights. It is my work to impress, according to my ability, this grand conclusion on the consciousness of my fellows, whereon I may win my way to their presence. How can others, holding aims which I detest, and employing means which I abhor, do in any respect my work?
Have not these others looked with the most cruel indifference on the wrongs, various and deadly, which all along in their presence have been inflicted on bleeding Humanity? And by wretches, with whom they had eagerly identified themselves in the most significant relations? And repeated, applausively and exultingly, the names of the principal figures among them as distinguished patriots and eminent Christians? And from these, selected the candidates to whom they have given their countenance and support in climbing to the loftiest summits of political power? Have they not seen, not only the enslaved, but their own fellow citizens, murdered by dozens and scores in cold blood, without urging any pointed remonstrance-without offering the least resistance? And are they not now, amidst the excitement and ado which they have helped create, proposing to fight, not for Human Rights but in support of "the Union," in which and by which Human Rights have been crucified? If these others impress their own "image and superscription" on the enterprise with which they are occupied, what results may be expected? When, where, how have they breathed the first syllable of good-will towards chattelized Humanity?
But I forget that they have encouraged and defended the South, as oppressors and enslavers, through "magnanimity"! Indeed! Am I to impute the injuries, to which the friends of Freedom have all along and every where been exposed, to the "magnanimity" of the creatures by whom they have been assailed? Attempts were very recently made, all along from Buffalo to Albany, in the principal cities of New York, to suffocate "the right of speech" in those by whom, on the gravest subjects and occasions, it was especially represented-with whom I can never forget I was associated. Assaults were made upon us, gratuitous and unprovoked, with the consent, if not at the instance, of the political parties and the religious sects-assaults virulent and desperate, to reassure and conciliate the South as the home of oppression. Indignities, abominably obscene as well as tragically malignant, were openly thrown into the faces of some of our wisest and most magnanimous citizens in Central New York, without bringing the patriotism of any of the parties, in Church or State, to the rescue of outraged virtue! All this, it is now discovered, was "magnanimity" in disguise! Shall we go upon our knees, and confess our obligations to the heroes of Buffalo, and Rochester, and Auburn, and Syracuse, and Utica, and Albany, for their "magnanimity" in spitting in our faces thrusting their gags in our mouths when we attempted to say a word in behalf of crushed Humanity? 
But we regarded them as mercenary; when, lo! they now manifest a warmer interest in something else than in money! And we had better ask their "pardon" for charging them with preferring pelf to principle! Let it first be shown that they do not postpone, both the one and the other, to passion. They are, for
<c03>
the moment, almost mad enough to wring the nose of the South for struggling to break away from their fond embrace! That the South should practise rapine, rape and murder, according to the edicts which itself had enacted, on helpless innocence-this never stirred their blood or excited their indignation; but that it should refuse longer to interchange with them kisses and caresses-this they stormfully resent! They bow down to a shabby and smutty idol, and worship it at a great expense. What then? This, in various ways, they have always been a-doing. They are only adapting what we have always known to be themselves to a superficial change of circumstances. That is all. I, for one, have no pardon to ask for treating them characteristically.
Why should I expect that, in any case, the effect will be essentially other than the cause? What can it be but the cause in exercise and manifestation? "Good" must "be built on good alone." War is essentially and everlastingly in conflict with those laws, which are the soul and substance of human virtue and the general welfare. "Inter arma, leges silent." The obligations which bind them to the Eternal Throne, men heed not on the battle-field. And it is universally and everlastingly to be affirmed, that whatsoever they "sow, that also shall they reap." If they sow "the wind," "whirlwinds" await them as the natural harvest. These great conclusions, no measure of general excitement-no fits of flashy patriotism-no sudden rush to the defence of a Union, which its tallest, stoutest official champions declare is the strongest prop of human slavery-can neutralize or invalidate. We shall derive from war what is characteristically involved in war, and nothing else. The Infinite Wisdom will undoubtedly bring all the hells, the hell of war among the rest, into subserviency to grand and all-beneficent designs. But I like none of them any better for that. I can "see the salvation of God" only in the presence and development of the God-like.
BERIAH GREEN.

HURRYING UP THE GOVERNMENT.
A great degree of impatience is expressed by newspapers and their correspondents with the conduct of the government at this juncture, which is ill-judged and to no purpose; the government is moving fast enough, and as fast as it can, under the Constitution; but as the Constitution does not provide for its own destruction, it does not provide for this state of things. The Administration is working with one hand tied; or, rather, undoing with one hand what it is doing with the other, all according to the Constitution.
The South is putting its full force into one idea, and untrammeled by abstractions, is fighting for slavery, and nothing else. On its principle, it may make white slaves of its prisoners of war. The North is fighting against the South, and, of course, against slavery, but is bound to sustain slavery, and not to know the meaning of the fight. It is fighting blindly for freedom, while it is arresting fugitive slaves, and returning them to bondage; driving and repelling from our free soil the blacks who would be efficient and zealous co-workers in the struggle. We are at war with slavery, but cannot say to the slaves, "Take arms, and help yourselves and us to cut your way to freedom." On the contrary, we say, "If you do so, we shall put you down;" in consequence of which, the slaves are marshalled in arms against us. A proclamation of freedom to the slaves, accompanying one hundred thousand stand of arms and a supply of ammunition, would crush the reptile secession now, in its infancy, while it is staggering in learning to walk; but we are teaching it with baby jumpers not merely how to stand alone, but how to go firmly and fast; we are fostering its strength in obedience to fettering constitutional enactments into vigorous manhood, to enslave or slaughter freemen. "A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed." (Amendments, Article 2.) Therefore, the theory being that the Union is intact, and secession a humbug, we cannot ask the people of South Carolina the meaning of their hostile batteries, until "Sumter" is surrounded, and the thunder or their cannon announces, officially, that the batteries are designed to blow "Sumter" into fragments; and then the fort answers, officially,— "We are yours."
Baltimore is arming; but Maryland is in the Union, and we are to suppose, officially, that the city is arming against the Hindoos of India or the Caffres of Africa. We cannot ask the people of Baltimore,—" For whom and against what are you arming?" because "the right of a people to bear arms shall not be infringed." Arlington Heights, opposite Washington,’ command that city; and the government has been urged to occupy them with a strong force; the reply was that, "under existing circumstances, an invasion of the soil of Virginia would be injudicious." It is constitutional that a fortification on those heights shall shell Washington, before the government can have any right to know that they are in the territory, and in the hands of an enemy.
This paper bondage is intolerable, while slavery with free rein, or the bit in its teeth, tramps over us rough shod. Cannot Congress-does not every man of common sense see, that the Constitution does not fit this case; that secession is extra-constitutional, and that swift measures must be taken in its own fields, and outside of the Constitution, to put it down? In its own cotton fields we should operate with men, and arms, and ammunition, quickly. Proclaim freedom to the slave, with positive assurance that not a dime of indemnity shall ever be paid to any seceding State; but that the slaves of the loyal States, existing and within their borders at the date of the proclamation, shall all be paid for. Help the negroes to fight their way to freedom, and settle their own accounts with their present masters; they will make excellent bargains with their owners in their own way. We can govern the seceded States as Territories till this work is done. Unless the government controls their movement, they will act for themselves, and be very likely to perpetrate an indiscriminate massacre of the whites in every servile insurrection. This course will save thousands of lives, and a mint of money, and settle a pestilent question forever.
General Jackson knew how to manage these constitutional ligatures in exigencies when they impeded his progress in patriotic purposes. He hung Arbuthnot and Ambrister, in Florida, and thereby put a stop to the sale of ammunition to the hostile Indians: the act was without warrant in the Constitution, but he subdued the Seminoles, and the nation sustained him. He proclaimed martial law in New Orleans, and the people were wild with indignation at what they considered his usurpation; but he saved the city, and was again sustained. He removed the deposits of the government from the United States Bank, in opposition to the advice of the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury-turned out one Secretary, and appointed a new one for the purpose-the act was clearly unconstitutional, but it led to the only reform in the financial affairs of this country of any value whatever since the existence of the government, namely, the Independent Treasury; a measure bitterly opposed at the time, but now approved by every sensible man in the nation.
An anecdote upon this subject may not be amiss. He was waited upon by a committee of the merchants of Baltimore, duly appointed at a public meeting, to ask him to rescind the order for removal of the deposits, or at least postpone its execution. At the head of the committee was Isaac M'Kim, then a representative to Congress, one of the wealthiest merchants of the city, a wool-dyed Democrat, and one of the President's best friends. He received them courteously; they told him the contemplated measure would ruin the merchants of the country, and especially the merchants and business of Baltimore, the stronghold of his popularity. They flattered and urged him a good deal, but all to no purpose: he said," Men who trade upon borrowed capital ought to break, and he would remove the deposits from the United States Bank, let the consequences be as they may." Mr. M'Kim, tired of expostulation, here rose from his seat, saying, "If such
<c04>
be your determination, General, we can no longer support you in Baltimore. "Then," said the old man, rising at the same time in a rage, stalking across the floor, and striking his clenched fist upon the table, "you may go to hell!" The committee vanished in haste.
Something of General Jackson's fire and resolution is wanting now to take the responsibility in exigencies not contemplated by the Constitution, and manage a desperate case, in the treatment of which the Constitution is but a stumbling-block, its impracticable abstractions being very likely to cost the free States an immense amount of treasure, and thousands of valuable lives. But, Mr. Lincoln, if not stultified with "compromise," will come out right in the end. C. 

PROTEST-SLAVE REFUGEES IN FLORIDA.
MR. GARRISON-At a full meeting of the citizens of Wayland, holden on the 23d of April, resolutions were unanimously passed to raise two military companies, one of volunteers for immediate service, and one of minute-men to hold themselves in readiness for contingencies.
David Lee Child then proposed the following preamble and resolution, which were rejected:-
Whereas, a number of the inhabitants of the State of Florida, hitherto held in cruel bondage, and coerced by the lash, the rifle and bludgeon, to work without pay, and to give aid and comfort to traitors and enemies of the government and people of the United States, have signalized their appreciation of liberty, and their attachment to said government, by forsaking said traitors and enemies, and by offering at Fort Pickens to enter the service and assist in the defence of said fort;
And whereas, the said traitors and enemies, claiming to be the owners of said inhabitants, have, by acts of unprovoked war and high treason, put themselves out of the peace of the United States, and forfeited the right of protection from the same, except that which they may derive from the laws of war, as applicable to revolted and rebellious citizens and subjects;
And whereas, those laws authorize the acceptance, by belligerent nations, of the services of persons deserting from public enemies, and much more rebel enemies;
And whereas, the said traitors and enemies of the United States have accepted the services of numerous deserters from the army and navy of the United States, and have endeavored to corrupt and seduce from their duty and allegiance large bodies of our citizens and soldiers;
And whereas, the commandant of said fort is represented to have cast the aforesaid loyal inhabitants and refugees from Florida into chains, and delivered them up without law, or the pretence of legal process, to their claimants, to be cruelly, inhumanly, and to the extreme hazard of their lives, beaten, scourged and tortured; therefore,
Resolved, That the company or companies which may be enlisted in pursuance of the resolutions of this meeting be not certified by the Selectmen to the Commander-in-Chief, unless it shall have been previously ascertained that said commandant, in imprisoning and surrendering said inhabitants to their pretended owners, acted without the orders or approbation of the competent authorities of the United States.

ANTI-HAYTIEN EMIGRATION MEETING.
A singularly interesting, animated and protracted meeting was held in the Joy-Street Church, on Monday evening, by the colored people of Boston, to- express their views upon James Red path's scheme of Haytien emigration. The meeting, which was very crowded, was called to order by Richard Greenough, and was organized by the choice of J. J. Smith as President, Rev. L. A. Grimes and five others as Vice Presidents, and G. W. Potter and Charles Taylor as Secretaries.
A committee on resolutions was appointed, who reported the following:—
Whereas, efforts are being made to get us away from our country by parties who are paid for so doing; and whereas, those efforts have been characterized by a spirit of unfairness, and in fact have not been respectable and honorable; and whereas, we have never expressed a desire or pursued any course warranting said parties in their course; and whereas, we have fixedly made up our minds to discountenance all colonizing schemes, based upon caste-not objecting, however, to individual emigration-in fact, feeling that we have no right so to do;—and whereas, the cause of freedom now in battle array against slavery may, and probably will, shortly require our service here at home; and whereas, hope shines in the times, full in our face, in our native land; and whereas, the class of emigrants actually needed to go to Hayti for the benefit of Hayti are educated, wealthy, industrious persons with frugal habits, a class of persons with intelligent, firmly fixed moral convictions, anchored in the faith and spirit of Christ; and whereas, the policy which our oppressors have heretofore pursued was calculated not to develop in us such a character, and consequently it has been only to a limited extent, all of which is actually needed at home; and further, whereas, the Christian character demanded-the faith of those that acknowledge Christ demands, that all such should have faith in God, and stand and fight, rather than flee from evil: therefore, be it
Resolved, That we firmly, flatly, uncompromisingly oppose, condemn, and denounce as unfair and unjust, as unwise and as unchristian, the fleeing, colonizing efforts urged by James Redpath, the white, seconded by George Lawrence, Jr., the black, who is employed by him.
Resolved, That we do not deny the right of Mr. James Redpath and a Boston firm of white gentlemen to give eleven hundred dollars for the Anglo-African, and for Mr. Redpath to bind Mr. Thomas Hamilton, the late proprietor thereof; not to issue another paper for circulation among the colored people; but we do declare that he is not justified in the deceptive policy of placing at the head of the paper, like the figure head of a ship, the name of George Lawrence, Jr., a colored man, although he has him in his employ; nor is he justified as a professed anti-slavery man, in closing the columns of the paper to a discussion of matters of public and general interest to the colored people, neither in making personal attacks upon individuals without permitting a reply.
Resolved, That we entertain a profound regard for President Geffrard, as an intelligent, patriotic statesman; also for those of his government who have so generously contributed their means and influence in behalf of what they conceive to be a plan to benefit Hayti and the oppressed colored men of this country; nevertheless, we suffer with them as to colored men emigrating from this country to theirs.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to President Geffrard, and that the Anglo African, Frederick Douglass's Paper, and the Christian Freeman, are respectfully requested to publish the same.
The resolutions were ably discussed by Mr. Geo. T. Downing, Rev. J. Sella Martin, Dr. J. B. Smith, and Robert Morris, Esq., and at a late hour, midnight, the question was taken amid much feeling and excitement, which had been culminating all the evening. The resolutions were adopted by a decided vote, and the meeting adjourned.
GERRIT SMITH. Mr. Smith has given $10,000 for the benefit of the families of those who have volunteered in the army for Freedom, and has also made a speech upon the present condition of the country, in which he said:—
"As I am a peace man, and have often spoken against war, some persons may think it improper in me to take part in war meetings. But I have never spoken against putting down traitors. It is true, too, that I am to old to fight; and that I am so ignorant of arms as not to know how to load a gun; and that my horror of bloodshed is so great, were I a slave, I should probably chose to live and die one rather than kill my master. All this is true. Nevertheless, I may be of some service in the present crisis. I can, along with others, care for the families of my brave and patriotic neighbors who go forth to peril their lives for their country. Let this be my work. It falls in not with my principles only, but also with my habits of feeling and acting."
An esteemed friend informs us, that the excellent poetical effusion which appeared in the Liberator of the 3d inst., entitled "No Sect in Heaven," and which was credited as an English poem, was from the pen of Mrs. Cleaveland, of Great Barrington, Mass., and first published in the Congregationalist, in this city. We were led into the error by other journals.
<c05>
REPRESSING SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
Council Chamber, Boston, April 25,1861.
GENERAL,—I have received through Major Ames a dispatch transmitted from Perryville, detailing the proceedings at Annapolis from the time of your arrival off that port until the hour when Major Ames left you to return to Philadelphia. I wish to repeat the assurance of my entire satisfaction with the action you have taken, with a single exception. If I rightly understood the telegraphic dispatch, I think that your action in tendering to Governor Hicks the assistance of our Massachusetts troops to suppress a threatened servile insurrection among the hostile people of Maryland, was unnecessary. I hope that the fuller dispatches, which are on their way from you, may show reasons why I should modify my opinion concerning that particular instance; but in general I think that the matter of servile insurrection among a community in arms against the Federal Union, is no longer to be regarded by our troops in a political, but solely in a military point of view, and is to be contemplated as one of the inherent weaknesses of the enemy, from the disastrous operations of which we are under no obligation of a military character to guard them, in order that they may be enabled to improve the security which our arms would afford, so as to prosecute with more energy their traitorous attacks upon the Federal Government and Capital. The mode in which such outbreaks are to be considered should depend entirely upon the loyalty or disloyalty of the community in which they occur, and in the vicinity of Annapolis. I can on this occasion perceive no reason of military policy why a force summoned to the defence of the Federal Government, at this moment of all others, should be offered to be diverted from its immediate duty, to help rebels, who stand with arms in their hands, obstructing its progress toward the city of Washington. I entertain no doubt that whenever we shall have an opportunity to interchange our views personally on this subject, we shall arrive at entire concordance of opinion.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) JOHN A. ANDREW.
To Brig. Gen. BUTLER.
DEPARTMENT OF ANNAPOLIS, 
HEADQUARTERS, ANNAPOLIS, May 9, 1861. 
To His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and 
Commander-in-Chief:
SIR,—I have delayed replying to your Excellency's dispatch of April 25th, in my other dispatches, because as it involved only disapprobation of an act done, couched in the kindest language, I supposed the interest of the country could not suffer from the delay; and incessant labor, up to the present moment, has prevented my giving full consideration to the topic. Temporary illness, which forbids bodily activity, gives me now a moment's pause.
The telegraph, with more than usual accuracy, had rightly informed your Excellency that I had offered the services of the Massachusetts troops, under my command, to aid the authorities of Maryland in suppressing a threatened slave insurrection. Fortunately for us all, the rumor of such an outbreak was without substantial foundation. Assuming as your Excellency does, in your dispatch, that I was carrying on military operations in an enemy's country, when a war a L’ entrance was to be waged, my act might be a matter of discussion. And in that view, acting in the light of the Baltimore murders and the apparently hostile position of Maryland, your Excellency might, without mature reflection, have come to the conclusion of disapprobation expressed in your dispatch. But the facts, especially as now aided by their results, will entirely justify my act, and reinstate me in your Excellency’s good opinion.
True, I landed on the soil of Maryland against the formal protest of its Governor and of the corporate authorities of Annapolis, but without any armed opposition on their part, and expecting opposition only from insurgents assembled in riotous contempt of the laws of this State. Before, by letter, and at the time of landing, by personal interview, I had informed Gov. Hicks that soldiers of the Union, under my command, were armed only against the insurgents and disturbers of the peace of Maryland and of the United States. I received from Gov. Hicks assurances of the loyalty of the State to the Union-assurances which subsequent events have fully justified. The Mayor of Annapolis also informed me that the city authorities would in no wise oppose me, but that I was in great danger from the excited and riotous mobs of Baltimore pouring down upon me, and in numbers beyond the control of his police. I assured both the Governor and the Mayor that I had no fear of a Baltimore or other mob, and that, supported by the authorities of the State and city, I should repress all hostile demonstrations against the laws of Maryland and the United States, and that I would protect both myself and the city of Annapolis from any disorderly persons whatsoever. On the morning following my landing, I was informed that the city of Annapolis and environs were in danger from an insurrection of the slave population, in defiance of the laws of the State. What was I to do? I had promised to put down a white mob, and to preserve and enforce the laws against that. Ought I to allow a black one any preference in a breach of the laws? I understood that I was armed against all infractions of the laws, whether by white or black, and upon that understanding I acted, certainly with promptness and efficiency. And your Excellency's shadow of disapprobation, arising from a misunderstanding of the facts, has caused all the regret I have for that action. The question seemed to me to be neither military nor political, and was not to be so treated. It was simply a question of good faith and honesty of purpose. The benign effect of my course was instantly seen. The good but timid people of Annapolis, who had fled from their houses at our approach, immediately returned; business resumed its accustomed channels; quiet and order prevailed in the city; confidence took the place of distrust, friendship of enmity, brotherly kindness of sectional hate, and I believe to-day there is no city in the Union more loyal than the city of Annapolis. I think, therefore, I may safely point to the results for my justification. The vote of the neighboring county of Washington, a few days since, for its delegate to the Legislature, wherein 4000 out of 5000 votes were thrown for a delegate favorable to the Union, is among the many happy fruits of firmness of purpose, efficiency of action, and integrity of mission. I believe, indeed, that it will not require a personal interchange of views, as suggested in your dispatch, to bring our minds in accordance; a simple statement of the facts will suffice.
But I am to act hereafter, it may be, in an enemy's country, among a servile population, when the question may arise, as it has not yet arisen, as well in a moral and Christian, as in a political and military point of view, What shall I then do? Will your Excellency bear with me a moment while this question is discussed?
I appreciate fully your Excellency's suggestion as to the inherent weakness of the rebels, arising from the preponderance of their servile population. The question, then, is, in what manner shall we take advantage of that weakness? By allowing, and of course arming, that population, to rise upon the defenceless women and children of the country, carrying rapine, arson and murder-all the horrors of San Domingo, a million times magnified, among those whom we hope to reunite with us as brethren, many of whom are already so, and all who are worth preserving will be, when this horrible madness shall have passed away, or be threshed out of them? Would your Excellency advise the troops under my command to make war in person upon the defenceless women and children of any part of the Union, accompanied with brutalities too horrible to be named? You will say, "God forbid!" If we may not do so in person, shall we arm others so to do, over whom we can have no restraint, exercise no control, and who, when once they have tasted blood, may turn the very arms we put in their hands against ourselves, as a part of the oppressing white race? The reading of history, so familiar to your Excellency, will tell you the bitterest cause of complaint which our fathers had against Great Britain in the war of the Revolution, was the arming by the British Ministry of the red man with the tomahawk and the scalping-knife against the women and children of the colonies, so that the phrase, "May we not use all the means which God and nature have put in our power to subjugate the colonies?" has passed into a legend of infamy against the leader of that Ministry who used it in Parliament. Shall history teach us in vain? Could we justify ourselves to ourselves, although with arms in our hands, amid the savage wildness of camp and field, we may have blunted many of the finer moral sensibilities, in letting loose four millions of worse than savages upon the homes and hearths of the South? Can we be justified to the Christian community of Massachusetts? Would such a course be consonant with the teachings of our holy religion? I have a very decided opinion upon the subject, and if any one desires, as I know your Excellency does not, this unhappy contest to be prosecuted in that manner, some instrument other than myself must be found to carry it on. I may not discuss the political bearings of this topic. When I went from under the shadow of my roof-tree, I left all politics behind me, to be resumed only when every part of the Union is loyal to the flag, and the potency of the Government through the ballot-box is established.
Passing the moral and Christian view, let us examine the subject as a military question. Is not that State already subjugated which requires the bayonets of those armed in opposition to its rulers, to preserve it from the horrors of a servile war? As the least experienced of military men, I would have no doubt of the entire subjugation of a State brought to that condition. When, therefore-unless I am better advised-any community in the United States who have met me in honorable warfare, or even in the prosecution of a rebellious war in an honorable manner, shall call upon me for protection against the nameless horrors of a servile insurrection, they shall have it, and from the moment that call is obeyed, I have no doubt we shall be friends, and not enemies.
<c06>
The possibilities that dishonorable means of defence are to be taken by the rebels against the Government, I do not now contemplate. If, as has been done in a single instance, my men are to be attacked by poison, or as in another, stricken down by the assassin’s knife, and thus murdered, the community using such weapons may be required to be taught that it holds within its own border a more potent means for deadly purposes and indiscriminate slaughter than any which it can administer to us.
Trusting that these views may meet your Excellency’s approval, I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully your obedient servant,
BENJ. F. BUTLER.
WAR INTELLIGENCE. Troops in great numbers, from various parts of the North, continue to gather in the national capital and vicinity, but no conflict with the rebel forces has yet taken place.
The Union sentiment is in the ascendant in Maryland, aided by federal bayonets. Gen. Butler has quietly established his head-quarters at Baltimore, through which city there is now an uninterrupted communication with Washington. Martial law is proclaimed in both cities. The force at Baltimore, under Gen. Butler, is composed of the Massachusetts 6th, New York 8th, and Major Cook’s Flying Arrillery. Immense crowds cheered them at every step. Ladies waved their handkerchiefs, and many citizens illuminated their dwellings.
Ross Winans, and other prominent citizens, have been arrested on the charge of treason.
Exciting and tragical scenes have occurred at St. Louis. Gen. Frost’s rebel brigade of Missouri militia, encamped at Camp Jackson, on the western outskirts of the city, surrendered unconditionally on demand of Capt. Lyon, commander of the U. S. forces of the city. Capt. Lyon, marched on Camp Jackson with some five thousand volunteers, surrounded it, and planted eight field pieces on the adjoining eminences. Just before they left for the city, they were assailed by a mob with brickbats and other missiles, severely injuring them, and endangering their lives. They fired on their assailants, killing a dozen, and wounding others. The next evening, while marching through the city, they were again furiously assailed and fired upon by the mob, when at least as many more were killed, including four soldiers, and several wounded. The excitement was immense, but it has very much subsided, Gen. Harney having taken command of the troops.
There has been a bloody row among the Kentucky rebels at Harper’s Ferry-several killed and wounded.
Nothing reliable is known of Southern movements. Thus far, it appears to be nothing but vaporing. The Southern traitors are gravely proposing to observe a day of fasting and prayer!
Various attempts have been made to poison the Massachusetts and others troops in and near Baltimore by mixing strychnine with their liquors, sugar, &c. Several have been badly poisoned.
A wealthy citizen of New York proposes to donate $10,000 to form a Zouave regiment, to be composed of colored men six feet high.
The Herald's Washington's despatch states from a reliable source that the remains of WASHINGTON have been removed from Mount Vernon by Col. John A. Washington! Not unlikely.
Gov. Pickens, acknowledging the gift of a rifled cannon used at the bombardment of Fort Sumter, writes to the donor: "You have aided to repel the aggression of an insolent foe, upon the soil of your ancestors, and upon the free institutions which are the dearest heritage of the people of South Carolina." We should like to see the man who can get more lies into a single sentence than are packed into that one.
Nearly the whole of the first page of the Liberator, this week, is occupied with specimens of the malignant and diabolical sentiments expressed by the Southern journals towards the people of the North indiscriminately. "No Union with Slaveholders!"

WORCESTER COUNTY (SOUTH DIVISION) ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.-There will be a quarterly meeting of this Society, in Brinley Hall, at Worcester, on Sunday, the 26th inst., forenoon, afternoon and evening.
Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell, and others will be present, and address the meeting.
Let there be a good attendance of the members and friends of the Society.
JOSIAH HENSHAW,-President. 
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec’y.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in
Quincy, Sunday, May 19.
South Ware, N. H., Sunday, May June 2.
Milford, Mass., Sunday, May 9.
Evening lecture, subject: "The Star-Spangled Banner as the Symbol of Liberty."
MANCHESTER, N. H.-HENRY C. WRIGHT and A. T. Foss will speak in Manchester, N. H., Sunday, May 26, day and evening. Subject: "The Issue between the North and the South in the present Crisis."
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.-The thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will take place at the Friends’ Meeting-House, near Waterloo, Seneca County, New York, on Friday, the 31st day of May, 1861, at 10 o’clock, A. M., and continue through Saturday and Sunday, the 1st and 2d days of June.
THEODORE TILTON, Esq., of the New York Independent, will speak at Music Hall, Sunday, May 19, on "The Times."
MRS. MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland., Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WANTED-By a young man, 22 years of age, a situation as Book-keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis. Understands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D. W. D.,
Box 2702, P. O. 3t April 12-
SITUATION WANTED.-A very worthy and trusty man desires a situation as a gardener, and to take care of horses, cows, &c. He can give the most satisfactory recommendations. Application can be made to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.

PLEASANT BOARDING, ON FAVORABLE TERMS.-Mrs. H. S. DENHAM can accommodate a gentleman and wife, or two or three single gentlemen, with pleasant rooms, on favorable terms, at 75 (formerly 33) Beach street, near the Worcester Depot, Boston.
A few transient boarders can also be accommodated.
COPIES OF WENDELL PHILLIPS’S MUSIC HALL SPEECH ON THE WAR may be obtained at Room No. 8, HAYTIAN BUREAU OF EMIGRATION, Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
DIED-In this city, May 15th, Mrs. ABIGAIL KENT, aged 58. She early and warmly espoused the Anti-Slavery cause, and to the close of her earthly life gave to it an uncompromising support. She also took a deep interest in kindred reforms, and never faltered in regard to her convictions of duty,-desiring only to know the right, that she might be found faithful in all things.
P. S.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,

THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
It will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrheas, General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston. 
For sale by all Druggists. 
April 19, 3mis.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OUR FLAG AND SLAVERY.
What! Plant the flag of Freedom
Where the slave is bound in chains!
What! help the Southern master
Rob the black man of his gains!
Why fight ye for the "stars and stripes,"
Yet let the black man groan?
Why fight for white men’s rights, yet say
The black man can have none?
What! do you think that all our rights
Were held in Sumter’s walls?
And do you think we’ll live in peace
When the Southern army falls?
What! have ye aims no higher than this-
To put rebellion down-
And have ye nought but insults
To your flag on which to frown?
Why do ye longer in the States
With slavery wish to share?
Why rush with eager haste to plant
The flag of Freedom there?
Have ye not greater insults borne
Than having flags pulled down?
And have ye not, like vassals, knelt
Before the Southern crown?
And have ye not to our appeals,
Cried, "Constitutional right!"
And do ye not, to-day, call this
A "Constitutional" fight?
Then where, in Heaven’s name, tell me where
Can Freedom ever dwell,
If "stars and stripes" are to protect
Agreements made with hell?
Providence, (R.I.) May 3, 1861. B 

For the Liberator.
A VISION FOR THE TIMES.
Mount Zion-of Jerusalem above-
Upon thy palm-crowned heights I clearly see
A band, all glorious in enfolding Love!
But in your midst-ah! tell me, who is He,
Youthful, yet taller, grander, than the rest,
With the far gleaming wound beneath his breast?
I know Him by those loving, gracious eyes:
Tis He who made the one Great Sacrifice!

Rounds o’er their heads the amethystine glow,
While they are gazing earnestly on earth:-
What in the wild mutations, here below,
Absorbs those spirits of celestial birth?
Lo! through the haze, collecting hosts are seen’
The calls "to arms! to arms!" incessant rise;
Two different standards flame in glory sheen;
Two mighty armies in the land arise!
"See," said an angelangle to the glorious One,
"Is not that the true banner of the free,
Whose ‘stars and stripes,’ beneath the rising sun,
Myriads, who spring to arms, rejoice to see?"
"Nay," said the Mighty-and his awful frown
Was like the gathering of a thunder cloud:
"Seest thou you slave, for whom I left my crown,
And to the bitter death of Calvary bowed?
Hope touched his heart when he that banner saw;
He came-he told his wo-‘twas all in vain!
The haughty men who that proud flag adore,
Soon drove him back to wear a stronger chain!
Now by myself! those bannered hosts shall see,
In that despised slave, they mock at me!"
But look, where, in yon lone, secluded nook,
A woman kneeleth-poor, and old, and grey;
Beside her lies Love’s miracle-God’s Book:-
See her poor withered hands, they work and sway.
For many a year her spirit hath been bound
With the poor slave; and as her nation drew
His chains the tighter, they the deeper ground
Her wasting heart, and Christ within her slew:
Now doth her deep, importunate, low wail 
Ascend above the cannonading roar;
Now shall her own all-conquering Christ prevail,
And God shall grant her all she asks, and more!
To her, and all like her, a banner's given,
Dipped in the royal, radiant hues of heaven;
And wheresoe’er that unseen banner waves,
Tis death to tyranny, freedom to the slaves!
Its lucid folds alone by prayer are stirred:
Its burning motto is, my deathless word;
And there, in pure, transparent light, they read,
"He who hath freed a slave, his Lord hath freed."
No more the vision says-an amber cloud
Descends, all gently, o’er the glory there,
Wrapping the vision in its mellowing shroud;
But truth followed balmy through the opening air,
And pleasant odors dropt on each sad breast,
Folding true Christian hearts in Faith’s extatic rest.
Newport, R. I. S. L. L.
For the Liberator.
TRUTH.
Tyrants, I know the power of truth ye dread,
And fain would stay its course: it moves along,
Firmly and grandly, with majestic tread,
O’erleaping barriers;-it is tempest-strong,
Bearing down ancient error-conquering Wrong-
Defying the brutality of mobs:
It moves sublime the leftiest hills among,
And lowliest vales. Where’er in secret throbs
A human heart with love to God and man,
There Truth shall win its way, despite Oppression’s ban!
It speaks to soothe the suffering, and its tones
But make the heart of Innocence rejoice;
It strikes with terror tyrants on their thrones-
The guilty tremble when they hear its voice:
The great unwavering souls, who make their choice
To battle for the right ‘gainst every foe,
Grappling with shameless falsehood, wrong and vice,
Armed with the truth, they strike a deadlier blow:
Armies ‘gainst Truth are weak. There comes the shock
Which makes this guilty land to its foundations rock!
O, glorious Truth! thy conquests still increase:
Uproot all error-light this world of gloom-
Let Justice rule-and bid the arts of Peace
Flourish around us-bid the Virtues bloom
In all their native beauty: O, illume
Each mind with knowledge-fill each heart with love
Stretch forth thy sceptre-make the poor man’s home
A palace to its inmates! God above,
The Father of humanity, shall then
Look from his throne on high, and smile, yes, smile on men.
Andover. RICHARD HINCHCLIFFE.

For the Liberator.
THEN.
Now we are prisoned in fetters of clay;
They shall be loosened some blessed day!
Oh! if we die, shall we not live again?
Live and love with the angels-then?
Now we have days and nights of pain;
Wearisome longings, all in vain;
Questioning ever, Why? Whither? and, When?
Oh! will it all be clear to us-then?
Now we love, and our loved ones depart;
There’s many a lonely home and heart;
And often we sigh o’er what might have been:
Shall we sigh, and weep, and be lonely-then?
Shall we not know and be known aright?
Shall not our darkness be changed to light?
Shall we be scorned by our fellow-men?
Oh! will they call us "Infidel"-then?
Now a religion of heart and of life,
Making us better as husband and wife;
Making us happier women and men,
Is not sufficient:-say, will it be-then?
Now we must give our assent to a creed,
Offer our prayers in words,' ‘stead of deeds;
To each clerical dogma pronounce our "Amen,"
Or we cannot be Christians:-how will it be-then?
Now we are ignorant, erring and weak,
Seldom attaining the good that we seek;
But loving God and our fellow-men,
Why should we fear the beautiful Then?
Sherborn, May 7, 1861. E. D. MORSE.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
INTERESTING LETTER FROM FLORENCE.
Extract from a letter of Rev. Samuel Johnson, dated FLORENCE, (Italy,) April 8, 1861.
As far as I can judge, the secession which Mr. Seward would not recognize as a necessity, nor Mr. Lincoln as a fact, is a reality not to be abolished by sophistry or the sword. Congress is adjourning, it seems, without affording the Executive either the sinews of war or the nerve of abolitionist principle. And so the North confesses, with very bad grace, that it must yield to that which it would have been manlier to have accepted in the outset with joy unspeakable,-,—all of it that was not treachery or dishonesty,—and furthered at any cost but that of honor. All this is not very Creditable, certainly, but it is better than to have besought or dragged the departing Barbarism back into our homes, and paid new vows to the old fetich of an inviolable Union.
But, after all, the Border States are left with us, and in them lies our peril. For their sakes, the Constitution is to be resolved into an explicit recognition of slavery. This is not the sentiment of the North. It is probably conceded in view of the awkward position of Washington in the midst of the Border Slave States, and in the hope that if once united with the North, these States will speedily become free. Of course, it is of a piece with the besotted policy of our otherwise sagacious people, on this one subject of slavery, from the beginning—dealing blind blows at their own moral integrity, under the impression that they are cutting the cords of some temporary tangle that impedes it.
All this, however, cannot touch the one fact accomplished. The idol is broken. The shock of this unexpected overturn of all the traditional notions of an absolute dependence of the social and moral Universe on the union of Freedom and Slavery, will pass. It will be seen that if the heavens can lose a Pleiad and not fall, we can afford to dispense with the Cotton States, and still be a Union. It will be seen that no earthquake has opened the ground we stand on: that Northern industry is securer than ever: that when seven demons have gone out of a nation, it has a very decided tendency to sit up, clothed, and in its right mind. It will be seen what the Eternal Moral Law, which has taken us in hand, would have of us. And if Virginia should try the power of her vantage ground upon us, the Southern Confederacy will be reading us lessons on the other side, that will thrill and tingle in the sleepiest eyes and the most servile hands.
I see that Louisiana refuses to accept the Southern Constitution. Discord in the oligarchy already! But a more terrible discord must come, if this state of things goes on. The giant Northern Hand that held back that strife has been thrust away in wrath. Suicide in political economy has begun its work already, in the export duty on cotton. England was sufficiently alarmed before. Now her markets will soon be filled from new sources of supply. The Southern Commissioners are on their way, I believe, to plant the standard of their faith, like new Pizarros, on a shore already conquered in their dreams. "Our Cotton is King!" But the illusion will be short.
Then it seems to me that this separation will tend not, as many fear, to divide the North, but to unite it. Politics is a quarrelsome business. But Americans are something besides politicians. In a business point of view, the Coast Section and the North-west will stand in greater need of each other than ever. The new importance which Freedom has acquired in the theory of government will attract the Free States to each other, politically, more strongly than before. Americans have a pride in being citizens of a great empire. If they have lost the larger part of it territorially, they will feel the necessity of telling on Europe by a moral and social unity in what remains. Reasonable men are indeed becoming convinced that State Rights must be asserted against excessive Federal Power; but this tendency of thought will purify and dignify Union, not destroy it. Then, like these Italians, we are learning serious lessons, developing a sense of the momentous issues of self-government-and, like them, shall be forced to find that it demands a consecration and fervor of brotherly feeling that shall thrill from sea to sea.
In the face of these tendencies, I do not see how any guaranties the pro-slavery party or the compromisers among the Republicans may be disposed to grant the Border States can avail much. Even if Virginia continues with the North, an Abolition party will rapidly gain the control there, and slave property gravitate Southward. The people of the Free States have the best opportunity, even under the present circumstances, ever yet afforded them, to show that they want a thoroughly Free Union. And at whatever cost of offence to the Border States, they will have to take that stand, very speedily, by the force of events and laws which precipitate the divorce between Freedom and Slavery. More powers work for us than we take notice of.
Great winds of Reformation blow over the earth at certain moments, from undiscoverable shores. It was so in 1848. It is so now. This time, the Atlantic is but a petty streamlet in their path. See what the Czar of Russia has done! In two years, slavery in the Empire of the Autocrat will have ceased. All the mechanics in the cities and the laborers in the fields go out free. Here is a brave act in one, who, autocrat as he is, stands in greater personal peril from the vengeance of his nobles, than Louis Napoleon from the wrath either of republicans or priests.
Great changes are going on here. All is in fermentation. Every nation again demands nationality. This time, reaction will not succeed, as it will not, I am persuaded, in America. Pope and Emperor of Austria once struggled for the possession of Europe. Now both are led up to the tribunal of the people; and Garibaldi confounds the diplomatists, and drives the kings out of their policies. Russia will have to yield to Poland's cry for justice—and Austria-to Hungary's. Nothing stands in the way of Victor Emanuel being crowned King of Italy on the Capitoline Hill but the shameful persistence of Louis Napoleon in keeping his army at Rome, against the will of the people, in spite of the obstinacy of the Papal government in refusing attention to his propositions of Reform. France betrayed Italy in '48, crushing out the Roman Republic, which had only too trustfully followed her own example. She betrayed Italy when, after encouraging Sardinia to make war on Austria in 1859, for the sake of Italian Nationality, she left Venetia enslaved, and extorted the city of Garibaldi and the fatherland of Victor Emanuel in exchange for granting Lombardy to her ally. Now again Louis Napoleon thwarts the consolidation of the new Constitutional Kingdom, and forbids the roused Italian patriotism the possession of its own capital, and the inauguration of its own chosen king. When will Italy be permitted "fare di se "? What possible right has France in Rome? The protection of the Papacy is a pretence. Victor Emanuel does not desire to destroy the Papacy. It is at least as safe in his hands as in those of the nephew of the man who dragged the Pope about Europe is disgrace. The princes of Piedmont have been better Catholics than the successors of Pepin and Charlemagne on the throne of France. But the Papacy is doomed, in any case.
The truth is, since the reactionary conduct of Plus Ninth and the abominable cruelties of the restored Papal Government in 1849-50, the Italians have lost their respect for the Papacy. They are disgusted with the whole theory and practice of the temporal government of a Priesthood. The whole hierarchy has set itself against Victor Emanuel’s reforms, ever since the recent laws which sequestrated the wealth of rich convents for the benefit of poor parish priests, and abolished ecclesiastical courts and immunities. Besides this, theologically, the masses of the people care nothing for the Pope. They would not lift a-
If I am wrong in these statements, you will make due correction. The accounts I get are net very clear.
<c03>
finger to save him from being deported to Jerusalem or Kansas. The Roman exchequer is supplied by contributions, not from Italy, but from England and America. The people worship Mary. Their trust and prayer are towards the heart of the Mother. This is the best part of Catholicism, and has outlived all the rest. You must not suppose that the Italians are not at heart Catholics, because they have cast off the Pope. I do not believe Protestantism is making any positive progress, even in the perfect tolerance of Victor Emanuel’s regime. It is not time for intellectual protest or extended free inquiry among the masses, yet. And the more intelligent have lived so long in a torpid mental atmosphere, that many years of liberty will be necessary to create even a taste for earnest self-culture, to say nothing of a genuine Italian literature. So Mariolatry and a skepticism without positive foundations of faith are reigning side by side. What religious sentiment exists is mainly the worship of the Virgin. And the grand old Cathedrals have lent their strength, their beauty, and their peace to the childlike adoration of Motherhood. It is by this side that the nobler life will by and by open. And if you should see these mild Florentines, their gentleness and refinement, the good behavior of their assemblies, (and I have seen a great many of them, under exciting circumstances)-their enthusiasm for the cause of Italy, the zeal with which the newspapers posted up on the street walls are read by the common people, you would hope all things from such a material. Education is all they want. Even in Piedmont, half the people cannot read or write. Here it is not so bad; but though there are many free schools, there is no idea of a regular system of popular education like ours. The Piedmontese have been accustomed to much self-government for many years. The Roman populace showed themselves mild, well-behaved and thoughtful in the short days of the Republic of'48. The enthusiasm for the deliverance of Venice is immense. The newspapers, circulated freely, have created new aspirations for union, and new comprehension of each other's needs and desires among the Italian States. To the wisdom of the government policy and the growing determination of the people, the last enemy, which is the French army, must yield, I am confident, before long.* * * 
The attempt to stone the prophets does not seem to have stayed disunion. And, as you say, their voices will only sound the grander, and be heard the farther, for the tumult of the mobs. I have read Phillips's magnificent speeches, with what delight you may imagine. How the brave Prophet, whose great heart and head rest from their labors, under the stately cypresses that look from their quiet slope off to the blue Tuscan hills, would have rejoiced to hear those words, and to help them on!

Selected Articles.
OLD GAME REVIVED.
Some of the Southern papers are beginning to talk about mediation between the Government and the rebels. This is only to gain time. The North will never be thus deceived again. All winter long, the border States talked of their devotion to the Union only to flatter us with the hope that they, at least, would remain loyal to their country. It was thus that they kept the North in a state of inaction, while the Gulf States were getting under full head-way their piratical confederacy. Then, at the proper moment, these border States themselves rush into the secession movement, and are more rampant even than their Southern neighbors. This has all along been their game. They are practising it now. No confidence, can ever be placed in them again. Henceforth, they are to be regarded as capable of the basest meanness and the most consummate duplicity. No report of the small number of their troops now in Virginia, nor any expressed desire for compromise or peace, can blind us to the fact that immense numbers of armed men are pouring through all the cities of the Southern States to make the vicinity of Richmond their rendezvous, and that their avowed object is the capture of the Federal Capital. They know full well that, unless they take possession of Washington, the enterprise which they have undertaken will be a disgraceful failure, and they themselves be swung from the gallows or shot like dogs. Let nothing blind us to their fell purpose. The day of compromise, mediation and peace conventions is gone. The people-the people have now taken the work into their own hands. Our merchants, our citizens, all of them, are not thus to be ruined in their business interests with impunity. They have been most effectually crippled and wronged through the acts of these men of the South. Now they are in for it. And they are determined to teach their enemies a lesson they will not soon forge—Dedham Gazette.

WHAT WE ARE FIGHTIHG FOR.
The present contest has not been provoked by the Free States. This portion of the Union has exhibited a forbearance towards its assailants, an endurance of repeated and heaped-up insults, which is without a precedent in the history of intelligent and self-respecting nations. It has drawn the sword in the end with the utmost reluctance, and after every conceivable means, short of giving up the Government itself, had been resorted to to avert the issue.
But the dread arbitration of arms having been accepted, the day of forbearance is now over and gone. The war having commenced, the people of the Free States are determined that it shall be prosecuted with untiring vigor, and that its end shall see accomplished the crushing out of rebellion, and security and permanence for the present generation of the American Republic. To this end all their energies are enlisted, and they will be satisfied with nothing short of its accomplishment.
The South have clamored for years, in Congress, about the attacks upon their peculiar institution,. They have had no reason for this in the past: we can hold out no such assurances for the future. It is just as well for them to understand in advance, that, in the struggle which is impending, their pet institution has got to go under. The rule of the Slave Power in America is at length ended. We do not mean by this that the North has yet made up its mind to abolish the institution. Slavery may endure for many years after the present controversy in arms shall have been settled. But as a ruling power, its doom is sealed. Its own blind, besotted arrogance has proved its ruin. If it exists hereafter, it will be as an admitted evil, temporary in its nature, and to be known in our Government only as an institution which is to be looked upon as in process of extinction.
It may be that all members of the late parties at the North are not yet prepared to take this view of the question; but we are confident they will come to it before the contest is ended. Capital, with the sagacious eye of self-interest, sees it already. It recognizes slavery as the disturbing element in our Government. It identifies the institution as solely responsible for the revolution which is now convulsing the business of the country, and sacrificing its property by millions. It sees that we shall never be secure till the reign of the Slave Power is ended, and hence it feels it to be of the most vital necessity that this should be accomplished. He who looks upon this as the old contest of slavery and anti-slavery does not begin to realize the stage which the question has reached. While slavery had only to encounter a religious or sentimental opposition at the North, its enemy was formidable-as among as intelligent and Christian people it must always be; but it was as nothing compared to the foe it is now called on to encounter. Slavery has at length become recognized as a revolutionary element in the Government. It is a power which is dreaded by all classes—by the religion, the morality, the wealth, the intelligence of the nation. It has become the admitted foe of republican sentiments, and our people are at length satisfied that there is no hope for permanency to free institutions while it continues. Its downfall, therefore, is a prime necessity.
In view of these facts, it is of no use for the North to assert now that it does not war upon slavery. It must war upon it, if it hopes to sustain the Government. Slavery and this Government are in direct antagonism; and slavery itself has had the blind fatuity to make up the issue. We fight for the single purpose to put down the malignant influence of this of this institution, and when that is accomplished, everything is gained. It is that only which has
<c04>
warred against the Government—which has attempted the subversion of free institutions; and when the victory over that is gained, ourselves and our Government will be without an enemy. But it must be something more than a nominal victory. It must be a conquest—a complete subversion of the power of the malign enemy of our freedom. It must be a settlement which shall endure for generations, and which, if it do not exterminate the offender, shall so bind him that his power for mischief is gone forever.
When this result is accomplished, and not before, our country will again have a free course to run and be glorified, and true Republican principles will resume their sway in the Western continent.— Roxbury Journal.

WHAT IS NEEDED.
While there are men in our world who will buy and sell men, women and children, and hold them as property; will covet all the territory near them, and rob their neighbors of it for the support of human oppression; will trample national compacts under their feet; will force themselves into public offices, and prostitute their influence and all the nation's resources to purposes of treason and rebellion; will insist on the construction, destruction, re-construction and re-destruction, of the most solemn national ordinances at pleasure; plunge a nation into debt for their own benefit, and repudiate their own indebtedness at will; rob their own nation of its wealth, and secretly raise an army to seize its capital; imprison, mob, shoot and hang their fellow-citizens on account of their birth-place or honest convictions; claim and exercise the right to secede at pleasure; murder those who question that right, and threaten with extermination all who shall claim the right to secede from them; originate a confederacy whose chief corner-stone, by their own boast, is chattel slavery; commence an aggressive warfare against their own nation; how can righteous governments exist, or God-given blessings be protected or enjoyed, without a recognition of the right to defend them by the force of arms?
In estimating our present chances of success, we should not rely on our military strength, national resources, nor public sentiment; but, calculating the justice of our cause and the righteousness of the means we use, repent sincerely of or all our individual sins, of all complicity with the iniquities of our nation, offer to Almighty God the prayer of faith, and rely on his own right arm, as did our fathers in the revolution.—Dover Morning Star.

THE REAL ISSUE.
An enthusiastic meeting was held at Masonic Hall, in this place, last Saturday evening, to organize a "Coast Guard." In the course of the meeting, Rev. Mr. Clark, of this place, stated that he had offered his services to the Government to act in any capacity where he might be most needed. His speech, in many respects good, was yet marred by one very unworthy expression. He was understood to say, in substance, that the North, having been forced into extreme measures, enters upon the struggle from no intention or desire to crush out the direful cause of our present national calamity, viz., American chattel slavery; that this was no issue between slavery and anti-slavery; but that the idea now, as heretofore, must still be maintained, that slavery has rights where it is that must not be interfered with.
It is truly mortifying and humiliating to witness such dulness of apprehension with regard to the tremendous issues of this hour. How dull and "slow of belly" must a man be, especially a clergyman, not to discern the signs of the times,—pointing, as they do, so plainly and unmistakably, at the judgment and downfall of the whole slave system! We are sorry for any man who entertains such low notions of patriotism, and estimates so meanly the purposes of free government.—Hyannis Messenger.

EX-PRESIDENT PIERCE ON THE CRISIS.
CONCORD, N. H., April 21. Ex-President Pierce, having been absent from the city Friday night, when the Citizens' Meeting was held, returned Saturday afternoon. Several of his friends communicated to him their regret at his absence, and desired to know if he would address his fellow-citizens at some other time. He expressed his willingness, and made the following address, at 7 o'clock, last evening, from the balcony of the Eagle Hotel The following is a verbatim report:-
FELLOW CITIZENS AND NEIGHBORS,—If I had been apprised of your meeting last night seasonably, I should have been present at it, but the notice did not reach me until this morning. I wish to say in advance, that since my arrival here, the resolution which you passed has been read to me, and it has my cordial approval. (Applause.) You call for me, my friends, as lovers of our country and of the blessed Union which our Fathers transmitted to us on an occasion more grave, more momentous, more deeply fraught with painful emotions than any under which I have ever addressed you, but I rejoice that that flag [pointing to the flag of the United States] floats there. (Cheers.) Love for the flag of our country is a sentiment common to us all; at least, to my heart it is no new emotion. My father followed it from the battle of Bunker Hill uninterruptedly till the enemy evacuated New York in 1783. My brothers were with the gallant men who upheld it in 1812. Can I, can you, fail to remember how proudly it floated, at a more recent date, from Palo Alto to Buena Vista on one line of operation, and from the castle of San Juan D'Ulloa to the city of Mexico on another. Never can we forget that the gallant men of the North and of the South moved together like a band of brothers, and mingled their blood on many a field in the common cause. Can I, if I would, feel other than the profoundest sadness when I see that those who have so often stood shoulder to shoulder in the face of foreign foes, are now in imminent peril of standing face to face as the foes of each other? But they should have thought of this as well as me. At all events, there is no time now to consult our feelings. The question has resolved itself into one of patriotism and stern duty. We cannot fail to see what the nature of this contest is to be, and, to some limited extent, the fearfulness of its progress and consequences. We must not, however, turn our faces from them, because the true way to meet danger is to see it clearly, and encounter it on the advance. (Applause.) I, for one, will never cease to hope, so long as the fratricidal strife is not more fully developed than at present, that some event, some power, may yet intervene to save us from the worst calamity that ever impended over a nation. The opinions of many of the vast crowd before me, with regard to the causes which have produced the present condition of public affairs, are known to me and mine—are well known to you. I do not believe aggression by arms is a suitable or possible remedy for existing evils. Still, neither of these matters ought to be considered now—they may well be waived—nay, must be, until we have seen each other through present trials and future dangers. Should the hope I have expressed not be realized, which may a beneficent Providence forbid, and a war of aggression is to be waged against the National Capital and the North, then there is no way for us as citizens of one of the old Thirteen States, but to stand together and uphold the flag to the last, with all the rights which pertain to it; and with the fidelity and endurance of brave men, I would counsel you to stand together with one mind and one heart. Be calm, faithful and determined, but give no countenance to passion and violence, which are usually unjust, and often in periods like these, the harbingers of domestic strife. Be just to yourselves, just to others, true to your country—and may God, who so signally blessed our Fathers, graciously interpose in this hour of clouds and darkness, to save both extremities of the country, and to cause the old flag to be upheld by all hands and all hearts. Born in the State of New Hampshire, I intend that here shall repose my bones. I would not live in a State, the rights and honor of which I was not prepared to defend at all hazards, and to the last extremity. (Vociferous cheers and applause.)

GROSS INDIGNITIES FROM THE REBELS.
Capt. Corson brought with him a man by the name of James Tracy, who, with his wife and family, were driven out of South Carolina for refusing to take up arms in the rebel army. He is an Irishman by birth, but has been in this country, about forty-two years, twelve of which he served in the army-part of the time in the Mexican war, under Scott. For some years he has been in South Carolina, where he owned a plantation of 1500 acres, valued with the stock, etc., at about $15,000. Having served under the American flag, he would not enlist in the
<c05>
Negro Confederacy army to fight against it. On the 6th of April, a meeting of citizens was held, at which he was warned to leave the city within ten days. On the 14th, while he was absent from home, in Columbia, a mob headed by a ruffian named Hoffman, who presided in the meeting on the 6th, during a pelting rain, attacked his house, and turned the family out of doors. They chased the wife and youngest child through the woods on their horses, and finally captured them. Then having captured Tracy and his eldest son, a young man of twenty-one, they stripped them, and gave to the former five hundred, and the latter two hundred and fifty lashes with a raw hide, changing executioners as they grew tired. The punishment was so severe that their backs were covered with blood, and blood also issued from their noses and mouths. After this they tied the whole family hand and foot, and tossing them into carts, carried them one hundred and sixty miles to Charleston, where they were thrust into the jail without money, with only the clothes they had on, and accorded "the privilege to go" to that damned nigger Lincoln - their nigger brother Lincoln — if they could find any one to take them." Capt. Corson heard their story, and brought them with him. Of course, the family is almost entirely destitute, but the father and son declared that they want to enlist the first opportunity. They will remain on the schooner for a few days, where any committee can find them, and we suggest that a small portion of any money that has been raised for the volunteer cause should be donated to equipping these two men, who from comparative affluence have, by the traitors and rebels at the South, been reduced to penury and want. They carry with them the wounds of the rebel lash, and their case is certainly worthy of immediate consideration.—New York Courier and Enquirer, April 30th.

THE ANTICS OF THE NEW YORK HERALD.
We do not often deem it expedient to take any notice of the vagaries of the New York Herald. We presume that the " 100,000 readers" who daily seek for knowledge and instruction in its columns are, if not competent to detect for themselves, its countless aberrations, not likely to be reached by any exposition that we may make of them. Now and then, however, the evolutions and revolutions of the Herald are so irresistibly comic that we cannot refrain from exhibiting them for the benefit of the public, just as we might copy the latest or best jokes of the season from Punch or Vanity Fair. In this spirit we took occasion, a few weeks ago, to show by parallel extracts the sudden and marvellous conversion which changed the Herald from a rabid Secessionist on changed the Herald from a rabid Secessionist on Monday to a loyal Unionist on Tuesday. We now ask attention to the following extracts from the same sheet on the subject of setting free the slaves of the South:—

From the N Y Herald April 19.
With the secession of Virginia, there is going to be enacted on the banks of the Potomac one of the most terrible conflicts the world has ever witnessed; and Virginia, with all her social systems, will be doomed and swept away.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 20.
We must also admonish the people of Maryland that we of the North have the common right of way through their State to our national capital. But let her join the revolutionists, and her substance will be de devoured by our Northern legions as by an Arabian cloud of locusts, and her slave population will disappear in a single campaign.

A Northern invasion of Virginia and Kentucky, if necessary, carrying along with it the Canadian line of African freedom, as it must do, from the very nature of civil war, will produce a powerful Union re-action. THE SLAVE POPULATION IN THE BORDER STATES WILL BE MOVED IN TWO DIRECTIONS. ONE branch of it, WITHOUT THE MASTERS, WILL MOVE NORTHWARD, and the other branch, with the masters, will be moved Southward; so that by the time a Northern army will have penetrated to the centre of the Border Slave States, THEY WILL BE RELIEVED OF THE SUBSTANCE AND ABSTRACT RIGHTS OF SLAVE PROPERTY FOR ALL TIME TO COME.
Finally, the revolted States having appealed to the sword of revolution to redress their wrongs, may soon have to choose between submission to the Union, or the bloody extinction of slavery, from the absence of any law, any wish, any power for its protection.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 21.
By land and water, if she places herself in the attitude of rebellion, Maryland may be overrun and subdued in a single week, including the extinction of slavery within her own borders, for war makes its own laws.
We are less concerned about Washington than about Maryland. Loyal to the Union, she is perfectly safe, negroes and all; disloyal to the Union, she may be crushed, including her institution of slavery. Let her stand by the Union, and the Union will respect and protect her—slavery and all.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 22.
Accordingly, let Old Virginia begin to put her house in order, and pack up for the removal of her half million slaves, for fear of the impending storm. She has invited it, and only a speedy repentance will save her from being dashed to pieces among the rocks and surging billows of this dreadful Revolution.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 23.
Virginia, next to Maryland, will be subjected to this test. She has seceded, and hence she will probably risk the breaking of every bone in her body. If so, we fear that every bone in her body will be broken, INCLUDING HER BACKBONE OF SLAVERY. The day is not far off when the Union men of the revolted States will be asked to come to the relief of their misguided brethren; for, otherwise, the war which they, have chosen to secure their institution of slavery 
MAY RESULT IN WIPING IT OUT OF EXISTENCE.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 24.
In advance of this movement, President Lincoln should issue his proclamation, guaranteeing the complete protection of all loyal Union men and their property, but warning the enemies of the Government of the dangers of confiscation, negroes included.
If Virginia resists, the contest cannot last very long, considering her large slave population, which will either become fugitives, or take up arms against their masters.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 28.
That we are to have a fight, that Virginia and Maryland will form the battle-ground, and that the Northern roughs will sweep those States with fire and sword, is beyond peradventure. They have already been excited to the boiling point by the rich prospect of plunder held out by some of their leaders, and will not be satisfied UNLESS THEY HAVE A FARM AND A NIGGER EACH.THERE IS NO SORT OF EXAGGERATION ABOUT THESE STATEMENTS, AS THE PEOPLE OF THE BORDER STATES WILL SHORTLY ASCERTAIN TO THEIR COST. The character of the coming campaign will be vindictive, fierce, bloody, and merciless beyond parallel in ancient or modern history.

From the N. Y. Herald, April 29.
The class of population which is recruiting in our large cities, the regiments forming for service in behalf of the Union, can never be permanently worsted. THEY WILL POUR DOWN UPON THE VILLAGES AND CITIES OF VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND, AND LEAVE A DESOLATE TRACK BEHIND THEM, and inspire terror in whatever vicinity they approach.

From the N. Y. Herald , April 30.
It will be idle for Tennessee and Kentucky to attempt to escape from the issue and remain at peace, while the remainder of the country is at war. Neutrality will be considered opposition, and the result of a general frontier war will be, that slavery, as a domestic institution of the United States, will be utterly annihilated.
The last of these extracts, it will be noticed, bears date of April 30th. April is proverbially a fickle month, and it was, doubtless, the peculiar effect of passing through so changeable a season that led the harlequin of the Herald to turn on the next day another somersault, and appear in a new costume. After doing his utmost to stir up the North against slavery, and inciting the Northern armies to its instant abolition, and after pointing out the plunder and confiscation that were in store for the hordes of roughs that were pouring down on Virginia, (see April 24th and 28th,) it suddenly turns about and wheels about in this fashion:-
"If there be one thing more than another calculated to prevent the newly-awakened military enthusiasm of the North from reaping its legitimate fruits, it is the atrocious character of the articles published by the leading Republican journals of the city,—the Tribune, the Times, and the Courier and Enquirer.
The injurious effect is two-fold—first, as regards the North: and, secondly, touching the South. The tendency in the North is undoubtedly to stimulate the worst passions of fanaticism, to incite the love of plunder, and to render the war barbarous and cruel beyond all precedent. It is proposed to exterminate the Southern people; to lay waste their property by fire and sword; to arm the negroes, and let them loose upon their, masters; and, finally, to take the lands of the planters, and colonize them with the invading army. The atrocities involved in such a war as this no tongue or pen can describe. The effect of these announcemencements upon every honest and good man at the
<c06>
North, who does not belong to the sect of the Roundheads, will be to chill his ardor, and to divide the Northern people, who are now thoroughly united," &c., &c.
On this tack the Herald has been running for several days, accusing the Tribune (we need scarcely say most falsely) and other journals of this city of advocating measures which the Herald itself has been most violently and persistently urging.-Now York Tribune, May 7th.

WAR FOR NO WAR.
The seceders marched in armed bodies, and compelled the guards of the United States forts and arsenals to surrender them; but it was not war.

With arms in their hands, they captured million of dollars’ worth of cannon, small arms and munitions of war, belonging to the United States; but it was not war.
They seized the ships of the United States but it was not war.
They seized the mints and the money of the United States, and applied them to their own use; but it was not war.
They fired on an unarmed ship, carrying supplies to a fortress of the United States; but it was not war
They are besieging the fortresses of the United States, have surrounded them with military works, and cut off their supplies; but it is not war.
But if the United States attempt to relieve their beleaguered garrison, or even send them provisions in an unarmed vessel, it is war.
If they attempt to transport a cannon from one fort to another, or from a foundry to a fort, it is war.
If they transfer a soldier from fort to fort, or from State to State, it is war.
If they send out a ship to protect their loyal citizens, it is war.
To talk of executing their laws, protecting their commerce, or collecting their revenue, it is war, horrible war.
Since the foregoing was written, the rebels have fired on Fort Sumter, and compelled its evacuation. Is that war?-Washington Star.

A SANGUINARY CONVERSION.
HUNTINGTON, MAY 2,1861.
MR. EDITOR,- The stirring events of the last few days or weeks have had their effect upon our community, waking the slumbering patriotism of our people, instantly converting pro-slavery Democrats, and now firmly fixing the adherence of the Republicans and others to union and liberty. We have but one real Secessionist left in our midst, and we expect soon to hear of his conversion to the right, as some of our rowdies have threatened to visit him, and present him with a garment of genuine secession cut, fresh from the tar pot. Shame for the rowdies, I say; for if there is a soul among us dirty enough to talk sympathy with the South at this time, tar and feathers could in no way disgrace him. Let him alone, he will rot in his own filth.
While speaking of conversions, it may be well to say that we are more surprised at the wonderful change made manifest in the heart of the Springfield Republican, than by any other event which has come to our notice since this excitement began. In fact, it is truly a miraculous change. Why, everybody remembers how all last fall and winter, it labored incessantly to prove to us, that it was best to repeal our "liberty law," smother our prejudices, and accept a compromise. We all know that it has never missed an opportunity to try to injure Gov. Andrew, or abuse Phillips and Garrison, or other earnest antislavery men. But where do we find it now? Please read what it said in its issue of April 26th:-
"Let us arm negroes from the Northern States and Canada, and bid them march into the South as a liberating army, calling the slaves to their standard. Let the scoundrels have secession to their hearts’ content. Their blood and their calamities be upon their own heads."
Did John Brown ever talk like that? Did he ever go into Virginia with half as much in his heart as is found in that paragraph? I don’t believe he did. In fact, John Brown was too conservative, altogether, for these times. Our government has not recognized the Southern States as out of the Union yet, and the report has just reached us that old Ben Butler has been doing duty in Maryland, putting down an insurrection of slaves; and here we have this from the fogy Republican press. This out Bennett’s Bennett, and leaves all other connections completely in the shade. Correspondent of the Northampton Free Press.
NO FRIENDS IN THE NORTH. "Alas," exclaims the Charleston Mercury, "for our Northern friends" Though the Mercury affects to be not much disappointed, it is probable that the mass of the Southern people will be amazed and confounded at the unanimity of the North. The following queries and statements show they are likely very soon to have "a realizing sense " of their utter desertion:-
"Where," asks the Mercury, "are Messrs. Fillmore, Everett, Winthrop, Cushing, Butler and Hallett, of Boston; Van Buren, Cochrane, McKeon, Weed , Dix and Barnard, of New York; Ingersoll, Wilkins, Binney, Black, Bigler and ex-President Buchanan, of Pennsylvania; Douglas, et id omne genus-Democrats and Whigs of all stripes, hues and conditions-where are they, in the bloody crusade proposed by President Lincoln against the South? Unheard of in their dignified retirement, or hounding on the fanatic warfare, or themselves joining ‘the noble army of martyrs for liberty’ marching on the South! The New York Herald, but yesterday denouncing the ‘bloody <illegible> of President Lincoln’s administration,' now declares triumphantly that the whole North is of one party, and that party is to conquer and subdue the South.
The Charleston Courier thus speaks of the ancient allies of the South:-
"Where are Caleb Cushing, and Mayor Wood, and Edward Everett, and Dickinson, and a host of others who affected admiration and love for their Southern brothers? The mask has dropped from the faces of them all; their lying tongues once more utter truth. They despair of bringing us back by mild persuasive arts, and they proclaim their duplicity and treachery in the ears of the world, seemingly all unconscious of the infamy.
"Us they always hated; it was our gold they loved. Their ledgers, not their Bibles, taught them to love the Southerner. And it is to get back our gold that they threaten us with fire and sword.
"Major Robert Anderson has made it a point at every stopping place at the North, to complain of our ‘inhuman treatment’ in firing on Sumter after the barracks were enveloped in flames. Did anybody prevent him pulling down his dirty stripes? And why is it that he has not told ‘the Northern people‘ that he had a 10-inch columbiad planted on the parade ground at Fort Sumter, at an elevation sufficient to enable him to throw a 10-inch shell into the crowd of unarmed citizens and helpless women, whom he knew full well would congregate in White Point Garden at the firing of the first gun? This is not a rumor; the gun has been seen, the elevation and direction have been noticed, and by his own acknowledgement, and that of his officers, the guns in exposed places could not be worked without the certainty of destruction; so our mothers, wives and sisters have not been slaughtered, because our guns kept him in his casemates. This is the brave man who was supplied with fresh meat, vegetables, &c., &c., and was thought by some to be a friend."-Charleston Mercury.

INVITATION TO HORACE GREELEY FROM THE SOUTH.
BY WILLIAM HOWE.
Come, Mr. Greeley, come to the South-
The land you have LIED and RE-LIED on;
You can lower your chin, and open your mouth,
When your neck strains the rope you are tied on.
Bring Old Granny Giddings, blustering Hale,
Fred. Douglass, and Henry Ward Beecher,
And Negro-Thief Hyatt, from Washington jail,
And Sumner, the Devil’s own preacher.
Come, bring all your friends, so godly and good,
Who rob, kill and burn for the freedom
Of blacks, who despise your contemptible brood,
And can find better friends when they need ‘em.
Let each bring some strychnine-a Bible-a pike-
Which you SHRIEKERS for Freedom delight in-
Such tools as your father, the Devil, doth like
To use in the cause which you fight in.
Come! bring all your friends, and never despair,
Thou chief of the Devil’s apostles;
Our hemp will assist you in walking the air,
And make a display of big tassels!
City of Rome, Independent Republic of Georgia.
