THE LIBERATOR
-is PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO: 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-TWO dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
FIVE copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
ALL remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisement making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX NO. 20. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1534.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Journal of Commerce.
WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
I am desirous of preparing something relative to the position and prospects of the colored population of those islands-to controvert the absurd statements of those soi disant philanthropists who would persuade the world that the condition of the WEST Indies has been improved by the emancipation of the slave. I see in the NEW YORK TIMES letters of a correspondent from Jamaica, in which it is attempted (and the attempt is endorsed by editorial articles) to be shown that the negro race of that island is capable of self-government, and that their moral, physical and political condition is better than it war before 1834, the year of emancipation. It is also attempted to be proved that the reason of the decline of the industrial products of these islands, lies not in the want of labor, but of capital; that is, the argument goes, if the Jamaica planters had money enough to pay for the labor of the negroes would work; and the coffee and sugar plantations would regain their former productiveness and importance. Similar arguments are promulgated by the Governor of Jamaica, in a speech before the Exeter Hall Abolitionists, which I read just before coming here; and, indeed, the so-called philanthropist resort to any manner of misstatements, to any absurdities and fallacies of argument, in order to account for the decline of the West India Islands since emancipation, rather than attribute it to its true causes, and rather than allow that their favorite Sambo is lazy, imbecile inferior in intellect, and incapable of governing himself. In short, setting out with the theory that the negro is equal in every respect to the white man-that the African race is only a modification of the Caucasian-and that the two races ought therefore to enjoy the same privileges and maintain a state of perfect equality when living together, they will not allow themselves to look at facts as they exist; and they ignore entirely the testimony of resident of the Islands, who have the best means of knowing their real condition, and the causes of it. I have never been more struck with the effect of a mistaken fanaticism on a mind, in most respects acute and discriminating, than in the cane of this very Editor of the New York Times, to whom I have already alluded. In his issue of February 24, (the semi-weekly Times,) he writes an article, every word of which, so far as it respects the condition and habits of the negroes, is utterly unfounded, as any one who has ever spent a single week in one of the West India Islands cannot but know. I have never been in Jamaica, and cannot of course speak from personal observation there; but I have used my eyes and my ears some-what, during a two-months' residence in New Providence, and I know positively, from my own observation, the state of the negro population here. In the Bahamas, slavery was always (while it existed) more nominal than real. The slaves were never reduced to so deep and dependent a state of servitude as in the Windward Islands. Much less productive than those islands, of less extent, with a comparatively sterile soil, the estates here require comparatively few laborers, and those were never subjected to very severe toil in the cultivation of the crops of cotton, sugar, and fruit, which formed the principal products of these islands. The separation of families, the selling of slaves to be taken to distant places, was almost unknown. A great proportion of the negroes were household servants, and were admitted freely to all the religious and educational privileges enjoyed by their owners. For these and other reasons, which I have not now room to explain, the act of emancipation really effected a change of less importance in the condition of the black population here, than in the large and more productive islands of the South, where the system of slavery was more oppressive, and the right of the owners of slaves over them more extensive. For those reasons it would naturally be supposed that the creoles of the Bahamas, when once emancipated entirely from the control of their masters, would have begun immediately to display that capability for self-government which, if they possessed it, could have been developed here under the most favorable circumstances. If all that was necessary to make them equal to their masters, morally, socially and politically, was the state of perfect freedom and equality which was conferred upon them by emancipation, we should naturally expect of them a rapid progress in the arts of life, in education, morality, thrift, and all the social virtues. It is now nearly thirty years since they have been free. During thirty years the darkest negro has retained legally a position of complete social and political equality with the whitest white man of the Bahamas.
NOW, what has been the result? I will not speak of the consequence of this measure to the proprietors of the estates themselves. The decaying walls of ruined and deserted mansions, the mouldering evidences of former wealth and elegance, scattered all over this island, the dilapidated enclosures of extensive fields, once productive, now over-grown with thickets of dense growth, while here and there a struggling orange-tree sustaining a choked and stinted life, the almost total absence of inhabited dwellings in the interior, all these sights, familiar to every visitor here, tell a melancholy tale of decline. and indicate too plainly the truth of the assertion which the traveler so often hears from the lips of the older citizen here, 'we were ruined by emancipation.'
BUT we are told that the state of things just pictured really forms no argument against the propriety of emancipation,-and that, to use the words of the New York times, thought 'the few have fallen, the many have risen into comfort and happiness.' Now let us see whether this is true. I have been a daily observer of the blacks here for two months; I have taken some pains to ascertain their real condition, as well as white inhabitants, in reference to their relative position now and before emancipation; and I do not hesitate to declare that in no respect whatever is their condition better than that capacity for improvement with which their admirers have credited them. Take away the whites remove the care of the English government and this colony would relapse into an utter state of barbarism in a very few years. Thus far, after a lapse of thirty years of freedom, not one single instance is to be found here of the attainment, by a negro of unmixed blood, to any position of respectability, honor, or wealth. A few of them have learned the trades of carpenter or shoemaker, a few more serve as policemen, a few are employed as masters or crews of small wreeking vessels, some are fisherman, some cooks and household servants, a few cultivate small patches of ground, and bring the produce to market. But by far the greater portion of the six or seven thousand negroes of Nassau and its vicinity are in a state of absolute dependence upon the white population-less than one-third of their own number-for support. They have no conception of any method of taking care of themselves, beyond doing
<c02>
an occasional job of work, in the way of porterage, or assisting in discharging and loading cargoes, or some other desultory service when required. As soon as they have earned a few dollars, or a few shillings even, sufficient to buy a little fish and hominy, and a few bananas, and to get a glass or two of cheap spirits, they stop work, go home to their cabins-such of them as have cabins-and remain idle till again compelled to work to avoid actual starvation. The most industrious among them never work more than three, or at most four days out of the week, and those merchants who require their assistance are compelled, when their business is pressing, to employ alternately two or three different sets of hands. The idea of the accumulation of money or of land, seems to be entirely unknown to most of them. In this delightful climate, where the rigors of winter are never experienced, their clothing is a small item of expense, and they need little protection from the weather beyond a thatched cabin, which they can build with their own hands-so that the mere sustentation of life is easy; and more than this they do not think of. In short, in all the arts of life, in all social progress, they have not made a step forward -and will not make it. The English Government has supplied them liberally with schools, churches, and all other means of education and religious training, and yet they seem to have very little conception of the true purposes of such institutions. There appears to be an inherent slothfulness, apathy, and imbecility in their character, which render them incapable of profiting by the advantages thus afforded them. Notwithstanding many of them-the best of them it is to be presumed-are members of churches of various denominations, and their children attend the schools, yet they are mainly unable to appreciate religious truths, and do not follow in practice the instruction of their religious teachers. It is a singular fact that the strange superstitions of their African ancestors, the belief in Obeah and Fetish, and rain-making, are still extensively prevalent among them-even those who were born and have lived all their lives under the influence of Christian instruction, and who partake of the Christian sacrament. I could relate to you some most curious instances of this, which have fallen under my own observation. They are also licentious to a disgusting degree. The marital relation is. in general, very lightly regarded. Every one of the four hundred black soldiers stationed here, lives with a native woman, whom be principally supports by saving his pay and rations, and with whom he cohabits during the time of his stay here. But I am running on with a dissertation longer than you will, perhaps, have patience to read. The whole subject is worthy of careful consideration, and I hope before leaving these islands to gather full material for an enlightened discussion of it
I will say this much, however, on the other side of the question. With all this laziness, imbecility, superstition, and ignorance, the blacks here are generally inoffensive mild, and civil in their conduct. They mostly still retain the feeling of subordination to the whites, and the address 'Massa,' with a touch of the hat, is generally used by them in speaking to a gentleman. I have found them usually kind, obliging, and fond of being noticed, and may have with a few exceptional cases in which I could see a good result from their religious and educational instruction. Among the native Africans, of whom there is a settlement here, formed of men and women rescued from slavers by British cruisers, a much greater degree of thrift and industry prevails than among the Creoles. They are mostly engaged in the cultivation of the soil, and they occupy the market for the sale of their fruits and vegetables, nearly to the exclusion of the natives. They are, however, even more ignorant and more superstitious. 
In short, I would advise any one who has ever cherished hopes of the progress of the negro race in civilization and refinement,-who has seriously given the negro credit for energy, strength of mind and capacity for self-government,-to come here and spend a few weeks. I think the most termined negrophilist would return to his home wiser, if not a better man.

SPEECH BY MR. GAULDEN OF GEORGIA.
Delivered in. the Democratic Convention at Charleston
on Tuesday, May 1st, 1860.
MR. PRESIDENT, AND FELLOW DEMOCRATS: As I stated to you a few moments ago, I have been con fined to my room by severe indisposition, but learning of the commotion and the intense excitement which were existing upon the questions before this body, I felt it to be my duty, feeble as I was, to drag myself out to the meeting of my delegation, and when there I was surprised to find a large majority. of that delegation voting to secede at once from this body. I disagree with those gentlemen. I regret to disagree with my brethren from the South upon any of the great questions which interest our common country. I am a Southern States' Rights man; I am an African slave-trader. I believe I am one of those Southern men who believe that Slavery is right, morally, religiously, socially, and politically (Applause.) I believe that the institution of Slavery has done more for this country, more for civilization, than all other interests put together. I believe if it were in the power of this country to strike down the institution of Slavery, it would put civilization back 200 years. Holding, then, this position, that Slavery is right in the point of view have stated, I would demand of the General Government our whole rights in this regard. I believe that the General Government by the Constitution never had any right to legislate upon this subject. I believe that our Government was a confederation of States for certain specified objects with limited powers; that the domestic relations of each State are to be and should be left to themselves; that this eternal Slavery question has been the bone of contention between the North and South, which if kept in the halls of Congress must break up this Government. I am one of those who believe in non-intervention, either in the States or the Territories (Applause.) I am not in favor of breaking up this Government upon an impracticable issue, upon mere theory. believe that this doctrine of protection to Slavery in the Territories is a mere theory, abstraction. (Applause.) Practically it can be of no consequence to the South, for the reason that the infant has been strangled before it was born (Laughter.) You have cut off the supply of slave; yon have crippled the institution of Slavery in the states by your madness now to ask for protection for a nonentity, for a thing which is not there. We have no slaves to carry to these Territories. We can never make another Slave State with our present supply of slaves. But if we could, it would not be wise for the reason, that if you make another Slave State from our new Territories with the present supply of slaves you will be obliged to give up another state, either Maryland, Delaware, or Virginia, to Free soil upon the North. Now, I would deal with this question, fellow Democrats, as a practical one. When I can see no possible practical good to result to the country from demanding legislation upon this theory,
<c03>
I am not prepared to disintegrate and dismember the great Democratic party of this Union. I believe, that the hopes of this country depend upon the maintenance of the great Democratic party North. (Applause.) It is no trouble for a man to be a saint in Heaven. (Cheers and laughter.)
'When the devil was sick,
The devil a monk would be;
The devil got well.
But devil a monk was he.'
(Great laughter.)
We, the Democracy of the South, are mere carpet knights. It is no trouble for us to be Damocrats. (Applause and laughter.) When I look to the Northern Democrats, I see them standing up there and breasting the tide of fanaticism, oppression, wrong, and slander with which they have to contend. I view in these men types of the old ancient Romans; I view in them all that is patriotic and noble; and, for one, I am not willing to cut loose from them. (Great cheering.) I say, then, that I will hold on to my Democratic friends of the North to the last day of the weak-late in the evening.; (Great laughter.) l am not willing to present to them a half issue of this sort. I am not willing to disintegrate, dismember, and turn them over to the ruthless hands of the thieving Black Republicans of the North. I would ask my friends of the South to come up in a proper spirit, ask our Northern friends to give us all our rights, and take off the ruthless restrictions which cut off the supply of slaves from foreign lands. As a matter of right ' and justice to the South, I would ask the Democracy of the North to grant us this thing, and I believe they have the patriotism and honesty to do it, because it is right in itself. I tail you, fellow Democrats, that the African slave-trader is the true Union man. (Cheers and laughter.) I tell you that the slave-trading of Virginia is more immoral, more unchristian in every possible point of view, than that African slave-trade which goes to Africa and brings a heathen and worthless man here, makes him a useful man, Christianize him, and sends him and his posterity down the stream of time to join in the blessings of civilization. (Cheers and laughter.) Now, fellow Democrats, so far as any public expression of opinion of the State of Virginia-the great slave-trading State of Virginia-has been ' given, they are all opposed to the African slave-trade.
Dr. REED, of Indiana-I am from Indiana, and I am in favor of it.
Mr. GAULDEN-NOW, gentlemen, we are told, upon high authority, that there is a certain class of men who strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.: Now, Virginia, which authorizes the baying of Christian men, separating them from their wives and children, from all the relations and associations amid whom they have lived for years, rolls up her eyes in holy horror when I would go to Africa, buy a savage, and introduce him to the blessings of civilization and Christianity. (Cheers and laughter.)
Mr. RYNDERS, of New York-You can get one or two recruits from New York to join with you.
THE PRESIDENT-The time of the gentleman has expired. (Cries of 'Go on! go on!')
THE PRESIDENT stated that if it was the unanimous wish of the Convention, the gentleman could proceed.
Mr. GAULDEN-Now, fellow Democrats, the slave-trade in Virginia forms a mighty and powerful reason for its opposition to the African slave-trade, and in this remark I do not intend any disrespect to my friends from Virginia. Virginia, the Mother of States and of statesmen, the Mother of Presidents, I apprehend may err as well as other mortals. I am afraid that her error in this regard lies in the promptings of the almighty dollar. It has been my fortune to go into that noble old State to buy a few darkies, and I have had to pay from $1,000 to $2,000 a head, when I could go to Africa and buy better negroes for $50 apiece. (Great laughter.) Now, unquestionably, it is to the interest of Virginia to break down the African slave-trade when she can sell her negroes at $2,000. She knows that the African slave-trade would break up her monopoly, and hence her objection to it. If any of you Northern Democrats-for I have more faith in you than I have in the Carpet Knight Democracy of the South-will go home with me to my plantation in Georgia, but a little way from here, I will show you some darkies that I bought in Maryland, some that I bought in Virginia, some in Delaware, some in Florida, some in North Carolina, and I will I also show you the pure African, the noblest Roman of them all. (Great laughter.) Now, fellow - Democrats, my feeble health and failing voice, admonish me to bring the few remarks I have to make to a close.(Cries of 'Go on! go on!') I am only sorry that I am not in a better condition than I am to vindicate before you to-day the words of truth, of honesty, and of right, and to show you the gross inconsistencies of the South in this regard. I came from the First Congressional District of the State of Georgia. I represent the African slave-- trade interests of that section. (Applause.) I am; proud of the position I occupy in that respect. I believe that the African slave-trader is a true missionary, and a true Christian, (applause,) and I have pleaded with my delegation from Georgia to put this issue squarely to the Northern Democracy, and say to them, Are you prepared to go back to first principles, and take off your unconstitutional restrictions, and leave this question to be settled by each State? Now do this, fellow citizens, and you will have peace in the country. But so long as your Federal legislature takes jurisdiction of this question, so long will there be war, so long will it there be ill-blood, so long will there be strife, until this glorious Union of ours shall be disrupted and go out in blood and night forever. I advocate the repeal of the laws prohibiting the African slave-trade, because I believe it to be the true Union movement. I do not believe that sections whose interests is are so different as the Southern and Northern States can ever stand the shocks of fanaticism, unless they be equally balanced. I believe by reopening this trade, and giving us negroes to populate the Territories, that the equilibrium of the two sections will be maintained. But if the South lies supinely by, is and allows the people of the North to people all the Territories, until we come to be a hopeless fraction in the Government, then that gallant band of Democrats North may in vain attempt to stay the torrent that will roll down upon us. It will not be in your power to do it. It should be the object of the South now to say to the North: Let us have our; rights in this matter; let as take off these restrictions against the African slave-trade, and leave it to each State to settle for itself. Then we would want no protection, and then I would be willing to let you have as much squatter sovereignty as you wish. Give as an equal chance, and I tell you the institution of Slavery will take care of itself.

From the Baton Post.
SENATOR DOOLITTLE ON PARTIES.
Senator Doolittle, of Wisconsin, has been sounding a trumpet of sedition in New York. In a speech delivered to a Black Republican club, he agitated be before the people, in the same spirit in which Lovejoy anathematized in the House of Representatives.
<c04>
The Old Dominion came in for arraignment and judgment. He thus put it on to 'the demon of slavery ' for what he alleged it had done in portions of Virginia:-
'Slaves plantation labor had done its work. Everything was falling into decay. The fields which were once cultivated and valuable had become pine barrens, while the very wolves were returning to howl over the desolation which has been wrought by the demon of slavery.'
Patriotic business, this, for a Senator, striving to set the people of Blooklyn, New York, against Virginia! And yet that demagogue professes that he does not interfere at all with slavery where it exists; by no means, be says; just as the Quaker did not mean interference when he gave the mad-dog cry; the Senator only gives slavery the 'demon' name; when the John Browns seize the clubs, rush into Virginia and spread murder and desolation, where the Constitution of our country guarantees 'domestic tranquillity.' How long can these States continue united it these Senator Doolittles go about preaching doctrines that tend directly to the point of treason? Language cannot too severely arraign these Abolition demagogues who are sowing the seeds of local hate throughout the land. When they use such words as we have cited, for the purpose of stirring the political waters, it is a piece of rank hypocrisy for them to prate about not interfering with slavery per se. The pest of our country is slavery agitation, and those who in this way promote it deserve to be held up and lashed with public scorn.
Mr. Doolittle is a recent convert to the ranks of Black Republicanism, and, as usual with new converts, his zeal is of a bitter, outrageous, ultra sort, showing hot haste to mike his new relations comfortable. He could stand on the 1852 Democratic ' platform, but takes as his pretext of opposition the Nebraska Bill, and gives this date for the origin of his party. But there is higher genealogy for his sectional party; and if he does not know it, he ought to know it. This is a political organization based on the single idea of opposition to slavery, and for war on the slave rule, as the New York Post expresses it; and its members, in carrying out this special and distinct object alone, can 'occupy common ground,' as the Post says. This is its basis, its being's end and aim; and there is no other correct way to run up its genealogy, than to take the dates of the formation of political organizations based on this common object. This is a sound touchstone: none can possibly be sounder.
Tried by this test, and what is the genealogy of Senator Doolittle's party? Is it such as he claims it to be? This wanton son of sedition has the impudence to affirm-tell it not in Gath-that his party 'stands to-day upon precisely the principles of the old Republican party of Thomas Jefferson;' that he and they acknowledged Jefferson as 'their leader and their chieftain.' What rank absurdity! What cool impudence! What profanation of a name and of the old Democracy! What line, what sentence, what word can be produced in Jefferson's day, to show that the common object of the Democracy of his day was war on slavery? Not a single word! But there is the great and damning political fact against Doolittle, that the Democracy of Jefferson's day, like the Democracy of to-day, ramified into every State of the Union, and contended for objects common to them all; and so far from prohibition of slavery in the territories being such an object, both Jefferson and Madison regarded such legislation by Congress to be unconstitutional; act upon act was passed and signed by Jefferson, providing for a government for territories in which slavery was not prohibited! Closer yet: the very terms of the Northwestern ordinance were used-in fact this law was re-enacted for the new territory WITH THE CLAUSE PROHIBITING SLAVERY EXPRBSSLY EXCEPTED!! And for years the opposition were wont to charge upon Jefferson that he was the representative, embodyment and tool of the slave power, just as this demagogue of a Doolittle makes this charge on the leading Democrats of to-day. Is this not quite enough to show the falsehood and impudence of the Senator?
It is as false as false can be, to say that the Democracy of Jefferson's day was based on hostility to slavery; on the one idea of the Republicans of to-day. To find the genealogy of the Senator, we must look elsewhere. If he will look into the times of the Missouri question, be will find a proposition made to form a political party having hostility to slavery its single and basis idea, but it was frowned upon; and it was not entertained until 1840, when the abolitionists started the same thing in the nomination of James G. Birney. Their plan of a party was, in grain, precisely what the New York Post truly says is the distinctive feature of the Republicans to-day; that is, men who differed on other questions, on bank, tariff or internal improvement, were invited to come together on the question of slavery and form a political association, to influence the ballot on this 'special and distinct object.' Thus was this party formed. Now this was precisely the idea of the Free Soil Convention at Buffalo, in 1848, that nominated C. F. Adams; namely, old Whigs and old Democrats, ignoring their old ideas, agreed to act together on the 'special and distinct object' of slavery. That also was the bash of the party that nominated Hale in 1852. This also, precisely this, was the basis of the Fremont platform of 1856, to which Seward gave his adhesion; then the 'special and distinct object' was to bring the North into an aggression on slavery, which was pronounced 'twin ' with 'polygamy.' This is the party of Senator Doolittle and its genealogy; its basis plan, to use the words of the New York Post, on which its members act together, is 'resistance to slave rule'. In plain terms, Senator Doolittle, instead of belonging to a party with the broad and national characteristics of Jefferson Democracy, belongs to that sectional conspiracy which General Cussing has so tersely hung up for the gaze and the scorn of the nation. Test it by object and principle, to wit, hostility to slavery, and its political father is the miserable abolition scheme of 1840.
Upon the development of the Helper iniquity, it appeared that Mr. Marcus Spring, of the house of Bailey, Southard & Co., of New York, had been subscribing to the cause of Brown, Helper & Co., by the hundred dollars. The house of which he was a member was largely engaged in the Southern trade; and when his liberal support of the cursade against the South was noised about, it became advisable, for the sake of the house and its Southern popularity, that he should ostensibly retire from it, as it could not be supposed reasonable that the South would throw their custom into the hands of men who were whetting their knives to cut the throats of her people, But It is understood that Marcus Spring is still a partner, though a special and silent one. We see that the bodies of Stephens and Hazlett were consigned to Marcus Spring, Perth Amboy, and that Mrs. Spring (amiable lady!) sent on money to pay the expenses of their transportation. Now, it would seems that the love of Brown-Helperism and sympathy with Brown and his followers, spring unceasingly in the breast of Spring.* * *-Richmond(Va.) Dispatch.
<c05>
The Liberator.
TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNIVERSARY 
of THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
The Twenty-Seventh Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society was held on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, at the Cooper Institute. The meeting commenced on Tuesday morning, at 101/2 o'clock. The hall, which is a very large one, was well filled at the commencement of the exercises, and before the close of the session, the number was largely increased, the hall being nearly full. 
Among those present were very many of the long tried, faithful and uncompromising friends of the slave, from various sections of the country, come up to renew their vows and strengthen their faith in the majesty of truth and the final triumph of justice and right over tyranny and wrong.
The assembly was called to order by the President of the Society, WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, who opened the exercises by reading passages of Scripture from Ezekiel and Jeremiah, at the conclusion of which he stated that an opportunity would be afforded for vocal prayer, by any friend of the cause who felt moved to do so; whereupon Rev. DANIEL WORTH, of North Carolina, came forward and offered an appropriate and earnest prayer to the God of the oppressed that he would make the deliberations of the Convention effective to the breaking of every bond and letting the oppressed go free.
FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston, Treasury of the Society, then read his Annual Report, as follows:-
RECEIPTS.
Balance from last year, $2,453 65
Amount received from subscription to Anti-Slavery Standard, donations and sale of pamphlets, 14,239 11
Total, $16,691 76
EXPENDITURES.
Amount expended for publication of Anti-Slavery Standard and pamphlets, and for lecturing agents, $11,320 34
Expenses account-for rents, office agent and incidental expenses, 1,891 54 
Balance to new account, 2,479 33
Total, $16,691 76
The Report was laid upon the table, to be subsequently acted upon.
Mr. GARRISON then presented the following series of resolutions for the consideration of the meeting:-
1. Resolved, That, in the language of Henry Clay, 'those who would repress all tendencies towards liberty and emancipation must go back to the era of our liberty and independence, and muzzle the cannon which thunders its annual joyous return. They must revive the slave trade, with all its train of atrocities. They must blow out the moral lights around us, and extinguish that greatest torch of all, which America presents to a benighted world, pointing the way to their rights, their liberties and their happiness; and when they have achieved all these purposes, their work will be yet incomplete. They must penetrate the human soul, and eradicate the light of reason and the love of liberty. Then, and not till then, when universal darkness and despair prevail, can you per perpetuate slavery, and repress all sympathies, and all humane and benevolent efforts among freemen in be half of the unhappy portion of our race doomed to bondage.'
2. Resolved, That they who are for suppressing the anti-slavery agitation are really laboring for the complete supremacy and enduring sway of the Slave Power; that they who are deploring the excitement of the times arising from this question are really lamenting that there is any manhood or moral sentiment left in the land, and arraigning the Almighty for inspiring the human mind with a detestation of robbery, injustice and oppression.
3. Resolved, That to compromise with the dealers in human flesh, to accede to any of their demands, to enter into an alliance with them from which they shall derive strength and security, to acknowledge in any manner the rectitude or necessity of their course, is to participate in their guilt, to insure general de-moralization, to lose the power of a virtuous example, and to betray the cause of freedom universally.
4. Resolved, That this Society entirely accords with the Richmond (Va.) Enquirer in the sentiment that 'two opposing and conflicting forms of society cannot, among civilized men, co-exist and endure; the one must give way and cease to exist, the other become universal; if free society be unnatural, immoral and unchristian, it must fall and give way to slave society'; or the reverse of all this must inevitably follow.
5. Resolved, That he who asserts that there is not an 'irrepressible conflict' between freedom and slavery, between free institutions and slavery, institutions, between the spirit which abolishes human chattelism and the spirit which perpetuates it, but that these are harmonious elements, or by compromise and forbearance can be made such in the same government, and can be brought into collision only by the efforts of fanaticism or sedition, is either idiotic, morally speaking, or a self-convicted demagogue, intent on nothing but the gratification of his own desperate ambition.
6. Resolved, therefore. That the party which talks of 'the glorious Union' existing between the North and the South, and of the duty of maintaining it as an object of paramount imporance, is smitten with judicial blindness, talks of what has never been, and in the nature of things can never be possible, is either the dupe or the ally of a stupendous imposture, which an insane and criminal experiment of three -score years has demonstrated is working the overthrow of all the safeguards of freedom, and, consequently, is a party neither to be trusted nor followed.
7. Resolved, That, in the words of the lamented judge jay, the union is 'a most grievous moral curse to the American people; to the people of south, by fostering. strengthening and extending an iniquitous and baneful institution; to the millions among us of African descent, by riveting the chains of the bondman and deepening the degradation of the free-
<c06>
man; to the people of the free States, by tempting them to trample under foot the obligation of truth, justice and humanity, for those wages of iniquity with which the Federal Government rewards apostates to liberty and righteousness.'
8. Resolved, That the 'glorious Union,' ever since its formation, has signified nothing but a Supremacy of a southern slave oligarchy, who have always dictated the policy of the nation, and who claim a divine right to rule, according to their pleasure, alike the slaves on their plantation and the people of the free States, without remonstrance or interrogation, and as the condition of the perpetuation of the 'glorious Union' aforesaid.
9.Resolved, that the privileges accorded to southern citizens sojourning or travelling in the North, under this Union, are these: To speak with impunity whatever they please against free institutions and free society; to advocate slavery and the slave traffic as worthy of universal extension, without interference, menace or personal danger, and to an unlimited extent; to hold any meeting or publish any journal they may choose in which to assail the uncompromising friends of freedom as fanatics and traitors, and to glorify the 'lords of the lash' as the only true friends of their country; and in short, to threaten, bully and calumniate, ad libitum, whatever or whoever is deemed by them to be adverse in spirit and sentiment to 'the sum of all villanies.'
10.Resolved, that the privileges accorded to Northern this Union, are these; To wear padlocks upon their lips; to forswear their manhood by bowing down to the Moloch of slavery; to speak in behalf of the enslaved at the peril of their lives; to be tarred and feathered if they are suspected of cherishing anti-slavery sentiments; to be thrust into prison and sold as slaves on the auction-block if they are of African descent; to be scourged, branded, lynched and driven out by mobocratic violence even while in the prosecution of their legitimate business, simply because they are Northern men.
11. Resolved, therefore, That the motto of the American Ant-Slavery Society, 'No Union with Slaveholders,' commends itself to the reason, conscience and hearty adoption of every man claiming to be loyal to the Declaration of Independence, and it becomes the solemn duty of the North to carry it into immediate practice, as demanded by every instinct of self-preservation, and by all that is obligatory in the claims of justice and humanity.

OPENING REMARKS OF MR. GARRISON.
The PRESIDENT then addressed the audience as follows:-
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: This is the first time that our Society has been in this large and commodious hall. I like it in all respects excepting one. There seems to be here a compromise between light and darkness, (laughter,) and for one, I would rather revel in excess of light than to be groping at all in darkness. However diverse may be your opinions in regard to all the measures of this Society, I trust I may take it for granted, that there is but one opinion here respecting the inhuman, wicked, unchristian, diabolical character of American slavery (loud applause); and that we are resolved, as one man, to enter upon this conflict, and never to go back one jot or tittle, but to press onward and upward until the goal of Universal Emancipation shall be reached.
I feel an 'irrepressible' desire to congratulate you all upon the triumphant progress of the 'irrepressible conflict' in all parts of our country. (Loud cheering.) In the free States, undeniably, the conflict is going on; and may I not say, that in all the slave States, it is going on, with even more vehemence and zeal than among ourselves. For at last, even the invincible Democratic party have been reached; and by the power which has been brought to bear upon it through the anti-slavery agitation, thank God! that party is no longer a unit in behalf of slavery (applause); it has been divided, I trust, never again to be united by any compromise whatsoever with the Slave Power. It seems to me to be one of the most striking proofs of the cheering progress of the movement in which we are engaged that have yet been given to us. Only think of it! The part which has, for so many years, cried out, 'There must be no agitation on this subject,' is now the most agitated of all the parties in the country! The party which declares that ought not to be any sectionalism as against slavery, has now been sundered, geographically, and on this very question! The party which has said, 'Let discussion cease for ever,' is busily engaged in the discussion, so that, possibly, the American Anti-Slavery might adjourn sine die, after we get through with our present meetings, and leave its work to be carried on in the other direction! (Laughter and cheers.) the party which says that anti-slavery must be put down in this country, is itself divided,, discomfitted, and I believe, overthrown. 'Oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever.' [REV. Mr. WORTH-'Amen!'] 'TO him that overthrew pharaoh and his host in the Red sea-for his mercy endureth for over!' (Lord applause.) In view, therefore, of these cheering signs of the times, I think we may all of us thank God and take courage
The work of the American Anti-Slavery society continues the same as from the beginning. It is the work of moral agitation. standing as the society does outside of all parties, all sect, it is compelled to criticise them all in an impartial spirit, to give to each one its due, and to below rebukes where rebukes are merited. We shall go on this work, and, united by the simple bond, that the slave is a man, and that he has therefore a right to his freedom now, as against all claimants-not stopping to ask of what religious creed or of what political party a man may be, but only whether he is willing to recognize in the slave brother man, created in the same Divine image-we hold out the hand of brotherly love and kindness and co-operation, and say, 'Let us forget all other differences, and join heart and hand, until there is not a slave left in the land to clank his chain in the hearing of God!'
If our platforms has not been occupied by the slavery of the country generally, it has not been our fault. It has always been a free platform for them, as for us, and we this day invite them, as we have done over

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
THE United States constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free states are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.....There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR PATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.....No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
since the organization of the Society, to come here, and if they will, take the lead, and go forward and carry the banner of emancipation, until liberty shall be given to all in the land. We are here to settle no other question, excepting the right of the slave to his freedom-excepting the sinfulness of making man the property of man; and we have always scrupulously endeavored to make our platform such that every man, whatever may be his peculiar religious opinions, should have no excuse for standing aloof therefrom.
I am glad to be able to present you, as the first speaker on this occasion, one whose orthodoxy, at least, has never been questioned. (Applause.) There are those who say that the reason they do not cooperate with this Society is, that some of us hold theological opinions which are distasteful to them; we are heretics, and, of course, the Jews can have no dealings with the Samaritans. (Laughter.) Now, we are to listen to one who is thoroughly evangelical-'a Puritan of the Puritans'; and yet, I ask you how has this noble man been met by the evangelical clergy of the country, as a body? How has he been treated in this city by his own evangelical brethren? Why, if he had been a heretic as bad as any who has ever yet appeared on earth, he could not have received worse treatment at the hands of the orthodox body of our country. But I bless God that he has not faltered; that he has manfully stood his ground; that he has made up his mind, if need be, to die in the 'imminent deadly breach'; and I am glad that he has found at least a faithful few to rally to his side, who are resolved to sustain him to the end. All my sympathies have been with him because he has nobly been striving in behalf of the oppressed in our land, vindicating the character of God, the nature of man, and the claims of our suffering humanity; and my heart goes out to him, and mingles with his own, and I feel to bid him God-speed, and to wish him the most entire success, even as 'a Puritan of the Puritans.'(Loud applause.) I now have the pleasure of introducing to you the Rev. GEORGE B. CHEEVER, of the city of New York. (Enthusiastic cheering.) Allow me just to add, that, in inviting our friend to speak here to-day, we have invited him to speak what George B. Cheever thinks, not the American Anti-Slavery Society; not to endorse anything pertaining to this platform, or the measures or principles of the American Anti-Slavery Society, by to speak here as he knows how to speak in his own pulpit. (Renewed cheering.)
[Dr. CHEEVER then proceeded to make a stirring and masterly speech, which elicited enthusiastic applause throughout; but as it would occupy a page of the Liberator, we are obliged to postpone its publication. It gave immense satisfaction.]

SPEECH OF ROBERT PURVIS.
ROBERT PURVIS, of Pennsylvania, was then introduced, who said:-
MR. PRESIDENT-As one of your speakers to-day, I feel myself embarrassed by two opposite and conflicting feelings: one is a painful and distressing sense of my incapacity for the duty which you have imposed upon me, and the other is an irrepressible desire to do or say something effective for a cause which is dearer to me than my heart's blood. Sir, I need not say here that I belong to that class who, at the South, are bought, sold, leased, mortgaged, and in all respects treated as absolute property; I belong to the class who, here at the North, are declared, by the highest tribunal known to your government, to posess 'no rights that a white man is bound to respect.'
I say your government-it is not mine. Thank God, I have no willing share in a government that deliberately, before the world, and without a blush, declares one part of its people, and that for no crime or pretext of crime, disfranchised and outlawed. For such a government, I as a man, can have no feeling but of contempt, loathing, and unutterable abhorrence! And, sir, I venture to affirm that there is no man in this audience, who has a spark of manhood in him, who has a tittle of genuine self-respect in his bosom, that will not justify me in these feelings.
What are the facts in the case? What is the attitude of your boasting, braggart republic toward the 600,000 free people of color who swell its population and add to its wealth? I have already alluded to the dictum of Judge Taney in the notorious Dred Scott decision. That dictum reveals the animus of the whole government; it is a fair example of the cowardly and malignant spirit that pervades the entire policy of the country. The end of that policy is, undoubtedly, to destroy the colored man, as a man, to prevent him from having any existence in the land except as a 'chattel personal to all intents, constructions and purposes whatsoever.' With this view, it says property; he shall not bear arms and train in the militia; he shall not be a commander of a vessel, not even of the meanest craft that creeps along the creeks and bays of your Southern coast; he shall not carry a mail-bag, or serve as a porter in a post-office; and he shall not even put his face in a United States court-room for any purpose, except by the sufferance of the white man. I had occasion, a few days since, to go to the United States court-room in the city of Philadelphia. My errand was a proper one; it was to go bail for one of the noble band of colored men who had so bravely risked their lives for the rescue of a brother man on his way to eternal bondage. As I was about entering the door, I was stopped, and ordered back. I demanded the reason. 'I have my orders,' was the reply. What orders? 'To keep out all colored people.' Now, sir, who was the man that offered me this indignity? It was Deputy-Marshal Jenkins, the notorious slave-catcher. And why did he do it? Because he had his orders from pious, praying, Christian Democrats, who hold and teach the damnable doctrine that the 'black man has no rights that the white man is bound to respect.' It is true that Marshal Yost, to whom I indignantly appealed, reversed this man's orders, and apologized to me, assuring me that I could go in and out at my pleasure. But, sir, the apology made the matter worse; for, mark you, it was not me personally that was objected to, but the race with which I stand identified. Great God! who can think of such outrages, such meanness, such dastardly, cowardly cruelty, without burning with indignation, and choking for want of words with which to denounce it? And in the case of the noble little band referred to, the men who generously, heroically risked their lives to rescue the man who was about being carried back to slavery; look at their conduct; you know the circumstances. We recently had a slave trial in Philadelphia-no new thing in the city of 'Brotherly Love.' A victim of Virginia tyranny, a fugitive from Southern injustice, had made good his escape from the land of whips and chains to Pennsylvania, and had taken up his abode near the capital of the State. The place of his retreat was discovered; the bloodhounds of the law scented him out, and caught him; they put him in chains and brought him before Judge Cadwalladera man whose pro-slavery antecedents made him a fitting instrument for the execution of the accursed Fugitive Slave law. The sequel can easily be imagined. Brewster, a leading Democrat-the man who, like your O'Conor of this city, has the unblushing hardihood to defend the enslavement of the black man upon principle-advocated his return. The man was sent into life-long bondage. While the trial was going on, slaveholders, Southern students and pro-slavery Market-street salesmen were freely admitted; but the colored people, the class most interested, were carefully excluded. Prohibited from entering, they thronged around the door of the courthouse. At last the prisoner was brought out, handcuffed and guarded by his captors; he was put into a carriage which started off in the direction of the South. Some ten or twelve brave black men made a rush for the carriage, in hopes of effecting a rescue; they were overpowered, beaten, put under arrest and
<c02>
carried to prison, there to await their trial, before this same Judge Cadwallader, for violating the Fugitive Slave law! Mark you, they may go into the court-room as prisoners, but not as spectators! They may not have an opportunity of hearing the law expounded, but they may be punished if they make themselves chargeable with violating it! 
Sir, people talk of the bloody code of Draco, but I venture to assert, without fear of intelligent contradiction, that, all things considered, that code was mild, that code was a law of love, compared with the hellish laws and precedents that disgrace the statute-books of this modern Democratic, Christian Republic! I said that a man of color might not be a commander of the humblest craft that sails in your American waters. There was a man in Philadelphia, the other day, who stated that he owned and sailed a schooner between that city and different ports in the State of Maryland-that his vessel had been seized in the town of Easton, (I believe it was.) or some other town on the Eastern Shore, on the allegation that, contrary to law, there was no white man on board. The vessel constituted his entire property and sole means of supporting his family. He was advised to sue for its recovery, which he did, and, after a long and expensive litigation, the case was decided in his favor. But by this time the vessel had rotted and gone to wreck, and the man found himself reduced to beggary. His business in Philadelphia was to raise $50 with which to take himself and family out of this cursed land, to a country where liberty is not a mockery, and freedom a mere idle name! 
Sir, look for a moment at the detestable meanness of this country! What was the cause of your war of the Revolution? The tyrannical doctrine of taxation without representation! Who was the first martyr in your revolutionary war? Crispus Attucks, a negro. It was a black man's blood that was the first to flow in behalf of American independence. In the war of 1812, what class of your inhabitants showed themselves more unselfishly loyal and patriotic than the free people of color? None, sir. In Philadelphia the colored people organized themselves into companies, and vied with their more favored fellow-citizens in the zeal of their efforts to guard and protect the city. In Louisiana their bravery and soldier-like behavior was such as to elicit the warmest encomiums from General Jackson, the commander-in-chief of the Southern army. Listen to the language of General Jackson on that memorable occasion:-
'HEADQUARTERS, SEVENTH MILITARY DISTRICT, Mobile, september 21, 1814.
To the Free Colored Inhabitants of Louisiana: 
Through a mistaken policy, you have heretofore been deprived of a participation in the glorious struggle for national rights in which our country is engaged. This no longer shall exist.
As sons of freedom, you are now called upon to defend our most inestimable blessings. As Americans, your country looks with confidence to her adopted children for a valorous support, as a faithful return for the advantages enjoyed under her mild and equitable government. As fathers, husbands and brothers, you are summoned to rally around the standard of the Eagle, to defend all which is dear in existence. Your country, although calling for your exertions, does not wish you to engage in her cause without remunerating you for the services rendered. Your intelligent minds are not to be led away by false representations. Your love of honor would cause you to despise the man who should attempt to deceive you. With the sincerity of a soldier, and in the language of truth, I address you.
To every noble-hearted free man of color, volunteering to serve during the present contest with Great Britain, and no longer, there will be paid the same bounty, in money and lands, now received by the white soldiers of the United States-namely, one hundred and twenty-four dollars in money and one hundred and sixty acres of land. The non-commissioned officers will be appointed from among yourselves.
Due regard will be paid to the feelings of freemen and soldiers. You will not, by being associated with white men, in the same corps, be exposed to improper comparisons, or unjust sarcasm. As a distinct, independent battalion or regiment, pursuing the path of glory, you will, undivided, receive the applause and gratitude of your countrymen. To assure you of the sincerity of my intentions, and my anxiety to engage your invaluable services to our country, I have communicated my wishes to the Governor of Louisiana, who is fully informed as to the manner of enrolments, and will give you every necessary information on the subject of this address.
ANDREW JACKSON,
Major-General Commanding.'
This was the language of General Jackson at the opening of the campaign. Now hear him at its close:
'Soldiers-When, on the banks of the Mobile, I called you to take up arms, inviting you to partake the perils and glory of your white fellow-citizens, I expected much from you; for I was not ignorant that you possessed qualities most formidable to an invading enemy; I knew with what fortitude you could endure hunger and thirst, and all the fatigues of a campaign; I knew well how you loved your native country, and that you, as well as ourselves, had to defend what man holds most dear-his parents, wife, children and property-you have done more than I expected. In addition to the previous qualities I before knew you to possess, I found among you a noble enthusiasm, which leads to the performance of great things. Soldiers! the President of the United States shall hear how praiseworthy was your conduct in the hour of danger, and the representatives of the American people will give you the praise your exploits entitle you to. Your General anticipates them in applauding your noble ardor.
'The enemy approaches, his vessels cover our lakes; our brave citizens are united; all contention has ceased among them; their only dispute is who shall win the prize of valor, or who the most glory, its noblest reward. By order,
'THOS. BUTLER, Aid-de-Camp.' 
Sir, much as this country is indebted to the colored people for their aid in times of war, they are under still greater obligations for their services in time of peace. They have tilled your soil; their labor, South and North, has been a mine of wealth to you. Belie them as you will, a more honest, industrious, orderly or useful class, take them as a whole, is not to be found in the country. What is the testimony of your Baltimore Slaveholders' Convention-a convention called for the very purpose of denouncing the free blacks of Maryland as a nuisance that ought to be abated, either by their expulsion from the State, or their reduction to slavery? What was the testimony of that convention of the enemies of the black man? Why, that they were not a nuisance, but a useful class of the population, adding much to the wealth and prosperity of the State, and that their expulsion would be both impolitic and inhuman! The same testimony in effect, is borne by Judge Catron, of Tennessee, and by the Governor of Missouri. I hold in my hand an extract from the New Orleans Picayune, of like testimony, which I will read:-
Our free colored population form a distinct class from those elsewhere in the United States. Far from being antipathetic to the whites, they have followed in their footsteps, and progressed with them, with a commendable spirit of emulation, in the various branches of industry most adapted to their sphere. Some of our best mechanics and artisans are to be found among the free colored men. They form the great majority of carpenters, tailors, shoemakers, &c., Whose sudden emigration from this community would certainly be attended with some degree of annoyance; while we count them, in no small numbers, excellent musicians, jewellers, goldsmiths, tradesmen and merchants. As a general rule, the free colored people of Louisiana, and especially of New Orleans, the "creole colored people," as they style themselves, are a sober, industrious and moral class, far advanced in education and civilization. From that class came the batalion of colored men who fought for the country under General Jackson in 1814-15, and whose remnants, veterans whom age has withered, are taken by the hand, on the anniversary of the glorious eighth of January, by their white brethren, and who proudly march with them under the same flag.' 
Sir, what class of your population are more peace able and orderly than the free people of color? Who makes your mobs on your canal lines, and in the construction of your railroads? Who swell your mobs in your beer gardens, and in your Sunday excursions? Who make your Native and Anti-Native American mobs? Your Forrest and Macready mobs, which the military have to be called out to put down? I am
<c03>
sure, not the colored people! Not the native-born Americans who have tilled your soil in times of war, and whose reward has been disfranchisement and threatened annihilation, but your foreign-born European immigrants of yesterday-men 'who can't speak your language, and don't respect your laws. These are the people who are invested with all the franchises of the country, including that of trampling on the black man. These are the people who are, at the same time, the most turbulent and most insolent class of the whole American population. I am not what is called a Native American-I don't believe in measuring a man's rights either by the place of his birth or the color of his skin. I believe in the equal natural rights of all men; and hence it is that I protest against the anti-republican and unjust distinctions in favor of a stranger and foreigner against a native-born American, against whom no charge can be made except that of the complexion which the Almighty God has given him.
But, sir, narrow and prescriptive as, in lay apprehension, is the spirit of what is called Native Americanism, there is another thing I regard as ten-fold more base and contemptible, and that is your American Democracy-your piebald and rotten Democracy, that talks loudly about equal rights, and at the same time tramples one-sixth of the population of the country in the dust, and declares that they have 'no rights which a white man is bound to respect.' And, sir, while I repudiate your Native Americanism and your bogus Democracy, allow me to add, at the same time, that I am not a Republican. I could not be a member of the Republican party if I were so disposed; I am disfranchised; I have no vote; I am put out of the pale of political society. The time was in Pennsylvania, under the old Constitution, when I could go to the polls as other men do, but your modern Democracy have taken away from me that right. Your Reform Convention, your Pierce Butlers-the man who, a year ago, put up nearly four hundred human beings on the block in Georgia, and sold them to the highest bidder-your Pierce Butlers disfranchised me, and I am without any political rights whatever. I am taxed to support a government which takes my money and tramples on me. But, sir, I; would not be a member of the Republican party if it were in my power. How could I, a colored man, join a party that styles itself emphatically the' white! man's party ' ? How could I, an Abolitionist, belong to a party that is and must of necessity be a pro-slavery party? The Republicans may be, and doubtless are, opposed to the extension of slavery, but they are sworn to support, and they will support, slavery where it already exists. Sir, elect Wm. H. Seward, that noblest Roman of them all, to the Presidency ; to-morrow, and the slaveholders of the South will have in that fact a guarantee of safety in the possession of their human property such as the election of no other man can give them. Sir, Mr. Seward believes in an ' irrepressible conflict between enduring and antagonistic forces.' But what intelligent slaveholder of the South does not believe the same thing? Sir, don't let us be carried away by fine-sounding abstractions; let us have something practical; give us a weaker man; give us another James Buchanan, or Franklin Pierce, and we will have an irrepressible conflict that all men can see and understand-a conflict like that which took place between the anti-slavery missionaries and pro-slavery planters of Jamaica-a conflict which precipitated the act of emancipation by the British Government, which set free in a day 800,000 human beings!
No, sir, I am not a Republican. I can never join a party, the leaders of which conspire to expel us from the country. This is what your Bateses and Wades, Blairs, Doolittles and Greeleys are now doing. It is true they talk of doing it with our own consent.' But what of that? Let it once be settled in the public mind that we ought to leave the country, and it will not be long till measures are taken to compel us to leave. It is the old spirit of African Colonization revived under a new name; it is the old snake with a new skin-nothing more, nothing less. Sir, what : right have Republican leaders to be plotters for the removal of a class of people who have expressed no desire to leave, but who, on the contrary, have expressed a strong purpose not to leave. Forty-three years ago, when the infamous scheme of African Colonization was first proposed, a public, meeting of the colored people of Philadelphia was called to express their sentiments in regard to the measure. My honored father-in-law, the lute James Forten, presided at the meeting, and the following is an extract from their proceedings:-
'Whereas our ancestors (not of choice) were the first successful cultivators of the wilds of America, we, their descendants, feel ourselves entitled to participate in the blessings of her luxuriant soil, which their blood and sweat enriched; and that any measure, or system of measures, having a tendency to banish us from her bosom would not only be cruel, but in direct violation of those principles which have been the boast of this republic.
Now, sir, in connection with this, let me read an extract from the New York Tribune. Mr. Greeley was replying to an article in the Detroit Free Press. Hear what he says:-
'Now, we cannot presume to give advice in the premises, because we make no pretensions to special interest in or liking for the African race. We love liberty, equality, justice, humanity-we will maintain the right of every man to himself and his own limbs and muscles; for in so doing we maintain and secure our own rights; but we do not like negroes, and heartily wish no individual of that race had ever been brought to America. We hope the day will come. when the whole negro race in this country, being fully at liberty, will gradually, peacefully, freely draw off and form a community by themselves, somewhere toward the Equator, or join their brethren in lineage in Africa or the West Indies.'
Mr. Greeley may, as he says, love liberty, &c., but I say that any man who can thus gratuitously express his dislike for an oppressed race, and thus wantonly disregard their feelings, however much of a political reformer he may be, is lacking in the nobler sentiments of a man and the instincts of a true gentleman. Mr. Greeley and other Republican leaders in the party seem disposed to put this Colonization project into their creed, or make it a plank in their platform. Let them do so, and they will sink their party so deep in the abyss of perdition that the trump of the angel Gabriel would not bring it to a resurrection. Sir, have these men, who talk thus flippantly about not' liking the negro race,' no feeling, or do they suppose we have none? Are we not men? 'Have we not eyes, hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections passions? fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer? If you prick us, do we not bleed, if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison us , do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?' Sir, in contrast with the feelings manifested by Greeley and other Republican leaders towards the colored man, look at that noble martyr and saint; the immortal hero of Harper's Ferry! Johu Brown believed what he professed, and practised what he believed: 
'He nobly acted what he nobly thought,
And sealed by death the lessons which he taught.'
He believed that the black man was a man, and he laid down his life to secure for him the rights of man, Who can look at the noble hero, and see him stoop on his way to the scaffold to kiss the negro child, and not be struck with admiration at his fidelity and sublime consistency? Sir, the Anti-Slavery cause is onward; its doctrines are destined to triumph in the country; and no party can succeed that refuses to acknowledge it. Slavery will be abolished in this land and with it, that twin relic of barbarism, prejudice against color.(Loud applause.)
THE PRESIDENT-It is no mere form of rhetorical expression, it is no idle compliment, to say that the Anti-Slavery cause, on both sides of the Atlantic
<c04>
has been more indebted to woman than to man. It was Elizabeth Heyrick, of immortal memory, who taught Wilberforce and Clarkson how to lay the axe at the root of the tree, and to make no compromise with slavery. It was a gifted young woman in this country, Elizabeth M. Chandler, who, many years ago, lifted up her voice in behalf of the oppressed-a voice which electrified the hearts of thousands, and enlisted them for life in the Anti-Slavery cause; and though she has gone to another world, she 'being dead, yet speaketh.' In one of her beautiful poems she imploringly asks- 
'Shall we behold, unheeding, life's holiest feelings crushed?
When woman's heart is bleeding, shall woman's voice be hushed?'
There are two millions of women in this country who are made marketable property, articles of merchandise. I present to you, on this occasion, as the next speaker, a noble woman, who will come here to speak not only for her sex, but for your liberty and mine, in the person of Mrs. ELIZABETH CADT STANTON.

SPEECH OF ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
Mrs. STANTON, on rising, was greeted with loud and hearty applause. She read the following resolution, as containing the thought which she was anxious to urge upon the attention of those whom she was about to address:-
Resolved, That the crowning excellence and glory of the anti-slavery enterprise is that, while its first grand design is the redemption of the Ethiopian of the South from chattel bondage, it is also, through the genius and power of Eternal Truth, liberating and elevating universal humanity above all the behests of custom, creed, conventionalism or constitution, where-ever they usurp unrighteous authority over the individual soul; and thus, while our first care is the emancipation of the Southern slave, we are, under the Divine economy, at the same time working out our own salvation, and hastening the triumph of Love and Liberty over all forms of oppression and cruelty, throughout the earth.
MR. PRESIDENT, AND GENTLEMEN AND LADIES: This is generally known as the platform of one idea- that is negro slavery. In a certain sense this may be true, but the most casual observation of this whole anti-slavery movement, of your lives, conventions, public speeches and journals, show this one idea to be a great humanitarian one. The motto of your leading organ, 'The world is my country and all mankind my countrymen,' proclaims the magnitude and universality of this one idea, which takes in the whole human family, irrespective of nation, color, caste or sex, with all their interests, temporal and spiritual-a question of religion, philanthropy, political economy, commerce, education and social life on which depends the very existence of this republic, of the state, of the family, the sacredness of the lives and property of Northern freemen, the holiness of the marriage relation, and the perpetuity of the Christian religion. Such are the various phases of the question you are wont to debate in your conventions. They all grow out of and legitimately belong to that to-called petty, insignificant, annoying subject, which thrusts up its head everywhere in Church and State-the 'eternal nigger' But in settling the question of the negro's rights, we find out the exact limits of our own, for rights never clash or interfere; and where no individual in a community is denied his rights, the mass are the more perfectly protected in theirs; for whenever any class is subject to fraud or injustice, it shows that the spirit of tyranny is at work, and no one can tell where or how or when the infection will spread. The health of the body politic depends on the sound condition of every member. Let but the finest nerve or weakest muscle be diseased, and the whole man suffers; just as the humblest and most ignorant citizen cannot be denied his rights without deranging the whole system of government.
It was thought a small matter to kidnap a black man in Africa, and set him to work in the rice swamps of Georgia; but when we look at the panorama of horrors that followed that event, at all the statute laws that were enacted to make that act legal, at the perversion of man's moral sense and innate love of justice in being compelled to defend such laws; when we consider the long, hard tussle we have witnessed here for near a century between the spirit of Liberty and Slavery, we may, in some measure, appreciate the magnitude of the wrong done to that one lone, friendless negro, who, under the cover of darkness and the star-spangled banner, was stolen from his African hut and lodged in the hold of the American slaver. That one act has, in its consequences, convulsed this Union It has corrupted our churches, our politics, our press laid violent hands on Northern freemen at their own firesides; it has gagged our statesmen, and stricken our Northern Senators dumb in their seals; yes, beneath the flag of freedom, Liberty has crouched in fear.
That grand declaration of rights made by WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, while yet a printer's boy, was on a far higher plane than that of '76. His was uttered with the Christian's view of the dignity of man, the value of the immortal being; the other but from the self-respect of one proud race. But, in spite of noble words, deeds of thirty years of protest, prayers and preaching, slavery still lives, the negro toils on in his weary bondage, his chains have not yet melted in the intense heat of the sun of righteousness; but in the discussion of this question, in grappling with its foes how many of us have worked out our salvation what mountains of superstition have been rolled off the human soul! I have always regarded Garrison as the great missionary of the gospel of Jesus to the guilty nation, for he has waged an uncompromising warfare with the deadly sins of both Church and State. My own experience is, no doubt, that of man; others. In the darkness and gloom of a false theology I was slowly sawing off the chains of my spiritual bondage, when, for the first time, I met Garrison in London. A few bold strokes from the hammer of his truth, I was free! Only those who have lived all their lives under the dark clouds of vague, undefined fear can appreciate the joy of a doubting soul suddenly born into the kingdom of reason and free thought. Is the bondage of the priest-ridden less galling that that of the slave, because we do not see the chains the indelible scars, the festering wounds, the deep degradation of all the powers of the God-like mind?
To Garrison we owe, more than to any other on man of our day, all that we have of religious freedom But for him, I doubt whether our Cheevers, our Beechers, would have yet found backbone enough to stand where they now do; for when he first called the American Church to its awful reckoning, it was as dead as the twelve apostles of solid silver which Cromwell melted into coin, and sent through the English nation to do the will of their master.
I do not believe all history affords another such example as the so-called 'Garrisonian Conspiracy '- a body of educated men of decided talent, wealth rank and position, standing for a quarter of a century battling a whole nation, Church and State, law and public sentiment, without the shadow of ever wavering, turning or faltering, as if chained to the great Gibraltar-truth of human freedom and equality. The unheard-of steadfastness can only be accounted for in the fact that woman too is represented in this 'conspiracy.' Yes, the Marys and the Marthas have gathered round the prophets of our day. With noble words and deeds, and holy sympathy, they have cheered their exile from the love and honor of their own false countrymen. At their family altars they have been remembered, and unseen spirits of the brave and good have hovered over them, and rejoiced in these true sons of earth. Yes, this is the only organization on God's footstool where the humanity of woman is recognised, and these are the only men who have ever echoed back her cries for justice and equality. I shall never forget our champions in the World's Anti-Slavery Convention; how nobly Phillips did speak, and how still more nobly Garrison would not peak, because woman was there denied her rights.
<c05>
Think of a World's Convention, and one half the world left out! Shame on the women of this nation, who help to swell the cry of 'INFIDEL' against men like these! All time would not be long enough to pay the debt of gratitude we owe these noble men, who spoke for as when we were dumb, who roused us to a sense of our own rights, to the dignity of our high calling.
No, the mission of this Radical Anti-Slavery Movement is not to the African slave alone, but to the slaves of custom, creed and sex, as will; and most faithfully has it done its work. To appreciate the magnitude and benevolence of its mission, look for a moment at what fear has done from the beginning-at What an abject, hopeless slave man has ever been to this worst of tyrants! Behold how long, through ignorance, he crouched before the wonders of the solar system-the sun, the moon, the stars, the convulsions of nature, the accidents by sea and land, pestilence and famine; how long, in the follies and vices of man, he has seen the finger of God. In fact, we are but, just now emerging from the savage idea that God is the special patron of all human calamities- of war, slavery, and governments of violence and force. Who that sees a mind oppressed with the traditions of ages, in its first agonizings for life, and love and law, would, dare to obstruct its mission? Who would check its earnest longings with the cry, Behold a mystery? Who would bound its hopes, or deny its rights to explore the universe for facts and thoughts to feed the soul upon, or to find comfort, if it may, in owe great law alone?
The weary traveller, long tossed about at sea, is filled with joy to find himself on land once more. How good it is to stand upright and firm-to feel no motion, swelling, heaving up and down, and
'Sweeter far than foothold firm on solid land,
Is to the soul a faith that it can understand.'
As we rejoice this day in our deliverance from the sad train of fears and errors that have so long crippled and dwarfed the greatest minds of earth-as we thank the Lord that we are not Hindoos, Hottentots, Mohammedans, or New York Observer Christians, let us seek a new and holier baptism for the work that lies for each of us in the future.
The last fear from which man may hope deliverance is the fear of man. To this glorious freedom did the immortal John Brown arrive. He feared neither man nor God; he was made perfect in love; the future was bright and beautiful to him, for he had done the will of his Father, and with joy he went out to meet him. How grand, how calmly dignified, were his last days on earth! In his noble generosity and self-sacrifice, in his divine love for ; right and justice and humanity, how like a god he seemed among the petty tyrants that surrounded him! It has filled me with amazement to find any American citizen insensible to the holy grandeur of, his life and death. Noble John Brown! thou wert true to thyself and thy race, and loyal to thy God. I ask no higher honor in the gift of this nation for any sons of mine than a gallows and a grave like thine! As these sons now gather round me, and 1 ask questions about different nations, governments and laws, think you it is with pride I read to them our constitutions, statute laws, and late judicial decisions on great questions of human rights? Ah, no! Mr. President, it is with the deepest sorrow that I' check the budding patriotism in their young hearts-! that I unveil to them our falsehood and hypocrisy, in the face of those grand and glorious declarations of freedom and equality which, when first pro-claimed at the mouth of the cannon, raised us head and shoulders above the nations of the earth. It is all-important, in a republican government, that our laws be always on the side of justice. Here, where we have neither Pope nor King, no royal family crown or sceptre, no nobility, rank or class, nothing outward to cultivate or command our veneration, Law, the immutable principles of right, are all and everything to us.
See to it, you who have the best interests of our Republic in your care, that your laws keep pace with public sentiment. If you would have us teach our sons a sacred reverence for law, so frame your constitutions and your codes that, in yielding obedience to their requirements, they are not false to the holy claims of humanity-that they degrade not the mothers who gave them life. No one can be more awake than I am to all the blessings of a republican form of government, nor, as a mother, more apprehensive lest her sons should confound liberty with license. Here, where individual responsibilities are so great, and the influence of one so all-powerful, I fain would have! them lovers of law and order, and meekly to suffer ! wrong themselves, if need be, to preserve it; but when the panting fugitive throws himself on our generosity and hospitality, I dare not check the noble, God-given impulses of their natures to place! the man above all law. Yes, I must ever teach them that man alone is divine; his words and works are , fallible ; his institutions, however venerable with age and authority, his constitutions, laws and interpretations of Holy Writ, may all prove false. That alone is sacred that can fully meet the wants of the immortal soul-that can stand the test of time and eternity. 
On this platform are the only wise conservatives of the nation, the only men who would compel obedience to the laws by bringing them into harmony with the everlasting principles of right. These are the only 'Union meetings' that can effectually keep off dissolution, by dispelling that dangerous miasma of slavery, which has ever proved so fatal to republicanism, so deadly to all national virtue and strength.
Eloquently and earnestly as noble men have denounced slavery on this platform, they have been able to take only an objective view. They can describe the general features of that infernal system-the horrors of the African slave trade, the agonizing sufferings of the middle-passage, the auction-block, the slave-pen and coffle, the diabolism of the internal traffic, the cruel severing of family ties, the hopeless, degradation of woman; all that is outward they can see; but a privileged class can never conceive the feelings of those who are born to contempt, to inferiority, to degradation. Herein is woman more fully identified with the slave than man can possibly be, for she can take the subjective view. She early learns the misfortune of being born an heir to the crown of thorns, to martyrdom, to womanhood. For while the man is born to do whatever he can, for the woman and the negro there is no such privilege. There is a Procrustean bedstead ever ready for them, body and soul, and all mankind stand on the alert to restrain their impulses, check their aspirations, fetter their limbs, lest, in their freedom and strength, in their full development, they should take an even platform with proud man himself. To you, white man, the world throws wide her gates; the way is clear to wealth, to fame, to glory, to renown; the high places of independence and honor and trust are yours; all your efforts are praised and encouraged, all your successes are welcomed with loud hurrahs and cheers; but the black man and the woman are born to shame. The badge of degradation is the skin and sex-the ' scarlet letter' so sadly worn upon the breast. Children, even, can define the sphere of the black man, and the most ignorant Irishman hiss him into it, while striplings, mere swaddlings of law and divinity, can talk quite glibly of woman's sphere, and pedant priests at the altar discourse most lovingly of her holy mission to cook him meat, and bear him children, and minister to his sickly lust.
In conversation with a reverend gentleman, not long ago, I chanced to speak of the injustice done to woman. Ah! said he, so far from complaining, year heart should go out in thankfulness that you are an American woman, for in no country is the world does woman hold so high a position as here. Why, sir, said I, you must be very ignorant, or very false. Is my political position as high as that of Victoria,
<c06>
Queen of the mightiest nation on the globe? Are not nearly two millions of native-born American women, at this very hour, doomed to the foulest slavery that angels ever wept to witness? Are they not doubly damned as immortal beasts of burden in the field, and sad mothers of a most accursed race? Are they not raised for the express purposes of lust? Are they not chained and driven in the slave-coffie at the crack of the whip of an unfeeling driver? Are they not sold on the auction-block? Are they not exposed naked to the coarse jests and voluptuous gaze of all laws, both human and divine, and denied the right to read the Bible? For them there is no Sabbath, no Jesus, no Heaven, no hope, no holy mission sacred to look for, but an eternal sleep in death and the grave. And these are the daughters and sisters of the first men in the Southern States! Think of fathers and brothers selling their own flesh on the auction-block, exposing beautiful women of refinement and education in a New Orleans market, and selling them, body and soul, to the absolute will of the highest bidder! And this is the condition of woman in republican. Christian America, and priests dare not look me in the face, and tell me that, for blessings such as these, my heart should go out in thankfulness! No, proud priest, you may encase your soul in holy robes, and hide your manhood in a pulpit, and, like the Pharisee of old, turn your face away from the sufferings of your race; but I am a Christian-a follower of Jesus-and 'whatsoever is done unto one of the least of these my sisters is done also unto me.' Though, in the person of the poor trembling slave mother, you have bound me with heavy burthens, most grievous to bear-though you have done all you could to quench the spark of immortality, which, from the throne of God, quickened me into being-though you have left me no vehicle of thought-though you have made the letters of Cadmus, the whole English language, as dead to me as Egyptian hieroglyphics, yet can I still talk with God, From majestic rivers and mighty forests I have learned his power, while gentle murmuring waters and the music of the woods have told me of his love. Yes, outside of my sad, hard slave life, in gay flowers and songs of happy birds, in the spicy breezes and sweet orange groves of my Southern home, I sometimes feel the pulsations of the great heart of God. He comes to me in all his works. I have worshipped him in the glorious sun, and moon, and stars and laved my soul in their silent majesty and beauty. I have asked the everlasting hills, that in their upward yearnings seem to touch the heavens, if I, an immortal being, though clothed in womanhood, was made for the vile purposes to which proud Saxon man has doomed me, and in solemn chorus they all chanted NO! I have turned my eyes within; I have asked this bleeding heart, so full of love to God and man, so generous and self-sacrificing, ever longing for the pure, the holy, the divine, if this graceful from, this soft and tender flesh was made to crawl and shiver in the cold, foul embrace of Southern tyrants; and, in stifled sobs, it answered, No! Thank you, oh Christian priests, meekly I will take your insults, taunts and sneers. To you my gratitude is due for all the peculiar blessings of slavery, for you have had the morals of this notion in your keeping. Behold the depths into which you have plunged me-the bottomless pit of human misery! But perchance your head grows dizzy to look down so far, and your heart faints to see what torture I can bear! It is enough!
But, Mr. President, I rejoice that it has been given woman to drink the very dregs of human wretchedness and woe. For now, by an eternal law of matter and of mind, when the reaction comes, upward and upward, and still upward, she shall rise. Behold how far above your priestly robes, your bloody altars, your foul incense, your steepled synagogues, she shall stand secure on holy mounts, mid clouds or dazzling radiance, to which, in your gross vision, you shall not dare even to lift your eyes! (Applause.)

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., was then introduced, as the last speaker of the morning. He said:-
MR. PRESIDENT-I can very sincerely say that I stand with a great deal of pleasure upon this platform this morning. I think we have very peculiar reasons for rejoicing over the position and prospects of the anti-slavery movement. The sky looks clear; the picture seems bright. I am not sure whether there is much necessity for holding such a meeting as this; perhaps we hold too many. Having just finished a very interesting and excited session of the American Society at Charleston, (laughter and applause,) and looking forward to another interesting debate at Chicago next week, by other agents and servants of this Society, (renewed merriment,) perhaps we do wrong in wearying the people by filling up this interval with a meeting of our own. Still, after all, I suppose it is necessary that we also, in unmistakable tone, should express our opinion about current events. I am glad to stand here, therefore; glad at the presence of those who stand with us. I think we have heard the John Brown of the American pulpit this morning (loud applause); and I should be disposed to say, with Mrs. Browning,
'Shout for the good sword's ring!
Shout for the thought still truer!'
I go for the sword; but I go for the thought which ploughs deeper and lasts longer than the sword-blade in a reading and thinking nation like ours.
I have, I think, a right to call my predecessor the John Brown of the American pulpit; for the 'Church of the Puritans' is in insurrection to-day. (Loud laughter and applause.) Union Square is the Harper's Ferry of the moral conflict (renewed applause); and the vulture of American Congregationalism is to swoop upon him as the vulture of the American Union swooped upon the heroes of Charlestown and Harper's Ferry, five or six months ago. I am glad he comes here, and-like kindred drops mingling into one-that when the American pulpit denounces righteousness, righteousness gravitates toward the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society. (Applause.) The only trouble is, in gleaning after such reapers, to find anything to say.
But the sky grows bight. We have had a great may dissolutions of the Union. The Methodists divided North and South awhile ago; the Missionary Society is broken in pieces-we have two or three claimants for public sympathy and support; the Tract Society has a fragment at Boston and a fragment at New York. Everything is breaking, and at last the great Democratic party has broken too (Laughter and loud cheering.) She has found out that slavery had a right everywhere. She hated the Republican motto, 'Freedom national, slavery sectional'; she had her motto, 'Slavery everywhere'; and the ecunterpart is, 'Demeocracy nowhere.' (Great merriment.) It reminds me of the story an Eastern traveller tells us of a bear in Northern Asia, who went into a woman's hut when she had just taken off the boiling tea-kettle: and, smelling round with his nose, he touched the hot iron. Angry at the offence offered to his nervous system, the bear clasped the kettle; the more it burned him, the more he howled; and the more he howled, the tighter he clasped it; and the more he howled, the tighter he clasped it; and so he died. The Democratic party clasped slavery everywhere; and the more it has ruined it, the more it has clasped it, and the more it has howled; (laughter;) and it will die with the hot doctrine in its arms. (Applause.)
What say s the other party? How much does it say? Why, Mr. Seward has found out a new name for the conflict-an 'irrepressible conflict'; and has found out a new name for the parties. Mark you! we are fanatics; we don't know anything; we are head over heels with our passions; we can't see an inch beyond our own ignorance and mistake; we are
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
mere boys-madmen-strong-minded women, meddling with what don't concern us-and this is the statesman who instructs us how to think. Well there is an irrepressible conflict.' Between what? Between labor and capital. Where did he find that? An irrepressible conflict between the lungs and stomach; an irrepressible conflict between the air and the lungs. An irrepressible conflict between labor and capital'! And is that statement ship? Yet this is the doctrine of the Republican party; this is the statesmanship of the republican party. Words mean a great deal, and that speech undertakes to use words as Talleyrand told us their highest use was-to conceal thought. What is the cause, according to Mr. Seward, of all this difficulty? The history of the Union-what is the cause of it? Why, that the North was afraid of losing the Union. One-two-three-he traces every act of southern aggression. Why did it succeed? Because the North was afraid of losing the Union. A compassionate woman once asked the doctor, you know, 'Doctor, why is it that men are born dumb?' Well, madam, said the learned physician, gathering up the whole sum of his logic, 'the reason of that is, that children are born without speech. (Laughter.) 'Well, now, I am so glad I asked you,' said she. 'I suppose if I had asked my husband, he would have said, "Because they is," (Renewed laughter.) That is the amount of that speech. No explanation; no analysis; no piercing into the real causes that make the North afraid of losing the Union, or making the Union valuable, or its sunderance hazardous. No; when a Keen question, like an earthquake rift, that goes down to the very heart of the nation, enters the Senate chamber, in the person of Thaddeus Hyatt, this Republican statesman goes out of the door, (Cries of 'Shame.') Is there no need, then, of such meetings as ours? Is there not need of men, insurrectionists against Church and State, bold at least to tell all they think and fear? Suppose men say we do nothing but exhaust the vocabulary of abuse; suppose men say we do nothing but manifest the morbid bitterness of our own envious spirits; such things have been said before. The old party from which we spring bore the same calumuy in their day; yet they saved England and survived, gibbeted to everlasting contempt in the undying satire of Hudibras, and the scorn of belies lettres ever since; and, like the Covenanters, as the Scotch poet says:-
-bought,
Stern rushing upon Claves spears,
The freedom and the scorn of after years.'
We may buy it too; but whether we buy it or not, our duty at such hours as this is to see that the Republic receives no detriment, no matter whose chances for the Presidency are perilled by the discussion, the remorseless discussion, of the question which the hour raises.
I agree with Dr. Cheever utterly in the opinion which he has been almost the first in this city of the Empire to avow, in regard to this doctrine of contempt. No man who understands the nature of our government but would see, in a moment, that, according to the whole spirit of the United states Constitution, neither in the Senate as a Court, nor in any court under republican institutions, does there abide one shadow of this despotic usurpation, the right to commit for contempt. We did not bring it over to these States. We no more brought it than we brought the King's privilege of taking your houses, and eating all you have, without paying for it, as the Tudors and the Stuarts did for hundreds of years. It is a relic of despotism, which nothing but the servile indifference or the timidity of the Republican members of the Senate ever allowed to exist for a moment. The senate has a right, if a man disturb its sessions by unseemly noise, to put him out; when he is out of that hall, he falls, as every criminal does, into the hands of the police and the grand jury. If he has offended the laws of this country, the courts are open, indictment is ready, a petit jury for his trial, the State's prison for his punishment; and no Republican Legislature, and no Republican court, sitting under the Constitution of the Union or the State, possess any power beyond that. It is an usurpation, a dangerous usurpation; and every republican citizen who does not wish slavery to be no longer a matter of color, but to cover us, the Saxon race, as well as the negro, is bound to put his foot upon this first and most atrocious instance of Senatorial usurpation. (Loud cheers.) If the Tribune had not had its heart eaten out by the miserable chances of Republican success, it might have made some effort to give the key-note to the Northern press in regard to this outrage on citizenship, broader even than chattel slavery itself.
You may say that I use strong language, speaking of Republican shortcomings. I do, and I mean to do so. Slavery is no superficial evil, that is to be killed in a moment, or by a single blow. It is grouted into the very machinery of the state; it strikes its roots through a thousand strata, and is as powerful, and more powerful, than the Union itself. Many men have thought they saw it dying, and have supposed that they should survive it, and been disappointed. John Randolph said, thirty years ago, 'slavery is so weak in Virginia that I shall yet live to see the slave chasing his master for a support, and the master trying to avoid his slave.' After he made the prophecy, slavery stepped over the Mississippi, stole new lands upon which to plant itself, and took a new lease for another half century. To-day, Republicanism lays down the delusive principle, that if slavery can be curbed in the Territories, and confined to the worn-out soil of Virginia and the Carolinas, it will die of itself. But in the meantime, a great commercial agent and agricultural discovery, guano is undertaking to renew the exhausted life of the Carolinas and of Georgia, and ten dollars laid out upon one acre give a result of sixty or seventy clear profit to the worn-out soil of the seaboard; and one little discovery like this agricultural patent of the last ten years is to make the whole machinery of Republican argument useless and baseless. It is only another stone in the structure which we have been striving to rear for a quarter of a century, that no efficient attack can be made upon the system of slavery which does not denounce it as sin, which does not claim its abolition as a duty, which does not demand, on a higher level than expediency, that of Christian principle of thirty millions of people, that they put to it a total, an unconditional, and an immediate end! (Loud applause.)
It is said that we have claimed too much; that we have unnecessarily invaded the religious world, and attacked it. Do you believe that if thirty thousand American pulpits had preached for three years as this one Doctor of Divinity has preached to us this morning, South Carolina could whip New York into being her spaniel at Charleston? (Voice-No!' 'No!) 'Political preaching!' When Christ announced to his hearers his doctrines as to the sinfulness of the fate of the men on whom the tower of Siloam fell, he was preaching to them about the last news of that morning, which the boys had hawked about the streets of Jerusalem that very day. He took for his text an extract from The Jerusalem Observer (laughter) of that very week, and preached on the last political and social item of the hour; and no man follows in his footsteps who does not do exactly the same thing. when I want political preaching, I go to the New Testament, which is nothing but a political pamphlet, suited to the meridian of Jerusalem. If the Church had given us her doctrine on the subject of the sinfulness of slavery, we should have settled this question ten years ago, on a deeper and better basis than any that politics can offer to us. When I look upon a Republican Statesman covering himself up, for availability, in equivocal words in timid announcements of principle, it throws me back to the consideration, what have we fanatics ever.
<c02>
asked? How much have we ever claimed? Justice? As my friend Robert Purvis stood here, and spoke to us of the colored race, it came to me, How lacking we have been-we, the madmen' of the Abolition crusade! We have claimed for the slave, peeled and meted out, plundered and wronged for six generations-we have claimed for the imbruted representative of a race that has made one-half of this nation what it is, that, naked and penniless, ignorant and friendless, he should go out without fetters. That magnificent house, grouted with his blood-those timbers, laid in his toil-that Southern boy's education, whipped out of his muscles-that girl's diamonds, crushed out of his bones-that white race's culture on the sweat of his brow-that Eden of the Carolinas and Virginia, the result of his toil-of that we have asked not one jot nor tittle; but from under that avalanche of wickedness, we have only asked liberty to take out the naked, plundered body of the imbruted representative of six generations of bondmen, and forty thousand pulpits have started luck and turned fossil at the atrocity of our claim! (Laughter and cheers.) If we had asked for justice, we should have said, Senator Mason, dressed in homespun, disgorge the plunder of your pocket! Throw off that stolen dress, and walk out on the plundered pavement the naked robber that you were born!' (Tremendous cheering.) We should have said to him, when he told Charles Sumner, with laughable ignorance, that he never heard of Virgil till he came to the Senate, Of course not; who ever expected you to hear of Virgil in benighted Virginia?' Had I stood in the Massachusetts Senator's place, I should have offered a resolution that the ignorant Senator from Virginia be furnished with a copy of Virgil at the public expense; and, in order to facilitate his acquisition of knowledge, that it be the Hamiltonian edition, where the English line follows the Latin. (Loud laughter.) But I should have said to the educated Virginian, 'Free that slave immediately! Clothe him; educate him; send him to Yale or to Harvard; flood his soul with the culture which the best institutions of learning can give him; bring him home, clothe him with broadcloth and velvet, and, on your bended knees at his feet, beg him, accepting of all you have, to pardon the name of robber that you have inherited by six generations of disgrace! (Loud cheers.) And if the Abolitionists had claimed it all, in the face of thirty millions of people, every line in this inspired book (taking up the Bible) would have vindicated the title, and stood for the basis of the enterprise. (Renewed applause.) And yet, when we only claim a flavor, a homoeopathic pellet, an almost infinitessimal fraction of the slave's rights, press and pulpit, statesmanship and literature cry out, 'The heavens are going to pieces; the earth yawns at our feet!' Lo! we are a Christian nation! Behold this imbruted infidel, who maintains that the Bible does not sanction Virginia in selling every sixth man, and condemning every sixth woman to prostitution!
My good friend Dr. Cheever thinks we have another sin to answer for; and that is, we libel the American Constitution. Well, all I can say is, I will share in the faul tbetwixt the Americans that are, and the Americans that have been. I was afraid, in the present state of American vitality, that if we put the whole load of the sin upon our shoulders, it would crush us entirely out, and so I called Washington and Jefferson, Patrick Henry and Judge Jay to help us bear up the load. He say I do them injustice. All I can say is, that if the Constitution is good, and if the present captain and the present crew, with a spotless deck and unsullied ship's papers, started on a cruise, and turned us into such pirates, then the crew and the captain are a great deal worse than I supposed them. If with a spotless Constitution we have got such a Union, where, in the devil's name, should we have been if we had had a bad Constitution? (Laughter and loud cheers.) I think the fault is in the Constitution, and that the sons have been merely moving in the channel and rut that the fathers made for them; that it is in our blood; that this constitutional principle of compromising is not only constitutional in the sense of the American parchment, but it is physically our constitution. The North and the South, on this subject of slavery, are like two boys that went out in Boston on election day. One said, 'How much money has your father given you?' He has given me twenty-five cents,' said the other. 'How much has your father given you?' 'He has given me nine-pence; let's divide.' (Laughter.) The North and the South started with the Constitution, with the idea that we should put our culture, wealth, thrift, enterprise, righteousness, Christianity, into this rotten partnership of a slave Democracy, and we agreed to it. Washington and Jefferson knew it. My good friend asks, with an eloquence all his own, 'Who can believe that Washington ever let them foist into the Constitution of the United States that damnable provision to bring back a fugitive slave? Well, I do not know that he did; but I know that when it was there, he used it. Whether he consented to its being foisted in, I do not know; but after it was in, even George Washington-can I speak a purer or a better name in that generation?-even George Washington could send to New Hampshire, (Charles Sumner read the letter on the floor of the United States Senate,) and asked the collector of customs at Portsmouth to bring back to Mount Vernon the slave that had sought the free air of the White hills, and was breathing it contrary to law. But, let it be said, to the immortal honor of the great Virginian, that he added, 'if the attempt to take her back will offend the prejudices of the farmers of New Hampshire, do not attempt to do it.' (Loud applause.) Would to God that the prejudices of the farmers of New Hampshire could have crowded out the prejudices of South Carolina! But, unfortunately, the prejudices of Carolina have choked New England.
What poetic justice it was that, on the very steamship which the Democratic party hired to carry them to Charleston and to bring them back, a fugitive slave concealed himself. And on the return voyage-as if it were God's own manifest hand held out to try them-he was discovered. The infamous blots on the surface of American life put back the steamer, and returned him to bondage. ('Shame.') Thank God, the Democracy is annihilated! (Great cheering.) You remember the old story of the bar-room bully, who said that he knocked his antagonist down with such a blow that there was nothing left of him. The next morning, they brought a light and found the grease-spot-that was all! The Democratic party has been annihilated; they have brought a light, and all they can find is a Constitutional party' in New England, Edward Everett and Caleb Cashing! (Great merriment.) Somebody says I should speak respectfully of Cushing. Oh, no! It was whispered that I ought to be respectful-he might be President of the United States. That is no reason. Any man is in danger of being President of the United States (Laughter.) But I don't think they will try Cushing. Out at Pelham, where the mountain Monadnock hangs over the sanctuary, the old minister was once preaching on faith, and said he, My brethren, if you had faith, you might move a mountain.' Then he glanced up and saw Monadnock, shook his head, and added, Not exactly Monadnock, but a very large hill.' (Merriment.) Now, I dont think the Democratic horse in the race could quite carry Caleb Cushing, though I think he might win with the 'Little Giant' in the saddle. But that is no business of ours.
I am glad that I came here so late that it was unnecessary I should say anything in addition to the weighty and grave truth, to the eloquent and stern truth, to which we have listened this morning. Thank God that better men are crowding us off our own platform-doing our work better, perhaps, than we can do it ourselves! It is a hard fight; it is a brave battle; Mr. Seward knows it, better than you and I do. He does not mean that speech; he means
<c03>
something infinitely deeper. (Applause.) He knows it, and the slaveholder knows it. He knows that when he goes into the Presidential chair, if he shall go there, with that speech in his right hand, he caries this whole platform in his heart. (Cheers.) He Knows, and every man of his age, (for he has reached that age when men begin to act less from ambition, and more from a sense of duty,) every Republican leader knows, that the programme they announced in the Senate is not the purpose of the Northern people, is not the purpose of the Republican party, that has he heart of the Northern people behind it; but that, throwing aside these words, surmounting these historical problems, Wm. H. Seward designs, and the Republican party, so far as it has a heart, means to grapple slavery, and to strangle it, as soon as they can. (Enthusiastic cheering.) Our friend Dr. Cheever said, 'Put me in the place of power, and I will make that Constitution anti-slavery.' Yes; make him President, and, as Alexander of Russia said to Madame de Stael, I am the Constitution, (applause.) and, under such a Constitution, neither my friend Mr. Garrison nor myself might find any conscientious seruples against voting. (Renewed applause.) When Wm. H. Seward enters the Presidential chair, he means that his portrait, if it lives to posterity, shall go down painted with one hand upon the American eagle, and the other on the jugular vein of the slave system. (Prolonged and enthusiastic cheering, and cries of 'Good!' 'Good!') The fault I find with Republicans is, that they are such children, that they are such infants, as to suppose that, with their past behind them, and with their future looking out of their eyes, the slaveholder or the abolitionist either believes the lies that they call speeches. (Laughter and cheers.) Emerson said, a 'speech is not worth anything that has not a man behind it.' Do yon suppose, when Jefferson Davis and Mr. Mason listened to that speech of William H. Seward, that they were green enough to believe that they were listening to the opinions of William H. Seward? Do you believe that they know us so little, that they read the New York Herald and the Tribune so carelessly as to suppose that the silent North waited, hushed and anxious, until its vagrant statesman came back from Jerusalem to tell them what to think and to feel, and that, when he came, this useless parade of the dictionary was all the message they expected? Do you suppose that when-paying that inestimable price for the gewgaw of the Presidency, (poor man! how bankrupt he will be if he does not get it!)-do you think that when his lips, upon which the civilized world was waiting, soiled themselves by saying that a better man than he, that John Brown, was justly hung,' the South supposed, for a moment, that the free waters of the Empire State stood still to hearken to the voice of her statesman, because he thought that the gibbet at Charlestown was legal and just? No! the South paid him the compliment of believing that he lied. (Loud laughter and applause.) They knew that the statesman of sixteen States must have other metal than that, or he never could have endowed himself with magnetism enough to draw sixteen million of hearts. Now, what Mr. Seward cannot say in the Senate, the other end of the telegraph says here. Here Dr. Cheever lets the cat out of the bag. (Prolonged cheers.) 
The Convention then adjourned to meet at 3 o'clock, in business session.
TUESDAY AFTERNOON.
At the business meeting of the Society, held at the Cooper Institute, at 3 o'clock, P. M., the chair was taken by the President of the Society.
Samuel May, Jr., of Massachusetts, and Susan B. Anthony, of New York, were chosen Assistant Secretaries.
The question of amending the Constitution, in conformity to notice already given to the Executive Committee, was brought before the Society. The proposed amendments are as follows:-
By striking out of Article II. the following words: While it admits that each State in which slavery exists has, by the Constitution of the United States, the exclusive right to legislate in regard to its abolition in said State,' and by making the word 'It,' which follows the words above quoted, the beginning of a sentence.
Also that the rending of the first sentence of the same article shall be, 'The object of this Society is,' &c.
The first amendment was favored by Oliver Johnson, Wendell Phillips, Wm. H. Hoisington, J. Miller McKim, J. H. Stephenson, Edward Gilbert, Susan B. Anthony, Mary Grew, and the President. Adopted, nem con.
The second amendment was then unanimously agreed to.
The following persons were nominated by the Chair, and elected, a Committee to nominate officers for the ensuing year:
J. Miller McKim, of Phiadelphia; Marcus Spring, of New Jersey; Thomas Garrett, of Delaware; G. B. Stebbins, of Michigan; Maria E. Whitcomb, of Connecticut; J. Elizabeth Jones, of Ohio; J. H. Stephendon, of Massachusetts; Joseph Post, of New York; Joseph Carpenter, of New York.
Mr. May read letters addressed to the Executive Committee, from Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. O. B. Frothingham, Rev. M. D. Conway, and Rev. Joshua Young. 
The letter from Mr. Frothingham called out remarks from Mr. Garrison, Oliver Johnson, and Mary Grew.
The following letters were voted to be printed:-
LETTER FROM REV. M. D. CONWAY.
CINCINNATI, March 11, 1860.
MY DEAR MR. MAY: Your note of the 12th, written for the Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, is before me. I regret that I cannot answer at once, 'I go, sir'-it is for fear that, if I did, I might, like the compliant son, 'go not.' It is better to Say, 'I go not,' and go, perhaps. All I can say now is, I will try. And you may be sure of hearing, if I do, the outpourings of a heart which has many a time longed for the Old Abington or Framingham Groves, or the Melodeon, or some other place consecrated to freedom, where it might utter what the events of the last years have made into a molten mass within it.
I have preached several times about Old John Brown, and feel as if I had given only a little crayon study of the picture I wish to, and can, draw of that man, to whom my soul cleaves. 
I wish to tell, also, how the limitless prairles, the Rocky Mountains, the wild glory of the twin-valleys of the West, have been crying out to the humanity they are holding at their mighty udders, until man begins to think and throb out here. The Wisconsin Judge who matched his court to the United States, and triumphed-Carl Shurtz-John Brown, these are simply our Western baby's fingers feeling about the visage of Slavery. You know the historic destiny of East and West; the East lay a dervish or prophet in the sunshine, dreaming out ideals which the West exists to live out-to incarnate in granite, in government, in social life. Paradise is the dream of the East-the practical destiny of the west. 
The same thing must be repeated in every nation on a less scale. You in the East are thinking out these matters for us-you lecture us, you inspire us, you give us the poetry and literature of Freedom; but, mark my prophecy! the Thor with the hammer who is to smile the chains, who is to carve the body for' the soul of Liberty, now only hovering over this land, he is to be a Western god. I have not yet heard the angel song, nor seen the star; but the angel of the annunciation has visited our virgin territory. He came in the shape of an old Puritan hero, of whom you have heard.
 If it is not granted me, in the order of God, to unite with you on the occasion referred to, 
I pray you, then.
Write me as one who loves his fellow-men,'
but hates vermin-institutional, biped, or other-as St. Patrick did, who is his patron saint, he having had the luck to be born on St. Patrick's day. May they all be cast into the Mississippi, and engulfed below its mouths! which will be the case, if that river fulfils its mission.
Yours, M. D. CONWAY. 
In another letter, addressed to a number of the Committee of Arrangements, Mr. Conway says:- 
The truth is, that every day of my life I get nearer.
<C04>
and nearer the regular out-and-out Garrisonian platform; I never work with the Republicans that I don't bare to get on the anxious bench soon afterward, and repent of some sin they have done, and which I feel imputed to me from that party as a federal head. I find myself repeating, 
In Seward's fall 
We sinned all.
How much I could say on that Wednesday afternoon! What a good clean breast could I not make of it!'
LETTER OF REV. JOSHUA YOUNG. 
BURLINGTON, Vt., March 18, 1880.
MY DEAR SIR: The invitation of the Executive Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society was very gratifying to me, and the thought that, perhaps, I could return an affirmative answer will explain my not replying immediately. But the extreme uncertainty of being able to fulfil the engagement, for reasons of a private nature, forbid my making it.
My sympathies let me say, are entirely with the noble men who lead the cause of Human Freedom in this land, and, in my humble way and sphere of duty, I am permitted to share with them the honor (which the world means for dishonor) put upon the Abolitionist. To make a public profession of my faith, on the Anti-Slavery platform, agreeable to your invitation, would be a privilege indeed. 
The rendition of Anthony Burns and Liberty in Kansas cost me the loss of five of the richest families of my parish; and my prayer at the grave of the Puritan hero, John Brown, has threatened literally to shut the door of the church against me-the stockholders menace giving us, in a new form, the old controversy: MONEY versus MAN.
This will, perhaps, surprise you as a voice from the Green Mountains; but you must remember that, after all, Vermont in only a Republican State, and has a Redfield for its Chief Justice, whose remarkable letter on Harper's Ferry you have probably seen. 
No; the time is not past when the man to whom Liberty is a principle must bear the cross. It is only white men's liberty that too many mean, who shout freedom most lustily-in Heaven's eye a most godless tyranny! If the poor negro is indeed beneath us, less kindly cared for by Providence than the white man is, then, in Mercy's name, let us have pity on him, and, instead of trampling him down, help him to stand up and to bear his misfortune.
Was there ever an iniquity like the white man's oppression of the black! 
With sentiments of esteem for the gentlemen of the Committee, whom I hope soon to know personally, I remain, dear sir, yours for humanity, 
JOSHUA YOUNG. 
To Samuel May, Jr., 
For Committee of American Anti-Slavery Society.
Two interesting cases of women, one a mulatto, the other to appearance perfectly white, both laboring to collect money for the purpose of redeeming relatives from slavery, were laid before the meeting.
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Garrison, and others, spoke of the many serious objections which lie against buying from the slaveholders their human property. 
On motion, the following Committees were nominated and chosen: 
On Business: Wm. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Mary Grew, Martha Wright, Oliver Johnson, J. Miller McKim, Jane Elizabeth Jones. 
On Finance: Susan B. Anthony, Rowland Johnson, Joshua T. Everett, Giles B. Stebbins, Benjamin Snow, Jr., J. H. Stephenson, James B. Richards.
Adjourned to 7 1/2 o'clock.

THE NEW YORK ANNIVERSARY.
FRIEND GARRISON-The Anniversary Meetings just over in New York, are generally conceded to have been the best held in many years; superior not only in the burning truths enunciated, the errors denounced, and the Christ-like spirit of its criticisms, but in the large attendance, and the unusual interest manifested; strengthening the strong, encouraging the faltering, and bringing forward the backward and indifferent.
Thus far I have heard no word of complaint from any genuine anti-slavery person, except in reference to the address by Mrs. STANTON. Those who agreed with her in reference to the degraded condition of the women of our land thought the remarks very much out of place, while those who could not think with her, that woman was so shockingly oppressed,' could not but have felt grieved to see the cause of the slave burdened with a topic so entirely foreign to the call that brought us together. 
I was much surprised that the speaker was not called to order, and suspect that it was owing to the respect felt for women that alone prevented it. Had I been a member of the Society, (I was not at the time,) I should have felt it my duty to have done so; and as the meeting took no notice of it, I trust you will point it out, that it may not occur again. Yours for the slave,
Brooklyn, May 14, 1860. T. T. O.
Our correspondent will perceive, on referring to Mrs. Stanton's speech as printed verbatim in the preceding page, that her reference to the condition of her own sex, (white,) was merely incidental, and, on the whole, very natural. The eloquent and concluding portion of the speech, where she makes the case of the slave woman her own, appears to have been mistaken by T. T. O., and perhaps others, as referring to the actual condition of the white women of the land! Read, and see.-Ed. Lib. 
TRIBUTE TO WILLIAM STILL. 
We take the following from the Philadelphia Daily Bulletin, and hope to receive from some of our friends in that city a fuller account of this large and important meeting. We do not hesitate to say that it is a jury whose verdict is every way more entitled to respect than that whose decision inflicted an imprisonment on William Still, for the performance of what he deemed an act of conscientious duty to the cause of justice.
We are pleased to hear that the Judge, on learning the true character and position of Mr. Still in Philadelphia, terminated his imprisonment at the close of five days, although the sentence was for ten. 
TRIBUTE TO WILLIAM STILL. In response to the call for a public meeting of sympathy with William Still, signed by about thirty of our leading colored residents, a large assembly convened at the Israel Church, corner of Fifth and Gaskill streets, last evening. James Bustill was appointed Chairman, Morris Hall, Vice-President, and Parker T. Smith, Secretary. A committee, consisting of Rev. Jonathan C. Gibbs, Benjamin Hill and Isaiah C. Wears, reported the following resolutions, which, after speeches by several persons, mere unanimously adopted:-
Whereas, our worthy fellow-citizen and coadjutor, Wm. Still, has recently been compelled to submit to fines and imprisonment for performing an unpleasant though important duty, inseparable from his position as an active and zealous laborer in the Anti-Slavery cause and good a citizen-therefore,
Resolved, That in the faithful and unflinching discharge of his duty as an employee of a philanthropic society; as a benefactor to the public, by shielding the benevolent from deception through his commendable vigilance and careful, conscientious discrimination of unpretending merit from specious pretension; as a devoted sympathizer and adviser of the hunted and outraged bondmen of this country, we assure him of our hearty sympathy, and our unabated confidence in his integrity of character and fidelity of purpose.
Resolved, That while realizing the importance of tribunals of justice in a civilized country, and while respecting the great privilege pertaining to the legal profession and exercised by members of the same, neither obligations to a client, nor honor, honesty and fair-dealing, justify the sweeping tirades against abolitionists, and the gross perversion of truth and misconstruction of motives, so often indulged in by men who, having drawn largely upon the resources of Anti-Slavery men in times gone by, when they were proud to be thought allied to them through professed unison of sentiment, now make haste to ally themselves to the slavery propagandists of the times.' 
CONVENTION IN IOWA. We learn that a Reform Convention, in which the Anti-Slavery Question will be a prominent one, is to be held at DE WITT, Iowa, on the fifteenth of June next.
The meetings of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and those of the Woman's Rights Convention, held in the city of New York last week, were in the highest degree cheering and successful. A rousing meeting was held on Friday evening to protest against the imprisonment of Thaddeus Hyatt. 
<c05>
ECHOES OF HARPERS FERRY.' 
Of Mr. Redpath's book, Echoes of Harper's Ferry,' which was noticed in the briefest manner last reek, from want of room, something more should be said.
The great number of really important and stirring events occurring in our time, (combined with that very perfect appreciation of moral character in men and action which has naturally grown, among New England men, from the peculiar characteristics of our religious teachers and of their system,) tends to take us look at each new thing merely as news, to real the greatest event merely as a nine days' wonder, and suffer it to be crowded from our thoughts by my later novelty, however unimportant. 
The religion of a country should protect and main is freedom. Among us, churchianity has so usurped the place of Christianity, that the ministers and members of the churches are generally indifferent to that chief duty of a State, a vigilant guardianship of the rights of its poorest and weakest members. Thus it is that the church, disregarding the lave, but fraternally welcoming the slaveholder as a Christian, has become the main bulwark of slavery; and the mass of church-members, demoralized by he habit of recognizing slaveholders as Christiana, cannot now be aroused to attend to the increasing invasion of their own rights by these brethren.' Their religious teachers have first educated them to ignore rights and think only of duties, and then have so grossly and utterly perverted the idea of duty, that hey understand a religious life to imply merely a belief in certain theological speculations, and a round if daily and weekly ceremonial observances, and net it all a practical conformity to the Golden Role. Thus the very earnestness, in common men and women, which a desire for religion implies, is turned )y the clergy oat of its natural channel, and made to (well their importance, maintain their supremacy, and grind their provender. 
The purpose of Mr. Redpath's book is, by preserving in a permanent form, and bringing again before the eyes of the public, the memorable words which have been spoken of John Brown and his noble enterprise, to fan the flame of freedom, and keep in mind the need of constant aggression against slavery until it shall be utterly exterminated. He has appropriately dedicated the work to General Fabre Geffrard, President of the Republic of Hayti. And the best things, in prose and verse, that have been uttered respecting the hero of Harper's Ferry, hare been here classified under these heads: 
BUNKER HILL, 
MOUNT SINAI, 
NON-INTERVENTIONISTS,
NON-RESISTANTS,
VOICE OF KANSAS, 
JOHN BROWN'S PRISON LETTERS, 
DEATH OF SAMSON. 
We all need these reminders. We need to attain a full realization of the truth, that no one thing in our country is so important as the extermination of slavery. Its continuance is so pernicious, its influence so perverts every thing that lives in complicity with it, that nothing would so conduce to the permanent welfare of this country as to have the attention and the efforts of every class of men diverted from their present employments, and concentrated upon the overthrow and utter extirpation of slavery. 
The 'Echoes of Harper's Ferry' is already having a great circulation. But it should be read, not by tens of thousands only, but by hundreds of thousands. Buy it, read it, lend it, talk of it; measure the politician of various stripes, who are now trying to talk about slavery in such a way as to gain votes for themselves, by the suture of the just, honest, earnest and noble soul there described; and instead of voting for any man, Democratic, Republican, or other, to protect that slavery in Virginia which John Brown assailed, vote for a revolution so radical as to give us a Constitution fit for the support of lovers of justice and freedom.
The book is published by Thayer & Eldridge, 114 and 116 Washington street.-C. K. W. 
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES. The Independent refuses to print Mr. Wendell Phillips's exposure of its calumnious attacks upon Mr. Garrison. But when the same suppression of free discussion is applied to its own party, when the majority in the National Tract Society uses its power in the same unscrupulous way to carry its point, and to defeat a minority which can do nothing but protest, the Independent says that the protesting party 'compelled the majority to shorn its weakness by declining discussion, and evading truth by the tricks of parliamentary machinery.-C.K.W. 

WILLIAM S. BAILEY.
To the Editor of the N.Y. Tribune: 
SIR: For years past I have given to Wm. S. Bailey, editor of the Free South newspaper, letters asking the friends of liberal opinions in the United States and elsewhere to aid him by pecuniary donations. For reasons satisfactory to myself, I feel it my duty to recall all such letters and recommendations.
C. M. CLAY.
WHITE HALL, April 30, 1860. 
P. S.-Boston Atlas, New York Evening Post, Anti-Slavery Standard, Boston Liberator, and other liberal journals will favor public justice by publishing the above. C.
Those who have watched the recent coarse of Cassius M. Clay, (especially his position towards John G. Fee, Mr. Hanson, and the other Bereans, quoted from a Cincinnati paper in the last Liberator,) will not be surprised at his desertion of so faithful and thoroughgoing a friend of the slave as William S. Bailey. Cassius seems to resemble Henry Ward Beecher in his instability as much as in his impulsiveness.-C.K.W. 
Referring to this enigmatical letter of Mr. Clay, the Erie True American says: 
We know little of Mr. Bailey's personal character or integrity. His paper, the Free South, was as able, uncompromising opponent of Human Slavery, and because it was such, the Slave Power crashed it out by the arm of violence. Can it be possible that Mr. Cassius M. Clay is seeking to buy up his own safety and protection from assault, and to instal himself in the good graces of the men-stealers and mobs of Kentucky, by winking at the expulsion of Fee and his companions, because they were " radical"-because they opposed slavery as well where it is, as where it is n't-and by turning the cold shoulder upon Bailey in his troubles and distresses, for perhaps a like reason?' 
Samuel Griswold Goodrich,-known every where by his assumed name of Peter Parley,'-died suddenly in New York, on Wednesday. Mr. Good rich was born in Ridgefield, Conn., August 19, 1793. His works for juveniles have been for years the most popular in this country, making him known by bit assumed title in almost every household of the country.
The Panama Star reveals' the existence of the slave trade between New Granada and Cuba. Several parties of both sexes have recently been sent from Aspinwall to Cuba, ostensibly under contract, but to all intents and purposes as slaves. 
Twenty men, girls and boys were drowned by the sinking of a boat in a mill-pond near Camden, S. C, on Saturday last. They were on a picnic and fishing excursion. 
The Washington correspondent of the Boston Traveller writes that Thaddeus Hyatt, confined in the jail at Washington by order of the Senate, for refusing to testify before the Harper's Ferry Investigating Committee, is quite prostrated by the hot weather and the want of proper ventilation in that noisome jail. For a day or two past he has been confined to his bed by a slow fever. 
That organized, religious mob, known as the American Tract Society, broke up in a row on Wednesday, because if the introduction, for its pious consideration, of a series of resolutions against the Slave Trade. This evangelical body could not the tolerate the expression of disapprobation of a horrid practice that by the law of nations, half-civilized as well as enlightened, has been declared to be a capital crime!-Erie True American.
<c06>
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Annual NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held in the (new) MELODEON, in Boston on WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY, May 30th and 31st, commencing on WEDNESDAY, at 10 o'clock, A.M.
Let this Convention, in numbers spirit, and tone, equal and exceed those which, with such marked effect upon the public mind and conscience, have preceded it. Let every New England State be fully represented, and let the free voices of the men and women of New England find clear and full utterance through the Convention.
Friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, from beyond New England, are cordially invited to attend.
In behalf of the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, Sec'y.

POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The undersigned, believing slavery to be the greatest curse of this nation, a crime of the deepest dye, subversive of the rights of the white as well as the black man, tending to debase the moral sentiment of the American people, and to hinder their material advancement, and that it is the duty of every American citizen to give his vote and his influence in uncompromising opposition to this form of oppression, feeling that neither of the political parties at present before the country represent their sentiments, would respectfully but most earnestly invite the friends of freedom to meet in mass Convention at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, in this city, on TUESDAY, the 29th inst. at 10 o'clock, A.M., to consider the propriety of forming a 

POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY PARTY,
and to take such other political action as may be deemed advisable.
The question for the decision of the American people is not alone the question of negro bondage. It is also whether they will preserve the liberty their ancestors fought for at Lexington and Concord and Bunker Hill.
It is whether they will give up those great principles of freedom which gave birth to the Revolution, and which were baptized in the blood of those heroes whose names, 'familiar as household words,' shall live when the Rock of Plymouth and the sterile hills of New England shall have crumbled into dust. It is whether they will incorporate into the national government the radical principles of the Declaration of Independence.
It is whether the Constitution of the United States shall become a 'glittering generality,' allowing the base myrmidons of an unscrupulous Slave Power to gag the mouths and outrage the persons of free men with impunity.
It is whether a man, guilty of no crime, shall be thrown into prison for the meanest of party purposes, and whether they will give their support to that vile pro-slavery party which conceived the shameful wrong, or to that other party which so readily assisted in its execution.
It is whether a man's own house shall cease to be a safe asylum in this so-called free land, but may be entered with impunity, under false pretences, without the sanction of law, by the miserable tools of a wicked and unscrupulous government.
It is believed that the citizens of this country are not prepared to become slaves, and that they will aid in devising means to meet the present alarming condition of political affairs.
Those opposed to, as well as those in favor of the proposed movement are invited to take part in the discussion, which will continue through the day and evening.
Able speakers will address the Convention, whose name will be duly announced.
S.S.FOSTER, JOHN PIERPONT,
J.W.BROWN, J.H.STEPHENSON, 
CHAS.W. ELDRIDGE, NATH'L T. ALLEN.
ISRAEL LOMBARD, JR., T. C. SEVERANCE.
W. W. THAYER, JOHN AYRES,
BELA MARSH, JAS. REDPATH, 
E. W. WOOD, RICH'D S.HINTON.
Boston, May 14, 1860.

PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
The eighth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester Country, Pennsylvania, on First Day, the 3d of the Sixth month, [June,] 1860.
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE, MARY A. W. JOHNSON
ELIZABETH JACKSON, MARY F. SMITH,
OLIVER JOSHSON, EUSEBIUS BARNARS,
WILLIAM BARNARD, MARY L. BARNARD.
ISAAC MENDENHALL, MIRIAM C. WORRELL,
MARY P. WILSON, MARTHA KIMBER,
JOHN G. JACKSON, SARAJ MARSH BARNARD,
RUTH DUGDALE, DINAH MENDENHALL, 
ALICE JACKSON, J. WILLIAM COX,
THOMAS WORRELL, CORA WILBURN,
ANNIE M. STAMBACH, M.D.

ESSEX COUNTY.
The Annual Meeting of the Essex Country Anti Slavery Society will be held in GEORGETOWN, in the Town Hall, on Sunday, June 3d, commencing at 10 1/2 o'clock, A.M. The members of the Society are particularly requested, and all persons are cordially invited, to attend.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, President. MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
HENRY C.WRILGHT will lecture in the Town Hall, West Newbury, all day, Sunday, May 20.
CHRISTIAN SPIRITUAL CHURCH.-
Social Prayer Meeting, at 99 Count street, at Harmonial Institute, every Sunday morning, and Spiritual Circles for positive demonstrations, every Thursday evening. Seats free.
The BOSTON COLORED QUARTETTE will give a Concert on MONDAY EVENING, May 21st in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac-street.
Miss H. C.WHITEHURST, Soprano; Miss P. A. WHITEHURST, Contralto; Mr. G. L. RUFFIN, Tenor, Mr. JOHN L. GRIMES, Basso. Mrs. C. HOWARD DEGRASSE will preside at the Piano.
Admission 15 cents. Concert to commence at 8 o'clock.
PROF. E.Z.WICKES, Practical Phrenologist, Editor of the Christian Spiritual Church, will answer calls to lecture upon Christian Spiritualism and the Science of Man, at the Harmonial Institute, 99 Court street, Boston, Mass.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at Music Hall, Sunday morning May 20. Subject-Things which are not versus things that are.
The office of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and also that of the LIBERATOR, have been removed from 21 Cornhill to the Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, directly opposite Franklin Street-third story. The change of position is a very desirable one, and the accommodations are more spacious and agreeable.
DIED-In Northampton, May 9th, Mr. JOHN BRIDMAN, aged 60 years. He was a reader of the Liberator from its commencement, and among its early subscribers up to the present time, holding it in the highest estimation. Those who were acquainted with him will testify that he lived a conscientious, honest, upright life, and always sought to alleviate human suffering, whether near or remote, to the extent of his ability. Nothing afforded him greater pleasure than to render others happy. The Anti Slavery, Peach and Temperance movements were specially endeared to him, and he gave to them his most zealous support. His shining virtues will long be remembered. We knew him intimately, and placed him high on our list of friends-Ed. Lib.
WEDDING AND VISITING 
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY E. A.TEULON,
1491-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
WEDDING BILLETS. As Home, &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURING NOTE PAPER AND ENVELOPES, 
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES 
May 18. <co6mos>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
TO SCHILLER'S MEMORY.
[From the German of the King of Bavaria.]
Naught that it lovely long on earth may stay;
It doth not to this lower world belong,
But, as on eagle's wings, it soars away!
And such are those who own the power of song.
We scarce possess, ere lost, the power divine:
Scarce can we call a heavenly bard our own,
Ere he has mounted to a brighter clime,
And, like a blissful dream, forever flown.
That Schiller, crowned with never-fading bays,
In better realms his life's reward will find;
And now he dwells amidst those glorious rays,
Which, e'en on earth, were pictured in his mind
For ever hallowed was his glorious muse;
He never wandered into error's night,
But purest love of virtue did diffuse:
And now he dwells amid the realms of light
For he has found his Father's house of rest,
And left behind a never-dying fame:
At Schiller's name high swells each German breast;
His, and his country's glory is the same
What he so truly felt and sweetly sung,
Shall still engraven on each heart remain;
And blest effects have from his genius sprung,
O'er which the tide of time shall roll in rain.
L. M. B.
From the Portland Transcript.
THE HERO.
BY DAYY WELLS.
Thank God that all the martyr stuff
Hath not been driven from the earth,
That still there lingereth enough
To give the stalwart hero birth!
Whence is it that, when ills are rife,
There riseth, at the timely hour,
Some spirit fit to rule the strife,
And wrest from Sin his vaunted power?
Men calmly claim for written thought
An inspiration from on high,
And say the ready words were wrought
To music sweetthey knew not why
Is not a deed a surer gain
Than thought, in closets brooding still?
Will not the power that fired the brain
Direct alike the hand and will?
God-sent, the hero copes with wrong,
God-guided, chooseth he his means;
No words of blame to us belong,
Let him condemn on whom he leans
While colder natures sit and plan
A wiser method, surer laws
By which to guide their fellow-man,
And wipe away effects and cause;
Untrammeled by the lore of time,
Forth steps a soul, fresh-made from God,
And planteth down hit foot sublime,
And crusheth error to the sod.
Success or losswho can compute?
Let praise be still, and judgment dumb, 
Till we shall see what hidden fruit
Will ripen in the years to come.

From the Dial.
THE MAY-FLOWER.
I.
The snow still lay in shady dells;
Still, nightly, Frost rebuilt his shrines,
And though all day in sapphire cells
Clepsydral drops rang crystal bells,
Chill night-winds moaned among the pines.
II.
Yet through the forest sped a sound,
At if of Dryadwhispering shrill;
A sense seemed crescent in the ground,
As if, awaked from sleep profound,
The Gnomes were working in each hill.
III.
Lo, Spring! with rosebuds in her hair!
Light-gloried Faith! and, at she swept
Along the wood-aisles, all the air
Took from her robes a perfume rare,
And May-flowers marked where she had stepped.
IV.
Dear Flower! I see the Pilgrim maids
First dare the fearful forest's edge:
What music fills the astonished glades,
What long-lost bloom each cheek pervades,
As thee they hail, kind Heaven's fair pledge!
V.
And still, when from Spring's soft'ning skies 
The first rays pierce thy branchy screen,
Thy blossoms blush beneath blue eyes;
Still joyous laughter hails the prize
God sends to keep our memories green.

ODE TO SPRING.
WRITTEN IN A LAWYER'S OFFICE.
Whereas on sundry boughs and sprays
Now divers birds are heard to sing,
And sundry flowers their heads upraise
Hail to the coming on of Spring!
The songs of the said birds arouse
The memory of our youthful hours,
At young and green as the said boughs,
As fresh and fair as the said flowers.
The birds aforesaid, happy pairs!
Love midst the aforesaid boughs enshrines
In household nests, themselves, their heirs,
Administrators, and assigns.
O, busiest term of Cupid's court!
When tender plaintiffs actions bring;
Season of frolic and of sport,
Hail, as aforesaid, coming Spring!Punch.

SPRING.
BY RICHARD C. TRENCH.
Who was it that so lately said
All pulses in thy heart were dead,
Old Earth, that now in festal robes
Appearest, as a bride new wed?
Oh, wrapped so late in winding-sheet,
Thy winding-sheet, oh! where is fled?
Lo! tis an emerald carpet now,
Where the young monarch, Spring, may tread.
He comes-and, a defeated king,
Old Winter, to the hills is fled.
The warm wind broke his frosty spear,
And loosed the helmet from his head;
And he weak showers of arrowy sleet
From his strongholds has vainly aped.
All that was sleeping is awake,
And all is living that was dead.
Who listens now can hear the streams 
Leap tinkling down their pebbly bed
Or see them, from their fetters free,
Like silver snakes the meadows thread.
The joy, the life, the hope of earth,
They slept awhile, they were not dead.
O thou who say'st thy sere heart ne'er
With verdure can again he spread
O thou who mournest them that sleep,
Now lying in an earthy bed-
Look out on this reviving world,
And be new hopes within thee bred!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
PUBLIC OPINION.
A Lecture delivered in the City of New York.
BY KARL HEINEEN.
Translated for the Liberator from the German by MARY L. BOOTH.
[CONCLUDED.]
What are the chief organs, the chief means for Public Opinion to express itself, and make known its power in America? The right of assembly, the freedom of the press, and popular suffrage. (In the South, tar and feathers may be added to these.) These organs are in constant activity in this country, and what have they accomplished? Have they discovered truth, have they secured right, have they sped progress, have they placed the representatives of all three at the head? In one word, has Public Opinion, here proved itself to be the protecting power of the right, and the destroying power of the wrong?
Let us speak first of popular suffrage. Public Opinion has had more than a score of years to penetrate the character of the Democratic party, and eight years to study Pierce and Buchanan, whom it should have known well enough from the first day. And after it has exalted them in the first place to the highest rank in order to condemn them later the more deeply, it is now meditating how it is possible to give them a follower that exceeds them both in baseness. To no man was Public Opinion more indifferent than to Pierce. But no sooner had he been nominated by a convention of those guardians of Public Opinion called wirepullers, than Public Opinion precipitated itself upon him with greedy enthusiasm, and had scarcely led him in triumph to the White House, when it would have gladly smashed windows, and given him a universal Pereat. It repeated precisely the same thing with Buchanan. We may draw a parallel between his election and the latest in the Northern States. But on each of these occasions, in which either the Vivat or the Pereat of Public Opinion was a lie, the voice of God was plainly heard. And what is the most original is, that the voice of God, having just condemned the policy of Buchanan through the medium of the vote of the people, he himself proclaims the voice of God' in his Message, in that that Providence has wonderfully protected the country during his administration.
To such divine authority
Must every doubt of earthly wisdom bow,
Consequently, Public Opinion likewise. For what are the means of that power' to prove the lie to the object of his choice? In Europe, the bayonet, in America, a bold face, suffices to bid defiance to public opinion. What will he, who has lost all sense of honor, but has gained money and office, care for a public opinion that gives prejudice the preference over reason, and success over principle? A public opinion that has for half a century discussed the question whether Slavery and Freedom fit together, and has not yet become clear on the point, has not yet been able to decide in favor of Freedom, and can still be made to incline from side to side by every humbugger and knaveto what power can such a public opinion pretend against those whom it has established as the protectors of Freedom, knowing them all the while to be the protectors of Slavery?
If this condition does not yet determine the respectability, infallibility and power of public opinion, let us further consider that it is the result of a continual activity of both the other organs through which it receives form and expressionthe right of assembly and the freedom of the press. What decides in assemblies? Is it the individual opinion or judgment of those who are present? The resolutions that are to express the views of the assembly are usually brought thither ready prepared, and some speech-maker, who has brought a number of those present to applaud him, takes care that no dissenting opinion shall question that which has been beforehand committed to paper. How infallible those resolutions are, which appear in the journals as the expression of public opinion in these assemblies, is proved most ludicrously by the fact that often, (especially in German assemblies,) the same hands which at one moment applaud the affirmative, the next instant do service as warmly for the negative. We might call such applause striking truth and common sense like a shuttlecock from the right to the left.
There is no greater mockery upon public opinion than the so-called convention and wire-pulling system. This makes vaunted public opinion the mere handmaid of a few intriguers, and its expression the result of an unprincipled party training. In fact, in consequence of this party-driving, the third organ of public opinion, namely, the freedom of the press, it rendered entirely superfluous. Of what use is the freedom of the press, we may ask, if it only forms the mouthpiece of stereotyped impressions and trained minds? Is the freedom of the press necessary to print an almanac or a catechism? Is not the whole intellectual world stereotyped in this country? Are not minds swayed like so many puppets on wires? Take away from life the political and ecclesiastical party organizations, together with the Societies formed on various ideas connected with them, and what will remain of intellectual life? With what shall the true freedom of the press in reality occupy itself? Did the freedom of speech furnish the necessary material and judgment, there would not be a single question propounded in the intellectual world but would be answered in America. But the chief evil that renders the freedom of the press so sterile, and public opinion so powerless in this country, lies precisely in this, that it busies itself in narrow partialities and established things, continually revolving in the same circle, and thereby stultifying itself, while it envelopes itself in apathy or enmity towards those things that could infuse into it a fresher or more vivifying spirit.
What was once our dream while gagged by the German censor? The freedom of the press. What was the power by which oppressed minds hoped to lift the world on its hinges? The freedom of the press. Now here we have the freedom of the press, and what have we gained by it? We have been able, it is true, to work for the future in a narrow circle, but our voice has not penetrated among the multitude, and this not merely because our language has not been understood. What avails freedom of speech if men shut their ears to it? What means the appealing to public opinion if it does not, will not, hear you? How can people have or give an opinion, if they will not suffer the question to be answered to gain access to them? What can the mission of truth accomplish, if the Chinese Empire of stagnation which it is designed to set in motion forces the missionary to retreat from its frontier? In no country of the world would freedom of the press avail less than in this in which the greatest freedom of the press exists, since in none is INTELLECTUAL COWARDICE, which shrinks from everything that is not established, greater than here. If the American cotton ever fails to find a market in Europe, we need only supply those with it who stop their ears against the truth, and the plantations will not lay waste. Americans, it is said, know no fear. It may be that they know no fear of the elements, either of earth or air, of fire or water, of blood even; but many are terribly afraid of ink if it fills the pen of a critic of their religion and their politics, their narrowness and their authorities, their customs and their prejudices. And the greater part of the Germans do their best to imitate them. The conspiracy to ignore truth, to evade criticism, is nowhere more extended or powerful than where truth and criticism possess the greatest freedomin England as well as in America. Their victories, therefore, are doubly difficult on those battle-fields where the best weapons are furnished
<c03>
them. But what, we have a right to ask, does the tribunal of public opinion signify, if neither plaintiff nor accused are suffered to appear before it, and if it is itself the only party heard? The ancients made Justice blind, but it never occurred to them to make her deaf also. Truth is all-powerful over the mind, but it cannot be so over the tympanum, so long as thunder and lightning are not at its disposal.
I have heard several lectures in New York in the English language, delivered by persons of talent, on Infidelity, Priestly Hypocrisy, and the like. Do you think that the American papers reported a word of them? They did not even dare to impeach the truths of the infidels, because they were so fully conscious of their own hypocrisy that they entertained the just apprehension that their abuse would be taken by the public as a recommendation. Or were they silent through the narrow opinion that religious and anti-religious subjects did not belong to a political paper? But the sermons of their reverend gentlemen are measured out by the yard by them to their readers: as the saying is, a clergyman need but to sneeze, and the whole American press will cry out, Health to you! And not only to the Protestant clergy alone is this attention paid by them; there cannot be a Catholic confessional erected but the largest journals inform the public of what kind of wood it is made, and what is the name of the worthy natural philosopher who is to sit in it. The reports of the dedication of Catholic churches, and the sermons that are delivered in them, cost them yearly as much for composition as it would to publish the entire works of Tom Paine, whose very name they scarcely dare mention. In thus becoming the heralds of falsehood, they think they can kill truth by silence. Practically this may be so; but it has never been asserted by any one that Falstaffs discretion may be impractical for the preservation of the skin?
Give an American the lie, either in common life, in meetings, or in the legislative assemblies, and he will answer you instantly, either with the fist or a challenge. He regards a lie, therefore, as the greatest disgrace that a man can be charged with. Whence is it, then, that he so carefully holds fast to theories which criticism proved to him long since to be a whole system of falsehood? There is a charge against reason which can be settled by no other means than the test of free investigation, and this is called Faith in Authority. There is a reproach against character which can be met by no other means than an honorable trial, and this is called the fear of truth. To have no reasons of one's own, and to refuse to listen to those of others, may be called in-trenching one's self within the strong-hold of stupidity, at whose entrance cowardice stands sentry in order to guard eternal stagnation. Progress demands fermentation and fermentation demands leaven. Sad is <illegible> whose condition can be changed by no other fermentation than that of putrefaction.
The Americans are the pioneers in every primitive forest, in every desert, in every territory in the land. Whence is it that they have not the courage to be also the pioneers in the new dominions of intellectual conquest? Whence comes it that they not only leave the squatters of radicalism alone by themselves, but also wish to expel them from the territory of intellectual union? 
The third word in American life is fair play.' Why, then, are they so fearful of giving the unbelieving fair play against the believing? Is it fair play everywhere to insult the unbelievers and treat them with contempt, yet never make it possible for the public to whom they an denounced to form a judgment in respect to their true doctrines?
The Americans are a nation of manifest destiny and the annexation of new territories. Whence is it that they wish for no intellectual manifest destiny, that they desire only a new world and no new views of the world? There is a new territory for them to annex, fairer than Mexico and richer than California, namely, the territory of radicalismradical, general, logical, universal freedom. And for this annexation no war, no filibustering, no robbery, and no murder is needed, but only a little moral courage, attention and reflection.
The newspapers style themselves the organs of public opinion. Can any one imagine anything more inconsistent than this modest pretension, whereby the journalists seek to make their readers believe that what they write to-day and print to-night comes from those who will read it to-morrow morning? The secret meaning of this nonsense is, that the newspapers seek to meet the pre-supposed lack of opinion, or the preconceived opinion of their readers, and the result of this is, that both remain rooted to the same point on which they stood before. A newspaper ought, before all things, to have an individual, independent opinion on all the general questions of public opinionin short, an opinion of its own. It must serve a fixed purpose, emanating from an individual tendency, and therefore create a propaganda for its own principles while it makes war against those of its enemy. It should display an animating and creative life like every intellectual activity, instead of being a mere repetition of existing things. But in this country, it is not the individual opinion of the editor that forms the first supposition, but that which has been already made by the organizations of parties, sects, and societies of the trained public. The editor enters like a soldier into the rank-and-file of the standing army of opinion. The paper repeats to the party what it has heard from them, and the party repeats in turn what the paper has told them. Within this locked chain, editors and public dance the whole year in a circle with touching harmony; and when they have danced through their campaign, are precisely at the spot from which they started. But they believe that public opinion, in the mean time, has fought a battle that has caused the world to tremble, while the result of the whole conflict isa new president or a new mayor.
Besides the partiality and exclusiveness which in this country shackle the freedom of the press, its power is also impaired by the workings of custom. The mind, exposed to the daily influence of free speech, becomes hardened like the body when long exposed to the open air. Besides, we must reflect that mere external liberty can never be a universal panacea; that when a people becomes free, all the frailties and vices that spring from nature and circumstances become free at the same time, and that it is more difficult to educate freedom through freedom, than to wrest it from despotism. Hence comes it that free speech is most powerful when it has no legitimate existence, and that in the land of the censor an unimportant pamphlet produces more effect on the times than an important work does in America. But if the mental insensibility and unwillingness, which is the natural consequence of custom and self-sovereignty, is accompanied by moral induration, induced by a reckless driving over everything in all directions, or an absorption in material pursuits, then it is not wonderful that the free press loses its power, and public opinion slackens and sinks beneath its own weight. There is no more apposite and convincing proof of this, than the condition of the city of New York. Here, we may say, there is not a single dog that does not join in the general cry against the corruption of the city government. And here it is not merely a moral evil, incapable of exciting vulgar wisdom, but the almighty dollar that is threatened in every pocket. Still public opinion, armed with the right of assembly, the freedom of the press and popular suffrage, has not yet been able to clean this Augean stable of shameless corruption. It is as powerless against the moral filth which endangers the soul and the purse, as the filth of the streets which endangers the dress and the health of the people. Could we be any worse off if there were no public opinion at all? Can the bankruptcy of public morals and public honor be any more conspicuous in a regiment of courtiers, than it is becoming here in the
<c04>
regiment of democracy under the protection of public opinion? Who will live to see, in this metropolis of the western world, right and truth appealing successfully to public opinion, and wrong and humbug cast out, not to say condemned by it? Who will live to see this among Germans as well as among Americans? New York has been called a Babel; and what is the public opinion of the tower of Babel? Queen Semiramis built the old Babel, Queen Corruption the new.
We have now become somewhat better acquainted with the mysterious being called Public Opinion. We have brought to light its weak sides, reduced it to its constituents, examined its value, its means and its power. The result will appear a disconsolate one to many. If nothing can be built upon public opinion, what hope remains, they ask, for mankind? On what shall progress rely, if universal judgment cannot serve as its support? Who can guide and make laws for society, if it cannot conform itself to them? Lastly, what does democracy signify if the majority is so often in the wrong? These questions lead us to other reflections, which temper the hopelessness of the foregoing results, and show us the true position in relation to public opinion.
Human nature is in general the same everywhere: it consequently possesses everywhere the same disposition and the same interests, whence it follows that it most everywhere have the same purpose in view and be of the same opinion. And thence it again follows, that whatever agrees with this preconceived universal opinion is preconceived to be right. It thence arises, that what we wish to express by the phrase Public Opinion, has indeed some just supposition at the bottom. But this supposition is seldom extended to reality. The presupposed public opinion is seldom the existing one. In reality, the inequality of talents, of education and of external conditions, outweigh the abstract equality of human nature with its consequent equality of dispositions and opinions, and the constant inequality that results there from, which in all its oscillations preserves the principle of equality for its centre of gravity, is the precise condition of conflict, of development, of progress. A perfect equality in all directions would be productive of mental death.
It is now clear that, in the conflict of opinions which springs from this inequality, the majority cannot be composed of those who go before, but those who stay behind; but that the latter are more influenced through the prejudices of their present life, than through the representation of a better future, of which they can form no idea without the aid of experience. For them, the constraint of painful experience, the necessity of substituting something for that which is untenable, must always be the chief impulse to progress. Thus is the riddle solved why every new truth must stand in contradiction to public opinion, and never succeed in gaining acknowledgment and realization until the great mass of development has overtaken it through all kinds of instructive experience and unsuccessful experiments. This is a lingering process, but it is not to be avoidedit is a necessity. If we acknowledge this necessity to be grounded on the nature of things, it would be folly to expect the adoption of every new truth of public opinion, at it would be weakness to despair of it. As a shifting coast is formed by the subtle deposit of the rolling waters, so likewise the empire of truth extends slowly, but surely, as the atoms of truth are deposited unnoticed by the struggling waves of opinion. We see all at once an island springing up where nothing but water was visible before, which seems to be the product of a sudden action, though hundreds of years were probably spent in its creation.
Before all things, it is essential not to suffer ourselves to be imposed upon by public opinion, nor to believe in or yield to it without individual conviction. It is not necessary that we should always despise it, but still leas should we take it as authority. We should influence it, but not depend upon it; we should use it in behalf of the right, but not learn the right from it. We should also, before all else, think for ourselves, try for ourselves, and then act according to our own judgment and conviction, without regard to public opinion. I am convinced that, in ordinary circumstances, if of a population of one thousand persons, for example, each one, separated from the rest, should give his vote on a public question, so that it might be made necessary to think for himself, the joint result of these individually-given votes would more surely reach the truth than if the thousand persons, en masse, had laid hold of the resolutions of a public meeting of the usual kind, and thereby expressed their so-called public opinion. Nothing has become more necessary in this time of loitering, of repetition, of faith in authority, and of party servility, than that the authority of public opinion should be abolished, and individual thought installed in its stead, to that from this public opinion may spring up public judgment, public sentiment, public knowledge and public justice. Public opinion has become public falsehood and tyranny. Almost everything that is classed under its protection is fraud and falsehood, but it prolongs its life through the faith of the great masses. And what constitutes the great masses of mankind? Hitherto, alas! they have consisted of the rabble, and these consist, as Schiller says, not only of those who sweep the streets. How would it be, then, if public opinion and the opinion of the rabble should prove identical in our times? I, at least, would not be willing to guarantee that, in certain countries, of public opinion, not many would be left if the rabble, with their word-leaders, should be struck from the list. But shall the rabble rule the intellect? No man would believe a single individual that should tell him that twice two make five. Shall we believe it, then, from millions? Shall that which in the mouth of a single individual is stupidity and crime become wisdom and virtue when multiplied by millions? Shall error become truth, wrong become right, because the mass swears to it, and acts accordingly? But most men an included in that mystical idea, that pusillanimous weakness, that takes error and wrong like truth and right for one thing when uttered by the multitude, and for another when uttered by a single individual. Whatever bears the stamp of public opinion is duty free in society; but that is not therefore contraband in which this stamp is wanting. Yet it must pay a duty, a duty ad valorem, and this is the duty of courage and perseverance. Truth will always become right, and right will always become truth; we must know how to wait for the period of time, and make use of it. Then, as we have seen, public opinion has constantly to pay old debts to the truth; thus then an always to be debts collected from it. If we do not find a fitting opportunity for this at once, we must make up for it by constantly adding new truths to the reckoning, till finally the debts will become so great that a crash, a bankruptcy, a concursus creditorum will ensue, whereby truth will not indeed receive its full due, but can count upon a more or less considerable per centage. The remainder it can then carry over to a new account. It is always better to be able to give credit than to run into debt. Public opinion seems to have received its education in America. It constantly carries on a most extensive business with fictitious capital, becomes bankrupt regularly, satisfies its creditors with per centages, and has its name constantly inscribed in the debtor's book of truth, the most indulgent but inflexible creditor in the world.
Whether public opinion will always continue thus is difficult to say. It is to be hoped, that through the generalization of culture, public knowledge will also receive a broader and more solid basis. The opposition, which sets progress in motion, will remain in the future, as hitherto, in a small minority, but it will probably constantly become easier for it to force its way through public opinion. In any ease, it is certain that a genuine public opinion, like a genuine democracy,
<c05>
will only become possible through universal enlightenment and culture; that it will only become valuable through a rational direction of mind; and that it will only become a power when the will to manifest itself and to act, corresponds to the mind. Without these three conditions, public opinion, like democracy, must remain what it is, an empty sound, a universal humbug, a caricature of itself. Public opinion can only become a power in the degree and the sense in which those form a power from whom it comes, and a latent public opinion, which is presupposed to exist through conscience, is in the end more efficient then that which is expressed, but has not the energy to face imposingly unprincipleness.
And now to those present a special word in conclusion. I have invited you as readers of the Pionier. Although I cannot assume that you agree with all the ideas and principles advocated in that journal, I may still suppose some general agreement; and as the Pionier is not, in many respects, living on a good footing with public opinion, particularly with that of this New Babylon, you cannot all have the right of admission to the court of this sovereign, but must sooner or later fall into disgrace. But he who has the sovereign against him will not be left in peace by the courtiers and subjects. He lives constantly in a state of war, and must be considered ready for fight. Does not your courage fail you when you place this little handful in comparison with the hundreds of thousands and millions that represent public opinion? How shall we defend ourselves? Where shall we find shelter? As though we were on the defensive! We are the aggressors, and none but the aggressors become the conquerors. The safe harbor from which we bid defiance to public opinion is the knowledge, is the certainty that we are not only in advance of those hundreds of thousands, those millions, and standing high above their stand-point, but also that they must follow our standard if they wish to become true men, and that our cause must and will conquer. The sheltering harbor which gives us this certainty is not a harbor of commerce, but a harbor of war, a moral and intellectual Cherbourg. It can never be conquered, but it sends its cruisers out at the fitting time, which bring in the ships of the enemy in succession, one prize after another. Do not yield! That is the motto that conquers the world. To-day we are but a few hundreds, but we must do our best to add a few ciphers to our number, year after year. No individual, through effort and perseverance, can render superfluous the aid of those of the same idea. But they can increase the series in geometrical progression. Let us not run the risk of gaining justice from public opinion only after death. The representatives of the past that stand before us can give us nothing as representatives of the future, still lest can they take away anything from us; but we threaten them incessantly, and enrich them, in that we destroy their world of mental trash to open to them the road to the future. And if at times we turn away from the apathetic, indolent, passive, or active-reactionary spirits, we may do so with the consolation with which the dying Ninon de L'Euclos took farewell of the world. I leave none but the dying behind,' were her last words. But we will add to them this better consolation: I find none but the living again.

SLAVERY.
I am really pleased that my article on Slavery has stirred up the pure minds of at least two of the readers of the Age.
To John McRae I would have replied, but was absent from my place, and did not see the Age for some two weeks after it appeared, and also having sent an article to the Age for publication on the Death and Blood of Christ as compared with the Death and Blood of John Brown to abolish Slavery and take away the Sin of our Nation,' which should have appeared about the time John McRae's appeared, but never has, and also as the real editor told me that it was thought best not to publish my last, I concluded to say nothing further on the subject; but my friend B.F.C, who hails from nowhere, having complimented us both, and stepped in as a would-be conservative, seems to demand of me some notice; and, in writing, I hope I shall be able to treat him honorably and justly.
You say, The first writer is evidently one of those honest, earnest men who look at things in the abstract, and strike for the right, without going into any consideration of the consequences which may result.
The idea you advance is, that it is not always safe and best to do right; and here I wish to settle this I point. If it is not safe and best to do right, always and at all times, then I have no premise to stand upon. You say I would restore the right and let the consequences take care of themselves. 'Why, my dear sir! it is none of my business what the consequences of doing right are, but it is of all-importance to me whether I do right or wrong. I cannot excuse myself for doing awrong on the ground that doing right shadowed evil consequences. You say, Slavery is wrong, says our abolitionist, and therefore should be abolished. True, friend; but how, and when?
Have you not admitted too much, when you admit that slavery is wrong, and should be abolished? I see no other alternative, if slavery be wrong, but to cease to do wrongthat is all I ask. Take your foot from the neck of the slave recognize him as a man, and help him up, not continue to trample him down, and then have the impudence to turn round and say the time is not yet come for you to do rightthus adding insult to injury.
You ask me if I ever thought of the ways and means to abolish slavery. Yes, Sir. And there is but one way, emphatically onestop stealing your brother man. Remember those who are in bonds as bound with them,' and slavery will cease.
You say, The question is not whether slavery is right or wrong in the abstractbut slavery being in existence among us, what shall we do with it?' My, dear Sir, slavery is wrong in the concrete. There is nothing about it that is right. There is no redeeming quality in Southern slavery. Then doubtless are persons who hold slaves, who have redeeming qualities within them, which perhaps makes slavery, so far as they are concerned, endurable; but slavery itself is made up of a sum of villanies; and you ask what we shall do with it. Why, Sir, what would you do if you were in slavery? Just answer me that, and I will tell you what we should do, so far as our brother's enslavement is concerned.
You say, It is not the abstract question of whether we will deprive four millions of blacks of their freedom or not, but a simple fact staring us in the face.' Sir, we have nothing to do with how slavery came here, say more than with Eve's eating the forbidden fruit. The question with us is, What is our duty? Because my father stole a man, shall I steal one? And my father stealing a man and giving him to me does act give me a title to him, dose it? And if I receive him, and use him as mine, I become particepe criminis in the deed.
You say you have read reams of preaching on this subject, but never got from any the way to accomplish the object without doing more harm than good.
Sir, to me, there is a contradiction in your philosophy, when you tell me that it is not right to do right. It is nothing to you nor me what to-morrow shall be, if we but do our duty to-day. Having done that, we leave to nature and nature's God the result, knowing that it is always safe to do right.
You say that the slave would not take liberty when he was offered it by John Brown. You must be misinformed in relation to this, for several slaves escaped at that time, and are now safe in Canada while those who were with John Brown had no other alternative, but to die with John Brown, or go back to their masters. They chose the latter as the less evil.
<c06>
You, say, 'John Brown, from his spirit-home, now says that he commenced at the wrong end to free slaves; that he should have freed the masters first. I shall not dispute with him or you as to what his duty in. I shall not do as he did, because I do not see that the sword will advance the cause of truth. He took the sword and died by it. But I do hold that, as to all who believe that we should repel wrong by force, in any case, John Brown did no more than they believe in.
You say, If the Northern mind has a scheme to propose-something practical-beneficial to the slave without being destructive to the master, let him present it for consideration.' I might present you total and complete abolition as the panacea, and argue it at length, proving, step by step, that freedom is better for both slave and master; but I have not space now, but will put this simple question to you,-What is best for you, freedom or slavery? to be a master or as equal?
In closing, you throw out an insinuation, which I will not reply to at present, but quote you. To John McRae, a high-minded, honorable, true man, as I have good reason to believe, I will say, before closing, neither are such notices of an individual whose opinion varies as he has written, wise-they only add fuel to the fire in that individual mind, and cause it to blaze up again. Whereas, if unnoticed, it would die out.
I have not looked at my article on Slavery' since it appeared, as it is misplaced, and therefore do not now know just how it reads; cannot therefore speak to it. I conclude that it is all right, but may be misconstrued. You say I call upon the four millions of spiritualists of the United States to rise and put down slavery.' I do so now,-not vi et armis, however, but with that justice which should characterize the spiritualists.
In conclusion let me say, that he who can excuse slavery, and would still hold the slave in bondage, has not learned the true mission of spiritualism; and he who seeks to reconcile human slavery and the mission of spirits, has much to learn of the true beauty and worth of the new revelation.
G. W. MADOX.
Ellsworth, Me.

New Edition of a Great Work.
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.
We want 500 agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents.
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 2mos.
May 11. 
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School.
THE Summer quarter will begin on Wednesday, 25th inst.
For particulars, inquire of the Principal,
NATHANIEL T.ALLEN
April 20. West Newton, Mass.
The Nat Turner Insurrection.
A FULL and reliable account. Copies sent to any address on the receipt of five Cents.
Address THOS. HAMILTON,
March 4. P.O. Box 1212, New York.
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. L.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and borders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any Water Cure Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS AND Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16 tf BOSTON, MASS.
Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON.
JUST PUBLISHED; a pamphlet of 36 pages by HENRY C. WRIGHT, entitled, NO RIGHTS, NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Right and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North.'
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill. Price 10 cents.
CARPETING
All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpetting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brusssels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
ALSO
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
CHARLES HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE TUNER AND REPAIRER.
Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 29 Washington street, and at the Neponset Post Office.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club; also, to Woodward <illegible> Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
Nov. 4. 6m.
