THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLILSHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING;
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 5.BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1859.WHOLENUMBER,1578.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
MONTHLY SALE OF LIVE STOCK, ETC.!!
Last Monday was a beautiful day, and a lively one. About eight hundred head of mules were offered for sale. The prices of the last sale day were not well sustained; much of the stock, however, was of an inferior quality. From the reports of the auctioneers in another column, and our own observations, we condense the following: Mules, three years old, at $120; two years old, at $130, $120, down to $66; James Conway, of Nicholas, sold one colt privately at $175, others went at $65, $61, to $39. Mr. Hector Reid, sold privately, recently, fifty colts to C.T. Garrard, at $100. The cattle market was buoyant. About five hundred head of stock cattle were sold, three year olds at $40, $35,to $22; two year olds at $30, 60,$25 to $14. We heard of very large contracts for fat cattle, to be delivered in New York in the spring months, at $4.50. Horses sold at fair prices, ranging from $311 to $40.
Negroes sold at very high prices. Boys eighteen years old from $1,220 to $1,035: girls from sixteen to seven years old at $965 to $485: sales on four months time. Men twenty-four years old sold for cash at $1,200. Negroes hired readily; men at $200 to $125; boys at $130 to $30; women and girls at $100 down to nothing. It being the first of the year, an immense amount of money changed hands. The banks were so crowed, we found it almost impossible to get to the counter, and every store was converted into an exchange. Although money was so abundant, patriotism was at a discount, and the Flag was not overrun with debtors.-Paris <Kentucky>Flag.
GOOD PRICES FOR NEGROES-We learn from the Sumter (Ala.) Democrat, that on the 24th instant, Hon. A.A. Coleman, executor of the late Benjamin Ivy, with Wm. K. Ustick as Auctioneer, sold fifty-two negroes of indiscriminate ages, sizes and conditions, for the large sum of $50,000, lacking only thirty dollars, being an average of over $960. Eighteen of these negroes were under ten years of age; eight were forty years old and upwards, and they were sold in families without separation, frequently as many as five or six selling without together. Negro men brought from $1400 to $1675; boys from twelve to fourteen years old from $1260 to 1400; girls from nine to fourteen years of age, from $1050 to $1400.
One of the most extraordinary sales of slaves-not so much on account of their number as the prices obtained for them, although even the number was very large-was made at public auction at the village of Autaugaville during four days of last week. One hundred and seventy slaves belonging to the estate of Richard Morton, were sold, on twelve months time, with interest added, for the enormous sum of one hundred and sixty thousand dollars, being an average of $941 and a fraction over. In the large number composing the lot were old and young, halt and lame, and one was deaf and dumb. A girl aged 14, black and a field hand, brought $1935. A young fellow was bid off for $2160. Evidently, the ‘Flush times of Alabama’ have come again.-Montgomery Confederation.

NEGROES.
On last Monday, a great many negroes were sold in this place-only four of them, however, at sheriff sale, and those under a disputed title. Somewhere between 50 and 75 must have been put upon the block. They were sold in all manner of ways-for cash, on one and two years’ credit, and sometimes with interest, and sometimes without. They brought high prices, especially those that were sold on a credit. It is unnecessary to specify prices, but they were large. These high prices, doubtless bring many of the negroes into market, although some of them were estate negroes. And it is likely that the same prices will range for several years at least. Cotton is bringing very high figures. In fact, a cotton plantation is now about the best thing in which capitalists can invest. We have frequently expressed the opinion that the culture will never again overtake the consumption, so as materially to reduce the prices. We reiterate the same opinion now. And so long as that is the case, the price of negroes must range high. Besides, there is great demand for negro labor on railroad work. That demand, also, must continue for some years, and perhaps increase. Hence, in our judgment, the price of negroes will not decline for years to come. Even the introduction of a million of Africans would not materially affect prices. Some will, undoubtedly, be smuggled in, but there is no possibility of re-opening the slave trade, lawfully, until a dissolution of the Union.
Negro property is getting to be a monopoly-the high price of it makes it so. And we are sorry to see that a great many of our largest holders are opposed to the re-opening the African slave trade, either lawfully or otherwise. They are acting upon a mistaken principle. They fear that it will reduce the value of their negroes. We have already expressed the opinion, that the introduction of a million would have no material effect.  But suppose it did, negro property would be so much the safer. For there would be a larger mass of our own citizens interested in its perpetuity, and it would command still more respect abroad. All our people are still true to the South, because they are influenced by principle; but can we hope that will always be the case, when the great majority of the slaves shall become a perfect monopoly, as it is now fast doing, in the hands of a few rich men, comprising not one twentieth of our population; and when there will no longer be any hope of a laboring man ever possessing a slave?
We have no time or space now to discuss this subject; but it is one of fearful importance, and there is no use in shutting our eyes to its magnitude. It will have to be met before the end of the century. In our opinion, the very existence of the century. In our opinion, the very existence of the South depends upon the re-opening of the African Slave Trade.-Tuskegee, (Ala.) Republican.

ACQUISITION OF CUBA.
We desire the acquisition of Cuba for reasons most intimately affecting the welfare and power of the United States. We believe this extension of our empire will become an absolute condition of our existence; and we wish now to prepare the way for that inevitable eventuality.
We protest against a policy which will only accumulate obstacles in our path, and so postpone the attainment of our object to an indefinite period.
We would not confirm the unfavorable disposition of the Spanish nation, by identifying the possession of Cuba with everything dear to their pride and important to their prestige as an independent Power.
We would not exasperate them to that degree of desperation, wherein they may prefer the desolation of the island with fire and slaughter, rather than consent to its acquisition by the United States.
We would not, by an inopportune and abortive demonstration, provoke France and England to such energetic measures of precaution as will diminish the chances of another experiment.
We would not discredit the cause by an ignominious failure.
We would not associate it in the minds of our own citizens with expedients of such questionable.
<c02>
morality as may impair its original and essential popularity.
We would not afford the adversaries of Cuban annexation an opportunity of opposing it on the pretext of a regard for justice and the honor of the country.
In short, it is because we are reluctant to make the possession of Cuba an object of indefinite, if not impossible attainment, that we oppose the thirty million proposition.-Washington ‘States.’

THE RESPITE FOR THE DOMINICANS.
Providence seems to have interposed its saving hand, to stay at the last moment the torrent of fire and blood which the negro Emperor of Hayti was about to pour on the struggling remnants of the white race in Eastern St. Domingo. In the midst of his forced recruitings and despotic war-taxes for the invasion of Dominica, he is suddenly overtaken by a revolution that will give him enough to do to save himself alive. France may take this occasion to resume her old colonial dominion over the bloodthirsty barbarians of Hayti, and thus make humanity and civilization her debtors.
France has, in every sense, as clear a property in her revolted colony as Spain in Cuba, though in the case of Hayti it stands in the form of an unpaid mortgage, while Cuba is held in actual possession; but Napoleon III is not satisfied with the rights over the French part of the island, and would fain bring the Dominican Republic under the negroes, and then seize the whole island as an appanage of his empire.
This negro caricature of government is a blot on the map of civilization, and it would be the best and brightest act of Louis Napoleon's reign, if he would use his iron will and strong hand to obliterate it. All Christendom-the United States included-has been much too patient with those Haytien outlaws, for whose misdeeds no power will hold himself accountable. Our merchantmen have been overhauled and robbed by Haytien cruisers, and our citizens have been unjustly cast into their filthy dungeons to die unheeded; and these records of complaint are left buried and forgotten in the dark recesses of the State Department. Haytien outrages are met by the same inexplicable apathy which resigns our citizens to wholesale slaughter at Panama, and our Isthmus high ways to destruction at Nicaragua. The spirit which virtually acquiesces in ‘British 'visitations’ of our merchantmen on the high seas, and which refuses to arm the Executive with power to chastise our wrongs on the Isthmus, also paralyzes our national action and obscures our national prestige in the Antilles. Our whole circle of inter-American policy, from the inception of the Clayton Bulwer stupidity, to the closure of the Nicaragua transit, has been one continuous chain of disgraceful foreign entanglements, or equally shameful omissions to do the right thing at the right time.-Ibid.

SELECTIONS.
From the Portland State of Maine.’
EMANCIPATION IN THE BRITISH ISLANDS.
When the government of Great Britain emancipated the slaves in their colonies, those who opposed this great philanthropic measure predicted the utter ruin of the colonies. It was insisted that the negroes were an ignorant, brutal race of men, that they were incapable of civilization, that they were an indolent and lazy race that would never labor for any thing beyond the bare necessities of life, except under the lash of an overseer. And it was boldly predicted that as soon as they were liberated, being superior in numbers to the whites by more than ten to one, they would rise in insurrection and massacre the to one, they would rise in insurrection and massacre the whites, and the colonies would sink at once into a state of barbarism.
Parliament, however, went forward with fool-hardiness, as it was said at the time, and completed the work. About a quarter of a century has elapsed since this great work of justice and humanity was completed,-an act of national liberality, $100,000,-000 being paid out of the public treasury to the slave owners, which is, we believe, without a parallel in the history of the world; and what has been the result? All the predictions of wrath, murder and rapine were at once falsified. The colonies all remained quiet. Fierce crimes of all kinds were committed there in the times of slavery. The whites were safer in their houses than they ever had been before. There was indeed a falling off in the exports of the islands. Less sugar was produced, and the pro-slavery men of the day triumphed in the fulfilment of part of their prophecies, that the islands were ruined, and would soon sink into barbarism. Gradually, however, the state of the colonies improved, the exports and imports increased from year to year. The negroes, who, it was said, would not work except under the lash, were found willing to labor for moderate wages, about twenty-five cents a day. But notwithstanding this, there was an actual diminution of exports. Whether there was a like diminution of production is by no means so certain. The negroes having the fruits of their own industry consumed more themselves. When in slavery, they were stinted both in food and clothing to the smallest amount that were required to keep them alive, and able to work. When they had the disposal of their own earnings, they chose to indulge themselves in some comforts to their convenience, which was denied them by their masters. So that though the exports were less, it by no means follows that the productions were less. The actual amount of labor voluntarily performed by the negroes might have been equal to what was enforced under the whip, and probably was not much less, but the laborers took a large part of the products to themselves.
But time went on, and experience, the true touchstone of all political theories, has continued to deal unkindly with the prophets of slavery. There has been a continued progressive improvement in the condition of the colonies, until in all the sugar islands, with the exception of Jamaica, the export of this staple is equal, or nearly equal to what it was in the most palmy days of slavery. In some it has largely increased. In Barbadoes it has doubled under the system of voluntary labor. In Mauritius it has increased four-fold. Even in Jamaica where the emancipation was most obstinately opposed, and where, in consequence of the violence of the planters, the worst state of feeling existed between the negroes and the whites, the Governor, in a late message to the colonial parliament, says:-‘A progressive increase, both in the quantity of the State exports, and in the amount of revenue derived on articles of consumption, indicate as they most surely do the improvement of the condition of the colony.’ What has rendered it more difficult in Jamaica than in the other islands to procure labor on the old plantations, is the abundance of unoccupied land. The negroes, as soon as they acquire a moderate sum, purchase a small lot of land, and choose to work for themselves. These small land-holders are largely on the increase, and the Governor refers us to them as a class of society, which may best be described as corresponding to ‘the ancient yeomanry of England.’ That yeomanry in England has disappeared, but we have it in New England. It is the yeomanry that live in a
<c03>
condition of competence and independence on their own farms. Even Jamaica surely does not give a very discouraging picture of the results of emancipation. The slaves, are converted into a body of peaceable and industrious yeomanry, living independently by their own labor on their own farms.
The pro-slavery zealots in this country, those North as well as those South of Mason and Dixon’s line, have long been ringing their changes on the ruin of the British West Indies. The failure of emancipation, the incurable laziness of the negro, and the indispensable necessity of the slave-driver’s whip. In Jamaica, by general consent, the emancipation, from various causes, has worked less favorably than in any other colony, and there it has converted a people of slaves into an industrious, orderly, and moral yeomanry. None but slave owners and slave traders will venture to call this a failure, unless it be political partizans in our country.
The British emancipation has established two important facts. First: that it is perfectly safe for the masters of a white population generally, though the emancipated negroes may be ten to one of the poor whites, with a common share of freedom, there is no danger that the blacks, when freed from their chains, will rise and avenge their old injuries on their former masters. The second is, that the negro is as industrious, as frugal, as thrifty, as the Anglo-Saxon. Among the blacks, as among the whites, will be found the indigent, the improvident and the vicious, but not in a larger proportion among the negroes than among the whites. From all the accounts we have seen, the emancipated negroes in the British colonies, in industry, frugality and thrift, rank evidently above the poor whites in slave states. It is less than 30 years since the emancipation took place, and there are now among them men, who are the owners of valuable plantations, who have by their prudence, industry and frugality risen from the condition of slave colonists to the rank of independent planters.
A third fact may be considered or established as of equal importance with the other two, and that is, that paid labor is more economical than unpaid labor coerced by the scourge. In Barbadoes, where the experiment of free labor has had the fairest trial, the prices of land since the emancipation have doubled. This is stated in a letter of Gov. Hincks, which has been widely published in our newspapers. This fact alone is perfectly decisive. Land cultivated by hired labor gives double the net income that the same land will give when cultivated by slave and unpaid labor. Another fact may be stated equally decisive. Every part of Barbadoes was overpaid and cultivated before the act of emancipation, so that no new land has since been brought under cultivation. But the productions of the colony, as proved by the exports, are doubled. They must have more than doubled, since the home consumption of the free laborers must be larger than that of slaves.
Such have been the results of emancipation in the British colonies. When this great cause was first undertaken in England by Clarkson, Wilberforce and others, it was advocated on the ground both of justice and humanity, and also of economy. It was sturdily opposed by the old King, George, whose piety would well have entitled him to be President of our Tract Society. It was also opposed by all his  courtiers, but was eventually carried through. The arguments of the friends of the measure finally prevailed, and experience has, we think, fully justified all their reasonable expectations.

The Liberator.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Thursday, Jan. 27, 1859.
The Society met at Mercantile Hall in Summer street, at half past 10 o’clock, A. M., and was called to order by the President, FRANCIS JACKSON, of Boston.
Opportunity was given for vocal or silent prayer.
On motion of Samuel May, Jr., it was voted that two Secretaries pro tem, be appointed; whereupon, Charles K. Whipple of Boston, and Eliza J. Kenney of Salem, were chosen.
The Treasurer, Samuel Philbrick, Esq., of Brook line, presented his Report, which, on motion of Mrs. Chapman, was accepted.
Samuel May, Jr., General Agent of the Society, moved the appointment of the following Committees, which were voted:-
Business Committee.-William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Adin Ballou, Charles C. Burleigh, Maria Weston Chapman, Abby Kelley Foster, Eliza Lee Follen, Charles Lenox Remond, Parker Pillsbury, Henry C. Wright, Ezra H. Heywood.
Committee on Nomination of Officers for the ensuing year,-Edmund Quincy, Dedham; Daniel Ricketson, New Bedford; William Ashby, Newburyport; Louis McLauthlin, Pembroke: Anne W. Weston, Weymouth; Richard Kingman, Gummington; Joshua T. Everett, Princeton; George Draper, Hopedale; Warren Low, Essex; Amos Farnsworth, Roxbury; Ezekiel Thacher, Barnstable.
Finance Committee.-Ebenezer D. Draper, Hopedale; Daniel S. Whitney, Southboro’; Abby Kelley Foster, Worcester; Sallie Holley, New York; Joseph Merrill, Danversport.
The Report of the action of the Board of Managers during the year, in carrying out the purposes of the Society, was read by the General Agent, Samuel May, Jr.
The General Agent having intimated that the audience would be gratified to hear some statement respecting Mr. Burleigh's labors and success in Western Massachusetts-
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH said that the Western part of the State was less advanced in Anti-Slavery than the Eastern part. The Republicans of that region are of the better sort of Republicans, yet, though that party is dominant in that part of the State, our cause moves slowly and with difficulty there. Still, it is not because the people are deficient in, the principles out of which Anti-Slavery can be made, as because little Anti-Slavery labor has been bestowed upon that part of the State, many of the towns having never heard a thorough-going Anti-Slavery lecture.
The Republicans are disposed to unite with any other party, and to use any amount of compromise to gain a temporary success for their party. Such labor as has been bestowed in that region has brought forth good fruit. The little town of Cummington, for instance, has given a very respectable list of signers to the Anti-Slavery Petition; and it is esteemed remarkable, as it is certainly noteworthy, that the Orthodox
<c04>
clergyman of that town has signed the petition. There is also arising a party among the Republicans, who seen disposed to resist slavery itself as well as its extension. Some are large-hearted and liberal contributors to our cause, but most are indifferent enough to make that region a field unpromising for present success; yet they are a people among whom any gain is likely to be permanent.
The influences hostile to Anti-Slavery are more prominent and more effective there than here.
There is much sham Democracy, undisguisedly proslavery, and much also of a spurious Republicanism, unworthy of its name, in western Massachusetts.
Mr. Garrison, on the part of the Business Committee, presented the following Resolutions:-
Resolved, That (in the language of William Ellery Channing) ‘our duties at the North are plain; first, we must free ourselves from all constitutional or legal obligations to uphold slavery; in the next place, we must give free and strong expression to our reprobation of slavery; and should a slave-hunter ever profane our soil by seeking, here a flying bondman, let him be regarded as a legalized robber.’
Resolved, That (again to quote the words of Channing) ‘we in the free States cannot fly from the shame or the guilt of the institution of slavery, as long as we give it any support. Most unhappily, there are provisions of the Constitution binding us to give it support. No blessings of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures. Vast sacrifices should be made to it, but not the sacrifice of duty. Better that we should part than be the police of the slaveholder, than fight his battles, than wage war to uphold an oppressive institution. We are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject our fathers, in framing the Constitution, swerved from the right. We, their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.’
Resolved, That, whether the people of Massachusetts can do anything to abolish slavery in the South or not, they can forbid, and are imperatively bound by the highest moral considerations to forbid, the hunting of fugitive slaves in this Commonwealth, and to decree the immediate emancipation of all such as soon as they touch our soil; they can and ought to cease from all slaveholding relations with the South; and therefore they can and ought, in common with the people of every other free State, to withdraw from a government which, both by practice and intention, is a grand conspiracy against justice, and a powerful bulwark of the slave system.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said-
These resolutions cover the ground occupied by the petition now circulating in this State. They are drawn up by one whose language, uniformly deliberate, calm and cautious, is well calculated to show the community of the present day the full justice, the entire righteousness of our position.
In adopting this language, therefore, the thoughts and the words of Dr. Chinning, we take the surest way to disarm that prejudice which takes alarm at the name of abolition, without looking into its merits.
The Republican party has reached that point in its development when it is likely to break asunder from its bulk and weight. It must before long spontaneously separate into two materially differing parties. One of these will represent the Tribune doctrine of availability. The other will represent the party now surely growing among the Republicans, which sees more clearly the necessity of opposing the existence as well as the extension of slavery.
It seems to me, therefore, that we should use every effort to enlarge the number of these men, and help them to a clear sight of the only method of successful opposition to slavery.
One of these Republican ideas is represented by Governor Banks, who thinks Anti-Slavery only a stepping-stone to the Presidency.
Vermont has set herself right in the theory of Anti-Slavery; but the trouble is, that no fugitive slave is ever hunted in Vermont. It is much, however, to have the right position in this matter unequivocally taken by a legislative body; and the fact that another State has actually taken it will help ours to move with a less tardy step towards her duty.
We have a Legislature which ought to push this petition into a law. If Governor Banks chose to favor it, it would pass promptly through both branches. It remains to be seen how far his influence and example will limit this movement.
Many privately take the view of our friend Lysander Spooner. If Gov, Banks would take this ground in his official action, our State might take the right position in favor of liberty, without the incumbrance of a new law. Or, if we had a Chief Justice who was willing to rule that the Fugitive Slave Law was unconstitutional because it does not allow a jury trial, we might settle these cases satisfactorily yet. What we want is agitation. It makes little difference whether it comes through the Legislature, or the Judiciary, or through the action of an Anti-Slavery meeting like this.
If we cannot have a Bench right on this subject appointed by the Governor, let us have one chosen by the people. We can trust the instincts of the people. Responsibility in the discussion and decision of great questions of practical life is God’s normal school for the education of the people. God be thanked, through the atonement of four millions of slaves, pouring out their blood for the people, we shall ultimately get deliverance from this sin and shame.
I think, therefore, that the great, imperative, inevitable work which we have to do for the next two months is the pushing of this special question. If we can give Henry Wilson such a law as this to act upon, and to have the insults and fury of the South poured out upon, it may spur him to the vigor of action, needful for his own honor and that of his State.
We have also, thank God, Charles Francis Adams in the House of Representatives, and will show Rufus Choate that John Quincy Adams was not the last of his race.
The only empty chair which I wish not to see fill-
<c05>
ed is that which belongs to Massachusetts in the Senate at Washington. Let her keep it vacant until its rightful occupant is able again to sit there.
What we now need is a decision that the soil of Massachusetts shall spontaneously and necessarily set free whatever fugitive from oppression shall set foot upon it.
HENRY C. WRIGHT. Anti-Slavery is the only educational institution in this nation having power to infuse the spirit and principles of Jesus of Nazareth into the hearts of this people; into their schools, their churches, their political parties, their legislative halls. None of these now do any thing at all to infuse the spirit of the Good Samaritan, which Jesus presented to the people as the type and essence of his doctrine.
Whom did Jesus choose to stand as the representative of his spirit and system? He chose a man who was regarded by the Jews as heterodox and unholy, an infidel and an atheist, and he says to all-‘Go, and do likewise.’
Our political organizations give us their ideas, not from the stand-point of principle, but of expediency.
Mr. Wright said the speech which he wished to make was embodied in the following resolutions:
Resolved, That we can reverence no being as God, that shows no regard for man; therefore, since what is received and worshipped as God by the ministers and churches of Massachusetts authorizes, by silence or otherwise, man to arrest and try man, on the issue, Is he a free man or a slave-a man or a chattel, we reject the worship of such a God as blasphemous and degrading, and say to him, ‘Get behind me, for thou art an offence unto me.’
Resolved, That Anti-Slavery is the only educational instrumentality that has power to infuse into the religion and politics, the church and government of the country, the spirit and principles of Jesus of Nazareth, and of justice and humanity; and that it is a libel on the Christ of Calvary to identify him, in his spirit and life, with the Christ of Christendom.
Resolved, That as Jesus chose the humane infidel of his day (the Good Samaritan) to represent his spirit and life, so those, whom the church and clergy of the present day denounce as infidels, are his true representatives now, inasmuch as they devote themselves, like the infidel Samaritan, to the redemption and welfare of those who have fallen among thieves and robbers.
Resolved, That if the government of Massachusetts cannot and will not protect its citizens from kidnappers, no matter from whence they come, nor with whatever authority they may be clothed-that government has ceased to answer the great end for which it was created; and it is the right and duty of the people to alter or abolish it.
Resolved, that man can perpetrate no greater or more atrocious crime against man, than to arrest him, or to allow him to be arrested, and put on trial, before any tribunal, to decide whether he is a man or a beast.
These resolutions embodied the substance of what he wished to say. He would leave them to speak for themselves.
MR. GARRISON said-They were there for a living purpose, not to laud the dead, [alluding to the recent celebration of the birthday of Webster and Burns in this city] around the connivial board, which was a cheap and easy virtue. They were there, too, where they had no fetter upon honest and manly speech, through fear of dividing the church or injuring party prospects.
He referred to the marked change which had taken place, in the public feeling and sentiment of the North, within the last twenty years, on the subject of slavery. Once, mobocratic violence against anti-slavery gatherings everywhere prevailed, and opponents readily came forward to protect the slaveholder, and contest our doctrines as unsound and dangerous. Now the slaveholder is left without even an apologist, and no hostile disputant is visible on our platform. The Church, the Government, the Constitution, the Union, had no defender at a gathering like this, which is so united in sympathy and purpose as to present nothing tangible for vigorous resistance. This revolution in the public mind had not been effected in consequence of any dilution of doctrine or compromise of principle on the part of the abolitionists; for never had they faltered, or lowered their standard-never were they so exacting in their demands, or so bold in speech, as now. In the same spirit of fidelity, they must go forward to the completion of the great work so auspiciously begun, thanking God, and taking courage.
THURSDAY, P. M.
H. C. Wright read again his resolution on the power of Anti-Slavery in the right education of the people, and made some comments upon it. The United States government, he said, has become a foreign power to the government of Massachusetts, obstructing and resisting the execution of her own laws, on her own soil. The Federal Government is the real kidnapper, which in our own territory pursues the Southern Fugitive, nullifying the provisions of our own State Constitution and laws in his favor. How long will Massachusetts permit the fundamental law of her own government to be trampled under foot?
Parker Pillsbury wished the key-note of the genuine business of the meeting to be clearly sounded and distinctly, understood. He offered the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the subtle and fiendish spirit of hostility to the Anti-Slavery cause, that was at first exhibited through colonization schemes, clerical appeals, and a liberty party, (falsely so called,) is now acting with far more power and hope of success in the Republican party, and calls for more vigor and watchfulness on the part of the genuine friends of the slave, than did any of its earlier manifestations.
Resolved, That under our doctrine of ‘Dissolution of the Federal Union,’ as the only hope for the slave, the Republican party, in protecting slavery where it is, and in all its pledges, promises and oaths to support and prolong the Union, is quite as reprehensible as the Democratic party in seeking to extend it; and acting, as it does professedly, as a party opposed to slavery, it becomes far more dangerous to the cause of freedom than its opponents with a more open policy and course of action.
Mr., Pillsbury said:
The Anti-Slavery cause has still as powerful and as
<c06>
bitter opponents as in the earlier stages of the cause though under another name. I have no more confidence in the integrity of Henry Wilson, than in that of Daniel Webster. I do not think his speeches read more favorably for the cause of freedom, as it exists in our time, than those of Daniel Webster did in his, and, therefore, I hope that the principles, and position, and policy of the Republican party will come before this meeting for full and thorough consideration.
Abby K. Foster rose to second the resolutions of Parker Pillsbury.
The Republican party are so near us that we find it difficult to apply to them the needed rebuke and opposition for their unfaithfulness to the principles we hold in common. Nevertheless, such rebuke ought to be given. I call upon every member of the Republican party to cease from his present cooperation with the slave-hunter and the kidnapper. The Republican party voted the money that re-enslaved Anthony Burns, and every voter in it is responsible for the guilt of that act.
Self-gratulation is yet premature with us. Nothing has been done, while anything remains to be done. The present is the most dangerous crisis to which Anti-Slavery has ever been subjected. We were more secure when our foes were open and undisguised. At present, the Republican party is stealthily sucking the very blood from our veins.
Our work is to be done over again. We must convert those who think they are already converted. Henry Wilson boasted that the Republicans fought the Democrats on every new issue. We must add to that, that they unite with the Democrats on all the more vital and essential old issues. How is Senator Seward in practical conflict with the slave power? Of what worth are his abstractions? Is he not defending popular sovereignty? Is he not assuming that the people may decide whether they may have slavery or not? Is he not abandoning the essential ground, that we have the right to prevent slaveholding? I call upon you to give us the funds to teach this doctrine throughout the land; to give more liberally than ever before.
Mr. HIGGINSON, of Worcester, said:
I thank the friends who have gone before me for giving the key-note of our afternoon's discussion in a manner worthy of them, and of the cause.
No assembly in the nation, more than this, needs to be reminded that its time for action is NOW, and that its mightiest energies need now to be put forth. The time of open danger is not the most perilous time. The quiet of the present period forebodes great and imminent danger. Here we are, meeting in peace, not persecuted, only neglected. This indifference is worse, than the howling of angry multitudes. Any one can mount guard well in time of open opposition; the period of quiet requires yet more resolution, more vigilance. The unanimity of the Republican party is the surest token of its doom. When could a party ever stand faithful to great principles when it was unopposed?
The slave power stands behind all parties and all measures. We have cleared away many new issues, settled many new questions: but slavery still stands there, silent, but mighty. We have not yet grappled with that. When will the actual struggle come?
The time is coming when our premature congratulations will be checked by disgraceful defeat. We stand in a position, the momentous importance of which the most experienced among us do not understand.
Anti-Slavery is not a question, it is a fact. It is a natural antagonism between two sorts of civilization. We began by defending our own freedom. We must advance to the ground of defending freedom for all. Once the word insurrection affected abolitionists with a shudder. Now it might be uttered without a shock in the Massachusetts Legislature. Liberty has been educating us to liberty. The sense of liberty which begins by defending the black man under our roof, ends by showing the need that we should defend him under his own.
This principle of liberty is now working, both in us at the North, and in a far greater number than we suppose of slaves at the South. Large masses of this latter population are affected by it; and the wish is spreading among them, not as formerly to go to freedom, but to have freedom come to them. And who knows how speedily a morning may arise to show us that it has come?
The present time is one for anxious preparations and for grappling with the sternest principles of freedom. From my soul I believe that this fire, which has been so long and so fiercely blazing among our habitations, cannot be quenched by rosewater, nor removed with smiling unanimity.
Mrs. Foster introduced the subject of finance, with an appeal of intense interest and pathos.
Mr. Garrison thought the tone of the remarks this afternoon unduly desponding and lugubrious. Was it dangerous to our cause to admit that we had made progress? Was the recognition of this fact an assumption that nothing more was to be done? It is well for us occasionally to review our course, and to rejoice in what we have gained. We have no occasion to speak in desponding tones. I think the signs of the times cheering and hopeful.
As to the Republican party, every political party will be proportionate to the character of the people. This one is a time-serving, a temporizing, a cowardly party; yet it is plainly distinguishable in some respects from the Democratic party. The Republican is a pie-bald, a heterogeneous party, very diverse in the constituents which compose it. It has never professed, as the old ‘Liberty party’ did, to be an Anti-Slavery party. It claims only to oppose the extension of slavery, and it does oppose it. It has really tried to do the work which it has claimed to undertake.
Henry C. Wright inquired-Does the Republican party claim to prevent the extension of slavery in a Territory, where a majority of the whites desire its existence?
Charles C. Burleigh replied, that, as a party, they opposed the extension of slavery without qualification, though many individuals of them seemed to be drifting towards the 'popular sovereignty' doctrine.
Adjourned to 7 1-2 o’clock, P.M.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creature; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’ -WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THURSDAY EVENING Edmund Quincy, one of the Vice Presidents, in the chair.
Mr. Garrison read the resolutions previously offered, with some additional ones, and corrected an erroneous statement attributed to him by the reporter for the journal.
Mr. E.H.HEYWOOD, of Hubbardston, then took the platform and spoke substantially as follows
SPEECH OF E.H.HEYWOOD.
MR.CHAIRMAN, I am very glad that by the resolutions and speeches of to-day, the issue before us has been distinctly put. We have been called upon to look the question of slavery distinctly in the face. Only a few weeks ago, the N.Y Times said that this Anti-Slavery agitation was over. Not so. This agitation can only be settled by the extinction of slavery. Here are two opposing systems, two belligerent, defiant antagonisms, <illegible> against each other like Gabriel and the arch fiend upon the plains of heaven. There can be no truce, no compromise between such parties. Temporizing clergymen and time-serving politicians labor in vain. Slavery must be put down. ï¿½Carthage must be destroyed.ï¿½ Politicians and ministers blink this issue. To the American Church it is a stumbling block, and to the American State it is foolishness. When we say that the Church is pro-slavery, we do not mean that it prefers slavery to freedom, but that it is not willing to pay the price of freedom. We mean that while it serves Christ with the lips, it denies him in the life; that while it preaches Jesus, it practises Judas. (Applause.) It has no anti-slavery principle. It does not put slavery into the category of sins I want words to express my unutterable contempt for the shuffling and Jesuitical policy with which the Church has handled this question. You have all heard of the negro who said, that he had one source of consolation under all circumstances of affliction, and that was-Websterï¿½s Dictionary. (Laughter and applause.) The whole policy of the Church is to darken counsel with words. Look at the resolutions passed by the American Tract Society last May, proposing to discuss the moral duties that grow out of the system of slavery!ï¿½ Can anything be more blasphemous or ridiculous?
No, there is no such thing as compromising with such wickedness as this. The devil dies hard. Hack him in pieces and every separate bit will make a new devil. When evil entrenches itself behind the forms of law, there can be no compromise made with it. The trouble with the Church is, that it has no love for the slave. You remember the story of the woman who wrote to her husband in California-ï¿½Say not that absence conquers love; the longer you stay away, the better I love you.'(Laughter and cheers.) The Church loves the slave at the greatest possible distance. In going about among the country towns, I find no persons who are willing to sacrifice anything but the Liberator men; and this is the great fault of the Church in connection with this question. It would prefer liberty to slavery, undoubtedly, but it is not willing to pay the price of liberty.
The same thing is true in politics. I take it we are not to rely upon politics at all. It is not at all reformatory. The governments of the country are necessarily influenced by the prejudices of the people, and politicians are the creatures, not the creators of the age. I need not say much in praise of men who did so much evil that their successors are regarded as benefactors for undoing it. Politics make reform about as Sodom and Gomorrah made fire and brimstone. (Applause.) When we look at the political parties, the Republican party, for instance, we find the necessary evil of politics-that it is linked directly with this great evil. When an old political organization is broken asunder, people sometimes think we have a new element. By no means. The old elements have simply assumed a new form. It is the drift-timber that floats upon the last freshet. The Republican party goes not only for constitutional liberty, but for constitutional slavery. It recommends impartial liberty for all men, except for slaves. It goes not only for State rights, but for State wrongs. I do not care what construction the Republican party put upon the Constitution, if they will legislate for liberty. Let them abolish slavery in the District, and the inter-State slave trade, and slavery itself. But they cannot be called anti-slavery until they put themselves upon this plane of action. There is a story of a good woman who undertook to shoot a hawk, and when the gun knocked her over, her son, who had been trying some experiments upon it, called out, 'Hold on, mother; there are nine more charges to come.' (Laughter.) I want this Republican gun loaded so heavily that the South will know, when the first shot is fired, that there are nine more charges to come.
Evidently, there can be no compromise in this matter. The slaveholder must be agitated out of church and State. This going against slavery where it does not exist, is firing at nothing, and hitting it. It is only boys who think to catch swallows by putting salt upon their tails. Mr. Seward begins to see the folly of all attempts at compromise on this question. Who, then, are the fanatics, and who are the statesmen? The greatest statesman now on the stage confesses himself the pupil of the abolitionists. But it has taken him twenty-five years to learn the lesson. Who, then, rules the country? Is it the men who occupy the White House? No, it is the Anti-Slavery enterprise. Pharaoh sits upon the throne, but Joseph is Governor of Egypt. (Loud applause.) 
Here, then, is the issue. Every thing must come up to this plane of action. Burke said that justice is the only settled policy of society, and any prominent deviation there from lies under the suspicion of being no policy at all. To this we must come-to the policy of impartial justice for all men. I care nothing about the comparative superiority of the races. Locke says that men are very much the same in intellectual faculties in all time. Mungo Park says that he found lawyers in Africa who could argue with as much ability and with as great fluency and at as great length, as in Edinboroï¿½. (Laughter.) Why, the last black baby of South Carolina, with its ï¿½great cry and little wool,ï¿½ is likely to be full as great as the last specimen of Boston south-side aristocracy. (Laughter.) I am surprised that in New England, a man who stands as the apologist for the foulest sin of the age, can be countenanced for a moment as a Christian minister. According to the record, Adamï¿½s fall occurred six thousand years ago, more or less; but he did not touch bottom until 1854, in Essex street church, Boston! (Roars of laughter and enthusiastic applause.)
The strength of this cause is in the realm of ideas, of universal principles. Agitation is its staff of progress. Do not be afraid of it. We cannot rely upon institutions, as such. They do not breast the current, but float with the stream. It is idle to expect any thing from them. Nothing is fixed on this earth but truth and justice. Living principles are the strength of this reform, and must be adhered to. It makes no difference how many men we have, if we have only enough to speak the truth. It is not the shuffling policy of politicians that helps forward this cause. It is not Mr. Wilson, in the Senate, declaring that the Republican party will let Slavery alone where it exists; it is not Mr. Banks in New York declaring that he has no controversy with the Fugitive Slave Bill,-it is not that that stirs the people; it is when Sumner, in Faneuil Hall, says, ï¿½I Was a man before I was a commissioner,ï¿½ and when Giddings says, in Congress, ï¿½if we cannot have liberty but by insurrection, let it come,ï¿½-that the public conscience is stirred. That is what we want-direct appeal to the hearts of the people. If we would only rend asunder those bulwarks of the American Church and State, the hot indignation of the popular heart would blot slavery out of existence in an instant. This agitation can never be abandoned until slavery is hashed in the sleep of death. Philosophy tells us that when the earthquake <illegible> commence. So if you mother this agitationï¿½ at one point, it will break out
<c02>
in another. It will roll and surge, until the last relic of pro-slavery in Church and State has gone down beneath its fiery billows. (Loud applause.)
SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY.
MR. CHAIRMAN,-I have never seen the day when I should feel at my ease in pursuing a train of thought so well and beautifully commenced as in the speech to which we have just listened; but this evening, I am under peculiar embarrassment, by reason of excessive hoarseness; still, I hope I may always be ready to contribute my morsel to sustain the interest of an occasion like the present.
I wish to express a part of the great gratification I felt in listening to the remarks made by our friend from Worcester (Rev. T. W. Higginson). I believe it to have been by far the most important speech ever delivered in this hall or any where else in the Antislavery cause; and I think it so, particularly because of the spirit and purpose with which it seemed to be inspired. I think, with Mr. Higginson, that it is more than mere play upon words that we need, and that it is even more, if possible, than direct appeal to the consciences and hearts of men. Indeed, since, within the last few days, I have felt myself incapacitated for speaking, I have hoped that the time for words had gone by, and that the dispensation of deeds had commenced. I hope the time is not very far distant when somebody will be able to say, as the old English martyr said, in the time ofï¿½ Bloody Mary,ï¿½ when he was bound to the stake-ï¿½We shall this day kindle such a fire in England, as, under God. shall never be extinguished. I hope some of us will be able to say that in regard to the great movement in which we are engaged. I want to see the day when the last speech shall have been made, and the last word shall have been uttered; when the dispensation of doctrine shall have been superseded by the dispensation of fact; and I think no one properly appreciates the Anti-Slavery movement who does not regard that crisis as very near at hand. We have seen enough of the Slave Power, most assuredly, to have learned that it cannot be conquered by any very gentle, or soothing, or conciliating measures. I think that it ought to be understood, by this time, that this is a Leviathan which is not to be drawn out by a hook; that this is a fire that, as my friend Higginson said this afternoon, is not to be extinguished by rose-water; that we have a more serious work on hand than politicians understand; that there are things in the Anti-Slavery enterprise not dreamed of in the philosophy of politics. I am heartily tired of hearing any allusions made to politics. I do not believe that Henry Wilson or any other Senator or Representative in Congress from New England, or any part of the country, any more comprehends the mysteries and the necessities of the Anti-Slavery cause than the youngest child now in the audience, or in any other part of the State. I remember reading,ï¿½ somewhere in the history of the Revolution, that a young orator, standing up in Faneuil Hall, said- ï¿½Whoever supposes that the scenes of this day will end without strife, entertains a very false conception of the solemnities of the occasion which has brought us together; and I think we are at this moment in the midst of scenes which our friend Higginson was not able to grasp, even in his almost inspired vision and conception. Whoever expects to see slavery extinguished but in a Red Sea of blood, knows little of the philosophy of human experience and of human needs; and whoever believes in the use of the sword, and is not preparing himself for its use, is not up to the exigencies of this hour; and the young men who are not training themselves in the art of war, are probably only prolonging a strife that must end at last either in complete submission to the Slave Power, or in scenes of blood at the very mention of which we well might tremble.
Our whole country, at the present moment, is prostrate before the Slave Power. You may speak of Seward, or you may talk of Wilson, but the crack of the slave-driverï¿½s whip is not more potent on the plantations of Carolina than on the floor of Congress. Senator Seward uttered some pretty bold words some months since, and the Democratic party screamed Treason" from one end of the country to the other. The consequence was, that Republicans began to make apologies and excuses, wherever Republicanism is permitted to exist-for, however, that party may talk about being 'national' in its principles, it is not national' in its geographical extent, and will not be until it is made up of braver men than we have yet sent to Washington. They tell of the perfect submission and perfect discipline that are demanded and practised in the Democratic party. I do not think the Democratic party is peculiar in its exaction of these qualities and graces, on the part of its adherents. I saw the other day a statement that they had a new way of training horses in South Carolina, which is likely to supersede the philosophy of the famous Rarely, and the way they do it is to send all the untamable horses to the Democratic- caucus, and put them under the training of politicians there; and they say the horses are never known to disobey any command after that! (Laughter.) But I believe the Republican party is not much better. When Mr. Seward made that speech, the whole party immediately set itself to apologize for it, and to affirm and re-affirm throughout the country, wherever it exists, its perfect loyalty to slavery and fidelity to the Constitution, so help them God; and finally, after they had apologized for it some fortnight or more, the Boston papers began to publish it; but they never dared to trust it to their readers before that; and when it came from the mouths of these famous horse-tamers, it was found to be nothing more nor less than the most common utterances of the Democratic party leaders; for they declare there shall be no interference with slavery where it exists, that no party could be truer to slavery, in all its interests, than would that party, and that, whenever the slaveholders get ready to abolish slavery by State action, themselves, then they would have no objection to its being done. Now, really, I do not know the private opinions of Benj. F Hallett and Caleb Cushing, but I venture to say, that if the South were really ready to abolish slavery, Caleb Cushing would be ready for it, and Benj. F. Hallett also-Cushing being convinced-would be ready for it. So I do not see what wonderful difference there is between Seward and Cushing, or between the best men of the Republican party and the common men of the Democratic party. And while this is true, and while Senators can be cudgeled in the halls of Congress, and insulted wherever they go, as New England Senators are, and are willing to be, for the sake of the six thousand dollars the Congressional term, I do not think they know or care very much about the Anti-Slavery movement. 
Then, again, I do not believe there is any man of them who has expressed any opinion against slavery as a matter of principle. I have never heard of any such. Whatever is done is done as a matter of policy. One issue is yielded after another. When Texas was admitted, nobody complained more; when the Missouri compromise was repealed, it was very easy to reconcile the country to it; and when Cuba is admitted, the Republican party will not quarrel very much afterwards-I do not think they will quarrel much before. Whether they will make an issue with regard to the re-opening of the African Slave Trade, I do not undertake to say at this time; but if there should be any Anti-Slavery issue betwixt the two parties, in 1860, I think that is most likely to be the one.
But I shall betray myself into too long a talk if I do not mind. The main, idea which I wished to express was, that it seems to me that what we want is a new and deeper baptism into the spirit and genius of the Anti-Slavery enterprise. Why, even the abolitionists themselves, the best of them, scarcely read the Standard or Liberator enough to keep at all well posted in the Anti-Slavery movement; and I fre-
<c03>
quently have to tell the most common anti-slavery intelligence, that the children in the families ought to know, not to Republicans and Democrats, to church members, and deacons, and ministers, but to out-and-out Garrisonian Abolitionists. The other day I was in the Anti-Slavery office, and saw the list of delinquent subscribers to the Liberator; and I would simply say, that there are many motes in the eyes of Abolitionists, that might well be cast out, and it may be they would then see a little more clearly the beams in Republican and Democratic eyes-for there are many of them there; and I fear that many a man who is so gingerly in his treatment of the Republican party, might brush a little of the dust out of his own eyes, and it may be he would see depravity enough then. I have not much strength left; but the little I have, I should like to devote to earnest, wholesome anti-slavery work, and I do not care much what it is. I do not know that, in the struggle which is to come, I should not, in cowardice, shrink from the contest; but I should hope, if I did, that it would be-like the Nantucket Quakers in the Revolution-to feed the hungry and heal the wounded. But I do say this: we have proved already in our experience of the Slave Power, that what we have, we have to take, for they will give us nothing. As it was said here this afternoon, no tyrant ever surrenders his power. That old remark which was made when a little detachment of troops was ordered to lay down its arms-ï¿½Come and take them!ï¿½ -is the universal answer of all tyrants, when they are asked to lay down their power, ï¿½Come and take it,ï¿½ they say; and you will have to take it by such means as will be effectual in the encounter. Our friend Higginson referred to the raid made over into Missouri by Ossawattomie Brown and his friends, and the liberation of those fifteen or twenty slaves. He alluded to it as an indication of what may come before long. I see the government has sent an armed force to resist and prevent any repetition of such movements. I trust that the angel of God will protect old Osswattomie Brown, and shield him in whatever battle he may engage. (Loud applause.) For if our movement, or our age, even, has a Cromwell, that man is undoubtedly the Cromwell of this generation, and I hope that if one drop of his blood shall fall to the ground by the bayonets of the myrmidons of James Buchanan, it will spring up in more than a dragonï¿½s-teeth harvest of brave men, that shall revenge it, not by slaughter and blood, but at least by the emancipation of every slave in the land, before the sword of insurrection shall be sheathed. (Cheers.) If that is treason to your government, all I have to say is, let your government make the most of it. If I can excite among men who believe in violence the spirit of war, that I shall do. That is to say, I shall say to every man, ï¿½Be true to your convictions of right. If you would defend your own hearthstones, and your own wife and daughter, defend the hearthstone and the wife and daughter of the slave, or, at least, place him in a position where he may have a hearthstone, however humble, and a wife and daughter he may call his own. I like very well a remark that our friend Garrison once made, and I wish he would often make it about this time. He told the colored as people at the time of the passage of the Fugitive Bill, that he was a non-resistant, and he wished they all were. So I say, that I wish all the colored people, and all white people, too, were such non-resistants as our friend Garrison. But I would also say, as he said on the occasion to which I refer, since they are not, and believe in resistance to tyrants by violent measures, you must remember that the names of Washington and William Tell are very honorable names in the history of mankind. God knows I do not wish to see a drop of blood; but God also knows, and to him I appeal for the sincerity of the remark, that I would- rather see the blood of insurrection flowing, than the blood of the slaves shed by ruffian hands on the plantation. (Applause.)
Yesterday, for the first time in my life, I saw Mrs. Stowe in this State of Massachusetts. I wished then, and I have been wishing ever since, that I could have given her one hint. I need not say anything in praise of ï¿½Uncle Tomï¿½s Cabin,ï¿½ but I will tell you where I think its defect is. It is, that there is no heroism about it, until heroism is of no use. I wish we could have an ï¿½Uncle Tomï¿½s Cabin,ï¿½ the heroism of which should consist not in resisting the atrocious and diabolical commands of Simon Legree, but the softest and most smiling simper of little Eva herself, if it were made to Uncle Tom as a slave. (Applause.) I honor the heroism that will resist, by some means or other, the command of the tyrant, no matter though it be sung in accents more musical than the voice of Charity herself. I would see an Uncle Tom who should say to Eva and her father, ï¿½Never will I obey one command of yours, until our relations are utterly changed, and you and I stand upon the same platform of humanity.ï¿½(Applause.) I would see Uncle Tom leap overboard to rescue even Legree from drowning, as he did Eva; but I would have him see all Mississippi drowned in her own waters, before he would obey one of her edicts, until the last vestige of slavery was swept from her escutcheon. When we have such Uncle Toms as that, we shall have raised men who will understand Liberty as something higher and nobler than the stuff out of which Fourth of July orators manufacture their rhapsodies, which mingle with the rolling of drums and the booming of cannon-the one as senseless as the other. (Applause.)
But, Mr. Chairman, I have forgotten myself again, and will bring my remarks at once to a close. Let-us, as I have said, try to make our work an earnest work in view of justice and right. By the grace of God, I will insist that men shall be true in some way to justice and humanity: that they shall, in some way, resist the tyrant; for it is unquestionably true, 'that,' that, resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.ï¿½ And I do not believe the slave has any more right to be a slave, than the master has to be a tyrant. The one is as guilty as the other, unless the power be too strong; and if the power of the tyrant be too strong for the victim, it is for us to come to the rescue, in the fear and in the love of God. (Applause.)

SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
MR.CHAIRMAN,-I suppose the strength of such a movement as ours consists in the fact that it is made up of men, who think each one for himself. Of course, such a body of men, fit or able to carry on or initiate an enterprise so repugnant to the associations and the principles of a great nation, must be minds that are exceedingly independent. I do not say, of course, that they are before their age, or necessarily correct; but they have, at least, what is a singularity,. or independence, as you may choose to phrase it. Of course, therefore, you will hear from this platform, as you have heard to-day, on all sides, criticisms upon each other, as well as upon the world. The moment we cease to criticise each other with the same freedom that we criticise the world, we shall have lost that peculiar character of intellectual life which gives us our efficiency, indeed, by virtue of which we gravitate towards this cause. As to every other idea which the community repudiates, all sorts of singularity gravitate to this point. That is the reason why an antislavery meeting is so picturesque. Here you see the man with half an idea, and the man with one idea, and the man with no idea at all. (Laughter.) Every man who fancies or really has in him any thing singular, here finds refuge. We gather up all that is not enrolled in the ranks of conservatism-all that does no; marshal itself into line at the beat of the drum. Each man is like Harry Wynd in Scottï¿½s novel, and fights on his own account. Conservative men fall into regiments naturally. No man knows what is wanted- he leaves that to the General Each moves forward with a blind, disciplined impulse, in one vast, concentrated mass. Our warfare, on the contrary, is that of light troops; each man sallies out and fires his own gun. In the end, this does the most work. The mo-
<c04>
ment the attempt is made to marshal these troops into rank, that moment it sacrifices its own character, that moment it ceases to be the distinctive army of reform.
One thing I like in the remarks that have just been made. Did you ever observe, that when things are. about to happen, somehow or other there is a hurtling in the air before they come. Now, it is nearly sixty years since the word ï¿½insurrectionï¿½ has bean a familiar word in the American vocabulary. Before the adoption of the Constitution, the history of Carolina is almost a succession of insurrections. Up to within twenty or thirty years of abolition in. Jamaica, the history of that island was a history of insurrections. Instead of there having been but one insurrection in St. Domingo, there was not a year that was not marked by insurrection. The German lecturer, Solger, who says no man has any rights who doe not show his title by a constant struggle to achieve them, and argues that therefore the black race is not entitled to freedom, must be ignorant of the ghastly scenes of murder, bloodshed and judicial assassination which mark the history of Carolina and of Jamaica-proving, if they prove nothing else, that the negro never forgot for an hour that he had as much right to his freedom and to his own wife as the white man who robbed him of both. That title has never been lost by reason of his neglect to try, at least, to enforce it. I like, there fore, these speeches about insurrection; for it seems to me, that when the air is full of them, it is because the volcano and the earthquake are at work. That is why we smell the gas. The chinks are opening; the lava is breaking out. Now, not only the South and Southwest, not only valiant old Ossawattomie Brown, but the vanguard of thinkers, doubters, and apprehenders, all over the country, have been talking for the last five years of insurrection. It is not only in our meetings, but if you watch the papers, or look any where, you will see it; just as, fifteen years ago, Northern men began to talk about disunion in a whisper, and now it has been talked about until it may almost be said to be capable of cool calculation. Even the Tribune, which is not remarkably rash, which looks at -its dollar on both sides, and at its milled edge also, (laughter,) even the Tribune has published a series of articles calculating the value of the Union -the very thing that Webster said ought never to be done. I like this augury of the flight of birds; it tells us of something that is to come; and if this race shall rise, and, as it did in St. Domingo, hew off its own chains, it certainly will not lie on our lips to reproach them. We may drink in cold water, it not in Oxford port, the old toast of Samuel Johnson-who, though a Tory, could recognize the right of the black man to freedom-ï¿½Success to the first insurrection in the West Indies,ï¿½(Applause.)
Speaking of races-as our friend Heywood said, I think there is a great deal in race; but yet, there is not half so much in that as in circumstances; for, put them in the same circumstances, and the races will prove to be about the same. I remember that in St. Domingo, in that last terrible struggle, when LeClerc ordered a black colonel to be sabred in the sight of his wife, he lingered a moment before submitting to execution;-like that Roman under Nero, who, though the blood of the bravest race of the old world filled his heart, lingered before submitting his neck to the sword, his wife, you know, seized a dagger and stabbed herself, crying out, ï¿½Paeetus, it is not hard to dieï¿½ so the wife of this black colonel on the island of St. Domingo, who had never read Greek or Latin, or even heard of the Roman, seized a sabre from a French cuirassier, and gave herself a mortal wound, saying ï¿½Husband, death is not the thing to fear! (Applause.) It was Roman blood, though the skin was black! (Renewed applause.) The same circumstances produced the same result. I think you will find it so every where.
But, at the same time, whether it is so or not, I do persist in believing that the cause is mightily onward, and I shall be sanguine to the last. 1 think that in this country of men who read and write, and think, of newspapers and books-the land of brains-where, as Waldo Emerson so wittily says, the Yankee carries more brain in his right hand than any other man does in his head-in such a land, it is not bullets that decide questions at the last; it is discussion and thought; it is purpose and resolve. There is not a Gibraltar rocky enough, nor, crowded with cannon as Mr. Higginson painted it, there is not a Gibraltar fiery enough to stand twelve hours against the united public opinion of thirty millions of American people. I do think, whatever my friend Mr. Pillsbury may at present anticipate, that there is nothing more fixed than this,- that the thoughts of the American people at this moment centre on the subject of slavery. The statesmen of the last generation made their reputations, or lost them, on money questions, the tariff and the bank. All over the land, you heard nothing but the clink of dollars and the rustle of new bank bills. Cotton wool filled the ears of the American people, and their hearts were changed into tariffs and bank charters. That was the American idea of the last generation; but nobody can say that such questions make up the history of our time. The nucleus of all things in our country, at the present day, is Slavery. It was no joke of our President, but a solemn truth, that Congress is turning into an anti-slavery debating society. Nobody reads any thing that does not touch slavery. What loads down the telegraph? Slavery. What news do the people ask first? ï¿½Is Cuba to be annexed? ï¿½Has Mexico rotted yet into our hands?ï¿½ Do you tell me that where the minds of thirty millions of people are centred on that great question, that like stupid boys, we are to pore over the lesson for thirty years and not learn it? I do not believe it. Give a Yankee a pin made by half-a-dozen different men-the head by one man, the shank by another, the point made by another, and the shine put on by a fourth,-and he laughs at the whole affair, and makes a machine no larger than this cushion, that make pins by the barrel, and numbers them at the same time. Now, that same labor saving race, that accomplishes more in ten years than the old world does in half a century, has fixed its keen, inevitable intellect on this slave question:-ï¿½We do not mean (it says) to have it in our way long; it interferes with the location of the Pacific Railroad, -injures the value of Northern acres,-interferes with the value of gold mines,-disturbs our foreign relations,-perils the stock of cotton,-it will force Great Britain to cultivate cotton on the banks of the Ganges, and ruin the Carolinas.ï¿½ I think we are too wise to suffer the system to exist; we shall settle the slave question in a generation.
Mr. Seward has been mentioned. My friend Pillsbury said he uttered bold words at Rochester. Mr. Seward is too wise to say ï¿½boldï¿½ words. The and ï¿½politicianï¿½ do not agree together; there is no rule in the grammar to make them agree. Mr. Seward said wise words, prudent words, judicious words, at Rochester- never ï¿½boldï¿½ words. He never utters any word until he is certain there is in the public heart a readiness to echo it back. The reason why his speech is of any value is because Seward made it He is a sensitive plant; he is one end of the electric wire and America is the other. The value of that speech at Rochester is, it was made by a man who never utters any thing until he knows the American people are ready for it, and who has that instinctive, pre-eminent sagacity, that common sense and cool judgment, by which you may know that the American people are about ready for it, when he undertakes to say it. Republicanism, with its eyes like Mammon, fixed on the golden pavement at Washington, does not see the change that is going on; but Seward has his eyes not on the golden pavement of office, but on the clear sky that is breaking ahead of him, and if he cannot be President of the American Republic, he means to be the statesman of the nineteenth century (Cheers.) 
There is another sign-to come down from great things to small-the Boston Courier. (Laughter.) My eloquent and enthusiastic young friend who stood 
<c05>
here first this evening, (Mr. Heywood.) spoke to us of what the influence and name of our Pioneer would be in times to come. I believe that, a hundred years hence, when men have the leisure to go back to original history, and find out that popular apprehensions are often mistakes, it will be so. But when anti-slavery begins to triumph, I will tell you the very first sign you will see. The moment anti-slavery approaches any thing that can be called its triumph, the political press will begin to argue that Garrison did not originate the Immediate Emancipation doctrine, but that, a common printer in the office of a Newburyport paper, edited by Caleb Cushing, he stole the idea from him! (Loud laughter and applause.) And the religious press, I think, will dispute It, and probably bring forward the claim of Dr. Cox of New York, as the person who really originated the enterprise. (Renewed laughter.) Now, the Boston Courier had an article yesterday morning, in which it said that some people (what captious people they must be!) had found fault with the tone in which it had spoken of the colored people. The Courier then goes on to observe-mark you! it is the Boston Courier, published in this city, that had colored schools until Wm. C. Nell finally triumphed in abolishing them-that had railroad cars out of which some of us have been dragged for the crime of sitting by a colored friend, man or woman-that had, up in the Old South gallery, and in many another church, little pews for colored people-it is this paper that speaks:
ï¿½Whatever inferences may have been drawn, justly or unjustly, from any particular expressions which we may have dropped from the pen in the hurry of composition, we here take occasion to say that anybody does us injustice who thinks or says that we are indifferent to the welfare of the colored people, or disposed through wantonness to wound their feelings. Such is not the case. We feel none other than kindness and good will to this portion of our population, and would never knowingly forego any opportunity to serve them, or to help them serve themselves. The colored population of Boston, during the last twenty-five years, has made very distinct and decided progress, and such progress is most honorable to them. They lead more moral and reputable lives: they are possessed of more property, and live more comfortably: they are more anxious to improve their own minds, and to educate their children-indeed, their anxiety to have their children well educated, and the honest pains and sacrifices they are at to have them neatly dressed, are most creditable to them. These things show that they were entirely worthy of the boon which has been bestowed upon them now in every town and city in the State, of having their children educated at the same schools with the whites.
ï¿½We are glad of this progress; and we are also glad of the gradual melting away of the prejudices once entertained by their white brethren toward them. Certainly there never was anything more unchristian than the spectacle which we can remember in the parish churches of New England, of a few colored worshippers stuck up in a sort of swallowï¿½s-nest pew under the eaves, as if they were lepers or pariahs. The man whose devotions are disturbed by having a family of well-behaved and decently dressed colored persons in the pew next to him, may know much of the doctrines of Christianity, but is very little imbued with its spirit. We think Massachusetts is honorably distinguished by its bearing towards its colored population, not merely by giving them equal political privileges with the whites, but by the, increasing willingness of its people to recognize their social rights, and to deal with. them in a spirit of humanity and Christianity.ï¿½
How far the Courier has travelled, unconsciously! The man who wrote that article might stand here and feel quite comfortable, and in his proper neighborhood; and yet, he wrote an article in the Boston Courier! Great events are coming. That is the first wave of that flood of argument which is to rob our friend of all credit for the anti-slavery enterprise. I think that is another sign of how the public mind is softening and beginning to be ashamed of its prejudice against color. The Boston Courier is ashamed of that old Boston prejudice against the colored man. We are growing. Men are beginning to take in the idea that underlies this hacknied phrase, ï¿½American Nationality.ï¿½ Out in Michigan, an Asiatic woman, on her death-bed, requested that her body might be burned; but the mad mob entered her husbandï¿½s dwelling and stole the corpse, and consigned it to the earth in spite of him. That is another prejudice. If we are a nation, I want our arms broad enough to hold all colors, all castes, all creeds,-taking in, with broad and generous and close sympathy, all races. I should be ashamed of Boston if we had not three thousand negroes here; I wish we could have a thousand Mahommedans, and some East Indians, and some of every other race, as typical of the greatness of the country. I am of the mind of the Boston Courier, I agree with it. ï¿½It is pleasant to see brethren agree in unity!ï¿½ (Laughter.)
Still, I agree with Mr. Pillsbury in one thing, as well as with the Courier. There are some dark spots. I will tell you one. Every body abuses the Orthodox. Let us turn the shield round. There is a man who, in the face of the nineteenth century, propounded to an audience calling itself Christian, the atrocious sentiment, that he was willing to send his mother into slavery to save the government; and when the scorn or pitying indignation and contempt of Christendom dogged his footsteps, from the Mediterranean to Washington, and from Washington to his home, what excuse did he make? ï¿½I did not say my mother; I said my brother!ï¿½ What an immense difference! What an infinite distinction! What a test of Unitarian Christianity, that the hunted hound could think it a defence in the eyes of the Christian world to say that the did not mean his mother, he meant his brother-and that was virtue! That man bought his patronage of the United States government by the atrocious sentiment, and Boston called him home, and put him into the pulpit of Fletcher and Greenwood,-holy men and pure, whose names are household and sacred-and he pollutes the spot where they stood! Where is the Unitarian who can lift up his testimony against a rival sect, while the apostate representative of the lowest level of American subserviency can be called home to Boston, still to break the bread of Christ, and be recognized as a minister of the liberal gospel in the metropolis of New England! (Loud applause.)
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
My friend Mr. Pillsbury put into my mouth a speech that I do not remember to have made, though it is possible I may have made it. He said that I told the colored people that Washington and William Tell were honorable names in history. Perhaps I did, although I do not remember it; but if I did, it was simply a truism, which every body knows.
A single word in regard to the Republican party. It is because I think my friend Mr. Pillsbury is unjust to that party that my regard for justice compels me to say a word, by way of fair discrimination, wherein I think he is lacking, so far as that party is concerned. The Republican party is not to be measured by our standard. I mean, a man may object to our standard, and say, ï¿½I do not accept your standard; judge me by my own.ï¿½ Very well. Then I say to him, as Paul said to the Jews who would not accept Jesus, I will judge you by your own standard. ï¿½Ye that live under the law, do ye not hear the law? Cursed is every man that continueth not in all things written in the book of the law to do them!ï¿½ And there he had them. Men may properly object to our standard- will they object to their own? When we measure them with their own yardstick, they most either get rid of that yardstick, or confess that they are found wanting. The Republican party must be judged by what it claims to be and to do. Is not that fair? Has it ever claimed to be an anti-slavery party? Where?-when? And if it has not, then it is to be measured by another rule. The party professes not to be an anti-slavery party, but a non-extension party. Is it true to its own idea? It is. Will any man deny it? Will my friend Mr. Pillsbury deny it?
I have not said that they have made it a vital principle, and declared that the Union should be dissolv-
<c06>
ed if they were overcome. That is not the issue. But I say, that up to that point, they do carry out all their professions of resistance to the extension of slavery. I hold that I may give them all credit for what they have done, without at all compromising the Anti-Slavery cause, and without at all diminishing my right to say to that patty-ï¿½You are on a sandy foundation, after all; and though you may think you can do something for liberty, I believe you will fail in the end.ï¿½ The Republican party has certainly been consistent in its efforts to prevent the extension of slavery; it has spent a vast amount of money for the purpose of enlightening the public sentiment, so as to save Kansas and Nebraska, and the vast territories of the West, from the encroachments of the Slave Power. Let the party have the credit of it. Why not? (Applause.) I know of nothing in this Anti-Slavery cause which justifies me in being uncharitable or unfair. Give to every party its due; and I say that, up to this time, the Republican party has tried to prevent the extension of slavery, and has suffered greatly on that account. Tell me that it is to be put in the same scale with the Democratic party-that party which is ready for every thing that the South desires, in the way of extending and eternizing slavery! How was it in the last Presidential election? Was it nothing to the credit of the Republican party, that no representative of John C. Fremont could stand upon Southern soil, except in peril of his life-when, the whole party was outlawed in all the Southern States-when no electoral ticket bearing his name could have been tolerated in Georgia, or <illegible>, or Carolina, or any Southern State-and when, if Henry Wilson had dared to go down South, and advocate his election to the Presidency, he would have gone there as a man goes to the grave, and never would have come back to Massachusetts alive? When a party stands in that attitude to slavery, and slavery stands in that relation to it, I hold it is unfair and unjust to say that, after all, it is as bad as the party that goes all lengths for the extension and eternization of slavery. (ï¿½Hear, hear,ï¿½ and loud applause.)
The Republican party, as a matter of fact-and we are dealing with facts-embraces the anti-slavery voters of America, wherever they are-with the exception, it may be, of the little handful who voted for Gerrit Smith. The American people, I say, who vote, and are anti-slavery in spirit and sympathy, are all with the Republican party; not one is with the democratic party. Among them, of course, there are all phases of sentiment, from the most radical to the most superficial. There is a good deal of pro-slavery is the party, perhaps, but a great deal of warm and genuine anti slavery-sympathy, generosity, kindness, pity for the slave; blindness of vision to a certain extent, a want of moral courage up to a certain point, it may be, but, nevertheless, an earnest desire and struggle to do something whereby this odious Slave Power may be driven back, hedged up, or in some way destroyed in the land. (Applause.) Judging as we are bound to do, by its own test, therefore, as it disclaims being an anti-slavery party, as it openly declares, that in regard to slavery where it now exists, it does not mean to raise any agitation, and only means to try to prevent its extension, to the that extent, I say, the party has been true, and my sympathy that extent, have been with the party; for we also desire to save the great West from the encroachment of the Slave Power, and establish freedom on the Western soil 
And yet, this being conceded, it does not follow that I may not here, as I do everywhere, say that the Republican party, being a compromising party, never will succeed in heading off the Slave Power, and preventing what it is laboring to prevent; and I think it does not preclude me from saying, that to attempt to make a geographical distinction in regard to the law of God and the rights of man is a great moral absurdity or from as to the party that it cannot maintain its position against the inexorable logic of the South; for, granting that it is right, constitutional and proper to bold slaves in fifteen States of the Union, the argument is irresistible that it is right, constitutional and proper to hold them in the territories also, and in any additional States that may be brought into the Union.
My hope is in the great Republican party; not when it stands, but it has materials for growth. The men who have gone into it are men who have suffered or lost caste, to some extent, because they would not go with the Whig party or the Democratic party, in their wickedness, on the side of the Slave Power. They have something of self-respect and manhood left; and they have said, ï¿½we are not prepared for <illegible> yet; we trust it will not be necessary to <illegible> divide; we will endeavor to prevent the extension of slavery, and that, in process of time, will bring slavery to <illegible> an end.ï¿½ I believe this is a delusion: but to their minds it does not appear so. It is an experiment, and they have get to learn, as we have had to learn, that all compromising expedients are hopeless as against the domineering Slave Power; for we ourselves have had to change our position again and again. Twenty years ago, I thought I was an Abolitionist, but I had not then cleared myself from all actual complicity with slavery, because I had not then seen to the extent I now see. If any man had said to me, twenty years ago, ï¿½You talk about being an Abolitionist, do you, and there you are voting at the polls, and sustaining the proslavery Constitution of the United States,ï¿½ I should have been dumb. I might have said, perhaps, ï¿½I do not comprehend this; I will look into the matter:ï¿½ but he, seeing exactly what was involved in a vote, might very properly have said, ï¿½Sir, you are not a consistent, thorough-going Abolitionist.ï¿½ So in the spirit of justice and true charity, we must confer with each other, argue and reason with each other, and endeavor to enlighten each other; and he who thinks his feet are planted upon the solid rock, let him say us to those who may be standing, in his judgment, upon the sand, ï¿½You cannot remain where you are with safety; here is solid footing; come up hither, and you said conquer.ï¿½
I am not here to say anything by way of apology for the Republican party; it is not my vocation, and I know it not to be my duty. I have said what I have as a matter of justice. The Republican party is true to its idea, the non-extension of slavery, while, at the same time, its guilt, its awful guilt, consists in giving its consent and support to the existence of slavery in fifteen States of the Union, under the constitutional pro-slavery compromises. (Applause.) I have said this again and again, and the party has nothing to say in reply, and cannot or will not complain that I am unjust, or that I utter an untruth when I say, that between the Democratic and Republican parties, under the Constitution of the United States, in regard to slavery, where it is now established, there is not a hairï¿½s breadth of difference. That is, they agree to let slavery alone; they agree that slaves may be hunted all over the North; they agree that slave representatives may be permitted in Congress; they agree that the whole force of the nation may be pledged to put down a slave insurrection; and to that extent, there is no difference between the parties. But in regard to the component parts, the men who make up the parties, there is a great difference. The Republican party is only pro tempore; it is to be broken up, undoubtedly; and the men who compose it will, I trust, take a much higher position, and give, at last, a firm support to the only rational, consistent and victorious doctrine in this conflict with the demon of slavery-ï¿½No Union with Slaveholders. Governmentally or Religiously! (Loud applause.)
Mrs. FOSTER said it was well known that some present looked with different eyes upon the Republican party, from those who sat in the editorial chair, and never went out into the field except by invitation, and were not obliged to force their way to a hearing. She thought she could best explain her views by reference to the temperance movement. When that movement
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Was in its infancy, carnets temperance men and women believed that all that was necessary for them to do, was to prevent drunkenness. How was it to be done; tarts, all thought that it was to be done by only drinking moderately, and those houses and shops that would sell to a man when he was intoxicated, were put under ban, while those which would not sell to a common drunkard, or to a man who was already overcome bulgier, were thought to be respectable, and less injurious to the temperance; but now, nobody pretends to deny that the fashionable wine-bibbing hotel was more dangerous to the temperance cause, and more to be deprecated for its influence against temperance, then the lowest and meanest groggery in the city. She believed that the time was not far distant, when, seeing the result of the Republican party, they would all stand together, hand to hand and heart to heart, in believing that the party which sands pledged and swoon to support SLAVERY-'the Sam of all villainies'- has done the worst thing a party can do, and committed the unpardonable sin. She believed that the time was coming when they would all agree that such a party was more dangerous to the Anti-Slavery cause, than an out-and-out proslavery party, because it draws off from the anti-sols-very ranks those who would otherwise stand out clear very those who would otherwise stand out clear and free from the stain of the slave's blood.
After a few explanatory remarks by Mr. Pillsbury and Mr. Garrison, the Convention adjourned, to meet do fir day morning, at 10 o'clock.
SECOND DAY.
FRIDAY MORNING. Fracas Jackson, President, in the chair.
Daniel S. Whitney, of Southborough, read some original verses, bearing upon the relation of the church to the work opposition to slavery.
On motion of Samuel May, Jr., it was voted, that the hour of 11 1-2o'clock be assigned as the hour for taking donations and pledges, to carry out the objects of the Society the ensuing year. The hour having arrived, the Financial Committee proceeded to execute the foregoing vote, while the discussion of resolution before the meeting was continued by C.C Barleigh, H.C. Wright, and Wm, C. Martin, of Worcester.
Henry C.Wright wished to state to the Republicans of Massachusetts the precise point where they sand in relation to Slavery.

1. You acknowledge the existence of slavery in the slave States.
2. You acknowledge the constitutional right of slavery to repress on the floor of Congress.
3. You acknowledge that the slaveholding members treated as good citizens
And as good citizens, and as honest and honorable mea.
4. The Republican Party, in regard to the protection of slavery where it now exists,
Stands just where the Democratic Party does, proclaiming its readiness to suppress
A slave insurrection as well to catch the fugitive.
Tails is the rock on which you are wrecked- the concession that the majority should 
Rule even where it is wrong, and your adoption of this vicious concession made by 
Your fathers, through which you allow your political ties to overrule and supersede 
Your conscience. By committing this sin, and persevering in it, you inevitably
Destroy your moral capacity to disguise between right and wrong.
The position to which I am driven, for my own soils salvation is to disclaim and 
Reject every assume obligation which undertakes to bind me to this unspeakable
Folly and wickedness.
Charles C.Burleigh mentioned the case of a woman present who wished to ask
Wished to ask aid for the redemption of a son from slavery.
Mr. Martin, of Worcester, said-
In circumstances of great danger and severed trial, human nature generally displays
Traits and resources equal to the emergency. When the hour comes, the man appears.
Our present civilization, it has been well said, is only a collection of the trophies
Which have been wrong from reluctant authority?
There are excellent reasons why we should persistently maintain whatever agitation
Is needful for the utter extinction of slavery.
1. Because the agreement to support slavery is an inherent wrong, although the 
Proportions of this wrong seem to have prevented men from recognizing its atrocity.
2. Slavery places us before the world in a false height. While it lasts, we, the model
Republic of the ward, can neither manfully held the oppressed from other lands, nor
Help the oppressed among ourselves, nor maintain our own right to lead a manly, humane
And honest life.
3. The Anti-Slavery enterprise is the most truly religious enterprise in the country. 
Jesus was the greatest agitator and radical the world has ever seen, yet those who now 
Assume to speak in his name, shun both radical right, and agitation for the accomplish
Mint of it’s, as the most dangerous of diseases. Their pro-slavery gospel is mere lopped
Syllabub, while need of vital air, and wholesome food.
I have often been asked- what is the use of talking so much about slavery. I reply:
Public sentiment can be changed. 
The present spurious laws, in conflict with the higher law of God, can also be changed by 
Thorough agitation.
Edmund Quincy, from the Committee on officers of the Society, reported the following 
List for the ensuing year.
President- FRANCIS JACKSON. BOSTON.
Vice Presidents. -Andrew Robeson, New Bedford;
Edmund Quincy, Dedham; Aden Ballot, Milford;
Springfield; Josiah Hens haw, West Brookfield; Henry I. Bow ditch
, Boston; James Russell Lowell, Cambridge; Bourne Spooner, Plymouth; William Ashby, N
Webursport; John Bailey. Lynn; Richard Clap, Dorchester; David P. Harmon, 
Haverhill; Thomas T. Stone, Bolton; William Whiting, Concord; Ezekiel Thatcher,
Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remind. Salem; John Lenient. Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood,
Newburyport; Joshes T. Everett, Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg; George Miles, West
Minster; Timothy Davis, Framingham.
Corresponding Secretary-SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester.
Recording Secretary-ROBERT F.WALLOUT, B0STON Treasurer-SAMUEL PHILBRICK, 
BROOKLINE.
Auditor- EDMUND JACKSON, BOSTON.
Compiler- WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON; EDMUND 
Quinsy; Wendell Philips; Maria W.Chapman Charles K. Whipple; Anne W. Weston; William
Bow ditch; Charles F. Hove; Eliza Lee Fallen john T. Sergeant; Charles E. Hodges; Charles
Fallen.
Adjourned till 2 1- 2 o'clock, Pam
FRIDAY AFTERNOON. Francis Jackson in the charmer. HOLDEN OF LYNN, said- The 
Object of the resolution presented yesterday morning is to prepare, in some degree, the 
Minds of the people for the petition now in circulation, asking the Legislature to mast a law 
Which shall prevent the rendition of the fugitive slave? I want to make a few remarks upon that
Petition, in a different strain from those who have preceded me. You all know that Massachusetts 
As a part of the Federal Union, is committed to the support of Slavery; that our legislators are 
Bound by solemn oath to sustain that Union by supporting its Constitution. That Constitution, 
Among other things, commands the return of the fugitive slave. This law which the petition you 
Are to ask the Legislature, rot as an assembly of individuals, but in their official capacity 
As all oath- bound- body, not to renounce their
<c02>
Wicked oaths and trample them under foot, but, to violate them-in fact, to commit perjury. Can we, as members of the Mass. A. S. Society, ask this thing?
Is not perjury as much a violation of moral duty as to deprive one of liberty two wrongs will never make one right. Do not mistake my position upon this point. I would to God I could, as a Mass, man, exclaim, I am not only free, but my State also free. But she is not. Now, if she can make herself free by any such legislation as the petition asks for, God be praised. I should rejoice to know that such a law was passed. But. with our views of the pro-slavery character of the Constitution, we hold that to pass such a law is to violate the oath, therefore, instead of requesting them to perjure themselves, we should take the higher position, ask them to take a nobler stand, and come out entirely from the Union-in other words, renounce the oath instead of violating it. I would have Massachusetts do, what our friend Phillips
wanted done when Charles Sumner was stricken down in the Senate House, call home Henry Wilson-let there be two 'empty chairs,'-call home her representatives from the other branch, and let the ' silent and perpetual speech' go up from an unrepresented State, that this Union is a bloody contract, and that we will.. Ave neither part nor lot in it.
So much fur that. A word upon the tone of the remarks made by some of our friends who advocate, among the ways and means by which slavery is to be abolished, that of blood. I have no sympathy with such a crane. I believe with Daniel O'Connell, that ' no revolution was ever worth the shedding of one drop of human blood;' and when I hear our friends counseling armed resistance as the only means of establishing universal liberty, I am not only opposed to them on mere policy, but also from principle; for is not the right to life as inalienable as that to liberty When, at one of our previous meetings, I heard our good friend Pillsbury say, that he ' longed to see the time come, when Boston streets should run with blood from Beacon Hill to the foot of Broad street.' I could not but shudder at the spirit of vindictive-ness, and doubt the sincerity of our friend, although he thought himself sincere at that time. Then again, yesterday afternoon, I was grieved to hear our friend Phillips say, ' he was glad that every five minutes gave birth to a black baby, for in its infant wail he recognized the voice which should yet shout the war cry of insurrection; its baby hand would one day-hold the dagger which should reach the master's heart. More in unison with my sentiments are the principles of our great leader. This movement of ours is not so much political as moral, and by all means, when we are engaged in a great moral enterprise, let us pays equal regard to the means to be employed as well as the end in view.
When on some distant day-and God grant it may be yet far distant-you shall erect the marble monument to the memory of him who originated, and thus far leads on this Society in its eternal opposition to American slavery-when you place upon the tablet his memorable words' No Union with Slaveholders'- inscribe there also those sweet words of Bethlehem which he has ever practiced with such unswerving fidelity-' Peace on earth-good will to men!'
Dr. HEBBARD said-I love this meeting and this cause. My whole heart, my whole sympathies are with the Anti-Slavery people. Most of the measures they propose are very dear to me, and Slavery is utterly detestable to me. Yet I wish to echo the idea suggested by the last speaker.
I spoke a hundred times in the Fremont campaign, and I am not ashamed that I did so, since I spoke more for freedom than Fremont. What the people want it eloquence directed to the support of freedom'; and if Mr. Garrison and Mr. Burleigh and Mr. Phillips and Mr. Pillsbury would go into the campaign for 18C0 and speak for freedom, they would receive a hearty welcome and produce an immense effect.
What I ask is this. Why should the Republican Party be unceremoniously set aside? I speak of the laity of the party- the rank and file. Many of them are liberty-loving, worthy, Christian men.
(Some one asked whether a pirate could he a Christian. Dr. Hubbard replied that he believed many slaveholders at the South to be unwilling slaveholders.)
I have not lost all my faith in the Bible, though many things in it deserve no better than to be trodden under foot of men. But I hold to the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, and I believe the criminal is more to be pitied than his victim, the slaveholder than the slave.
Mr. Garrison offered three additional Resolutions, on the part of the Business Committee.
Resolved, That (in the language of Rev. Dr. Clever) ' a fearful paralyzing power, a spell of stupefaction, an insensibility unto death, is on the nation; and the church and the ministry that ought to act as the nation's conscience are drugged and possessed with the devil of silence; so that the people are not arrested, not alarmed, not made sensible of what Satan's work is being accomplished upon them: this is a terrible betrayal of principle, and fearful treason against God and his Word.'
Resolved, that (again to quote Dr. Cheerer) 'the whole history of the corruptions of Christianity can show nothing worse than the sanction and defence of the iniquity of slavery by the church and the ministry. The refusal of the church and the ministry to turn the condemning light of God's Word upon it, the fear and trembling on the part of good men to speak out against it, and to call it sin, the compromise with it, and the very-generally implied and sometimes express sanction of it, by men of age, experience, and professed piety, cannot do otherwise than call in question the religion of such men, and the genuineness of such religion. No iniquity that blots the name, the memory, the Christianity of any Father of the Church, in its corruptsatristic period, is to be compared with the iniquity of shielding, sanctioning and sustaining this sin.' Therefore,
Resolved, That • it is a revived and true Christianity that, through the Word and the Spirit, must cut up and abolish this horrible traffic at the roots, by abhorring, denouncing and casting out slavery itself, as forbidden and accursed of the Almighty.'
Mb. R. J. Hinton of Kansas, was introduced and addressed the meeting. He spoke substantially as follows:
Mr. President, I am not in the habit of making speeches, and for nearly three years have been where acts seemed of more worth than words. Least of all should I attempt it in this presence, but as I have sat listening, some thoughts have suggested themselves which I feel desirous of expressing; asking no consideration but that due earnest words from an honest heart, at the hands of earnest men and women. I am not a peace man, and may say what will shock some here, but I think that the terrible Logic of History teaches plainly that no great wrong was ever cleansed without blood. My object was to show how this in-evitable tendency was bringing about a bloody struggle in this nation, cursed, as it is, by the black crime of chattel Slavery. For one, believing in the right of resistance for myself, I extend the same to my African brother and stand ready at any time to aid in the overthrow of slavery by any and all means,-the rifle or revolver, the dagger or torch. For this I went to Kansas, not alone for the liberties of the white man, but to reach the slave in South Carolina. I believe the lesson taught by Kansas is the mode and manner by which the most vulnerable point of slavery, that of Insurrection, may be reached. Kansas has done this and it has also educated men for the work. The rifle shot that laid low the first victim in Kansas, has rung the death-knell of slavery on this continent. It is easier for a Government having a great wrong in its midst, to prevent the first outbreak against it than to crush any subsequent ones When the oligarchy caused the men of Kansas to take
<c03>
the rifle for their own security, and study defence as a science, it also showed to the more clear sighted of them, the means by which the cause of all this might be reached.
Mr. H. read a letter from John Brown of Ossawatomie, relative to the rescuing of eleven slaves from Missouri, and claimed that the event might well be considered as marking a new era in the Anti Slavery movement. When whites are found bold and brave enough to rescue their black fellow men from bondage we may well rejoice. He was tired of hearing of Lafayette and Kosciosko; he wanted to see their parts acted out to the slaves. Who will be the Lafayette to the African? the answer comes back from Kansas- the youngest child of this nation. The time was coming fast when the race who so long have waited in their silent strength for the hour of deliverance might rise up and assert their freedom. Public sentiment at the North was almost ready for the movement; this Anti-slavery agitation had educated them up, and these men were waiting both in Massachusetts and in Kansas for the time-waiting to aid the Haves in their warfare.
Mr. GARRISON said-This is a free platform. There must tie differences of opinion upon such a subject as ours, and each must express his own thoughts and be individually responsible for them. For myself, I have no sympathy with such a speech as we have just heard, as far as it is proposed to shed blood and to use weapons of death. Where there is no life, there are no rights. We must reverence the right to life if we would consistently maintain other rights. The men of war often enslave those whom they have conquered; the men of peace neither kill nor enslave.
When we get the people with us, we shall not need to use arms. Our work is to put right principles into their hearts and minds, and then our work will be done.
The people of Kansas are not the friends of liberty without distinction of color. As a class, they did not go there to battle for freedom. They went to make money. I do not think them worthy of imitation, and I do not see that Kansas has given us any lessons of wisdom in regard to the management of the warfare against slavery.
I am for going on as we have hitherto done. My voice is still for peace.
Who is going to fight? and who is going to be fought? Where are we to begin and where to stop? If we fight with actual slaveholders in the South, must we not also fight with pro-slavery priests, politicians, editors, merchants, in the North? Where are we to begin?
I certainly should not begin with border ruffians. They are a poor, ignorant, subordinate, deluded class, blindly following the lead of those who, it more intelligent, are also more depraved than themselves.
Far rather would I begin with the President and cabinet of the United States, who, for utterly selfish purposes, are stimulating and directing the brutality of these tools. Far rather would I begin with the false priesthood whose teachings prepare the people to be thus misdirected. The slaves are held by the religious sentiment of the country. They are held by the clergy, the churches and the sects. By the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions; by the American Home Missionary Society; by the American Tract Society; by the American Sunday-School Union.
The iivery of the court of heaven is stolen by these men to serve the devil in. And it is through their instrumentality that slavery is entrenched so strongly in these United States.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said-From war we readily come to the sinews of war, which is money. I rise to announce that the finance Committee will again pass round the hall to receive your contributions for the means to carry on the campaign of which you have heard. 
The Business Committee direct me to read the following resolutions.
1. Resolved, That the past year's history, clearly showing to the world the truth we have have proclaimed from the beginning,-that the peace and safety of every European nation depend on the abolition of American slavery,-this Society feels therefore bound, by its devotedness to the world's welfare, renewedly and unceasingly to invoke the aid of all men every where for the destruction of a common nuisance.
2. Resolved, That the thanks of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, for the twenty-seventh time in annual meeting assembled, are ever due to our honored and beloved British friends, for the moral support and the material aid they have so generously, from the very beginning, hastened to render to the Common Cause; and that the more direct and increasing co-operation of the present year now demands a renewed and fervent expression of our gratitude, for that Cause's sake, although we well know that in thin Godlike purpose they have not in view the thanks or gratitude of man.
3. Resolved, That this Society observes with profound satisfaction the clear and resolute discrimination with which the free and independent press of England, as contradistinguished from the ' Times newspaper,' has, during the past year, handled the subject of American slavery: and we thank those friends throughout the British empire whose organ it is for the magnificent service they have rendered to humanity.
4. Resolved, That we thank the Anti-Slavery mind of our mother country, as manifested recently in Yorkshire, at a local meeting representing a general feeling, of the Leeds Youhg Men's Anti-Slavery Society.-and conveyed to us in the speech of Sir Peter Fairbairn, Mayor of Leeds, as chairman of that meeting; in which he offers his testimony to the importance of the Anti-Slavery Work, and to the value of Freedom, expressing his happiness to assist others in securing it, whether for black or white.
We thank that public mind for its appreciation of freedom as expressed in the resolution offered by the Earl of Carlisle:-' That freedom being the gift of God, it is the inalienable right of every man; that to deprive a man of this right is contrary to all laws, human or Divine; and that therefore we regard slavery as an unmitigated evil, demanding the condemnation of every human being who respects the laws of God, or recognizes the principles of natural justice or the equal rights of man'; at the same time assuring that longdevoted friend of the Cause that the unworthy course of some of the members of the Republican party in Congress is no index to the feelings of their anti-slavery districts battling for this Cause; among whom every such rebuke of ingratitude and injustice as he utters, is hailed across the world of waters by all the militant as most effectual to make this sacred Cause triumphant.
We thank those men of Yorkshire, ever true in heart and brain to the words of Freedom, in whose behalf was made this true recognition of the world's universal brotherhood,-this grand resolve to promote it,-by Mr. Edward Baines of Leeds; who, in behalf of the meeting, said:-' That recognizing the universal brotherhood of mankind, and that" God hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell in the earth," we are called upon (so far as in our power lies) to remove any evil which interferes with the interests of our fellow-men; and that, considering slavery a great social evil, we are justified in using every moral and legitimate means for its overthrow, whereever it exists.'
We thank those British allies in the moral struggle for Liberty in the North American States, for their impressive statement to the world of a fact it ought to know, in the resolution supported by Mr. W. B. Foster:-• That so long as the Free States of America continue to aid the Slave States to keep in bondage from three to four millions of their fellow-citizens, we must consider the American Union to be the stronghold of Negro Slavery; and that we therefore 
<c04>
leeply deplore that a nation of our own race, and language, and religion, and bound to us by so many ties of common interest and sympathy, should be thus the chief upholder of this destructive and sinful system.
We thank those British friends of Religion, who, feeling that slavery being the worst of all sin, the defence of it must be the worst of all heresy, have warned Christendom in the following uncompromising strain,-resolving ‘That the system of slavery, as it now exists in America, is grievously opposed to the whole spirit of the Gospel of Christ, and is an oppressive iniquity which no Christian ought to palliate or connive at; and that this meeting deeply deplores the fact that so many of the American churches should be the abettors and defenders, and even perpetrators of this sin of slavery.; and we entreat the Rev. G. W. Condor, the Rev. P. Chown, and Mr. Alderman Harrison, by whom the resolve was sustained, to feel assured that these are the accents that stir the chain of sympathy which communicates unfailingly between the town halls of Britain and the depths of the slaves’ sufferings and the abolitionists’ hearts.
And, finally, while praying the Leeds Young Men’s Anti-Slavery Society, as represented to us by the honored name of Armistead, with all the excellent and venerated friends who speak to us from its platform, to receive a renewed expression of gratitude from this eldest branch of the American Anti-Slavery Society’s affiliation, for their ‘sympathy with the Abolitionists, their pity for the slave, and their allegiance to undying Freedom,’-and while thanking them for the exercise of the same political discrimination in dealing their blows against slavery which the American Anti- Slavery Society practises and ever means to practise as by its Constitution bound, we feel most of all cheered by their assurance that they, like ourselves, claim and will ever exercise the right of moral interference with slavery WHEREVER IT EXISTS.
5. Resolved, That (in the language of John Quincy Adams) ‘the Constitution of the United States sanctions a dishonorable compromise with slavery; it is morally and politically vicious, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our Revolution can be justified, cruel and oppressive, by rivetting the chains of slavery, by pledging the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master, and grossly unequal and impolitic, by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection, property to be secured and returned to its owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters arc privileged with nearly a double share of representation’; therefore,
6. Resolved, That such a Constitution should instantly be spurned by the people of Massachusetts, and of every other free State, and the Union subsisting in virtue of it between the North and the South should be dissolved forever.
7. Resolved, That (to quote the language of Mr. Adams) ‘if slavery be the destined sword, in the hand of the destroying angel, which is to sever the ties of this Union, the same sword will cut asunder the bonds of slavery itself’; that ‘if the Union must be dissolved, slavery is precisely the question upon which it ought to break;’ and that ‘if the dissolution of the Union should result from the dare question, it is as obvious as anything that can be foreseen of futurity that it must shortly afterwards be followed by a universal emancipation of the slaves.’
8. Resolved, That the solemn and weighty memorial of the colored citizens of Massachusetts to the Legislature, asking of that body indignantly to protest against the doctrines of the Dred Scott decision, and to vindicate their constitutional rights as citizens of the Commonwealth and of the United States, deserves the most respectful consideration, and the most hearty response on the part of the Legislature. ‘Weak and defenceless as they are,’ to quote the language of Mr. Adams, ‘so much the more sacred the obligation of the Legislature to defend their lawful rights. I would defend them, should the dissolution of the Union be the consequence; for it would be, not to the defence, but to the violation of their rights, to which all the consequences would be imputable; and, if the dissolution of the Union must come, let it come from no other cause but this.’
Opinion is to be the great mover of society. It is also true that evils themselves sometimes crowd out other evils. The sword of resistance sometimes successfully opposes the sword of oppression.
The non-resistance of the slaves is not a non-resistance of Christian principle, but of cowardice, sensuality and degradation. As servility invites oppression, so an attitude of determination not to be, or not to remain, a slave, will do much to deter the. despot from carrying his tyrannical purpose into execution; and the very act of shaking off his chain makes the slave more of a man than he could ever otherwise be. Far as they are to-day from a civilization and a Christianization such as we could desire, I believe that the population of St. Domingo to-day are far higher in the scale of humanity than they would have been had they chosen to remain slaves.
I hold that despotism is the baby step of civilization.
I think that the British government was mightily helped by the surrender of Cornwallis to sec the wisdom of acknowledging that the United States were, and of right ought to be, free and independent.
We want you to give us funds to present our view of the best method of doing this work, and to stimulate all with a sense of the value of liberty, that each may use his own chosen method fur the same great end.
Adjourned to 7 o’clock P. M.
FRIDAY EVENING. Edmund Quincy, one of the Vice-Presidents, in the chair.
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance read an excellent speech, which we hope to give hereafter.
Mr. Joshua T. Everett inquired if nothing is to be said at this meeting respecting the iniquities of the American church and clergy.
Among all the clergy and churches of the city of Boston there is not one in ten who has the slightest interest in our meeting or our cause. I believe what Dr. Barnes of Philadelphia said, that slavery could not stand a year in our country if it were left unsupported by the church.
Mr. Garrison read again some resolutions on that subject, which had already been presented to the meeting.
Henry C. Wright read a newspaper extract declaring that the church had left her own duties to be performed by infidels. ‘They are the pioneers, beckoning to a sluggish church to follow.’-This is the testimony of the New York Evangelist.
Abby K. Foster spoke of the need of enlarging the subscription list of the Liberator, and proposed that some volunteers pass round the audience to receive the names of subscribers. While Mrs. Chapman, Miss Holley and Mrs. Foster were doing this, Henry C. Wright advised Republicans to subscribe for and read the Liberator.
Mr. Garrison then took the floor, speaking at length, and in a deeply impressive manner, upon the essentially religious nature of the Anti-Slavery movement, and the evident proof given by its life of its Christian character. This speech will appear in the Liberator next week.
MR. PHILLIPS was then loudly called for, and came forward. He said-Mr. Chairman, you called upon me some few moments ago, but I did not feel that I had anything to say to this meeting at that moment. Indeed, I felt that some of the causes of discouragement which our friends had stated in the course of the discussion were very trifling to me, as they were outside, compared with an trifling symptom which I did not like at all; that is, that in these meetings, for a year or two, we have not heard as great a variety of voices and testimony as formerly; they have been left too much after the model of a cut and dried meeting, to some two or three well known speakers. That is not the old, original, conquering, inevitable antislavery course, whose uprising testimonies, from all
<c05>
its laborers, created such an enthusiastic, common voice, that it roused the whole American people. I feared we were taring a part of that vitality. I was glad to hear this afternoon from one or two different men, who had sat, for a session or two, in the benches. I was glad, for one, to hear from the fresh, young, enthusiastic, overflowing heart of the Kansas emigrant, who stood here and told us what he went to Kansas for, and brought back a noble account of himself and his State. 'That was one end of the telegraph. I understand there is in this hall another end of that same telegraphic wire,-the only real Governor that Kansas ever had-Governor Robinson. (Loud applause.) I think this audience would be profoundly gratified if he would report progress in regard to those outlying territories. (Renewed applause.) I would very willingly give way, if the man whom we may not know by sight, but whom we all know by sound, as far off as Kansas, will be kind enough to show himself to-night, and let us hear him, too. (Applause.) 
Gov. ROBINSON came forward to the platform and was received with hearty cheers. He said-'It is with extreme diffidence that I present myself before you, while I have behind me such an array of talent and eloquence; but inasmuch as it is customary for persons who have graduated at some literary institution, when they visit their old college or their old university, to meet with and greet their old associates, preceptors and teachers, so I, who have been a graduate of this university, am glad to show myself, and greet you here.' (Loud applause.)
Gov. Robinson then proceeded to speak, briefly, of the condition of things in Kansas, remarking that they had done the best they could with the incongruous materials with which they had to work, and that if the anti-slavery friends at the North would look on their brethren in Kansas with a little leniency, they would find that all would come out right in the end.
At the conclusion of Gov. Robinson's remarks, Mr. Phillips again took the stand, and spoke with great eloquence and power for half an hour or more. We shall print his speech in full hereafter.
The resolutions presented by the Business Committee were then adopted by a unanimous rote, and the meeting adjourned, sine die.
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
CHARlES K. WHIPPLE
ELIZA J. KENNY Secretaries, pro tem.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY ANNIVERSARY.SCBSCRIPTION.
This undertaking was crowned with extraordinary success, whether considered from the point of view of finance or of friendship. It reunited the friends of the cause from all parts of the country-from the East and from the West, from the North and from the South; while Europe joined with America in behalf of the principles of freedom so important to the welfare of both. We shall give a full account hereafter, with the communications received on the occasion. At present, we can only report that the results were double those of the last year, amounting to about $5000. with trifling attendant expense; the home contributions bearing an honorable proportion to the foreign ones.
It will be remembered that the petition, requesting our Legislature to pass a law which should entirely put an end to slave-hunting on the soil of Massachusetts, and vindicate the right of every fugitive from Southern oppression to live, unmolested, in this State, was sent to every clergyman now settled, or regularly preaching, in Massachusetts, with a special appeal for his aid in circulating it. In the great majority of cases, these gentlemen seem to have disregarded both the request and the petition. Some honorable exceptions, however, have occurred, one of which we are happy to put on record, as follows:
STOCKBRIDGE. (Mass.) Jan, 28, 1859.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Esq.
Recording Secretary Mass. Anti-Slavery Society.
Dear Sir,-I received your circular addressed to me as the acting Pastor of the neighboring church, (Congregationalist) in Housatonic, and took much pleasure in reading it, and commending the action therein urged upon my people. This week, I have in a word, brought the subject before my neighbors in the southern part of the county through our (Barrington) Berkshire Courier. Though a great change for the better, on Anti-Slavery subjects, has come over our Pastors and Churches, yet I am afraid there will not be as efficient action as there should be in the premises. Residing as I do, some four or five miles from the people of my charge, one of my deacons thought he could do better than myself in obtaining signatures to the petition in question.
Yours for the slave,
JOSIAH BREWER.
THE CAUSE OF WOMAN.-We hear that Mrs. Dall has recently repeated her lectures in Peterboro', N. H. On Friday, February 4th, she begins a new course, in Dorchester, under the patronage of some of the ladies of the Rev. Mr. Hall's Society. We wish she might have many invitations to repeat them within short distances of this city.
In a letter to Theodore Parker, dated Montpellier, Jan. 11th, Charles Sumner says-
'People here never tire in expressing their astonishment that a republic can continue to sustain slavery. They tell me that this anomaly makes it impossible now for the liberals of Europe to cite our example.'
Mr. Sumner expresses strong confidence that time will complete his restoration to health.
A letter from our friend William Robson, dated ' Warrington, Jan. 16th,' informs us of the safe arrival of Rev. Samuel J. May and Miss Sarah P. Remond at Liverpool. The latter had suffered much from sickness on the voyage, but she was recovering her strength, remaining, in the meantime, the guest of Mr. Robson.
Have you the Dyspepsia the Asthma? the Liver Complaint? or general debility? Does your fond distress you? Do you suffer from nervous irritation or ennui? Take the Oxygenated Bitters, which cure all these, 
Two bills are before the Legislature of North Carolina, now in session, which, taken together, give to the free colored people resident therein the choice of removing out of the State within two years, of choosing an owner for themselves, or of being sold at public auction for the benefit of common schools.
'Hall, Columbia! happy land!
Where 'common schools' on slavery stand.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Westerly, R. I., on the evenings of Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, 8th, 9th and 10th of February.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in Newburyport, Sunday, the 13th. inst., all day and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on American Slavery as follows:-
Southboro', Saturday. February 5.
Hopkinton, Sunday," 6.
Westboro', Monday," 7.
The Post Office address of A. G. Spalding is St Louis, Missouri-Box 1952.
GIVE HIM A CHANCE.-A young colored carpenter wants immediate employment. Apply to WM.C. NELL, 21 Cornhill. Dec,31.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.-
A young able-bodied Fugitive, from the South. wants a place. He can take care of cattle, drive horses, wait and tend, chop wood, or work on a farm. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON.
WANTS A SITUATION.-A widow lady wishes to get a situation to wait on a lady, or to work as seamstress in s respectable family.
Apply at this office, or at 6 Stillman street. 
<c06>
TO DYSPEPTICS,
And all who suffer the tortures which the disease inflicts, in one form or another of its many phases: Cure yourselves permanently and speedily by using
The oxygenated Bitters 
The 'Weekly Novelette,' of Sept. 18, says:
Dyspepsia is one of the prevailing diseases of our country. This is owing both to climate and the almost universal habit of eating our meals too rapidly to admit of proper digestion. But, in spite of these adverse circumstances, this disease, even when it becomes chr nie, disappears rapidly by the use of the Oxygenated Bitters, which have been found prove an infallible remedy.
From the Publisher of weekly circulated Magazine.
Messrs S W POWLE & Co: I have taken three bottles of the Oxygenated Bitters, and have derived great benefit from their use, I have been much troubled with Dyspepsia for several years, and found nothing that afforded me any relief until I used the Bitters. I most cheerfully recommend them to all who are afflicted with this troublesome and stubborn complaint.
JAMES ROBINSON, of the 'Student and Schoolmaster.'
From Gen. A. C. Dodge, out Minister to Spain. 
Washington, D. C, May 18.
Dr. GEO. B. GREEN: DEAR SIR-The Oxygenated Bitters with which you were so kind as to furnish me, have had a most salutary effect in my case. I was troubled with Dyspepsia for four years, during which time I tried many remedies, but never met with any so good as your Bitters. I am now in the enjoyment of good health, and I hope and believe that all who use the Oxygenated Bitters will find them as serviceable as I have found them.
With high respect, your ob't servant.
A. C. DODGE.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO.,BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Jan. 21-4tis
PHRENOLOGICAL
EXAMINATIONS,
142 Washington street, Boston.
ROOMS OPEN DAY AND EVENING.
Correct Examinations and Advice as to
1st. Choice of Occupation.
2d. Health, Habits and Diet.
3d. Matrimonial Adaptation
4th Children-their management.
5th. Choice of Help, Clerks, &c
6th. Self-Improvement in general.
As a matter of convenience. Deguerrectypes may be sent us by mail, and a written description will be returned at our regular price.
CLASSES are in operation during the Fall, Winter, and Spring. Students can enter at any time, and be thoroughly qualified for PRACTICAL EXAMINERS.
LECTURES. Invitations to lecture in any of the cities, towns or villages of New England before Lyceums, or otherwise, will be considered, and when practicable accepted.
BOOKS on Phrenology, Physiology, Water Cure and the Natural Sciences genearlly, including all of Fowler & Wells' publications, at wholesale and retail.
IMPROVED PHRENLOGICAL BUST and Chart, Including late discoveries and divisions of the Organs.
D. P. BUTLER
(LATE FOWLER, WELLS & CO.)
JAMESTOWN INSTITUTE.
IN May last, we opened our School with only one pupil as boarder, and no prospect of a second; with no expression of confidence in our peculiar method from any one, and without counsel or aid. We have now, twenty-eight pupils in the family, four Assistant Teachers, a Matron, and a lady to superintend the wardrobe of the children. We daily receive letters of inquiry from all parts of the country-more than we can properly answer. Each month our family has been larger than the preceding, and as happy a family as we ever saw together. Each week we have promise of more, and a GREATER WORK OPENS BEFORE US THAN WE CAN POSSIBLY PERFORM ALONE.
Our method is original and very peculiar. We never reward merit nor punish transgression, but have more confidence than ever that 'the rank weeds that infest the moral character of children will wither and die' in an atmosphere of love and purity. We never assign lessons to be committed to memory, but our pupils give their own thoughts in their own words, and go to their books as they go to the table for the food they need and crave. To a great extent we have won them from mere play to amusements that develop as well as entertain. The sexes associate with a freedom, purity and beauty we are proud to have observed and examined.
A few weeks ago, a stranger whom we had never before seen, called on us and carefully inquired into our method, and we have just received his 'Christmas gift' of $100, as an expression of his appreciation of our plan and method. This led us to publish this circular, believing our movement to be demanded by human progress, and that others desire to aid such an Institution.
With the donation received we shall found a Juvenile Library, and we invite donations of juvenile and scientific books and periodicals, and especially of tools and specimens for a Geological Cabinet. We shall welcome pecuniary aid in any form. If ten persons would take scholarships for one year, it might double the practical value of the labors of free teachers.
More than all, we need an energetic and loving man to unite with us in this work-a manly man, who can relieve us of all duties except the school and general care. We need a Matron who knows she has love enough to soothe the troubled spirits of children, and strengthen their good resolutions.
S. Albro, Esq., of Buffalo, and A. E. Newton of Boston, have spent some time with us, and know something of our plans and purposes. Our patrons are:
George Kellog, 8 University place, New York City,
J. Seymour Brown, 112 Lex. Av.” 
M. S. Roberts, Esq., Pekin, Niagara Co., N. Y,
Dr. C. Parker, Fredonia, Chaut. CO., “
Dr. J. F. Carter, Laona, “ “
J. G. Rood, Esq., Brigham. " “
David McWethy, Wetherfield Spring, “
Dr. S. R. Mettler, Hartford, Conn.
Asa H. Rogers, Esq. Waterbury. “
Wm. Ritehie, Esq., Springfield, Mass.
Amand S. Brett, St. Louis, Mo.
William Paul. Esq., peru, Ill.
J. L. . McCormic, Esq., "
Dr. J. F. Weeks, “
Mrs. H. Whitehead, "
Jesse Blinn, Esq., Rockford, Ill.
J. M. Sterling, Esq., Cleveland, Ohio.
C. J. Fox. Esq. Foxburg, Forest Co., Pa.
Louis Belrose. Philadelphia, Pa.
We refer inquirers to any of the above, but more especially to the school and family, where we shall welcome the most careful inquiry and the most faithful criticism.
O. H. WELLINGTON.
Jamestown, N. Y. Jan. 1, 1859.
T W O
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK,
AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON,
BY MISS S. D. CARMAN.
Physiological, Mechanical of Pathological Physician
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o'clock, to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o'clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guardians and Philanthropists will find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine, for sale and fitted at her office. Linden Hall,-open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Beware of imposition practised by pretenders who recommend worthless and unless articles.
O1 6m
John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsoms octavo volume of 459 pages, ‘Twelve Messages from the Spirit JOHN QUINCY Adams. 'through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy written. in the peculiar handwriting at Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams <illegible>. Abigail Adams, and George Washington-first, as recorded by themselves when in the body-and second, as written by them through mediumstic agency.
Price $1,50. Jan
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
TIME IS FLEETING.
Oh! Tell me not I must turn away
From the light and beauty of earth to-day;
Time may be fleeting-this life may be sad-
But deep in my soul it is very glad;
And I love the sunlight and glorious sky,
And she cool green where the shadows lie,
And the singing birds of the summer hours-
God made them so glad-and He made the flowers;
And why should I turn from the light and bloom
To dream of darkness, the worm, and the tomb?
I fear me death-for the soul no decay;
Life, beautiful life-forever-alway;
The nearer to God, the lighter-more bloom;
The life after death, the grander-more room.
I’ll love the bright earth, this child-home of ours,
Its sunlight and starlight, and music and flowers;
Beauty and grandeur, and joys that ne’er fade;
Oh! I thank the great God for all he has made!-
Suffering and sorrow will go to the tomb;
He made everlasting the light and the bloom.
KATE.

THE CENTENNIAL BIRTHDAY OF ROBERT  BURNS.
BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
His birthday-nay, we need not speak
The name each heart is beating,-
Each glistening eye and flushing cheek
In light and flame repeating!
We come in one tumultuous tide,-
One surge of wild emotion,-
As crowding through the Frith of Clyde
Rolls in the Western Ocean;
As, when yon cloudless, quartered moon
Hangs o’er each storied river,
The swelling breast of Ayr and Doon
With sea-green wavelets quiver.
The century shrivels like a scroll,-
The Past becomes the Present,-
And face to face, and soul to soul,
We greet the monarch-peasant!
While Shenstone strained in feeble flaghts
With Corydon and Phillis,-
While Wolfe was climbing Abraham’s heights,
To snatch the Bourbon lilies,-
Who heard the wailing infant’s cry,
The babe beneath the shealing,
Whose song to-night, in every sky,
Will shake earth’s starry ceiling,-
Whose passion-breathing voice ascends
And floats like incense o’er us,
Whose ringing lay of friendship blends
With Labor’s anvil chorus?
We love him, not for sweetest song,-
Though never tone so tender,-
We love him, even in his wrong,-
His wasteful self-surrender.
We praise him not for gifts divine,-
His muse was born of woman,-
His manhood breathes in every line;-
Was ever heart more human?
We love him, praise him, just for this:
In every form and feature,
Through wealth and want, through wo and bliss,
He saw his fellow-creature.
No soul could sink beneath his love,-
Not even angel-blasted;-
No mortal power could soar above
The pride that all outlasted!
Ay! Heaven had set one living man
Beyond the pedant’s tether,-
His virtues, frailties, HE may scan,
Who weighs them all together!
I fling my pebble on the cairn
Of him, though dead, undying,
Sweat nature’s nursling, bonniest bairn,
Beneath her daisies lying.
The waning suns, the wasting globe
Shall spare the minstrel’s story-
The centuries wave his purple robe,
The mountain-mist of glory!

ROBERT BURNS.
BY JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER.
How sweetly come the holy psalms
From saints and martyrs down,
The waving of triumphal palms
Above the thorny crown;
The choral praise, the chanted prayers
From harps by angels strung,
The hunted Cameron’s mountain airs,
The hymns that Luther sung
Yet, jarring not the heavenly notes,
The sounds of earth are heard,
As through the open minster floats
The song of breeze and bird!
Not leas the wonder of the sky
That daisies bloom below;
The brook sings on, though loud and high
The cloudy organs blow!
And if the tender ear be jarred,
That, haply, hears by turns
The saintly harp of Olney’s bard,
The pastoral pipe of Burns,
No discord mars His perfect plan
Who gave them both a tongue,
For he who sings the love of man,
The love of God hath sung!
To-day be every fault forgiven
Of him in whom we joy;
We take, with thanks, the gold of heaven,
And leave the earth’s alloy.
Be ours his music as of Spring,
His sweetness as of flowers,
The songs the bard himself might sing
In holier ears than ours.
Sweet airs of love and home, the hum
Of household melodies,
Cease singing, as the robins come
To sing in door-yard trees.
And, heart to heart, two nations lean,
No rival wreaths to twine,
But, blending in eternal green,
The holly and the pine!

A WINTER SCENE.
Here is a graphic description of a beautiful winter scene, by one of our native bards:-
Look! the massy trunks
Are cased in the pure crystal; branch and twig
Shine in the lucid covering; each light rod,
Nodding and twinkling in the stirring breeze,
Is studded with its trembling water-drops,
Still streaming, as they move, with colored light.
But sound the parent stem, the long, low boughs
Bend in a glittering ring, and arbors hide
The glassy floor. O! you might deem the spot
The specious cavern of some virgin mine,
Deep in the womb of earth, where the gems grow,
And diamonds put forth radiant rods, and bud
With amethyst and topaz, and the place
Let up, must royally, with the pure beam
That dwells in them, or. haply, the vast hall
Of fairy palace, that outlasts the night,
And fades  not in the glory of the sun;
Whose crystal columns send forth slender shafts
And crossing arches, and fantastic aisles
Wind from the sight is brightness, and are lost
Among the crowded pillars.
<c02>
The Liberator.
NON-EXTENSION OF SLAVERY.
Sub hoc signo vinces.
MR. EDITOR:
I dislike trespassing upon your time in any manner whatsoever; yet I am impertinent enough to ask that you will so favor me as to give place to this letter in your most interesting and estimable paper, which, I am proud to say, never shrinks from the contest when the interest and welfare of humanity are at issue; when all that is noble and dear to mankind is struggling to dethrone oppression, and erect in its stead the standard of universal emancipation and liberty. The writer of this letter has travelled much in the South, studied its institutions thoroughly, and understands its policy as well as the slaveholders themselves. He has seen slaves whipped until the skin was completely cut from their back, and vinegar and pepper poured upon them to increase this torture; after which, they were nailed by the ears to a post, and left for the sun to scab over the horrid spectacle. J
SALISBURY, (N. H.) Jan. 21, 1859.
MY DEAR SON:
The paramount question before the country is, whether the United States shall be governed by the Slave Power or by the friends of the rights of man. This is the great question before the most enlightened community of the civilized world. The ascendancy or control in the government is what the Slave Power has been striving to obtain for more than twenty years; therefore it behooves as to consider whether it would be better for the happiness and prosperity of this republic to be governed by slaves and slaveholders, or freemen and freeholders.
The history of the country proves that the slave States possess the best land; that their facilities are equal to the free States for all the improvements susceptible to the genius of man; therefore, it is clear, that inasmuch as they have not kept up with their brethren of the North, whose sterile soil scarce pays the laborer for his toil, that there is an evil somewhere which has been wasting Nature’s virtues. Every ill effect is traceable to some cause; ergo, to what cause can the progressive advancement of the North over the generous soil of the South be attributable other than the blighting effects of human slavery? Melancholy to every philanthropist must be the reflection which deprives a portion of the great family of man of all the privileges conferred upon them by their Creator. All arid every individual in the community should strive to prevent the spread of an evil, fraught with the deepest mischief, whose bloody footsteps mark the historic page of every age.
Non-extension should be our motto. ’No Popery!’ was the motto which put down papistry in England, and this should be our rule of action until we confine slavery where the Constitution did. This was the sentiment of our great statesman, Daniel Webster, who said, ’I never could consent, and never have consented, that there should be one foot of slave territory beyond what the old thirteen States had at the formation of the Union. Never, never.’ Jefferson, a man of the greatest original forecast that this country ever produced, whose prophetic ken pierced the veil, thus of the future spoke: ’I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just, and that his justice will not sleep forever. The Almighty has no attribute to take ride with us in such a contest. ’Jefferson foresaw that some terrible judgment awaited the nation, if it continued to tolerate slavery; and this was what he meant when he said, ’The Almighty has no attribute to take side with us in such a contest: that is, God would have no sympathy with them in a contest of slavery against freedom. The prophet’s mirror lies behind; to judge of the future, we must look at the past, which warns us to beware of an evil that has destroyed the noblest prosperity of mankind, deprived them of the enjoyments God gave, not to one, but all. We shall be debarred of our advantages and rights when the slaveholders, as they threatened, call the roll of their slaves on Bunker Hill, and the Monument shall weep over the degeneracy of the sons of their forefathers, and the land where rests the remains of the immortal Warren shall be trodden by the foot of the living slave.
All the wise, good men, since the deluge, have recorded their testimony against slavery. Madison said, ’It was wrong to admit into the Constitution the idea that there can be property in man,’ and it is not admitted, either by letter or construction. Monroe says, ’We have found that the evil has preyed upon the vitals of the Union; and has been prejudicial to all the States in which it has existed.’ John Randolph declares, ’I deprecate the extension of slavery and its horrors as much as any other man, be he whom he may, because it is applied to the laws of vice, avarice and ambition, instead of good will toward men from love of him who is Prince of Peace. Sir, I envy neither the head nor the heart of that man from the North, who rises here to defend slavery upon principle The South governs the country more by their white slaves of the North, than by their black slaves of the South.’ No man more abhorred the ’low crooked courtesies and base spaniel fawning’ of Northern pimps, than John Randolph. The pro-slavery democrats of the North are as much under the slaveholders of the South as their own slaves, not from election but necessity; for they know if they do not succumb to their measures, the Democratic party will be broken up, and become extinct. Socrates said, ’Slavery is a system of outrage and robbery;’ Plato, ’Slavery is a system of the most complete injustice; Aristotle, ’It is neither equal nor just that one man should be lord and master over others;’ Cyrus, the great, ’To fight, in order not to be made slaves, is noble;’ Horne, ’Man is the owner of himself by nature;’ Cicero, ’By the grand law of nations, all men are born free, and this law is universally binding on all;’ Demosthenes, ’God created man, and gave him to himself; consequently, man is his proprietor.’ Shakspeare, Milton, Coke, Hampden, Locke, Granville, Burke, Pitt, Fox, Flood, Grattan, Curran, Blackstone Wilberforce, Clarkson, Sheridan, Washington, Adams, Franklin, Jefferson, and all the Randolphs, have left this record. I thought, at first, I would give the names of all the wise, good men who have recorded their testimony against slavery; but I most desist, for I find it more difficult than it was for Homer to give the names of all the Greeks who went to the siege of Troy-which, he said,
‘To count them all demands a thousand tongues,
A throat of brass and adamantine lungs.’
All the great nations of antiquity that tolerated slavery have withered from the world, ’and the wrath of God abideth on them.’ The Medo-Persians, the Chaldeans, the Egyptians, the Carthagenians, and the great city of the Seven Hills expired in a flame of fire, and Nero fiddled while it was burning. Thus we see that the fiat of the Almighty has scattered all the nations of old, that dared to trample upon his laws, and enslave the likeness of his own image. Having quoted a few sentiments from the wise, good and great men of all ages, I will now quote from the great God himself, who has declared his word by the mouth of his holy prophets:-‘He that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.’ ’Therefore, thus saith the Lord, Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; behold. I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine, and I will make you to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.’ This dreadful denouncement was pronounced upon the Jews when they were about to establish slavery against God’s laws given to them by Moses and the prophets. What followed, all the world know. When Jerusalem was destroyed by the
<c03>
Romans under Titus; when eleven hundred thousand were slain in the city; when two hundred and fifty thousand were slain in the vicinity, ninety,-seven thousand were sold into bondage, and a great multitude perished by pestilence and famine; ’then was there great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world.’ What a stupendous and instructive warning is this to all nations that are striving to extend and perpetuate slavery!
Jefferson knew the history, and it made him tremble for his country, ’when he reflected that God was just, and that his justice could not sleep forever.’ Lamentable indeed is the reflection, that some republicans are counseling to loose from Crete,’ because, now the ’South wind blows softly,’ they suppose they have obtained their purpose; but I assure them that they are laboring in error, for slavery sailing is still dangerous, and non-extension is a safe harbor to winter in. But if we loose from this, we shall be towed for twenty or thirty years more up and down the sea of slavery, and at last be stranded upon the quicksand of pro-slavery extension, and suffer much damage, not only of the ship, but also of ourselves.’
‘There is a tide in the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood,’ leads on to glory; but, neglected, all the after voyage of life will be wrecked on the shoals and quicksands. This is the tide in the matter of non-extension. Had not Hannibal, after crossing the Alps, paused at Capua to celebrate his victories, he might have taken Rome
Buying Cuba to put a stop to the slave trade is like a man killing himself to prevent dying. We have too much regard for the South, too much for the peace and harmony of the country, to consent to the purchase of slave territory to extend slavery. Purchase Cuba, restore the slave trade, and the South will fall one day by the hands they have manacled. God Almighty’s judgment will fall upon them, and they shall become a desolation, ’and the inhabitants thereof a hissing, and a terror to themselves.’
Our object is to ward off the impending blow that awaits them, and to prevent them from destroying themselves by the continual hugging of the viper to their breast. The whole history of slavery proves it a withering, blighting curse to all the nations of Christendom in which it has been tolerated. Where, now, are all the great cities built by slave labor? Where is Nineveh? Where is Babylon? Where is Thebes, whose hundred brazen gates so often turned back the tide of war, and whose domes of gold sent back the sunbeams? The curse of slavery was upon them, and they have become monuments of God’s wrath; and where once the primrose and violet blossomed, now spring up brambles and thorns, and pestilence and desolation reign. We ask nothing of the South but what is guaranteed to us by the Constitution. Grant that, we will exclaim as the Grecian hero did-
‘Dispel this cloud, the light of heaven restore,
Give me to see, and Ajax asks no more.’
Extend slavery over the Union, restore the slave trade, and the whole African race would be here. What a horrible picture the country would present! A war of the races would inevitably commence; and who would predict the end thereof? 
Yours, &c., B. PETTINGILL. 

[From the London Anti-Slavery Reporter.] 
AMERICAN INTRIGUES IN ST. DOMINGO. 
NO. 1.
LONDON, Dec. 15, 1858. 
To the Editor of the ’Anti-Slavery Reporter.’ 
SIR,-The island of St. Domingo, once united under the firm administration of Boyer for a period of twenty-two years, is now divided into two parts, the East, or Spanish part, forming the Dominican Republic, and the West, or French part, being constituted into the empire of Soulouque. It is not, at present, my intention to speak of the causes of the civil war in the eastern province which led to the separation, but it must be obvious to every one who has studied the recent history of the country, that this separation has occasioned much present weakness and misfortune, and has surrounded the future with perils of incalculable magnitude. The existence of two antagonistic negro states on the same island, necessarily influenced by mutual jealousies and hatreds, and still bearing to each other the relations of an imperial power and a revolted province, could not fail to invite foreign aggression and intrigue. The petty representatives of England, France, Spain, and the United States, have, in turn, taken advantage of the weakness of the local governments to play the game of their respective countries, but the emissaries of the latter power appear to have been influenced by the most evil motives, and to have contemplated the must unscrupulous attacks on the liberty and independence of the island. These intrigues doubtless form a part of that great scheme of territorial expansion and slaveholding propagandism, which aims to extend the government of the stars and stripes over Mexico, Central America, and Cuba. The first-fruits of American diplomacy in the Dominican Republic were gathered in 1854, when, by dint of intrigues with Santana, the President, and, as it is averred, by heavy bribes paid to him and other native functionaries, the United States’ Commissioner, General Cazaneau, obtained the cession, by treaty, of the splendid peninsula bay of Samana, together with other advantages to which I need not more particularly allude, further than to say that they included the right of American citizens to hold and cultivate land, and to work mines. The object of this treaty was, doubtless, to allure large numbers of American adventurers to the shores of St. Domingo, by the certainty of immediate profit and the prospect of far more substantial rewards. The treaty was happily not carried out, owing, in a great measure, to the exertions of the French and English Consuls, who, by shewing to the Dominican Congress the danger of making such important concessions to the United States, induced them to refuse to ratify the treaty. Santana, however, still refused to encourage American intrigues, and thereby occasioned the invasion of Dominican territory in 1855 by the Emperor Soulouque, whose fears were not unreasonably excited by the prospect of an American occupation of the Republic. This war delayed the fall of Santana, which, however, took place in 1856, when he was compelled to resign the presidential office amid the execrations of his fellow-citizens, who cried in the streets of San Domingo, A bas le tyran! A bas les Americans!’ He was succeeded by Baez, who compelled him to leave the country; but be returned a few months ago, and by the aid of his partisans, succeeded in capturing the city of San Domingo, and restoring himself to power
It is not difficult to discover what political advantages the possession of territorial rights in the Dominican Republic, together with the important bay of Samana, would have conferred upon the American Government. They would, for all time to come, have been able to prevent that union of the two sections of the island which alone can give a fair chance of success to the great experiment of negro self-government, and thereby prove the falsehood of those shallow theories of the intellectual inferiority of the African race, which form the sole justification of American Slavery. They would have had a pretext, of which they would not have been slow to avail themselves, for perpetual interference with the domestic affairs of the whole island’; and if no worse result happened, they would, at least, have placed the Emperor Soulouque and the Dominican President in a position of abject dependence on their will and pleasure. More than this, the bay of Samana might have formed a point from which the realization of the cherished schemes of slaveholding aggression against Cuba, and even our own West-India Islands, might one day be attempted, if not actually carried out. No doubt all these considerations were well weighed by the cabinet of General Pierce, when they resolved to ply Santana and his confederates with American gold, and to tempt them to permit the champions of manifest destiny to plant their flag upon the northern shores of St. Domingo. Happily, however, the temporary overthrow of Santana put an end to these projects, or at least suspended their execution; but their revival is not unlikely, now that Santana, by the defeat of Baex, has been restored to power. General Pierce, it is true, has retired into private life, but his party still continues in the ascendant at Washington, and Mr. Buchanan, like his predecessor, is its creature and instrument, rather than its leader
That a change of Presidents in the United States 
<c04>
has produced no change of policy is but too evident from the proceedings of Mr. Buchanan in regard to the island of Navaza. This island, which forms a part of the dominions of the Emperor Soulouque, is situated between the south-western const of Hayti and the island of Jamaica, and is about thirty miles from Cape Tiburon. That the inland belongs to Hayti is proved by incontrovertible historical evidence. All historical writers on St. Domingo are agreed on this point. Herrera says, in his ’Description de las Occidentales,’ chap. vi. p. 7, Madrid, 1730:-’The harbors, &c., and the isles belonging to the coast of that island (Hispaniola) are on the coast the then enumerates all the isles) la Nabana (Navaza) ten leagues at sea, &c.’ Charlevoix, in his Histoire de Tile Espagnole, ou de St. Domingo,’ Paris, 1830. writes: ’Moreover, all round Hispaniola, or St. Domingo, are found several small isles that are annexed to her, and that may still be very useful to her. The most considerable are the Saona besides Navaza and Mona, the first being ten leagues from Cape Tiburon towards Jamaica.’
Several months ago the Haytian Government learnt that this island, which contains extensive deposits of guano, had been invaded by a party of American adventurers, who had established themselves there for the purpose of digging and exporting the guano, without making any attempt to obtain the permission of the authorities at Port-au-Prince. The Haytian Government immediately forwarded a statement of the facts of the case to the Cabinet at Washington, selecting as their medium of communication the American commercial agent at Port-au-Prince, because, up to the present time, no diplomatic intercourse has been permitted between the two countries. They also despatched two Commissioners to Navaza to report upon the actual state of affairs in the island. The Commissioners, on their return, reported that they discovered on the northwest coast of the island an extensive establishment for the exportation of guano. This establishment consisted of about fifty persons, together with a wharf, boats, and houses, and two four-pounders. The whole party was under the management of Mr. John L. Frazier, who stated that he was the agent of an association at Baltimore which bad entered into contracts with the Governments owning islands in the Carribbean Sea, for the exportation of guano from such of them as might be found to contain that valuable manure. It is scarcely necessary to say that no such contract had been made with the Haytian Government, and that Mr. Frazier’s statement was an invention of his own.
As might be expected, the remonstrances of the Haytian Government have failed to produce any effect upon the American authorities. The protest sent through the American commercial agent was answered on the 15th of August last, by the appearance, at Port au Prince, of two American men-of-war. The American commodore notified to the Haytian Minister for Foreign Affairs, not that he had come to vindicate the sovereign rights of Hayti, but to warn the Imperial Government against interfering with the intruders at Navaza, who, he alleged, had settled there by virtue of an Act of Congress passed on the 18th of August, 1856, which authorized the Government to protect American citizens who may discover guano on any island net within the lawful jurisdiction of any other Government. The American commodore, not being empowered to discuss the question-for, in all likelihood, the very good reason that Haytian jurisdiction over Navaza was susceptible of too easy a proof-sailed off without waiting for a reply. The government of Hayti have addressed a new protest to Washington, and there, for the present, the matter rests. It will be remembered, that, five years ago, a precisely similar difficulty arose between the United States and Peru, when the islands of Lobos were occupied by a party of American citizens. Then the cabinet at Washington felt itself bound to admit the jurisdiction and to respect the rights of Peru. Why, then, should America now seek to pursue a different policy towards Hayti? The reason would certainly appear to be, either that she cares no longer to recognize the rights of weaker nations, or that, in the particular case of Hayti, she has ulterior designs to accomplish. It is certainly some satisfaction to know that this aggression, like most others of a similar character, has not paid its own expenses; for I learn that the guano is of such an inferior quality, that several tons of it, exported to Liverpool, could not find a market, and the vessel in which it was loaded was compelled to take it back again, thereby involving the speculators in a serious loss. But although America may not be able to turn the guano of Navaza to profitable account, she may, nevertheless, retain possession of the island for more important purposes. What could be easier than for her to erect on the island a small fort, and garrison it with soldiers? or to use it as a coaling station for American vessels? But whether any such use of it be made by America or not, the principle involved in the question remains precisely the same. If America is allowed to retain possession of Navaza without protest, what is to prevent her from exploring the numerous other islands which dot the Haytian coast, and, under similar pretexts, to plant her flag upon such of them as she may please to occupy?
Clearly it is the duty of England to interpose her friendly offices, and, by every moral influence which she can exert, to protect the rights of a feeble ally. Such may have been, and, I trust, has been the policy of Lord Malmesbury; but as this is necessarily a matter of doubt and uncertainty, I would indulge in the earnest hope, that the influence of Lord Brougham, and of other distinguished friends of the negro in both Houses of Parliament, will be employed to accomplish this most desirable object.
With your permission, in a second communication I shall call attention to another and a later phase which American designs against St. Domingo have assumed.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
F. W. CUKSSOX. 

MAN-HUNTING IN PENNSYLVANIA. 
Now that the wheels of Legislation are again in motion at Harrisburg, we wish to urge upon our Senators and Representatives there, the necessity of enacting a Personal Liberty Law for this Commonwealth-a law securing to every man within the limits of the State, a right to his person and his liberty. We ask that hunting for men with a view to enslave them, be forever prohibited in this State. We ask that the homes and the hearths of the old Keystone, be protected by law from the ravages of the kidnapper, and the plundering? of the man hunter. We perceive that movements toward urging such beneficent and needed legislation are being made in another section. A large and influential Anti-Slavery Convention was recently held in Philadelphia, at which strong resolutions were passed upon the subject, and the circulation of the annexed Petition was recommended:
‘To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
We, the undersigned, inhabitants of the State of Pennsylvania, respectfully ask that you will pass a law prohibiting the surrender of any human being claimed as a slave on the soil of Pennsylvania.’
This form of petition is pointed, brief, and embodies correct sentiment. We propose to print blank copies of this Petition, or one of similar import, for circulation in this region of the State. Who will refuse to sign such a paper? We may not succeed in persuading our law-tinkers to act upon our prayer. It is probable that we will not. But we may begin to-day an agitation which one day will culminate in this desirable action. We can put our wishes on record. We can give expression to the moral sentiment of the people on this subject. Similar movements are being carried forward in other States, with marked promises of success. We profess to be a Free State-we are now such only in name. Our verdant meadows and smiling hill-sides are all open to the invader who may come hither scenting human blood! Every human being is free by virtue of his birth-free because God made him so. We ask not, then, as some have basely claimed, that no man shall be taken into slavery from this State without a trial by jury. We ask no such absurd and cringing thing. Let no man be put on trial in Pennsylvania to ascertain whether he belongs to himself or not! But let us enact, as a sovereign State worthy of the name, that every human being on our soil is free, and shall be protected in his freedom. We owe it to ourselves, to humanity and justice, to honor and consistency, to do this thing. -Erie, (Pa.) True American.
IMPORTANT FROM HAYTI. A private letter of Jan. 10. from Port-as-Prince, received via St. Thomas and Havana, says Emperor Soulouque had been defeated by Gen. Geffrard, and the imperial troops were running back up to the city. Soulouque himself was expected every moment, and it is said that Geffrard was only a few leagues. in his rear. The writer thinks the contest was nearly ended. and that in a day or wo the republic will be in full force.
<c05>
A WEBSTER CELEBRATION.
A good many of the old friends of Daniel Webster, men who voted for him, spoke for him, wrote for him, worked for him and believed in his principles -think it a duty the? owe to the truth of history and the memory of the great statesman to get up a celebration on the nest anniversary of his birthday, at whish speeches will be made, setting forth the anti-slavery and anti-Locofoco principles of Mr. Webster, and the strong Northern sentiments he entertained. They feel chagrined that his memory, his greatness should be seized hold of by men who opposed him during his whole life, who belong to a party the creed of which was undying hostility to Daniel Webster, his ’federalism,’ his ’British whiggery,’ his ’sectionalism,’ and his monarchical principles.’ The idea of having such men as Dickinson Wise, Floyd, Cass, Brown, Douglas & Co., invited to commemorate the anniversary of Mr. Webster’s birthday is really carrying a joke too far; and then to have speeches at the banquet by Mr. Hallet and Mr. Woodbury and Mr. Cushing and Mr. Choate, ail of whom belong now to the party which opposed Mr. Webster during his entire public life, and who now advocate political principles such as Mr. Webster always opposed, is approaching to the sublimely ridiculous. Why were not such men as Mr. Blatchford, Simeon Draper, Moses II. Grinnell, Charles Stetson and others of New York invited? They were Mr. Webster’s real friends, both personally and politically, during his whole life They were not invited because they abide by the principles, to-day, which Mr. Webster believed in when alive, and vote the Republican ticket. There are many gentlemen in this city, who were not invited, who stand in the same position precisely. We therefore agree that it would be highly proper for the men who were the friends and disciples of Mr. Webster to have a celebration on his nest birthday, when the time shall not be wasted in listening to gaseous orations about the Union, but shall be taken up in considering those words of his scattered all over his speeches which denounce negro slavery, Locofocoism, Filibustering and Buchananism in general.-Boston Atlas.

BIRTHDAY OF ROBERT BURNS.
The Boston Burns Club celebrated the centennial anniversary of Robert Bonus’s birth, on Tuesday night, by a dinner at the Parker House. Gen. John S. Tyler, President of the Club, occupied the chair, and at either side of him sat Gov! Banks, Mayor Lincoln, the Hon. Joseph Howe of Halifax, Lord Radstock, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Geo. S. Hillard, N. P. Willis, James Russell Lowell, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and the Hon. Josiah Quincy, jr.
Mr. Emerson responded to ’The Memory of Burns.’
SPEECH OF RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
He was received with loud cheers. He said:
MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN-I do not know by what untoward accident it has chanced-and I forbear to inquire-that, in this accomplished circle, it should fall to me, the worst Scotsman of all, to receive your commands, and at the latest hour, too, to respond to the sentiment just offered, and which indeed makes the occasion. But I am told there is no appeal, and I must trust to the inspirations of the theme to make a fitness which does not otherwise exist. Yet, Sir, I heartily feel the singular claims of the occasion. At the first announcement, from I know not whence, that the 25th January was the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Hubert Burns, a sudden consent warmed the great English race, in all its kingdoms, colonies, and States, all over the world, to keep the festival. We are here to hold our parliament with love and poesy, as men were wont to do in the middle ages. Those famous parliaments might or might not have had more stateliness and better singers than we- though that is yet to be known-hut they could not have better reason. I can only explain this singular unanimity in a race which rarely acts together-but rather after their watchword, each for himself-by the fact that Robert Burns, the poet of the middle class, represents in the minds of men to-day that great uprising of the middle class aga inst the armed and privileged minorities- that uprising which worked politically in the American and French Revolutions, and which, not in governments so much as in education and in social order, has changed the face of the world. In order for this destiny, his birth, breeding and fortune were low. His organic sentiment was absolute independence, and resting, as it should, on a life of labor. No man existed who could look down on him. They that looked into his eyes saw that they might look down the sky as easily. His muse and teaching was common sense, joyful, aggressive, irresistible. Not Latimer, not Luther, struck more telling blows against False Theology than did this brave singer. The ’Confession of Augsburg.’ This ’Declaration of Independence,’ the French ’Rights of Man,’ and the ’Marseillaise,’ are not more weighty documents in the history of freedom than the songs of Burns. His satire has lost none of its edge. His musical arrows yet sing through the air. He is so substantially a reformer, that I find his grand plain sense in close chain with the greatest masters- Rabelais, Shakespeare in comedy, Cervantes, Butler and Burns. It I should add another name, I find it only in a living countryman of Burns. He is an exceptional genius. The people who care nothing for literature and poetry care for Burns. It was indifferent-they thought who saw him-whether he wrote verse or not: he could have done anything else as well. Yet how true a poet is he! And the poet, too, of poor men, of gray hodden, and the guernsey coat, and the blouse. He has given voice to all the experiences of common life; he has endeared the farm-house and cottage, patches and poverty, beans and barley; ale, the poor man’s wine; hardship, the fear of debt, the dear society of weans and wife, of brothers and sisters, proud of each other, knowing so few, and finding amends for want and obscurity in books and thought. What a love of nature, and, shall I say it? of middle-class nature! Not like Goethe, in the stars, or like Byron, on the ocean, or Moore, in the luxurious East, but in the homely landscape which the poor see around them-bleak leagues of posture and stubble, ice, and sleet, and rain, and snow-choked brooks; birds, hares, field-mice, thistles and heather, which he daily knew. How many ’Bonny Doons,’ and ’John Anderson my Joes,’ and ’Auld Lang Syncs,’ all around the earth have his verses been applied to! And his love songs still woo and melt toe youths and maids; the farm work, the country holiday, the fishing-cobble, are still his debtors to-day. And as he was thus the poet of the poor, anxious, cheerful, working humanity, so had he the language of low life. He grew up in a rural district, speaking a patois unintelligible to all but natives, and be has made that Lowland Scotch a Doric dialect of fame. It is the only example in history of a language made classic by the genius of a single man. But more than this. He had that secret of genius to draw from the bottom of society the strength of its speech, and astonish the ears of the polite with these artless words, better than art, and filtered of all offence through his beauty. It seemed odious to Luther that the devil should have all the best tunes; he would bring them into the churches; and Burns knew how to take from fairs and gypsies, blacksmiths and drovers, the speech of the market and street, and clothe it with melody. But I am detaining you too long. The memory of Burns-I am afraid heaven and earth have taken too good care of it, to leave us anything to say. Open the windows behind you, and hearken for the incoming tide, what the waves say of it. The doves perching always on the eves of the stone chapel opposite, may know something about it. Every name in broad Scotland keeps his fame bright. The memory of Burns-every man’s, and boy’s, and girl’s bead carries snatches of his songs, and can say them by heart, and, what is strangest of all, never learned them from a book, but from mouth to mouth. The wind whispers them, the birds whistle them, the corn, barley, and bulrushes hoarsely rustle them; nay, the music boxes at Geneva are framed and toothed to play them; the hand-organs of the Savoyards in all cities repeat them, and the chimes of bells ring them in the spires. They are the property and the solace of mankind.
The wildest cheering followed the conclusion of Mr. Emerson’s remarks, a large part of the company rising. There were loud calls of ’More, ’’Go on, ’’Go on,’ and a gentleman rose from one of the tables and said, ’Here are four hundred orators crying out -More!’
The President-Mr. Emerson begs to be excused, not because the well of cashing waters is exhausted, but because in the kindness of his heart he thinks that he ought to leave room for gentlemen who are to succeed him.
<c06>
THE LATE JUDSON HUTCHINSON.
George W. Bungay pays the. Following merited tribute to the memory of this sweet singer:-
Although Judson has gone unbidden into the presence of his Maker, his life has not been a failure, He won a national name, and his reputation extended to Europe Where he had hosts of admiring friends, He was one of the best natural singers in America; and his music and mirth have been sources of <illegible> pleasure to millions of delighted auditors. White he was wasting his own vital energy, and bringing on that mental depression which follows a loss of physical strength, he was lightening many hearts of their load of care, and imparting fresh impulse to those who we know not how many have been saved by his songs from the fate of the suicide. Let us tread memory for the good he has done. He never failed to commit himself on the side of Reform; was a true friend to Freedom when it cost something to take sides with slave. He was an early advocate of Temperance; and his heart-songs have contributed vastly to make these handmaids of religion famous in the land. He has often volunteered his services to aid poor persons and feeble societies, and, while he accumulated a competency for his estimable family, he extended a helping hand to others.

A COLORED ORATOR.
Mr. W. H. DAY, the Edward Everett of colored orators (although he does not write for the Le<illegible> says the Springfield (Ohio) Journal. ’spent the Sabbath in this city. By invitation, he addressed the Congregational Sabbath School, and in the evening addressed a mixed audience at the African Methodist Church. We will say, without hesitation, that for fervid burning, classical eloquence, we have seldom loftiest flights, and in the completeness of his sentences, and the eloquence of his oratory, he excels the renowned Fred. Douglas-to say nothing of the Stephen A.’
Mr. Day, the colored orator, lectured in <illegible> Hall, on Thursday evening, to a very respectable accidence. He has, we should judge, scholarly attainments, has a good command of language, and is not at all untiring as a speaker, before an audience. At times he is really eloquent, in depicting the wrongs of his race, as well as scathing, in remarking regarding their treatment by would-be philanthropists, and professed religionists. He will lecture again at <illegible> Hall, next Monday evening. Subject-‘Perspective Liberty.’ We would advise those who think the ’colorod folks’ are destitute of intellect, and not capable of expressing themselves, to go and hear him. -Toledo Blade.

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored produce the most effectual alternative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote, for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, EAUPT1ONS AND ERUPTIVE DLSEASES, ULCERS. PLMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCUMAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOURETS, DEBILITT, DYSPEPSIA.AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPE LAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from favor OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great Promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea son of the year. By the timely expulsion of to many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy. spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well: but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it partly because the drug alone has not all the <illegible> that is claimed for it, but more because many preparation, pretending to be concentrated extracts of contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla. but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised. and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order secure their complete eradication from the system the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottless for 35.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has woe for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has lozy been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do to their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach. Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint. Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rhevse, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $1.00
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their. Names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also fed descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER’S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCAI.F & CO.,BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H.H.HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N.H. 
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May 

IMPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOOING AND HAIR-DYEING
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the Latest Style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves.
October 8.
