THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON Editor.
Our County is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. No.28. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 12, 1861. WHOLE NO.1594
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
The traitors who are the most to be detested and watched, at this crisis, do not reside in the Confederate Suites, but at the North-who, while affecting to be loyal to the government, are hypocritically deploring the evils of war, suggesting the desirableness of compromise on any terms however degrading and iniquitous, and insisting that the North, not the South, is to blame as the aggressive party. Of such treason are the Journal of Commerce and its contributors daily guilty. Below is a specimen.
[From the New York Journal of Commerce.]
It will be observed by the date at its close, that this communication was written on the 11th of May. But it was doubted whether the public mind was then in a condition to receive so much truth so plainly spoken, and therefore the publication of the article has been deferred to the present time.

SOME REASONS WHY I AM OPPOSED TO THE PRESENT WAR.
First-Because war is, at best, a terrible necessity, not to be: reported to until all amicable means of settling national difficulties have been exhausted.
It is well known that ever since the election of Mr. Lincoln, the Republican party has resisted every practical suggestion in favor of peace that has been offered.
Towards the close of the last session of Congress, when a final effort was made in the Senate on be half of the Crittenden resolutions, the motion was defeated, one of the Senators. I think his name is Hale, saving, "We have more important business on hand,-we have a Tariff to pass."
Second-Because it is a civil war, of all wars the most cruel and exhausting, and the most repugnant to the sentiments of the present age.
Third-Because, if successful, it must be over the ruins of the Republic. We shall have a government, but it will not be the government of the United States.
It is an abuse of terms to speak of a Union on compulsion, "a union of equals," consisting of conquerors and conquered: besides, a government asserted by force must be maintained by force: and the power necessary to hold in subjection one half of the country, is a standing menace to the liberties of the remainder.
Fourth-Because it cannot succeed. Eight millions of free people, inhabiting such a country as they possess, accustomed to the use of arms, fighting. as they verily believe, for their lives and for all that makes life precious, cannot be conquered.
Fifth-Because we enter upon it without the moral support of the great Christian nations of the earth: and in prosecuting it are very likely to embroil ourselves with them.
Sixth-Because war will not settle our difficulties; it will only aggravate them. We shall have to negotiate sooner or later, and had letter do so at the threshold of a bitter war than at its close.
Seventh-Because, of the spirit of lawlessness and ferocity it is creating. The hand on the dial seems to have gone three centuries backward since this war commenced.
Eighth-Because of the conditions on which it is waged; submission or extermination.
Ninth-Because it will promote the unfriendly designs of our great foreign rival in trade and power.
Tenth-Because it will prove ruinous to the city of New York, and highly injurious to the country at large. It will load the country with a heavy national debt; withdraw the strength of our population from the pursuits of peaceful industry to a life of high excitements and irregularities; drive our commerce from the seas, or send it skulking under convoy: the healthful channels of enterprise and profit will be choked up; the capital of the country will be hoarded or absorbed by the government for warlike uses; consumers and idlers will be multiplied, producers will be diminished; property will depreciate in value; the hard-earned credit and wealth of years will vanish away; there will be a general bankruptcy: all classes will suffer; and the poor and vicious will be greatly increased. Such are some of the followers in the train of this war. How greatly will these evils be multiplied and aggravated, in case the war should fail of its object!
Eleventh-Because of its tendency to demoralize the government, and make it one stupendous jobbing concern for the benefit of contractors and their confederates.
Twelfth-Because the Declaration of Independent asserts the right of a people "to dissolve the political bonds which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal station to which the laws of nature and of nature's God entitle them." "That Governments arc instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of the ends for which it was instituted, it is the right of the people to alter and abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundation in such principles and organizing its powers in such form as shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness."
When New York ratified the Constitution, she expressly reaffirmed those principles, and further said, " That the powers of the Government may be reassumed by the people whenever it shall become necessary for their happiness:" the ratifications of Rhode Island and of Virginia are to the same effect. These express conditions apply to all of the States, for all are equal.
Thirteenth-Because this government was founded on voluntary consent; to assume that it must be maintained by force, is to admit that it is a failure.
Fourteenth-Because, in waging it, we, as a people, stultify ourselves in all our pretensions to the right and capacity of self-government. We vindicate the pretensions of Great Britain in her attempts to coerce the Colonies and maintain her Government. We make our forefathers traitors, and the Declaration of Independence the round robin of a nest of conspirators against law, order and government.
It makes a world of difference whether we run with the hare, or hunt with the hounds.
Fifteenth-Because it is not, as some suppose, a war to sustain our government, but a war to compel other States, our equals, to continue members of a government they do not choose to have.
Sixteenth-Because it is a war for supremacy, and not for the Constitution; a war of desperation, and not of hope.
Thousands in the land believed that when Mr. Lincoln was elected, the Union was lost. Subsequent events confirmed those apprehensions, but only of late has the heavy truth struck home. We begin to realize the loss. Our commercial position, if not our very existence, threatened by protection at the North, and free trade at the South, our national pretensions humbled, our visions of unbounded greatness rudely dispelled; our prosperity turned to
<c02>
adversity; on all sides baffled and perplexed, we yield to our passions, fly to arms, and seek those desperate courses, "which, if not victory, are yet revenge,".
Seventeenth-Because it is inexpedient; and, excuse me for saying it, unnatural. Instead of making the best of our misfortunes, we are making the worst of them. Wisdom, true patriotism, high conduct, the respectable opinion of mankind, religion, all tell us: "Let these people go." Protest if you please, (saying nothing of your own share in the business,) in terms of rhetoric the most dignified and touching, against the course they have taken, and the ruin they have accomplished; but let them go. Your fathers fought the battles of the Revolution shoulder to shoulder with their fathers; the ashes of your dead mingle in the soil of every State from Maine to California: your sons have taken of their daughters to wife, and their sons have taken of your daughters to wife; ye are brethren; ye have been baptized with the same baptism,-have wept at the same graves.
"And Abram said to Lot, Let there be no strife I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen, for we be brethren: Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left."
Are not these imperative considerations? Let us submit to them gracefully, and put aside the arms of fratricidal strife. It was Moloch, the bloody deity, who
-“rather than be less,
Cared not to be at all.”
The sentiment was worthy of the soil. True courage speaks a different language. Let us take counsel of sound policy and deliberate judgment, and turn from the rash conclusion of fanaticism and resentment; let us be friends, serviceable neighbors, if we cannot be fellow-citizens. If the Union is to be saved, it is not to be saved by force. If the Union be lost, it is nevertheless in our power to become close allies, and to stand before the world as one people, a mighty nation.
Let the most sanguinary mind, the liveliest imagination, endeavor to pierce the future of a contrary course, and it will vainly strive to fathom an abyss unfathomable, of woe and desolation which no pen can describe.
Eighteenth-I oppose this war because it is a war of sections: the North against the South, the stronger against the weaker, the majority in arms to compel the minority in arms to resist. In this connection, it ceases to be a question of slavery, pro or con;-or any other question save this,-the right of States satisfied with the Union to compel dissatisfied States to abide by the Union, nolens volens. As I am convinced that a solution of this question by a resort to force was not in the bargain, and know that a suggestion to that effect was promptly rejected by the framers of the Constitution, I am obliged to oppose this war.
Nineteenth-I oppose this war because there is no law authorizing it. These armies operating in the field; this great increase to the standing force of our national defence; this extensive sea coast and river blockade; the invasion of States, the suspension of the writ of Habeas Corpus; the seizure and confiscation of private property by military force; citizens taken by soldiery, and put under martial arrest for trial, for speaking treason: the provost marshal superseding the sheriff; and the drum head taking the place of the jury box; these and many other acts of like character, done by the President or under his authority, arc wholly without warrant in law. George Washington was for some time Dictator, because Congress made him such. This case is without a precedent, but it makes one. When arbitrary power can be so readily assumed, all the liberties of the people are in danger. The plea of necessity draws the sword on our adversary to-day; the like plea may turn it on ourselves to-morrow.
Twentieth-I oppose this war because it is the war of the Abolitionists and of the Republican party.
By the strongest appeals to our patriotism, the national sentiment has been thoroughly roused; the whole North is in arms, and eager for battle to sustain the government. Who does not know that all this excitement and preparation is for the especial benefit of a certain portion of the community; in short, of those very people who, after years of toil and preparation, have succeeded in bringing their pleasant tragedy before the public, and who, safe behind the scenes, now chuckle over the felicitous development of the plot, and the wonderful success of the piece? Yes! the impending crisis,-the irrepressible conflict.-the long-expected day, has at length come: "Blow ye the trumpet, blow, and proclaim liberty throughout the land."
Those quondam champions of free speech and a free press, suddenly converted into blazing patriots, glow with pious heat against all freedom save their own. Those who differ with them are traitors; to oppose them is treason. In the name of the Union they have betrayed, of the Constitution they have disregarded, and of the laws they have insolently defied, those model citizens now demand of us, and of all men, to march for them to their tune of the Union, and wage their war of extermination.
I will yield to no man in my love for the Union. Heretofore, with my humble pen, to the best of my ability, I have endeavored to serve it. I am not now to be driven from well considered opinions, by the clamors or the threats of those very people who have done so much to overthrow our government and dishonor our flag. If ten thousand lives could give peace to this distracted land, and restore our glorious old Union, cheap indeed would be the purchase, and happy, thrice happy, those patriots on whom the lot should fall. However much or little I may presume to share in these sentiments, I make bold to say, that I will not, under any pretence, aid or countenance the abominable projects of those, who, having hunted the Union to death, now hound us on to her bloody obsequies and our general ruin. L. S.
NEW YORK. May 11, 1861. 

AN ELEGANT EXTRACT.
Is the North peopled with Christians or with savages? Is the light that shone from Calvary’s bloody summit extinguished, and are our Northern foes only guided by the dark and lurid flame that pilots devils to their carnivals? Has the Congress of Hell had its session, and have they commissioned all the legions of the damned to demonize our enemies? Has Lucifer given a furlough to all his infernal cohorts? Has he established his church in every Black Republican's heart, and has he ordained Belial and Moloch his high priests? Are we to have war with men or with devils? These questions must be answered. Our implacable foes, goaded on by a hatred that is remorseless and unrelenting, because they have insulted and injured us, have already answered them. They have inaugurated a war of extermination-a war in which no mercy is to be shown or quarter given. Let it be so! The South has never asked a favor of her enemies. She asks none now.-Vicksburg Whig.
<c03>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
AT THE
Anti-Slavery Celebration at Framingham, July 4, 1861.
Phonographic Report by JAS. M. W. YERRIGTON.
Friends, what can I say to you to-day? No man can feel himself particularly competent to make a speech on the anti-slavery question just now. It is all guess-work. The only question is, whether it is probable one man will guess a little better than another. It seems to me that we are all afloat. Events, not men, are the great objects of interest. War between two great ideas has commenced. Almost all we can do is to watch the gradual progress of that conflict. You will not, therefore, expect from me a speech. All I will attempt is simply to give you, in a friendly way, my impression of men and things, as we stand; just to state, informally, as one does to another on the sidewalk, how I look at things just now.
In the first place, I feel satisfied that the end of the slave system has come. (Applause.) I have no doubt that we begin to touch the end. My reason is this. The age of discussion is over. We have had fifty years, more or less, of what is called agitation, discussion, and party divisions. Now, a new act has opened. It is the hour of fight-the age of bullets. That never lasts very long. It does not take as much time for a nation to fight itself clear as it does to talk itself clear, only it is necessary that the talk should precede such a fight. It is only necessary that the mind, the substratum of purpose, should be deliberately formed. I think it has been. I do not mean to say that the whole North is anti-slavery, much less for abolition; but I do mean to say this, that the South has fully come to the conviction, that unless they can use the Union to support slavery, the system is gone; and I think the North has come to this conviction, that the Union never shall be used to sustain slavery. I think, so far, the public mind is made up. I do not mean that the popular mind objects specifically to certain constitutional provisions, that men have made up their minds not to return fugitive slaves; but I think there is a prevailing and unconscious, perhaps, but assured sentiment and purpose at the North, that the Union either does or shall mean liberty in the end. Those two ideas conflict-hence the war. We are in it;-how shall we get out of it?
There are only two ways by which a nation is moulded. One is by its great men; the other is, by its masses. We have not been brought to this spot by what we called our great men; we have been brought here by our masses. The war was raised by the masses, not by statesmen, and the war will be ended by the masses, not by statesmen. That is the reason why I address you to-day. Mr. Seward is not honest enough to manage this war; Mr. Lincoln is not bold enough yet. We are to curb the one, and spur the other; and that is the object of such meetings as this. In other words, neither party-neither the North nor the South-has shown any statesmanship. The South thought she had humbled the North so completely, in long dismal years, that the threat of secession would bring us to our knees. Jefferson Davis never meant to pass this last winter out of Washington; Stephens never meant that a session of Congress should be held to which he should not be summoned. They both thought that the South, with sixty years of sovereignty behind it, could again whip the North into the traces. They were mistaken. To-day convicts them of utter lack of statesmanship; for if statesmanship means any thing, it means knowing one's times. The North, also, has shown no statesmanship; for Mr. Lincoln thought, and Mr. Chase thought, and Mr. Cameron thought, that the South would never dare to secede; that South Carolina was not mad enough to try the gulf on the edge of which she stood. We thought so; and it only shows that we all miscalculated our times in a most important point and degree. Over our heads, the divine providence of the hour, and beneath us the unconquerable will of both sections, have brought us face to face in battle. God be praised for it! (Applause.) Cannon are to sound the jubilee of the slave. As neither party has shown statesmanship hitherto, we have no right to expect it hereafter. We are to guess the future by weighing the elements that have formed the present, and that is, the deep-seated will, the enlightened conscience, and the assured purpose of the people.
Some friends criticise me because I seem to them to have surrendered my favorite plan of Disunion, and welcomed this war. But let such remember, that no man should flatter himself he can mould the world exactly in his method. He must consider it rare success if his cotemporaries adopt substantially his purpose. I have advocated Disunion for fifteen years, because I thought it a practicable and peaceable method of freeing the North from the guilt of slavery, and of planting at the South the seeds of early and entire emancipation,-wringing justice from a weak and bankrupt South. But it has pleased the Nation to seek that result in a different way. The majority about us, starting with the principle that this was a Nation, not a partnership, have constantly claimed that the cornerstone of our Government, the spirit of '76, was the full liberty of each and every human being. They waited with what they thought brotherly patience, with what the South fancied was selfish fear, for the whole Nation to acknowledge this theory. The half-success of Fremont, the election of Lincoln, were the hand-writing on the wall. It was in vain that the leaders of the three parties bound the Constitution on their brows, and swore they should never dream of changing its stipulations. The South is too wary to judge of the future by doughfaces or office-seekers, by self-elected or real leaders. They knew that the fathers of '76 assured King George, and believed that there was no dream of independence, only a few months before they declared it They knew that the people, once in earnest, care as little for history or parchments as a growing oak for rotten cords. They say Dr. Chalmers, baffled once in unharnessing his horse, led him into a garden walk, and left him to wait the ostler’s coming. When his sister remonstrated, that the brute would not heed the tiny, hedges, but eat them and trample the flowers,-“He’ll be a very unaccommodating animal, then," said the Doctor. The South knew the people, likewise, were "a very un-
<c04>
accommodating animal," spite of Mr. Everett's faith there respect for historical hedges,-and that Lincoln even if he brought his favorite amendment to the Fugitive Slave Bill in his right hand, and vociferated his pledge of slave-hunting afresh at Cleveland, was really the picket and outpost of the great abolition army, taking quarters in the Capitol. "Crush the viper in his egg" was their war-cry. The argument of free men had gone against them. They fell back on the last argument of kings,-cannon. The North replies-“We should have preferred debate-a free press-education-ballots; but if you choose bullets, agreed! The stars and stripes meant Liberty in '76, and shall now." I myself should have preferred peace and argument, but the twenty million have chosen otherwise. I have only to accept the Red Sea through which God wills to lead his people, and I rejoice still that Canaan is beyond. If we are to serve our age, we must serve it in the way it chooses. When the people, thoroughly awake, and as well taught as the times allow, deliberately choose any honorable way of reaching an object of pressing importance, the duty of an honest man is to aid them all he can in their effort. Hence I bow to the masses, and welcome emancipation by war.
The South is in earnest. I do not say she is unanimous. I think that the Gulf States are as unanimous to-day as the thirteen States were in'76. The secessionists of the South are proportionally stronger than the Whigs of the thirteen Colonies were when they strangled the Tories with one hand, and George the Third with the other. There is as much unanimity there to-day as there was throughout the Colonies during the Revolution. It is idle, therefore, to talk about unanimity. A large and active number, holding the wealth, and almost all the education of the Gulf States, in their own hands-mark you! not the mob, but the men of property, the men of thought, the men of influence-and having one half the mob with them, are the State, to all intents and purposes. I dismiss, therefore, utterly, the question, whether the numerical majority of the Gulf States wish to secede. Whether they wish to or not, they cannot help themselves; for the ruling elements of the Gulf States have seceded, and mean to secede.
I say, therefore, the South, properly speaking, is in earnest. She has been considering for thirty years- now she begins to act. She acts harmoniously, earnestly. The North is only awake. She is not in earnest. The South knows what she wants; the North struggles and gropes her way with a half-formed purpose, half understood method. Just this is the weakness I find in the administration. That is the reason why I say the masses have got to decide this battle. I hold a statesman to be one who is ready to do all the people allow. He is one who drags public sentiment up to its utmost possible efficiency. That is a statesman. I hold a politician to be one who does all the people demand. He yields, he does not lead. He submits, he does not initiate. The administration is ready. It stands looking to the North and the West, and saying, "What shall I do?" You recollect the modest swain in Dickens's story, who could not muster courage to offer to his lady love, but getting into conversation with her favorite, said, “Tell her Barkis is willing.” The administration is willing. (Laughter.) We want more. We want an indication that shall ripen public sentiment. We want a proposal-an opening of the channel that shall guide the public thought. The administration propose nothing. They merely cry with the people, “The stars and stripes!" They merely respond to this war-cry of an insulted nation. It seems to me that we have a right to ask of them that they should show us how we are to be got out of this difficulty. Here are fifteen States in arms against the other half of the nation. Ten million of men against twenty. A statesman should boldly probe the wound, scan the cause of the disease, and indicate the remedy. In this age, after two hundred years of Union, of pulpits and schools, of common tongue and faith, war, except there be momentous cause, shows our pulpit and school to be failures. "Excuse us to ourselves, and save us from such another hour, if you claim to lead."
Does any man dream, that within any assignable time, we can conquer the Southern States by the present means? Will an army of 200,000, or 500,000, subdue the Gulf States, on our present plan? When they have done it, does the history of the last sixty years render it probable that the Carolinas or Mississippi will stay subdued 1 Have we a right to found our future on the supposition that the white race of that half of the nation are not as desperate as Poland, as brave as Hungary, as determined as Italy? We may defeat them on a dozen, fields of battle, but until we depopulate the State, we never shall have subdued it. It seems to me that there is but one way of developing a union sentiment in those Southern States, and of subduing the secession sentiment effectually, and that is, by arraying a might of power, and putting behind it a purpose, that shall remove the cause which, makes us two people. That is, not until you call four millions of blacks into liberty, and on our side, (applause)-not until you say to the South, "The stars and stripes mean liberty to every man,-twenty millions of men at the North, and four millions at the South have said it: if, in striking down a vile system on the battle-field, any loyal man suffers loss, the nation shall share it with him "-not until we say this can we awaken the Union sentiment of the South, array all that is loyal on our side, and annihilate the rest. At present, one half the South clings to slavery, and means to fight for it to the death. Pride of race, family pride, old associations, and often sincere conviction of the value of slavery, produce this determination. The other half would gladly be rid of a system they thoroughly know and hate; but they dread pecuniary ruin in the change. Both halves believe the North, spite of its protestations, means, in the end, Abolition, immediate and unconditional. And they are right. Left to itself, that is our future, as sure as the Rapids end in Niagara, Assure this half of the South that the nation which decrees Freedom will shield them from ruin, and we have at once with us the North, the slave, and half the South-the world over the water, and God above: success then is speedy and sure.
Outside of that is the war, two years long, four years long-costing a million a day, developing the courage, the love of country, the character of the North. Yes; but when it has lasted two years and
<c05>
the unsubdued South still stretches her hands to Europe, Europe will acknowledge her independence, and ought to do so; and then the divided nation will present a new policy to the free North, and a bankrupt South, sure to emancipate, because she is too poor to keep the slaves in their chains. On one side or the other of that line rests the only effective battle. I hate war. I think the present civil war the bloodiest stain on the century, if it means only "the stars and stripes,"-if it means only the Union as it was. But every thinking man sees that, no matter what men wish, it cannot mean the Union as it was Let this war go on twelve months, and the old Union never can be rebuilt. It was built on Compromise. Such a war as this, the bitter fruit of years of angry discussion, of proud contempt on one side, and submission on the other, which the hounds knew meant cowardice and infamy-such a war may have truces, but in the end the only peace will be unconditional submission of one or the other side. We must change the elements which have created this quarrel, if we would end it. They are only to be changed by emancipation or division.
What do I ask of the government? I do not ask them to announce that policy of emancipation now; they are not strong enough to do it. We can announce it; the people can discuss it; the administration are not strong enough to announce it. I do not care whether they mean it or not; it were utter ruin to announce it now. But I do claim this, that the administration shall indicate, shall manifest its character. It has not done it. Its friends say, "We shall be called an abolition administration, if we favor the anti-slavery sentiment; we want to be known as a constitutional administration." There is the mistake. There is the fundamental error. Gen. Patterson, Gen. Cadwallader, are using the shoes Gen. Butler has thrown away, and promising to put down servile insurrections. By the Constitution, they have no right to lift a little finger against a servile insurrection, until the Governor of a State asks it. When they make such a proclamation, it is alike uncalled for, illegal, and unconstitutional. What I call on Gen. Scott and President Lincoln to do is, that they shall rebuke their Major-Generals when they go outside of the law to propitiate the Slave Power. I want the scales held even. For sixty years, that of Liberty has kicked the beam. I call on Lincoln and his Cabinet at least to hold them even. Even fair play to Liberty, under the old Constitution, will be such a change as will quell the South and educate the North. If Gen. Patterson knows no better than to suppress servile insurrections, cashier him on this side the Potomac. The administration can, should, ought, if it means liberty, indicate its purpose by these legal, constitutional and imperative measures. Why do they not? I will tell you. Lieut. Gen. Scott is a Southerner. He is seventy-five years old. He is a loyal, honest, devoted friend of the Union, and the ablest soldier we have. He means to keep his oath to the letter. But he has a natural and unavoidable tenderness towards the section from which he sprang. He has an old man's fondness for the associations of the past. He hopes and trusts that, by moderate measures, by waiting, by patience, by blockades, by starvation, he can avoid exasperating the sections, and bring them together again in a harmonious Union. Mr. Seward would sacrifice everything for that Union. He has not the beginning nor the end of a principle. His own colleagues know he is a traitor; and the fault I find with the administration is, that while honest men recognize the honest elements contained in it, those honest elements suffer themselves to be compromised, balanced, by one powerful, but, at the same time, known to be treacherous. I am only saying of Seward what every man says in Washington; what every honest man says all over the country, and especially in New York State.
With such a man at the head of the administration, and those willing to be his comrades in it, I believe that we owe the absence of compromise this hour to Charles Sumner in the Senate, and the New York Tribune in the country. (Applause.) I mean exactly what I say. An honest administration, an honest President, stands, hesitating, distrusting the strength of the popular feeling behind him, awed by the Senator of New York; to-day, that we have not been compromised into disgraceful and ruinous peace is due, more than to any other single man, to the great Senator of Massachusetts, and, more than to any other press, or hundred presses, to the Tribune of New York city.
What have we to do, under these circumstances? We are to do this: we are to claim of the administration the indication, the manifestation of a purpose. They ask our support. We will give it, if they will give us a twig or a twine thread on which to take hold. But we must have something. And yet, administration or no administration, Liberty waits on the horizon, ready to descend, like a guardian angel, on this distracted and beautiful country. For when was there ever a more glorious sight than twenty millions of people ready to risk their institutions and their wealth in a struggle which every man in his secret heart-no matter what his lips say-knows means liberty-the liberty of the -hated, the friendless, odious, by race and condition. I say, administration or no administration, events, the masses, have, decided that these meetings need not be held many years to come, without being turned into meetings to celebrate the freedom of four millions of blacks betwixt here and the Gulf of Mexico.
I will tell you what I do hope and expect: they say Pennsylvania wants a black law-means to pass a black law, in order to shut out of her territory those fugitives who have made Fortress Monroe their refuge, or who, deserted by their masters, are living alone upon Virginia plantations, ready to come North whenever the return of the white man or the rigor of winter forces them to it. There will grow one good, however unintended, from that Negrophobia of Pennsylvania. When the first frosts come, there will be ten thousand men, women and children, blacks, taking refuge in Fortress Monroe. The friends of the government are asking what the Abolitionists mean to do with them. Nothing. We leave them on your hands. Yon dare not, in the face of the civilized world, return them to their masters More than that, you do not want to." Abraham Lincoln, Salmon P. Chase, Montgomery Blair, have not the heart nor the wish to put back into the hell of Virginia-slavery one single contraband article in Fortress Monroe. They 
<c06>
never will do it. And when 20,000, 40,000, 100,000 are within the lines of Gen. Scott's army, the government must indicate its purpose. If we cannot clutch it out of them, the slaves will smother it out. When the time comes, it cannot be that we shall export them to Jamaica, we have not the shipping; that we will force them to Hayti, we have no right; that we will send them to die in Liberia, we cannot afford it. To export the working class is suicide. We cannot take them North; Pennsylvania has built her wall, till as the Alleghanies, and forbids it. God grant the first frost may find 500,000 such arguments within our lines-arguments for the administration to declare itself; for, hemmed in on the North by Pennsylvania, on the East by the ocean, on the West by the Mississippi, and above, by loyalty to God, Abraham Lincoln can say nothing else but this: "The stars and stripes shall float over Virginia, and every black man that sees them may live where he was born, certain that while twenty million of men breathe in the North, he never shall find or fear a master." (Loud applause.) You perceive that the government will be shut up to emancipation on the soil. Shut the government up to its duty. Send Lane or Montgomery to Memphis, and the black men in their ranks will be double the whites. The decision what to do with these allies settles the slave question. Slavery will never exist again in Virginia, unless the United States Government brings it back. Let the administration compel every General's actions to eat his bad words and fulfil his good ones, as thoroughly as Butler's have done, and we will wait their further conversion, trusting events awhile. But we demand the rigor of all the law left us. Then you and I must prepare the public opinion behind these politicians. We must prepare a public opinion, that, by the 4th day of December, will be ready to sustain Congress in meeting the ultimate issue of this quarrel.
Suppose you are as brave, as rich, as strong, as persistent, as you suppose yourselves to be, while we fight, we have nothing but Mexican wars and South American civilization before us; a conflict of States; perpetual war; the South fighting desperately, on the mountains, ambuscades, guerrilla warfare, but fighting. Is that the country we look forward to? Is that the civilization which the North would accept? Never! If our statesmen cannot give us anything better, mark me! if Europe does not recognize in two years, the North will compromise. Northern, trade, Northern industry, Northern common sense, will never suffer such a future for years. The North will compromise before she will endure it. Save us from long years of war. Save us, either by emancipation or division. Nothing can be worse than years of civil war, demoralizing, weakening, destroying the ultimate hope of either a peaceful or a successful dealing with the slave question.
And yet, I see the value of this war. I am glad General Scott has got 200,000 men. I only hope that when Congress is adjourned, he will advance into Virginia, and fight. I do not believe there are 50,000 soldiers on the other side. I believe Beau regard lives, spite of the telegraph, and I believe there are some 40 or 50,000 men with arms, of some sort, in the State of Virginia-the rest is bravado. But it won't do to rely wholly on blockade, to starve them out; it won't do to wait till they disperse. The worth of this war is to redeem the character of the North. No Southern man believes that the Northerner has any courage. I do not mean that the South affects to believe this-she does believe it; and but for the conduct of Charles Sumner, and a dozen like him, she has a right to believe it. She has never met in that Senate or House of Representatives, for sixty years, more than half a score of men who have dared to look her in the face. She had a right, therefore, to believe that the North was craven, or pedlar; for what she could not bully, she could always buy. Now, the benefit of this war-the blessing of it-which we shall buy at a million of dollars a day, and cheap at that, is, that we shall beat this saucy Virginia, some half dozen times, into good behavior. We shall convince these incredulous Carolinians that the North can fight when she thinks it worth while; and then, either in the Union, or along side of it, they will live in peace, and treat us properly. They never will until then. General Scott may starve the Gulf States; he never will starve out of them the conviction that New England is coward. That can only be cannonaded out of them, on the sacred soil of Virginia (applause); and the lesson which John Brown set the text for, it is for us to write in characters visible from Harper's Ferry to New Orleans.
My policy, therefore, is, give the administration generous sympathy; give it all the confidence for honesty of purpose you can. They mean, now only the Union. That is all they mean at present; but they are "willing" we should make them mean any thing more we please. They are not like Seward-slippery, equivocal, false. You know the old problem which disturbed the wits of the schoolmen for a thousand years. It was, whether, when a man said, "I lie," he lied or told the truth; for if he uttered the truth, he lied, and if he lied, he told the truth. (Laughter.) It is exactly so in regard to Seward. There is no making any thing but a parallel problem out of his life and speeches. (Applause.) But the rest of the Cabinet are honest men. Abraham Lincoln means to do his constitutional duty in the crisis. I think Mr. Chase means to. I trust them as individuals to that extent. Their party I do not trust at all. See how it has bartered: the twenty years of devotion and energy in the person of Claflin, for the unrecorded and untried. virtue of Thomas! And I consider Massachusetts as good a specimen of the Republican party as exists in the country. But I consider it dead, and am thankful it is dead (applause), because it leaves us free now to discriminate as to individuals; and the present crisis demands that we should make that discrimination. There is no faith, no trust to be placed on party organizations in such an hour as this. They hare failed us the whole winter. That free speech exists in this Commonwealths is owing to no single word or finger of aid from the Republican party. The Massachusetts Republican party has shown itself in its ranks, and is its head, recreant to the most sacred duty of the winter, and recreant by system, by intention, by dictation from Washington, or submission to its known policy and wish. I mean what I say. If I had time, I should go over the record, as I shall do before the first
The United State Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
What order of men under the most: absolute of, monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was over invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that, of the separate and exclusive: representation of less than, half a million owners of slaws, in the Hall of this, House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential, mansion? This investment of power in. the owners, of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen, of the twenty six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a, Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession." -JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
day of January next; but you know, as well as I do, that the Republican party placed in the Governor's chair of this State, one whom they considered the best representative of their principles. You know that he went to Washington, and was baptized into the policy of the Cabinet that was to be. You know that he returned to the capital of the Commonwealth, and saw a mob, to the pay and service of secession, trampling under foot the very sentiments which placed him in his chair of State, and he cannot be fairly said to have lifted a finger for the most sacred of all rights-that of freedom of discussion. You know that, after writing a letter on the value of free speech, of which I said, (and said it fittingly,) that it was the noblest word a Massachusetts Governor had spoken since the days of John Winthrop, on that mad week in January, he violated every principle announced in his letter to Kimball, broke his promise as a gentleman, failed in his duty as an officer, aided his subordinates to belie the Abolitionists in the public journals; and when afterward the House of Representatives passed, and the Senate was ready to pass, a bill offering him that power, the lack of which he had made a pretext for inaction, he personally intrigued to prevent its enactment. ("Shame.")
I know five months, crowded with great events, have passed since. But such treachery no events are large enough to hide. Free speech is the germ of our history, the corner-stone of our power. Whoever, in Massachusetts, trespasses on free speech, declares war with all our past, and endangers all our future. Everett, in 1836, had the excuse of a stronger temptation for less infamy. Let no sheen of military efficiency blind us to the danger of such an act from one whom the masses trust. Last March, before a Legislative Committee, I bore my testimony on this point. I do not mean to forfeit the character of twenty years of impartial vigilance by silence now. I feel with Southey, speaking of an act not so dangerous:ï¿½ To palliate it would be in vain; to justify it would be wicked. There is no alternative for one who will not make himself a participator in the guilt, but to record the disgraceful story with sorrow and shame."
Why do I mention this? Is a recreant Governor of Massachusetts of so much consequence? No. But in this he was the mouthpiece of the Cabinet at Washington-of the men, I mean, who were marked for the Cabinet, when the 4th of March opened. They did what they thought necessary for the welfare of the Republican party. They wrecked it. Your Governor placed himself among those men-ready to do anything to save the party. I said, just now, that Charles Sumner and his like, with the Tribune, had saved the country. It is because I believe of him, (and I know but some half-dozen others of whom I should dare to say it,) that while he would do anything to serve his country, he would not do a dishonorable act to save it. When, on the contrary, a man writes himself down in the other category, when he shows himself willing to use means he knows to be base, for an end he thinks good, his usefulness is gone. I place no confidence, therefore, in the action of that political organization which failed us in the trial hour. I put my faith in the honesty of Abraham Lincoln as an individual, in the pledge which a long life has given of Chase's love for the anti-slavery cause; but I do not believe either of them, nor all of them, nor all their comrades, have the boldness to declare an emancipation policy, until, by a pressure which we are to create, the country forces them to it. We are on the one side; the enrolled army of Virginia on the other. A defeat, bloody and cruel, will anger the North into emancipation. A victory, that drives the South into despair, and makes her seek any means, in her desperation, may force her government to emancipation Let us pray for the life of Jefferson Davis! (Laughter.) God grant him long life, and something of an army! (Renewed laughter.) Let us pray that Heaven, or some power, will put into his heart courage, so that he may not run away too soon (merriment); so that out of the contest may come emancipation. A northeaster, that sweeps the ocean clear of every sail, is one thing; the pattering storm, that only makes every man feel uncomfortable, is another. I think, of late, we have seen the latter kind of warfare, and not the best sort.
What we are to ask for is a decisive policy, or the commencement of it. I believe that Wall street wants it; State street wants it. The merchants of fifty and sixty years old, who see their property melting away, who count their losses by hundreds of thousands, have no wish to be in a slave Union again. We have come to a moment when the selfishness of wealth is on our side. Rich men, or those lately so, cannot afford to have this war smothered up by compromise or half-way peace; that were to risk another bankruptcy four years hence. The heart of the masses and bank vaults are as one. At a fitting moment, the government has only to decree justice, and it will see the nation take its place among honorable States, with an uprising as proud and glorious, as hearty and unanimous, as that which awed Europe into sympathy and respect two months ago. This administration held in its hand the seed of the mightiest change of our age-the change of the Great Republic from hypocrisy intoï¿½ honor. It lies with them to assure the success of this experiment of self-government, and make the world our debtors. So far, the people have done their full share, rebuking distrust from the height of a sublime virtue. Let statesmen fitly use the noble weapons which a great people have forced into their almost reluctant hands. Woe to any man who balks the hour, or fails to seize the golden opportunity! The curses of one race left in chains-of another mocked in its purpose-of the world sad from the failure of its great free model, shall load his memory.
I look at this question only as an Abolitionist. If I stood here on other ground, I should have a great deal else to say. If I stood here as a citizen, I should protest against the criticism by the press of our generals and colonels-upon the hasty rebuke of a single error, mischance or mistake, of what are called civilï¿½ generals. I have no such fault to find. Our army, hitherto, has been officered-how? Out of every ten, eight were Southerners. Of those eight, four were traitors and two were imbeciles; so we had about two out of ten worth anything. We have now civilians; unpractised men, to be sure, but they are ï¿½smart" men, cunning New Englanders. They could build a ship on ten days' notice, and translate the New Testament out of the original Greek with a month's schooling. It does not need long to make anything out of a Yankee; and in ten such Yankees, you will find five that think, each one of them, they shall be President: such will face ambuscades or open batteries for a chance. (Laughter and applause.) Those men will fight boldly, at least. The other five  have reputation, a purpose, and an intention to do their duty. You will get two-thirds of the ten decent officers, in the end. Wait awhile: we can afford to teach such men their art on theï¿½ sacred soil of Virginia." An army, raised at a bound from 25,000 to 250,000-where, but among civilians, shall it find new officers? I see no errors in the last two months which the history of the great Frederic and of Wellington does not parallel. I have, therefore, no criticism of the army. I think, if it was not held back, it would have bivouacked at Richmond, and not met a Southern soldier, either. (Applause.) So that, if I were speaking as a citizen, I should have no fault to find with our levies, with our generals, with the general machinery. They want only a head. They want only a purpose, and that the masses are to give them, not the statesmen. You and I are to begin it And as I so seldom praise anybody, I certainly may be allowed to say of the N. Y. Tribune, which we so often find fault with, that it has done yeomanly sevice in the last six months. We want a press equally energetic, equally exacting, all over the country; and we want a public opinion here in Massachusetts that shall forget party lines, not for the purpose of welcoming Bell-Everett or broken-down Democratic statesmen into their ranks; but shall forget party lines, in order to rise to the requisitions of the hour, and tell the open secret on every man's lips- merchant, farmer, politician, clergy-
<c02>
man-that which no man dares print, and no politician avow, but which flashes from every eye, and nestles in every heart. It is, that every man believes this a fight for and against slavery, and intends to strangle it. Why should they not say it? It ought to be said in our Legislature-ought to be said in Congress- ought to be said very soon by the administration.
I could talk a great deal longer, if it were necessary (many voices-" Go on!ï¿½); but of what use were it? We are all, as I said, afloat The good God takes the helm out of man's hands, and we have only to be faithful, each in our little place, and let the great spirit of the century lift up our practice to our ideal. These days of anti-slavery gatherings for the purpose of emancipation, I believe, will be soon over. By the Constitution or over it, liberty is sure to come. Our part will soon be to watch for the welfare of this victim race, guard it during its pupilage, shelter it by patronage, by protection, by privilege, by recognizing its claim to an equal manhood. Sooner than we expected, sooner than the most sanguine of us dreamed, this problem is to be decided. How often we have stood under these trees, and sometimes talked despondingly of the future! Mr. Garrison once burned the U. S. Constitution on this platform. It is now indeed a blurred and tattered parchment between the cannon of South Carolina and the sides of fort Sumter. It is gone; the nation survives. The parchment is rent in twain; the people exist. That people are to shape their government anew. You and I are to have a voice in the moulding. The part which Henry and Madison, which Hancock and Adams, played in'87, we are to play to-day. They yielded to the recollection of past suffering, to the fear of present evil, to the prestige of great names, and made an instrument out of which have grown sixty years of infamy, and now civil war. They planted the dragon's teeth, and, to-day, Boston and South Carolina hold each other by the throat. This is the first-born child of 1787. To-day we plant fresh seed. Mr. Lincoln and the administration are pausing, waiting. The furrow is opened. The guns are shotted to the lips. They are to be pointed-where? At a miserable rattlesnake flag? At a bankrupt and fugitive cabinet, now in Montgomery and now in Richmond? At a General, of whom half the world doubts his existence? No! Your 250,000 muskets, shotted by thirty years of anti-slavery agitation, are to be pointed at the Slave Power. (Applause.) Demolish it! (Renewed applause.) Shame England; waken France; summon Europe to our side by proclaiming that the cause of the North is liberty, and our end justice; that no flag, no parchment, is worth shedding a drop of blood, but that four millions of slaves, whom we have outraged for seventy years, claim of us this atonement; and whether, in money or in blood, it is to be laid cheerfully on the altar. Show the world that twenty millions of freemen, the ripe fruit of two hundred years of self-government and Puritanism, are above wars waged for the bauble of a crown, the etiquette of a boundary, or the honor of a flag: that they take the thunderbolt, as God does, only to lift up the humble and abase the proud, and execute justice between man and man.
I want to take back that name which I endeavored to write on the forehead of Abraham Lincoln, of Springfield,-" the slave-hound of Illinoisï¿½; and instead of it, before the first day of January, 1862, I want to write on that then honored brow, ï¿½Liberator of four millions of bondmen; first President of the free United States of America." (Loud applause.) Help him to that fame. The Western lawyer is ï¿½willing," only he has not the courage to offer. (Laughter.) We can help him. Help him by the press. Why, the Boston Atlas has recovered its soul! It speaks brave words. Soon they will let us stand by the left wing of the party. We can save it from being devoured by the Leverett Saltonstalls and George T. Curtises of a defunct dynasty. And it must be saved, not the party lines, but the heart of it. Massachusetts must send out, not merely men; as usual, she must send out ideas. I take from your Governor no jot of his merit. I tear from his brow no leaf of his laurel. Prompt, efficient, sagacious, foresighted, exact in routine,-I grant it all. He has done well with the military arm of Massachusetts. But brute force, muskets, Minnie rifles, are not the real arguments of the old Commonwealth. Virginia can fire a gun-from an ambuscade-and Illinois can muster a regiment; but it is only the Bay State that can remodel an age. It is only the conscience and the brain of Yankees that can upset and set up nations. That was what we were to have done during the winter, and what we are to do for the future.
A momentous hour this. It is a dangerous thing to make speeches in these days. We stand at the parting of two roads. A great policy is to be decided this year. It is easy to say that emancipation lies at the end of both roads. No doubt of it. As sure as God reigns, the slaves, or most of them, in ten years or five, will be free. But that is sorry consolation for twenty millions of educated, Christian, Republican citizens. We ought to be able to handle this problem as a tried General handles his troops on the field of battle,-to secure the result with the least possible suffering. We ought to be able to secure it without half a dozen years of warfare, without a broken Union, without exasperated States; and we can so manage it, if we will.
For myself, I put no value on the Union. It is a name-nothing more. It is a parchment, stained and bloody. It were enough for me to damn it forever, that Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns bear witness against it on the pavements of Boston. But there are men-some of you-who still linger in your fathers' prejudice for the Union. If so, up! gird yourselves! demand of the administration that they proclaim emancipation. There is no other way to save the Union- none. If, eighteen months hence, General Scott is encamped, with General Davis against him, in any such shape as now, (as I believe they probably will, unless emancipation intervene,) England and France will acknowledge the confederacy,-we shall acknowledge it; and then, ten or twenty years will elapse before the exasperated States coalesce a second time. Now, seize time by the forelock; call back to reason the madness of Louisiana and Georgia; announce that the stars and stripes carry liberty with them. (Applause.) Mr. Cameron says, ï¿½Wherever the flag goes, trade follows." Oh, better that maxim! Wherever the flag goes, LIBERTY goes with it, and let trade take care of itself. (Applause.) Announce it, and soon, if there is a majority for the Union, they will show themselves. Say to the slaveholders, ï¿½The Union shares the loss with you, if it takes your slaves from you by a military necessity." No matter what it costs. Better pay the money to save the sinner from his sin, than spend a million a day, for five years, in a cruel, useless, and brutal war. One year is enough! for manhood; enough to show the character and purpose of the North; any thing more is brutal. The government can prevent it by a word. Call on the honesty of the Cabinet, and bid them banish traitors. If that means the Empire Stale, banish it. Put into the office of Secretary of State, a man whom Lincoln will not have to watch. One half of the clerks of the departments are traitors. Empty them! Mr. Chase knows, in the Northern half of Ohio, men who for nothing, rather than the places should be filled by traitors, would serve the government I go for decision. Adjourn Congress, and Scott will be decisive. I concede gladly, proudly, fully, the fame of the Lieut. General. I do not want him to die or be superseded. Only adjourn Congress; tell him that all hope for the present Union is over; but that his fame as a General, before he dies, rests on his crushing the viper within six months; and the old man will do it (Applause.) It is not loyalty, it is not ability, it is a nation behind him that he needs. You and I can begin that voice which shall be echoed from the Mississippi, and compel the government to speak. Men whisper to us in the streets, in our chambers, what General Butler means here, and Mr. Cameron there, and Mr. Chase elsewhere: - we want it proclaimed. We want it known to you, voted on, enforced; and the next time we meet here, you will not need me to make a speech.
<c03>
Butler will be here, with a proclamation of emancipation in his hand, as an introduction to yon, (loud applause,) asking your votes, perhaps, as Governor of Massachusetts, (laughter,) and thinking that there is no pedestal but this which surely leads to the gubernatorial chair. Yes, I congratulate you that you will soon have a new batch of speakers. The old worn and scarred guard can retire to the rear rank, and the new Major Generals and civilians, who have invented ï¿½contrabands," and lawyers who have turned their ingenuity into the channel of statesmanship, will be here to swell our jubilee of gratitude; and we will not be careful, then, to divide the degrees of merit, but cheerfully let the last comer take the best prize. (Loud applause.)
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 12, 1861.
FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM.
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society held its customary meeting on the Fourth at Harmony Grove, Framingham, which was attended by a large concourse of people, who testified by their presence their appreciation of the idea which underlies the celebration of the day, and their sympathy for that reform which would make all the people of the land, as they ï¿½of right ought to be, free and independent."
The day was a charming one, a gentle breeze from the lake fanning the grove, and making the air, odorous with the breath of pines, delicious to the sense. The train from Boston consisted of seven cars, well filled, while Worcester, Milford, Framingham, and the towns adjacent, were largely represented. In all, not less than two thousand people, probably, were present, who appeared heartily to enjoy the many charms of the place, and to be deeply interested in the exercises.
At eleven o'clock, the assembly was called to order by Mr. GARRISON, in the beautiful amphitheatre, which seems designed by thoughtful Nature for just such purposes, and the following list of officers read, which was unanimously ratified by the audience:- 
President-EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham. vice
Vice-Presidents-SAMUEL MAY, Jr., Leicester; Hon. N. H. WHITING, Boston; Col. WM. WHITING, Concord; CHARLES L. REMOND, Salem; CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, West Newton; Mrs. CAROLINE H. DALL, Boston; GEO. DRAPER, Hopedale; ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, Worcester; BENJAMIN SNOW, Jr., Fitchburg; Hon. O. W. ALBEE, Marlboro'; JOHN AYRES, West Newton.
Secretaries-CHAS. K. WHIPPLE, J. M. W. YERRINTON, Boston.
Finance Committee-EBEN D. DRAPER, Hopedale; SARAH E. WALL, Worcester; Mrs. CAROLINE R. PUTNAM, Salem; Dr. J. M. ALDRICH, Fall River; WILLIAM BASSETT, Jr., Lynn; RODNEY MOORE, Slatersville.
REMARKS OF EDMUND QUINCY, ESQ.
Mr. QUINCY, on coming to the platform to assume the duties of President, said:-
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-I believe it has been the custom, at all assemblies which have been held on the Fourth of July, throughout the length and breadth of the land, ever since the Fourth of July has been celebrated, to reciprocate congratulations on the great blessings which we derive from the act of which this day is the anniversary, and the blessings which Heaven has bestowed upon our country. I think you will all agree with me, that the country never had occasion to be more thankful for the Declaration of Independence, or for the blessings which Heaven has showered upon us, as a nation, than we have this day. Especially have we, the Abolitionists, the high priests of freedom in this country,-who have been for thirty years leagued for the destruction of American slavery, the great enemy of the principle inaugurated on the Fourth of July, 1776 - the right of self-government, the right of every individual to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,-never had occasion to thank God and take courage more heartily than to-day. Being Speaker, it is not for me to speak to-day; but I cannot help reminding you of the difference which exists in the political condition of this country,-to the change which has taken place, on the surface, at least, of the public sentiment of the North, since we last met together in this grove, a twelve month since. Nay, I need not go back a twelve month. Let us go back and place ourselves again in the Tremont Temple, at the end of last January-not much more than five months ago-when we were shut out of our property by a mob, led, or at least tailed, by the Mayor of Boston, (laughter,) when it seemed as if the public sentiment of the North was organizing itself into the most crystalline form of pro-slavery, and we were to have the times of'35 acted over again, with increased intensity. The voice of anti-slavery was silenced all over the country; public meetings were broken up, not only in all the large cities, but in the villages. The host of pro-slavery were organized, and concentrated into secret societies all over the country, for the express purpose of putting down the discussion of slavery, so that the slaveholders could enjoy their institutions in peace, and their friends at the North enjoy those crumbs which fall from their master's table, in the shape of Southern trade. What a change has taken place since then! The very men who, within three or four months, were openly befriending the cause of the South,-men who, to my own personal knowledge were openly maintaining that the slaveholding State were in the right, that they had the right of secession, that they had ample provocation for it, that the North would go with the South, and that they would put down anti-slavery, and the whole country be reorganized, virtually, under the Montgomery Constitution,-the very men, I say, who made these statements, in public places, are now at the head of regiments, and marching down South to fight these very slaveholders whose most humble servants they were at that time. I think those men have really changed their opinion. The force of public opinion behind them has compelled them to change, not only their front, but their hearts. They begin to realize that there is a North, and that their hopes of fame and profit lie there, and that the only hope of the country; lies in putting down the Slave Power, if not in putting down slavery.
We have to congratulate ourselves that we find our country is not so bad as we thought it was twelve months ago; that our countrymen are not so bad as we believed them to be; that they were not ready to submit to every form of ignominy and insult that could be heaped upon them forï¿½ so much trash as could be grasped thusï¿½-which trash they never got- out of which they were cheated; thus degrading and humiliating themselves for nothing; and therefore this mighty change.
Who would have thought, six months ago, that there would be 300,000 Northern men in arms on the frontier, three months from that time? I am very well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that there is not a thorough anti-slavery principle underlying this movement. I need not affirm that there is not, for you all know it. But events are stronger than individuals. The President of the United States has already been driven far beyond the ground which he at first undertook to keep. He said he meant to interfere not at all with the soil of the slaveholding States, only to repossess himself of the strong places they had stolen from, us; and now we see him sending forward his armies on to the ï¿½sacred soil of Virginia," with the unquestioned intention of sweeping over the entire slaveholding States, if it be a possible thing to do. Allegiance to the Fugitive Slave Law, and the rights of slavery in the country, led the van of the topics in his inaugural, and every time his agents opened their mouths for the first six weeks, it was to offer their
<c04>
services to the slaveholder to put down slave insurrections, or to promise that any such attempt should be put down with an iron hand;-and that in a portion of the country where a slave was one of the rarest of curiosities, and where a slave insurrection was a moral and political impossibility, as much as a rising of the colored people of Massachusetts to take possession of the country. Yet those men made this statement for the sake of political effect; but now, one of those very gentlemen, making use of his legal acumen, and that skill which he has learned in the defence of criminals, invents a legal quibble, by which the fugitives are regarded asï¿½ contraband of war," as entrenching tools, and the President and Cabinet gladly accept his interpretation of the law. It is perfectly true that the government does not lead the people; it is led or driven by the people. The people have already driven the Cabinet far in advance of the ground they intended to occupy; and it only remains for the North to know what it wants, and be resolute and determined to have it, and the Cabinet and the army will be the obedient instruments of the public will.
The Abolitionists are charged with having produced this state of things, and it is true. We accept it. We acknowledge that the anti-slavery movement is responsible for the present state of things in this country, and we thank God for it. The American Anti-Slavery Society, at this moment, has for its Office Agent-who? Abraham Lincoln, at the White House. (Laughter.) And it has for its General Agent, in the field-who? Lieutenant-General Scott, commander-in-chief of the armies of the United States. (Applause and laughter.) Whether willingly or unwillingly, they are doing the will of the Abolitionists. I fear they do it unwillingly. But, whether willingly or unwillingly, they are doing it, must continue to do it, and do it more and more thoroughly, as the heart and mind of the North are more and more resolved that this quarrel shall not be settled upon any basis except the abolition of slavery. (Applause.)
A hymn entitled ï¿½Secession," by Rev. Mark Trafton, was then sung, to the tune ofï¿½ Auld lang syne," after which, E. H. HEYWOOD addressed the audience, in an earnest and interesting speech, which was heard with manifest pleasure, and frequently and loudly applauded.
SPEECH OF REV. JAS.. FREEMAN CLARKE. Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, of Boston, was then introduced, who spoke as follows:-
The two gentlemen who have just spoken began by saying that they were not going to make a speech, and then they went on and made two very good speeches. I should like to try the same experiment. I am not going to make a speech. (Laughter.) Perhaps by saying that, I shall enable myself to make one. 
It is now eighty-five years since our fathers made the Declaration of Independence, and put their names to it. We have met here to-day, as the American people have been meeting every year during this long period, to celebrate-what? An action, a battle, a conquest, a victory, an achieved independence? By no means. We do not celebrate the success. The American people do not meet to celebrate the day when the British nation acknowledged, through its government, that we were free and independent. But we meet, and the American people, led by a sure instinct, have been in the habit of meeting, year after year, to celebrate the day upon which it was declared that America and the American States,ï¿½ of right were and ought to be free and independent." That is, we have been celebrating, not an achievement, but a conviction, all that long time. I ask you, friends, whether there is not something in that? Ought we not to be thankful, when we recollect that all along through these many years, the whole American people have been celebrating the day, not on which victories were accomplished, but on which a right was uttered? I think you have a right especially to celebrate this day. You have believed, all along, in the right, and in the utterance of the right. You have made it your policy to declare this one fact to the people of the land-that no man has a right to hold his brother as a slave. You have declared it over and over again, and the whole stock which you have had has been simply the utterance, in one form and in another form, of that one idea, that nobody has a right to hold his brother as a slave. When people said to you,ï¿½  ï¿½But what are you going to do with the negroes?" you replied,ï¿½ Nobody has a right to hold another as a slave." And when they said,ï¿½ Why, do you want to have insurrections, and to have the throats cut of the masters and mistresses?" you have replied,ï¿½ Nobody has a right to hold any one as a slave." And when they have said,ï¿½ What are you going to do with the compromises of the Constitution?" you have replied,ï¿½ It is not right to hold anybody as a slave." That has been your work, that has been your mission; and by means of that, you have done your part in hastening forward the day when no foot that is not free shall tread the soil of this great land.
But it was not enough that, on the 4th of July, 1776, our fathers should declare that these States ought to be independent. They had to go and fight for it, and to work for it; and so, seven years after, in 1783, they succeeded in attaining the victory. And then, after that, something else had to be done. They had to organize their conquest, and then came the formation of the Federal Constitution. That was a very different act from carrying out the idea of independence and liberty. They had to turn themselves round, look in an opposite direction, and undertake to do an entirely different work-namely, to put together that which they had succeeded in gaining-to frame a scheme of government. Instead of looking at freedom, they began to look at order. They said,ï¿½ Now, we are in a different danger. It is not being enslaved by a foreign government, but in anarchy at home, and we must contrive to make some kind of arrangement by which we shall have order among ourselves." Well, the moment the people began to organize, they began to compromise.ï¿½ I want to have this element inserted in the Constitution, and you want that element inserted. Now, how shall we manage? Why, we won't put in the whole of yours, or the whole of mine, but a little of each." And so they went on, step by step, organizing and compromising, compromising and organizing, and at last we had the Federal Constitution.
Now, it has been the habit of many of the anti-slavery people to say that the Federal Constitution is a pro-slavery document. So it is. When you look at it from one side, it is a pro-slavery document; but, as I have always thought, it is, also, when you look at it from another side, an anti-slavery document. My notion about the Federal Constitution is, that it is both pro-slavery and anti-slavery. In other words, that it is an inconsistent document. There were things put together for the sake of having a Union, that did not really fit, that could not be made to fit. These timbers would not go quite together, and so they had to be put as near together as they could be made to go, and nailed together as well as they could be fastened, and then plastered over, then painted over, and covered up, and the whole was made to look like one substantial building. But by and by cracks began to appear, and then it was found that, after all, there was not that sort of unity that was at first anticipated.
If you look over head at night, you will see, about this season of the year, a lovely star glittering with a blue light in the region of the firmament over you-a star of the constellation Lyra. Near that star, there are two other stars, making a little equilateral triangle. If you examine one of those stars, which seems to be a single orb, with a telescope of low power, you will find that, instead of its being a single star, it is, in fact, double-two stars instead of one. But if you examine it again, with a telescope of a higher power, you will find that, instead of being a double star, it is a quadruple star; and instead of having one or two stars, you have in fact two pairs of stars, of exquisite little points, and near them, two other little exquisite points, the whole revolving round each other, and making a quadruple star.
<c05>
Now, something like that, it seems to me, is the Federal Constitution. We have, in the first place, what seems to be like one government; but when se you come to examine it closely, you will find that there were two hostile elements-the element of liberty and the element of slavery-joined together in it. We have, for instance, three places in the Constitution where there is a recognition of slavery;-a faint and a doubtful recognition, as of those who were ashamed of slavery, and did not want it in the Constitution, but did not know very well how they should succeed in organizing a government unless they admitted it, and so they put it in; but in a very careful and gingerly way, so as to have as little the appearance of slavery as possible. So, in the first article, they inserted this clause:-
"Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all other persons."
That meant slaves, as you know; and you know how great a fire that little matter has kindled.
Then they went on, and in the fourth section of the same article, they declared ï¿½that the migration or importation of such persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the year 1808." Well, that meant, that the slave trade should not be prohibited until after 1808, but it is stated in a modest and humble way.
Then, as the third pro-slavery element in the Constitution, we have the famous clause which has been so often quoted in regard to the return of fugitives:-
"No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws there of, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up, on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due." Art. 4, sec. 2.
You see how awkward that is; how very much afraid they were to say what they meant. I suppose there is no doubt that they did mean to return fugitive slaves, but they did not venture to say it. They plastered it over and painted it over, as well as they could. They, in fact, expressed it in such a way as to make it grammatically mean the exact opposite of what they intended, because the nominative of those verbs, ï¿½shall be delivered up," andï¿½ shall be discharged," isï¿½ no personï¿½; so that, grammatically, that famous clause means that the fugitive slave shall not, on the one hand, be ï¿½discharged from service or labor," and, on the other hand, shall not be ï¿½delivered upï¿½; and if it had been in favor of the South, instead of in favor of the North, that grammatical construction would have been brought out fifty years ago, and the whole of that article would have been thrown under the table of the speaker, never to come out again. The South would have said,ï¿½ People should say what they mean; and if they meant that the fugitive slave should be given up, they should have said so, but they have said that he shall not be given up." That is what the South would have said, but we never referred to that fact. I allude to that only to show the way in which, in the organization of the government, this element of slavery was introduced, along with the many elements of freedom introduced there.
But this was not all. We have not only in the Constitution this double star-the black star of slavery and the brilliant orb of freedom-but we have another antagonism, just as real and just as striking. It is a quadruple star. You know very well it was not Mr. Calhoun who first asserted the doctrine of nullification, and, as a consequence to that, the doctrine of secession. So long ago as the year 1798, those great Southern statesmen,, Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, in the Virginia resolutions of 1798, laid down, emphatically, the doctrine of nullification. Mr. Everett, in his speech in New York, undertakes to explain away that fact. The fact stands, that the doctrine of nullification, with secession connected necessarily with it, was interpreted by those great founders of the State, Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, as being the true and natural interpretation of the Constitution. Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison said that the States were, by the Constitution, parties to a compact; that the Constitution was a compact; and that, when the parties to that compact differed as regards its interpretation, and there was no authorized person to decide between them, each must decide for himself, on his own responsibility; and that the Federal Court, being a part of one of the parties to the compact, had no right to decide as against the claim of either of the States; therefore, that a State had a right to decide for itself that any act of the Federal Government was unconstitutional, and the Federal Government, on the other hand, had a right to decide for itself the same thing.
The doctrine of nullification was laid down in those resolutions by these great statesmen, with secession connected with it. You know very well that it was the doctrine of the whole Democratic party at that time. The Federal party, at that time, took its stand on the antagonistic doctrine. The Federal party had for its object, to defend the power of the Federal Government, as against the independent claims of the States. The Democratic party had for its object and leading idea, the maintenance of the rights of the States, as against the General Government. In other words, the Federal party, at that time, took the ground which the whole North takes to-day; and the Democratic party, at that time, took the ground which the South almost universally takes to-day. Well, there was a split. There was in the Constitution evidently a primal crack, preparatory to a future split. The Federal party seemed to be conquered, put down by the Democrats. It was supposed that that controversy was brought wholly to an end; and yet we see to-day great armies in the field, pitted against each other on the avowed ground of deciding that question of constitutional law; because, although the motive may be different, although we may have an anti-slavery motive at the North, refusing to allow of the further extension of slavery, and although the South may have a pro-slavery motive, determining to have a greater extension of slavery; yet the reasons of the North and the South, and the justifications of the North and the South, which are different from the motives, are exactly to be found in that old radical question which broke out from the beginning of the Federal Government, and which to-day bears its fruit in this war. Not one, alone, but both of the original antagonisms, you see, come to light now, and are to be settled by the arbitrament of the sword.
I have given this little analysis of the history of the government, as derived from the original Constitution of our Union, in order that we may understand a little what we are actually doing now. Is this an anti-slavery war, or is it a Constitutional war? Is the North fighting to-day for freedom, or is it fighting for the old federal doctrine of the government? It is to-day fighting for both. The whole motive of the North, that which has carried the Northern soldiers to the field, is evidently not to defend the old federal theory. That is not what gives the North courage; that is not what has united the North as one man to-day; because that federal doctrine was given up, set aside and relinquished by the North years ago; and although it has come up again and again in the Senate of the U. S. and elsewhere, yet that doctrine of the Union, by itself, without this support derived from the grand feeling of the masses of opposition to slavery, would not to-day sway the North as one man to maintain itself against the Southern assumption. The fact is, our government, from the beginning, has been very much like that image described by the prophet, with its head of gold, its breast and arms of silver, its belly of brass, its legs of iron, and its feet part iron and part clay. Its head was of gold-the great original ideas, the primal conviction of justice, of freedom, of the universal equality of man with man, with which this country's mind was filled at the outset That is the golden head. The body of silver was all that part of the Constitution which gave to the people of the land the power to arrange their government and its! laws according to their own convictions of right,
<c06>
which swept over all aristocracy in the State, and all aristocracy in the Church, and which has given us to see, for so many years, in this country, a people which, without any standing army, was able to maintain law; which, with scarcely  a visible police, was able to preserve order; which, without an ecclesiastical establishment, was able to have a universal church; and in which every child, whether of the poor Irish emigrant just landed on the shore, or of the millionaire, was able to be educated to such a point, that every office in the land was open to his talent. That was the breast and arms of silver-the frame-work of this government able to effect all that, and effect it so long. All government rests on force, ultimately, and therefore you have iron in the legs. But when you come to the feet, the feet were part of iron and part of clay. There was a fatal antagonism of strength and weakness. The strength of freedom and the weakness of slavery combined in the feet of our golden statue; and we now see its fall, because of that original defect. 
But to-day, the question before us is,-things being as they are, and we having now reached that point in which these ideas have at last appeared in the form of hostile armies,  what is our duty, and what can we do? The other night, as we looked at the heavens, we saw suddenly that magnificent comet, that splendid and ominous portent, on the side of the North with the North Star on one side and the Northern  Bear on the other: ominous to every Southern eye of the impending force which was to come from the North, which was to come from freedoms, to resist the assaults of slavery. It was the very comet of which, apparently, Milton spoke, when he said that it.
-"fires the length of Ophiucus huge 
In the Arctic sky, and from his horrid hair Shakes pestilence and war."
But that came unexpected. No astronomer had foretold it. So has this war come unexpected. No political astronomer was able to foresee, six months foresaw it; and yet ago, what was coming. Nobody foresaw it; and yet that comet has not come by miracle. It has been drawn along by the sure laws of the universe, by the everlasting force which God has impressed upon matter. It has been drawn along from the upward abyss of space, year after year, along its sure orbit, slowly moving toward the sun, but with a gradually accelerated rate, until at last it comes plunging down directly at the face of the great orb of day. But it is all law. It is not accident; it is will, it is law. And so this great conflict to-day has taken us by surprise, and has come unexpected; but it has come by law; it was inevitable. There have been times when it might have been prevented. The North might have prevented it, years ago, if they had refused to admit Missouri as a slave State. Years after that, it might have been prevented, if they had refused to admit Texas into the Union as a slave State; and years after, if they had resisted the compromises of 1850. I know not how long it might have been arrested. It might have been turned aside. This new force might have introduced another attraction, and sent it off in another direction. War need not have come, if we had been faithful to every duty in the past; but it has come, and what is our duty now? The duty of anti-slavery men to-day is, to do that which nobody else will do. Your anti-slavery men are those who remember the slave. Nobody else remembers the slave to-day; it is your duty to remember him. Nobody else remembers the four millions whose whole destiny is involved in the termination given to this conflict. It is for you to remember the destiny of these four millions. It is for you to remind the people of the land that there can be no secure peace, that the whole struggle will be thrown away, that all the wealth and all the blood which we lavish in this war will go for nothing, unless we are enabled to obtain such guaranties of the weakness of the South and of the Slave Power, that it shall never be able to rise again to resist the power of freedom. How can these guaranties be obtained!. There are no guaranties that I know of, except the guaranty of emancipation. There is nothing else. If we come out of this war with fifteen slave States, we are sure to have another war, by and by, sooner or later. The only guaranty that this nation can have, the only guaranty which the capitalists who are squandering their money in defence of the Union, the only guaranty which the fathers and mothers who are sending their sons to die on the field of battle can have against having to do the whole work over again, is to be found in emancipation. I do not say that it is necessary to have the guaranty, for this purpose, of the emancipation of all the slaves of the South; but I do say, that sensible, practical men at the North, who only care for the Union, and do not care one bit for anti-slavery, can be made to see, if proper paths are not taken, that it is absolutely necessary, in order to realize any good from this great struggle, that it shall end at last in the emancipation of the slaves of the border States. They can be made to see that, and they ought to be made to see it. That is not carrying out the anti-slavery principle, which demands the emancipation of every slave, down to the last; but it is taking a great practical step in that direction, and a step which, once taken, will necessitate all the rest. And that step, it seems to me, every sensible business man . all over the North, may be convinced must be taken, if they are not to throw away all they are doing, and have it all go for nothing. 
This was the substance of what I wanted to say. Only this other thing: I think it is our duty, also, to recognize the movements of Providence. We cannot help it very well. We cannot help seeing that God has taken this matter into his own hands. We cannot help recognizing the fact, that we are all of is on a great current, drifting on together, we cannot tell where, and we hardly know what is to be the result. We can exert ourselves a little; we can do our duty; and God may, from these efforts, produce great results, by and by. But it is very evident that our power consists now in recognizing the divine presence in this work, and in that strength going forward, full of courage, full of hope, full of confidence, recognizing, through this whole strange history, the enormous power of ideas, seeing how every true idea must, sooner or later, ripen into fact, and so having now more and more confidence in that great moral principle which you laid as the basis of your movement-the principle of everlasting justice and eternal right.(Applause.)
The President then introduced the Rev. Mr. <illegible> LIGAN, of Michigan, as a minister of the Church which had anticipated the American Anti-Slavery Society in the enunciation of its great principle, ï¿½No union with slaveholders," and had remained faithful to the cause of impartial freedom to the present home.
Mr. MULLIGAN said he was glad to be present with so many of the friends of the slave, as the representative of a people who believed that the true church was the ark of liberty for the slave, and Christ the deliverer of the oppressed. He then proceeded a speak upon slavery and the present condition of the country, taking a text of Scripture as the basis of his remarks, and making an application of the Bible as account of the opening of the fifth seal to the events of the present hour. He concluded his remarks by saying, that until we determine to cut ourselves house from national iniquity, until we plant ourselves strongly upon the rock of truth and true liberty, we can never make successful battle upon the great system of slavery.
A ï¿½Song of Freedomï¿½ was then sung, to the name of ï¿½Scots what has," and the meeting adjourned, a re-assemble again at 2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON. The meeting was called to order as 2 o'clock, and a hymn by Augustine Caldwell, entitled ï¿½Liberty for all," was sung, after which SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made an earnest appeal for funds a ï¿½help the cause along. "He referred to the wonder full change which has taken place in public sentiment within a few months, and urged upon his hearers the duty of continued activity and faithfulness, in order that this change might be made to result in the freedom of the slave. The slumber, said he, is over the 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
lethargy is broken up, the apathy is at an end. However far many of the North may be from feeling right now, they do begin to feel; they have begun to act; and now I believe, under God, the salvation of the slave and of the North together draws nigh. But the work is not over. The moral warfare has not
ceased; and though for a time it may be eclipsed, in the sight of the nation, by the array of armies, by the buttering of the banners, and the sound thereof may be deafened by the noise of the drum and of the artillery, nevertheless, this power, the deepest and strongest which can sway men, still lives, and, I maintain, is embodied in this Society, and its individual friends and well-wishers.
Now friends, continued Mr. M., these are hard times,-and thank God for them! I am glad a time has come when we are all called upon to make some sacrifices-when those who are poor feel poorer than ever, and all are straightened in some way or other. Still, let us see to it that the old cause shall not be straightened. Let us see to it that it shall have the means to send out agents, publish tracts, and send forth its papers, and keep its moral testimony alive, vigorous and faithful, until slavery breathes its last breath. That, I am sure, you will do, and do it now.
The names of the Finance Committee were then read, and they entered upon the discharge of their important duty, with gratifying results, the collection amounting to the handsome sum of $185.15.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., was then introduced, and received with hearty applause. His speech will be found in another part of this paper. It was characterised by his usual eloquence, and warmly applauded. 
STEPHEN S. FOSTER was the next speaker. He said that, in the new and very interesting aspect of public affairs, he thought it became them to utter their opinion publicly in regard to the duty of Abolitionists in this new position. He had accordingly hastily drawn up two resolutions, expressive of what he believed to be the real sentiments of the Abolitionists of New England at the present time, viz.:-
Resolved, That, as citizens deeply interested in the honor and welfare of our common country, we earnestly ask and demand of our national government that it at once proclaim an act of emancipation to all our enslaved countrymen, wherever held, as the only honorable, just and efficient means of settling our present national troubles, and establishing our Union upon a solid and enduring basis.
Resolved, That until the government shall take this step, and place itself openly and unequivocally on the side of freedom, we can give it no support or countenance in its effort to maintain its authority over the seceded States, but must continue to labor, as we have hitherto done, to heap upon it that obloquy which naturally attaches to all who are guilty of the crime of enslaving their fellow-men.
Mr. Foster said that, as he believed the resolutions expressed the sentiments of the meeting, he should not attempt to discuss them at that time. He could see no reason for supporting the government now that did not exist twelve months ago. It was only as ”goods and chattels” that his fellow-men were received under the protection of the United States. Not until they were received and protected as men, at all hazards, would he give one cent of his money or one drop of his blood for the support of the government. 
Mr. F. did not agree with Mr. Phillips that the abolition of slavery would break the Union to pieces. He still held to the doctrine that ”righteousness exalteth a nation.” He believed that the present administration could do no act so honorable to itself or so beneficial to the country, as to proclaim emancipation. The whole matter would then be honorably and permanently settled. He was sorry that Mr. Phillips seemed to have lost his confidence in the safety and practicability of impartial justice. He [Mr. F.] did not know why he should hesitate for a moment to require the government to proclaim immediate emancipation. Mr. Phillips had said the President was not strong enough to do justice; then let him resign and go home, rather than practise injustice. When a man said ”liberty,” he must mean liberty, or he was not the man for him. When a man sat upon the bench, and claimed to execute justice, he must execute justice, or not ask any support from him. He was surprised to hear Mr. Phillips speak of President Lincoln as ”an honest man” He supposed he did not mean what he said, but meant ”an honest slaveholder”-if that was not a paradox; that is, that when he swore to support the Constitution, with all its pro-slavery guarantees, he meant honestly to keep his oath. He wished to dissent, also, from the sentiment of Mr. Phillips, when he expressed his willingness to have the government pay for the slaves. He would never consent to pay the shiner to cease from his sin, and was unalterably opposed to paying one single dollar to anybody for the abolition of slavery.
Mrs. A. K. FOSTER rose to second the resolutions. She hoped they would be put to vote, for she thought it would be a discredit to the Abolitionists of New England if they should adjourn without giving a certain and unmistakable voice to their feelings, which might be published throughout the length and breadth of the land.
Rev. E. DAVIS, of Fitchburg, asked that the question might be taken on the resolutions separately. He believed that the Abolitionists should insist upon immediate emancipation as the only righteous and just method of settling this question, and bringing the war to a close. There might be differences of opinion in regard to the second resolution, but he thought the first would meet their earnest approval, and that they would not only pass it there, but carry it with them to their several fields of labor. He was calling attention to the subject in that portion of the State where he lived, and probably a number of petitions would be sent to Congress, setting forth the duty of emancipation as the only hopeful, just and rightful method of bringing this war to a close.
The question was then put on the first resolution, and it was adopted, without dissent.
Dr. MANN, of Sterling, suggested that the latter clause of the second resolution might be omitted.
Mr. Davis inquired whether, if they differed in regard to the second resolution, it was wise to press its passage. Some (among whom he judged Mr. Phillips was to be numbered) would go for upholding and supporting the government in every way possible, because it was working for the emancipation of the slave. He thought it would be better to press home the principle of emancipation, rather than find fault with the government. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT said they were called upon to heap opprobrium on the government as a pro-slavery government, while, in all the seceded States, the U. S. government is regarded as an anti-slavery government. Every man, said Mr. W., who says a word for the Constitution of the U. S., is an Abolitionist in fifteen States of this nation; and if my friend Mr. Foster were to go into any Southern State, and say a word in favor of the Constitution of the U. S., he would receive the doom of a traitor to slavery. Let any man in the Southern States open his mouth in favor of the stars and stripes of the Union, and he would be treated as an Abolitionist. Mr. Foster believes the Constitution an anti-slavery instrument; so does Charles Sumner, and so do multitudes of the people of the North;-so that all the slave States regard the U. S. government as an anti-slavery government, and multitudes of the people of the North have already come to that conclusion, and multitudes more are rapidly corning, to it. The question now is, whether we shall use our influence to ”heap obloquy” on the government which the pro-slavery part of the country declares to be anti-slavery? Our business is to get the people to regard the government as an anti-slavery government, not to heap opprobrium upon it. The Southern people are, by their cruelties towards the people of the North, stirring the entire North into opposition to slavery, and I believe that, in one year, we shall see the day when the Northern States will understand this war to be against slavery on the part of the North, and in favor of slavery on
<c02>
the part of the South. Our duty is to convince the people that slavery is the cause of all our troubles.
Dr. MANN said he did not object to the first portion of the resolution. As long as the administration sustained an equivocal position, and they did not know what its purpose was, they could not commit themselves to its support, and might properly say so. He objected to the last clause, because he took it for granted that the administration was determined to support slavery, which they did not know. They did not know but that it was the ultimate purpose of the administration to proclaim emancipation.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., thought it was quite gratuitous for them to be passing resolutions declaring that they did not support the national administration. Nobody expected that the Abolitionists would support the administration under the Constitution of the U. S. They never had done it, and did not calculate to support any administration until it was thoroughly and openly on the side of freedom. There was no use in their passing such a resolution, to inform the Boston Courier, whom nobody believed or cared for, what they were going to do. The administration represented the North as no other administration had ever done, and had more of the love of freedom in it (though far less than they desired) than any other administration since, this great question came under discussion; and he would not pass a resolution saying that they would load it with obloquy. As Mr. Phillips had said, if the Northern people backed up the administration, it might be that they would declare emancipation, and throw the door wide open for the fugitive. At any rate, it was the duty of Abolitionists to watch the crisis, and, as far as possible, to encourage every good purpose; and he thought the resolution already passed might have a power which would be taken out of it, if they consented to the passage of an ugly threat like that embodied in the second resolution immediately after.
Mr. WRIGHT moved to lay the resolution on the table.
Mr. FOSTER rose to speak, but was called to order by Mr. C. L. REMOND, on the ground that a motion to lay on the table is not debatable, and Mr. F. resumed his seat.
The motion to lay on the table was then put, and carried.
Mr. FOSTER immediately called up the resolution again, and proceeded to speak upon it. He said that the position of the Abolitionists was not so clearly understood as Mr. May teemed to suppose. There were hundreds who supposed that the Abolitionists had changed their views of the government. If he understood the remarks that had been made upon that platform, they had, with one accord, not in words, but in substance, urged the people to come up and adopt the war conducted by the present administration as the great means of emancipating the slaves of this country. What was the effect of Mr. Phillips's remarks to-day? He had understood him to say, ”Let us give the administration our sympathy.” He believed that the public inferred, and had a right to infer, from the course of the Liberator and Standard, and from the fact of the postponement of the accustomed anniversaries this year, that the Abolitionists were heart and soul in this war. He was afraid they were. He was afraid the Abolitionists had been seduced from their allegiance to principle, and been induced to give their support to the government which they had opposed for twenty years, and which declares it has made no change in its position since that time. He took it the administration did not lie, for, according to Mr. Phillips, they were all honest, except Seward, and they had declared their purpose to be, to execute the Constitution of the United States, that ”covenant with death and agreement with hell,” at the cannon's mouth. They had called the beauty and strength and power of the North to put down slave insurrections, to protect a capital which to-day is used for the sale of American women for the vilest of purposes, and hunt fugitives, if they happen to be the slaves of ”loyal” citizens. Should they not heap obloquy upon such a government? He held them to be guilty over every other administration, in that, in the very extremity of their calamity, they perpetrated the crimes which have disgraced the country for the last seventy-five years.
The acting President (Mr. MAY) said he felt compelled, in consequence of the limited time that remained before the necessary adjournment of the meeting, to interrupt the speaker. He thought that, after the audience had so decisively expressed their opinion by laying the resolution on the table, it was not right for Mr. Foster to occupy the time by telling them they were wrong, and giving his reasons. (Applause.)
Mr. FOSTER replied, that they had been told all day that they were right, and he didn't believe it had done the least bit of good; now, if they should be told that they were wrong, and the reasons given, they might be benefitted by it. But as that platform had become like all others, and there was no freedom for those who differed from the sentiments which had been expressed there, he should leave it to those who had occupied it all day. The voice of the Abolitionists would be stifled in the press and on the platform in the country. He had hoped that there might be a fair expression of opinion of those who dissent from the policy of giving support and countenance to the war. He knew there were many earnest, honest friends of freedom, who deeply lamented the course of the Society, but he was aware that they would have to adopt some other channel for the expression of their views than those through which their feelings had heretofore found utterance.
Mr. MAY remarked that the audience had here a specimen of the way in which friend Foster was gagged. He had spoken two or three times, and one of his resolutions had been adopted, but because they would not hear him four times, five times, he said he was gagged.
Mr. FOSTER attempted to reply, hut the confusion was so great that he could not be heard, and in a few moments, he left the platform.
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Mr. GARRISON was loudly called for, and came forward to address the audience. He was welcomed in the most cordial manner, and when the cheering had subsided, spoke as follows:- 
Mr. PRESIDENT,-I have not attempted to address an audience for the last ten months, in consequence of a bronchial difficulty, from which I have been slowly recovering. It gives me no pleasure to speak when I cannot make myself distinctly heard, Ana I am sure it can give others no pleasure to hear me, if my voice comes to them broken and faint. I have, therefore, been silent during the day; always, indeed, preferring to hear others, rather than myself. My time to speak was thirty years ago, and I improved the opportunity. (Applause.) But, to-day, when thousands of tongues are loosed to plead the glorious cause of universal freedom, why should I be called to take this stand? ”To gild refined gold, to paint the lily, is wasteful and ridiculous excess”; and in this roar of cannon and clash of arms, I am well content to be silent. 
Of course, I believe that all our difficulties are in consequence of the existence of shivery in our country; that that is the evil fountain from which all our bitter waters have flowed; and that this will prove an almost idiotic war, if it shall not end in the total abolition of slavery. (Applause.) I do not believe the government can have the success it is seeking in this struggle, unless liberty shall be proclaimed by it ”throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.” I voted, therefore, very cordially, for the resolution offered by my friend Mr. Foster, calling upon the government to seize this favorable opportunity, which, in the providence of God, has been put into its hands, to finish the war, to remove the root of bitterness forever from among us, and to make it possible for us to mingle together, North and South, like kindred drops, and form a Union based upon justice and freedom, from the Atlantic to the Pacific. (Ap-
<c03>
plause.) I believe we are growing up to this conviction, in accordance with the sentiments of John Quincy Adams, rehearsed in the hearing of the nation on three several occasions, declaring it perfectly constitutional, on the part of the government, under the war power, in an exigency like the present, to abolish the slave system at a blow; and I say there ought to go up one voice from all parts of the country, demanding of the commander-in-chief of our army, that he immediately let the slaves of the South go Scott free! (Laughter and applause.)
There are those who say that the war is not waged to abolish slavery. Granted! They say it is to uphold the flag. Granted! It is to maintain the government. Granted! But this is certain-the government and the flag,-as my friend, Mr. Wright, so justly observed,-are now regarded with fierce malignity and unconquerable hatred by the slave oligarchy, and utterly repudiated by them; and, for one, in this anomalous state of things, I do not feel disposed to be severely critical upon President Lincoln,-at least, as long as he makes himself an outlaw south of Mason and Dixon's line, in company with myself! (Applause.) Indeed, after so long a time, I am getting into very respectable society. (Laughter.) Even Edward Everett, to day, in the city of New York, utters language which would make it perilous for him to show himself in any part of the Southern Confederacy. So, whether he likes it or not, he stands by my side, involved in the same condemnation; and they would give him a coat of tar and feathers as readily as they would me. This is the Lord's doings, and it is marvelous in our eyes.” (Applause.)
I cannot say that I do not sympathize with the government, as against Jefferson Davis and his piratical associates. There is not a drop of blood in my veins, both as an abolitionist and a peace man, that does not flow with the Northern tide of sentiment; for I see, in this grand uprising of the manhood of the North, which has been so long groveling in the dust, a growing appreciation of the value of liberty and of free institutions, and a willingness to make any sacrifice in their defence against the barbaric and tyrannical power which avows its purpose, if it can, to crush them entirely out of existence. When the government shall succeed (if it shall succeed) in ”conquering a peace,” in subjugating the South, and shall undertake to carry out the Constitution as of old, with all its pro-slavery compromises, then will be my time to criticise, reprove and condemn; then will be the time for me to open all the guns that I can bring to bear upon it. But, blessed be God, that ”covenant with death” has been annulled, and that ”agreement with hell” no longer stands. I joyfully accept the fact, and leave all verbal criticism until a more suitable opportunity. There is no American Union as hitherto. Eleven of the slave States are in the Southern Confederacy, and the government maintains its power over the others only by Northern bayonets. All the slave States are a unit, except so far as they are kept down by those bayonets. Surely, that is not the old Union! Subjugation and conquest are not fraternity and peace! And we shall not again unite; though in saying this, I frankly declare that my faith is not so much in the virtue of the North as in the diabolism of the South. ("Hear, hear.") It is because God has ”given them over to believe a lie, that they may be damned”-and their damnation is sure. (Applause.)
Under these circumstances, I take great courage, and am full of hope. I should cry,” Shame to the people of the North!" if they did not, with their principles, and their ideas of government, come up to the support of the administration, offering all they have of blood and treasure, until this band of conspirators shall be put down, and slavery utterly obliterated. What we ought to do is to take the resolution we have just adopted, put it into our hearts, plead for it everywhere, and create a great Northern sentiment, which shall irresistibly demand of the administration, under the war power, the emancipation of every slave in the land; and then God will give us peace and prosperity, and we shall have, for the first time, a ”great and glorious Union.” (Applause.) 
Oh, Mr. President, how it delights my heart when I think that the worst thing we propose to do for the South is the very bust thing that God or men can do! That while the are confiscating our property, refusing to pay their honest Northern debts, covering the ocean with their piratical privateers, tarring and feathering, hanging, and driving out innocent Northern citizens from their borders, all we threaten to do, in the excess of our wrath, as a retaliatory measure, is to abolish their iniquitous and destructive slave system, and thus give them light for darkness, good for evil, heaven for perdition! (Loud applause.) Yes, we will make it possible for them to be a happy and prosperous people, as they never have been, and never can be, with slavery. We will make it possible for them to have free schools, and free presses, and free institutions, as we do at the North. We will make it possible for the South to be ”as the garden of God,” under the plastic touch of liberty; and for the nation to attain unparalleled glory, greatness and renown. Assuredly, we have no enmity to the South; the enmity is on the other side. Liberty knows how to be magnanimous, forbearing, long-suffering, patient, hopeful; and therefore it is that, in the very whirlwind which is now sweeping over the land, Southern men as safely reside among us as they ever did. They are not threatened with tar and feathers, nor compelled to flee from our presence because of their Southern origin, but enjoy unimpaired all their constitutional rights. The brutality, the barbarity, the demonism, are all at the South. Yet, I pray you to remember that the slaveholders are just as merciful and forbearing as they can be in their situation-not a whit more brutal, bloody, satanic, than they are obliged to be in the terrible exigencies in which, as slaveholders, they are placed. They are men of like passions with ourselves; they are of our common country; and if we had been brought up in the midst of slavery, as they have been,-if we had our property in slaves, as they have,-if we had had the same training and education that they have received,-of course, we should have been just as much disposed to do all in our power to support slavery, and to put down freedom, by the same atrocious acts, as themselves. The tree bears its natural fruit-like causes will produce like effects. But let us return them good for evil, by seizing this opportunity to deliver them from their deadliest curse-that is Christian. I was really amused at what I will call the ferocious kindness and generosity of the New York Courier and Enquirer, as exhibited a short time since in an article from the pen of Col. Webb, whose indignation was hotly excited by the act of Jefferson Davis commissioning privateers to sweep our vessels from the seas. Waxing hot as Vesuvius, he said to the Southern Confederates, ”If you dare to touch one of our merchant ships, we will not leave one of your slaves in his fetters!” A fearful threat, to be sure! If you commit outrages upon us, we will confer blessings upon you! If you are resolved to play the part of corsairs towards our property, we will act the part of benefactors towards you! Delightful revenge! Why, this is genuine Abolitionism!
Now, I think we can all afford to be Abolitionists; if you will pardon the egotism, Garrisonian Abolitionists. (Applause.) I think we cannot afford to be any thing else. For what is it to be a ”Garrisonian” Abolitionist? I will tell you-I have often told you-but there may be some here who have not heard it, and who really suppose that I desire something so unjust, so dangerous, so fanatical, that no honest man ought to give me any countenance. It is a very great and a very serious mistake. ”Garrisonian Abolitionism,” in politics, is this:-”We hold these truths to be self-evident:-that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” (Applause.) And ”Garrisonian Infidelity” is this:- ”Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” (Applause.) I am sure you all subscribe to your country's Declaration of Independence, and I shall take it for granted that you believe in the Golden Rule given
<c04>
to us by Jesus Christ. Under these circumstances, there is no difference of opinion among us; only let us see that we honestly carry out our principles;-for the only difference between the Abolitionists and the mass of the people has been this, that the former have declared their principles, applied them, and carried them out; whereas, the mass of the people have simply adopted their principles in the abstract, but not applied them, nor carried them out. Let us remember that this involves the question of the liberties of mankind. I do not talk about the negro-I do not see the negro-I see only a human being. I see the representative of all mankind in any one whose rights are cloven down. I see my own self impersonated, and deprived of every right that God has given me by creation. It is my own cast-it is yours. I plead for those in bonds, not because of their complexion or race, but because they are the children of God and brother men; and I desire to be as faithful to them as I would wish them to be to me, if our conditions were reversed.
I believe there is no difference of opinion now, that the Southern traitors are the vilest of thieves and robbers. State street says so, Wall street says so. ”The villains,” they say, ”have stolen forts, arsenals, mints, everything belonging to the government within their reach, and are sending their piratical cruisers on the high seas, to seize our ships, and confiscate our property. They ought to be hung by the neck-the piratical scoundrels!” Take care, gentlemen! Don't get angry! Don't use ”harsh and denunciatory language”! The Abolitionists have been offenders in this particular long enough! Possess your souls in patience!
”They that have done these deeds are honorable men-
So are they all, all honorable men!”
Ah! when the trial comes to ourselves; when it is our property that is seized and confiscated; when our rights are trodden upon, and we are driven to the wall,-how quickly is our vision anointed, and how clearly do we see the villany of the men who dare commit such outrages! Now, I have seen all this, and ten thousand times worse than all this, daily, hourly inflicted upon millions of my fellow-creatures, in the persons of the slaves,-millions who have nothing that they can call their own, who are doomed to life-long robbery, cruelty and oppression; and I have said that those who thus deprive them of their natural rights, drag them down from their high position as immortal beings among four-footed beasts, deprive them of all power of development and acquisition, ought to be branded as guilty of the basest robbery and the vilest oppression; that there is no language adequate to depict their criminality; and, because the victims were black, I have been accused of using harsh and unchristian language! No, the language is not harsh, is not unchristian: it is impossible to call such conduct by any other name, and rightly define it. We must be, like Him who created us, no respecters of persons; but perceive and confess that the wrongs which are done to others, even the humblest of the human race, are as grievous to be borne, and as much to be abhorred and condemned, as though they were done to us.
Let us do what we can to change the public sentiment of the North, by a fearless and faithful proclamation of the truth. Alas! for the bitter and prescriptive prejudice which every where prevails against the colored race! Those whom we treat the most injuriously, we hate the most intensely. It is a fearful retribution upon us, as a people, because we have remorselessly trampled upon the poor and needy. Yes, it is because we have taken the helpless and unoffending negro, and said, ”We will scourge him, work him without wages, deprive him of his liberty, treat him as a beast,” God has sent this leprosy of colorphobia into our souls, and we are full of malignity and madness whenever the cause of the oppressed comes up, demanding full justice at our hands. Let us get rid of all this! Let us see in every slave, Jesus himself; let us endeavor to remember the solemn test in the great trial-hour, ”Inasmuch as ye have not done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have not done it unto me”; and let the same horror fill our minds at the idea of a slave being driven upon a Southern plantation, as we should feel if we saw our Savior under the lash of the slave-driver.
I have thus, very briefly, given you my ”fanaticism,” my ”treason,” my ”infidelity.” My cry still is, ”NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS!” Does not that sound well to-day? (Applause.) What Union has the South for you, O people of the North? You are fighting for the flag, you say-not for the abolition of slavery. Go South, and they will smother you in its folds! You are fighting for the Constitution-not for the abolition of slavery. Go South, and make the declaration, and you will never come back alive! You are fighting for the Union-not for the abolition of slavery. Go South, and denounce her treasonable movement, and receive the fate of felons! No longer, then, be blind to the fact, that slavery is at the bottom of all our national divisions, and must be overthrown before we can be one people. Henceforth, be abolitionists, in deed and in truth! Tell the government that it will commit a most heinous crime, as well as be guilty of an act of transcendent folly, if it shall allow any considerable time to pass before proclaiming, UNDER THE WAR POWER, freedom to all in bondage. In the words of Whittier-
”Have they wronged us? Let us, then,
Render back nor threats, nor prayers:
Have they chained our free-born men?
let us unchain theirs!”
And what cause for any delay? What further provocations or perils are needed,-if the claims of suffering humanity are not sufficiently imperative,-to warrant the government immediately to enforce such a measure in self-defence, and to promote the general welfare?-a measure that would at once bring the rebellious South to terms, and quickly end the war, enabling the country to organize a majestic and enduring Union upon the basis of universal freedom, and putting an end to all sectional hostilities; so that, from ocean to ocean, the pulsations of the people shall beat together as one, and all shall be made happy in the light and liberty of heaven! (Applause.)
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER was the last speaker, and her remarks were necessarily brief, the hour for adjournment having nearly arrived. She said there has appeared to be a confusion of tongues among the speakers, but I think there is really more harmony than might be supposed. Mr. Phillips, although opposed to the resolution condemning the government, wishes long life to Jefferson Davis; which shows that he has not much sympathy for those against whom Jefferson Davis is contending. Mr. Garrison places more reliance upon the persistent diabolism of the South than upon the virtue of the North; and, in fact, when the matter is looked into, it will be found that there is no confusion of tongues. We are in the condition, to-day, of the woman who saw her husband and a bear in conflict, and didn't care a straw which whipped. Here stands Mr. Phillips, wanting the bear to whip the husband (the North) pretty thoroughly, until he shall rise up and make common cause with those under his heels. Mr. Foster's resolution says the same thing. Mr. Garrison has to thank the South for what the North is doing, and for his hope of liberty, more than to thank the administration, which is an endorsement of the resolution of Mr. Foster. There is no confusion of heart, there is no confusion of sentiment; and when you come to sift the matter to the bottom, we all stand together on the platform of the old American Anti-Slavery Society. 
Rev. Mr. MARTIN was called for, but did not respond to the call, and after singing another hymn, the meeting adjourned, and the large company turned their faces homeward, with pleasant recollections of a day happily, and we hope profitably spent.
The President's Message was communicated to Congress on Friday last. It is of moderate length, dispassionate but firm in its tone, and simple in its style. It asks for four hundred thousand soldiers and it four hundred millions of dollars for the vigorous prosecution of the war. It is every where well received
<c05>
FIRST OF AUGUST CELEBRATION.
Again the Anniversary draws near of one of the most beneficent and memorable events in the history of the world,-ancient or modern,-the Peaceful Emancipation of 800,000 Slaves, the beginning of a great Act of Justice and Humanity, whose wisdom has at length compelled the acknowledgment of the world at large, even of the unwilling and prejudiced. The Emancipation of the Slaves in the British West India Islands, on the 1st of August, 1834, ranks now in history as an event not less remarkable for its cheering results than for the benevolent and humane motives which inspired it.
The Managers of the Massachusetts ANTI-SLAVERY society invite the friends of freedom everywhere, all who are interested in the great events of human progress, and all who desire to see the barbarous, inhuman, and unchristian Slavery of our own land give place to the reign of Freedom, Justice, and Peace throughout our borders, and throughout the world, to meet with them, at the well known and beautiful grove in ABINGTON, on THURSDAY, August 1st, 1861, in commemoration of the Day.
Let all join to make this FESTIVAL OF FREEDOM worthy of the occasion, of the long line of effective meetings which have preceded it in honor of this event, and of the mighty object in behalf of which it is held,-the cleansing of our own land from the curse and shame of Human Slavery. 
Eloquent speakers will be present. Railroad trains will run at reduced fares, &c. Of all which, further particulars hereafter.
W. L. GARRISON, E. H. HEYWOOD, THOS. J. HUNT,.ELIAS RICHARDS, ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, Committee of Arrangements 

BLOODY CONFLICTS IN MISSOURI.
KANSAS CITY, July 10. The Fort Scott Democrat of the 7th, contains an account of a battle between the Missouri State troops, under Gov. Jackson and Gen. Rains, numbering, by their own account, from 10,000 to 13,000, and the Federal forces, under Col. Seigel, numbering 1500. The first onset resulted in the State troops being driven back some distance, and their officers ordered a retreat. Their centre gave way, but the order not being heard on the flanks, the advancing Federal troops were in danger of being surrounded themselves, and fell hack, retreating slowly, keeping up a fight, our artillery making fearful havoc among the rebels.
The loss of the rebels is very great. Our informant says he counted 70 or 80 wounded on the field and in houses by the wayside. At Dry Fork a large amount of beef was thrown out of their wagons to make room for the dead.
Another informant, a resident of Carthage, states that he passed over a part of the battle-field, yesterday, and saw wagons and hacks passing in every direction, gathering up the dead for interment.
The losses, on the part of the State troops, is not less than 300 or 500. The ground in many places was strewn with dead horses, and the stench was sickening. The whole country is laid desolate; fences are torn down, crops trampled and houses plundered. Parties of women stated that everything had been taken from them by the traitors, except what they had on.
FORT SCOTT, Mo., 8 P. M. A citizen of this place has just arrived, having left Sherman, Jasper county, at daylight this morning. He states that after leaving Carthage, Siegel encamped two miles southeast of that town, where he was attacked in the night, and his command badly cut up. His loss is variously estimated at from 300 to 1000, and that of the traitors from 1000 to 3000 killed and wounded.
A letter from Hagerstown, Md., says perfectly reliable information has been received that no less than eighty-three rebels were killed on Tuesday at Hainesville, and one hundred and twenty wounded.
EXTRA SESSION OF CONGRESS. Congress met at Washington on the 4th of July. Forty members of the Senate were present. Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, chairman of the military committee, gave notice that he should offer on the following day-
A bill to ratify and confirm certain acts of the President for the suppression of insurrection and rebellion.
A bill to authorize the employment of volunteers to aid in enforcing the laws and protecting the public property.
A bill to increase the present military establishment of the United States.
A hill providing for the better organization of the military establishment.
A bill for the organization of a volunteer militia force, to be called the National Guard of the United States.
A bill to promote the efficiency of the army.
There were present in the House, 159 members. Objection was made to the reception of Messrs. Blair, Marston and Curtis of Missouri; Daily, of Nebraska; Upton, Pendleton, Brown, Carlisle and Whaley of Virginia; Thayer of Oregon; but all were sworn, except Mr. Daily.
Galusha A. Grow of Pa. was elected Speaker, receiving 99 votes. Mr. Crittenden of Ky. received 12 votes, and Col. Blair of Mo., 11. Emerson Etheridge of Tenn. was elected clerk, receiving 92 votes.
DISTRESSING ACCIDENT. A sad accident occurred at the residence of the poet Longfellow, at Cambridge, Tuesday afternoon, by which Prof. Longfellow was seriously, and Mrs. Longfellow fatally burnt. The particulars of the occurrence are these:
About 5 o'clock in the afternoon Mrs. L. was standing at a table in the library, making wax seals for the amusement of her daughters. She threw down a lighted match, which struck her light clothing, setting it on fire, and she was almost immediately enveloped in flames.
Mr. Longfellow, who was near at hand, rushed to her assistance, and succeeded, with much difficulty, in consequence of the thin texture of her clothing, in extinguishing the fire. She was burned upon nearly every part of her person, except her face. She succeeded in keeping the fire from that, and it is believed she did not inhale any of the flames. Mr. Longfellow's hands were very badly burned, but he received little injury besides that, and is not considered to be in any danger.
Both were kept under the influence of ether during the night, by direction of attending physicians, Drs. Wyman of Cambridge, H. J. Bigelow of Boston, and others. At ten o'clock, Wednesday morning, Mrs. L. was alive, but her friends entertained but little hope of her recovery.
The three daughters of Mrs. Longfellow were at home when the accident occurred: her two sons were at Nahant, and they were immediately sent for. Mrs. L. is a daughter of Mr. Nathan Appleton.
Everything that medical skill could suggest was done to relieve the sufferer, but in vain. She lingered until 11 1/2 o'clock Wednesday forenoon, when death relieved her from further suffering.-Traveller.
CAPTAIN WARD. This officer who was killed at the affair at Mathias Point while in command of the U. S. steam-gunboat Freeborn, was a native of Connecticut, from which State he was appointed. He entered the service on the 4th of March, 1823, and was appointed Commander on the 9th of September, 1852. Captain W. was the sixteenth commander on the active list. He had seen some sixteen years service at sea, and nine years duty on shore. He was commander of the receiving ship at the Brooklyn Navy Yard during two years past.
DESTRUCTIVE FIRES. The Fourth and succeeding days were marked by great fires in different places. Boston suffered severely on Thursday afternoon, losing some $700,000 by conflagrations. The greatest was in East Boston, commencing on Whidden's wharf and sweeping over ten acres. Sixty houses, eight vessels, two factories, a machine shop and the sectional dry dock were destroyed.
At the same time, there was a fire on Albany and Hudson streets, which destroyed about twenty tenements. 
At East Albany, on Friday morning, the freight house at the Boston depot was destroyed, involving a loss of nearly half a million of dollars. The property burned comprised two large freight depots, the passenger depot, the ticket office, the elevator, fifty-four car loads of freight, eight car loads of live hogs, five canal boats, and one valuable freight bridge. The long passenger bridge was partially saved. The canal boats were all loaded with grain.
There were also smaller fires in New Orleans and several other places, involving losses of immense amount in the aggregate.
LATER FROM EUROPE. Lord Chancellor Campbell died suddenly on the 23d, and Sir R. Bethel is his successor. The Sultan of Turkey died on the 25th, and is succeeded by his brother.
The loss by the great conflagration in London is over two millions pounds sterling, and by some estimates three and four millions. 
Both the New Hampshire and the Connecticut Legislature postponed the consideration of the Corwin amendment to the Constitution. Very well. 
General Fremont has been appointed to the command of the Western department, including Illinois and the States and Territories between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains.
COST OF THE WAR. The Washington Republican undertakes to estimate the cost of the war for two years. The sum total is four hundred and fifty-seven million dollars.
<c06>
Rev. M. D. Conway, of Cincinnati, preached at Music Hall, Sunday forenoon, on the emergencies of the times. The closing portion of his sermon related to the war, which was advocated with an emphasis. Mr. Conway believes in an energetic prosecution of the contest. He also thinks that the success of our arms will be the death-blow of slavery. The sermon was much liked by the congregation. Mr. Conway is the live man of the Cincinnati pulpit, and has the largest congregation in the city.-Boston Atlas.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
A. T. FOSS will speak at
Osterville, Sunday, July 14.
Centroville, Tuesday, July 16.
Harwich, Sunday, July 21.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at Quaker Hill Grove, South Foxboro', on Sunday next, July 14, at half-past 5 o'clock, P. M., on The Present Crisis, and its connection with the Slaves of the South.
REV. A. D. MAYO, of Albany, will speak at Music Hall, on Sunday, July 14.

OBITUARY.-MRS. ELIAS THOMAS.
From the time when Mr. GARRISON commenced his labors, she was one of his warmest admirers, and entered heart and soul into the abolition of slavery as advocated by him. She had a mind far-seeing and generous in all its bearings-of large magnanimity, and yet considerate and critical in entering into the most trifling details. She possessed wit, brilliant and inexhaustible, but never aimed the shaft of sarcasm or the pointed retort to wound the feelings of any. She was always careful and assiduous to relieve the wants of the poor around her; yet she longed to do something to benefit the many needs of her darker brethren and sisters, and break some link in the heavy chain which has bound so long their bodies and souls.- While she accomplished the duties of this world for those around her, yet the approbation of a Higher Power was always in her thoughts, and the smiles of a Heavenly Guide seemed still more approving to the spirit as she came nearer the dark portal which slowly closed after and glided before her earthly eyes forever. Her life, like that of all earnest workers, was no calm and easy stream, flowing smoothly in its course, to be silently lost in the rushing river of Death; but no divided purposes, no relinquished objects, could show that her will ever faltered.- She has left to her loved ones hero, the contemplation of a life whose beautiful completeness strikes the mind as a Grecian statue fills the eye with its rounded fullness and harmonious proportions. Her last hours were perfect serenity. A hymn was sung by her children around her bed -one to which she loved to listen during her sickness-and those were the last earthly sounds she heard. From the strains that told of rest-”eternal, sacred, sure”-after an expression of pleasure at being so near the heavenly kingdom, her spirit slowly took its flight for that home she had been surely approaching so long, where she has gone to receive the reward of a life perfected by untiring exertion and unceasing energy.
Mrs. Thomas was the only daughter of William Widgery, for many years a very active and influential citizen of Portland, who died at an advanced age in 1822. In September, 1802, she married Elias Thomas, with whom she lived in most happy union to the day of her death, bringing up a largo and united family in virtuous habits and sound principles, the oldest of whom is the present respected Mayor of Portland, William Widgery Thomas. Her husband, with whom she lived more than 58 years in a congenial harmony, survives her in his 89th year.
Portland, (Me.) July 9, 1361.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent. 
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. 
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
”FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz.: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account.” 
Boston, June 7, 1861.

P. S.
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE. TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhoea General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood.
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No. 39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis.

IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She insure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and; will prevent the hair from turning grey.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER, No. 31 Winter Street, Boston. June 14. tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
THE SLAVE MOTHER-A BALLAD.
It will be sufficient preface to the following Ballad to state, that it is the plain relation of an incident which happened in Kentucky in 1831.
The day had scarce began to dawn,
The sun behind the hills 
Had far to journey eve his rays 
Should gild the mountain rills.
A woman with three little ones
Came from a lowly shed,
And out upon a lonely path
Those little ones she led.
The morn was dark and lowering,
And scarcely one might see,
When at a distance she appeared
What woman she might be.
She led those little ones along,
And not a word she said;
They seemed, as they were passing on,
Like shadows of the dead.
The oldest was a little boy,
Some six warm summers old,
And doubtless to a mother's sight
Was lovely to behold.
The others were two lift girls,
Just old enough were they,
Led by their mother's helping hand,
To walk along the way.
"Where are we going, mother, now?"
The little brother spoke;
"O, I was dreaming a sweet dream,
Just as we all awoke."
"We're going but a little way
Come, children, come along;
You cannot think a mother's hand
Would lead her babies wrong.
"o, I have suffered much for you,
Nor will I live to see
The dreadful evils come to you,
Which long have come to me.
"When I was old as you, my son,
I can remember well,
How I was brought across the sea,
With wicked men to dwell.
"They tore me from my mother's arms,
And brought me here to toil,
And every day my tears and blood
Have dewed this hated soil.
"Last evening I was beat again,
Though faint as I could be:-
 No, children, such a wretched fate
You shall not live to see."
She step beside a little spring
That in the meadow flowed,
Just as the first faint gleam of dawn
Along the valley glowed.
The morning showed those little ones
Were like the sable night,
But well the wretched mother knew
Their little souls were white.
She took her little darling babes,
And pot them in the spring
It would have grieved a human heart
To see so sad a thing:
She held her little babies there
Until-they all were dead;
But though her soul was wrenched outright,
Yet not a tear the shed.
Let none who know not suffering,
That mother cruel call,
It was that she had felt so much.
She did not feel at all.
She took her little babies then,
And laid them side by side,
'Twas there beside the meadow spring
Where those dear babies died.
She laid her little babies there,
Three children, cold as clay,
And long beside the meadow spring
She kissed them where they lay.
The wretched mother turned away,
With none her grief to heed,
Then down the valley she returned,
Again to toil and bleed.

NOTHIING TO DO.
"Nothing to do"? O, pause, and look around
At those oppressed with want, and sorrow too!
Look at the wrongs, the sufferings that abound,
Ere yet thou sayest, there's nought for thee to do.
"Nothing to do"? Are there no hearts that ache-
No care-worn breasts that heave an anguished sigh-
No burthens that thy hands may lighter make-
No bitter tears thy sympathy might dry?
Are there no hungry whom thy hand may feed-
No sick to aid, no naked to be clad?
Are there no blind, whose footsteps thou may'st lead?
No mourning heart, that thou could'st make less sad?
"Nothing to do"? Hast thou no store of gold-
No wealth of time, that thou should'st well employ?
No hidden talent, that thou should'st unfold-
No gifts that thou sbould'st use for others' joy?
"Nothing to do"? O, look without, within!
Be to thyself and to thy duties true!
Look on the world, its troubles, and its sin,
And own that thou hast muck indeed to do!

From Vanity Fair.
COMPROMISE.
The veriest spawn of the "Father of Lies"
Is that creeping creature called Compromise.
A slimy thing in villanons guise,
With the pompous title-Compromise.
The tool of the weak-the scorn of the wise-
Oh! men! beware of Compromise!
Crooked and dark the pathway lies
Before the fiend named Compromise.
Avoiding the gleam of good men's eyes,
Characterless crawls Compromise.
Two cowards at war-one of them cries,
"Let's settle the matter by Compromise!"
So, wrapped in a screen that detection defies,
In stalks the umpire-Compromise.
Two thieves who grasp at a stolen prize,
Divide the spoils by Compromise-
A country groans and a nation sighs
When the leaders turn to Compromise.
Though fools may hope to strengthen ties
By Cotton bands of Compromise.
If you wish to see a nation rise,
Dare to speak of Compromise!
Accursed be he who sells or buys
His country's honor with Compromise!
Hang him high, and after he dies,
Write on his tomb-stone-Compromise!
Can ye never a plan devise
To save your land but Compromise?
Come to your senses! Up! Arise!
Ere ye strike on the rock of Compromise!

OUT OF DARKNESS COMETH LIGHT.
Out of darkness cometh light:
Out of weakness cometh might.
Peace shall come from out of strife.
And deck the warrior's weary life.
The hand that made both good and ill,
Makes all obedient to His will.
Weary souls, be not cast down;
First wear the crow, then wear the crown.
<c02>
The Liberator.
TWO SLANDERS ON HAYTI REFUTED.
BOSTON, July 2, 1861.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I do not think that you quite did me justice in your notice of my Guide to Hayti; but as you indicated the chapter and the book from which you quoted, I have no inclination to complain. Still less do I seek to controvert your opinions on the question of colored emigration to Hayti. I cannot state more clearly than I have already done, my reasons for embarking, with all the energy and enthusiasm of my nature, in the mission entrusted to me by the Government of Hayti. Controversy is useful only when it tends to advance a cause, or to convince an opponent; and, inasmuch as we occupy different stand-points- you employing the moral agencies alone, I seeking to bring the physical forces against slavery-it is not likely that we would agree, excepting to agree to differ as to our respective modes of action. I recognize the great value of your labors, and your method; but, at the same time, I have faith also in another class of workers and of powers. Discussion, therefore, could avail nothing.
I ask permission merely to answer two slanders of the Haytian people, which, coming from unfriendly sources, have appeared in the columns of the Liberator but have not yet been refuted in your journal.
The first was copied from the Chatham Planet, (Canada West,) of March 8. I replied to it briefly in that paper, and, as my answer contains the paragraph you printed, I subjoin the Letter:-
"sir-In your journal of March 8, in a report of a lecture by John Brown, jr., you state-
'Of course, like many other localities, Hayti has its peculiarities. The Rev. Wm. P. Newman, formerly 
of Dresden, in this county, has resided in Hayti for some time past, and has made himself very busy in gathering facts concerning emigration from that quarter. In prosecuting his inquiries, he was very successful. But we are informed, that in consequence of a difficulty arising between Mr. Newman and a large class of Haytians, he has concluded to return to Canada. The origin of this difficulty seems to be found in the fact that, on the occasion of some religious procession, passing along the streets of Port-au Prince-the State religion in Hayti is Roman Catholic-Mr. Newman, being a Protestant, had not elevated his hat in honor of the passing host. Upon being requested to do so, he refused, when an officer forcibly took Mr. N.'s hat off. Of course, Mr. Newman was indignant at this, and at once came in collision with the authorities, who fined him. As a result of Mr. Newman's conduct, the Roman Catholic classes held a strong feeling against him, which he considers impairs his usefulness in that country. Hence his return to this Province. This is one side of the story.'
"Presuming that, like oilier Englishmen, you like to see fair play, and to hear both sides of every disputed story, I venture to ask the insertion in your columns of a corrected version of Mr. Newman's difficulty with 'a large class of Haytians,' and with the Government of that Republic.
"It is not true that Mr. Newman was fined in consequence of refusing to elevate his hat in honor of the passing host.' It is true that his hat was knocked off by a petty police officer, in consequence of his refusing to lift it; but it is equally true that the officer was instantly sent to jail for his impertinence as soon as the news of his action reached the Government.
"Mr. Newman was fined for writing an insulting letter to an American emigrant named Hepburn. The British Consul said to me, in referring to this letter, that, had he received it, he would have broken every hone in Mr. Newman's body.
"There can be no charge more unjust and untrue, no matter by whom made, than that the Haytians are intolerant. Whoever is skeptical on this point, can easily be convinced of it.
I will not, however, enlarge on this topic now. Neither will I give a full history of Mr. Newman's career in Hayti, as it would appear both ungenerous and cowardly to assail a man who is absent. Mr. Newman will soon return to the Provinces, and then, if he wishes it, I am ready to discuss his Haytian record with him. I have all the documents on file, and am fully prepared to refute the innumerable calumnies that he has secretly written respecting Hayti, and his own race through Hayti, since he discovered that a Government with any sense of selfrespect would neither permit itself to be bullied nor insulted."
-The second of the unjust accusations about the Haytians, republished by the Liberator, and very prominently printed, but not yet corrected, was an extract from the news by the Echo, as reported by the New York Express. This news was copied by the New York Tribune, Boston Journal and Boston Traveller,
but all of them promptly published my letter in reply to it. I infer that these letters have escaped your attention. Permit me, therefore, to condense the facts given in them.
I have not the Liberator by me, but I think this is the paragraph you quoted:
"There was also another trouble brewing on the island, which was likely to embarrass the government. The free blacks that had been enticed there by Geffard found things quite different from what they were represented by Redpath and his associates. They were compelled to work two days in the week for the government until their passage out, (some$18,) was paid. They were only allowed $3, Haytian currency, per diem, to live on and support their families, which is about twenty-five cents of our money. They were also impressed into the army, and being marched to the frontiers, the Haytians took good care to put them in the front ranks. A person arrived in the Echo, a friend of the free blanks, brought this intelligence, and this will probably he the last of Redpath's scheme of emancipation to Hayti."
This "friend of the free blacks" was a Spanish spy, whom the Haytian government lodged in jail, and liberated only to ship him out of the country by the Echo. It was but natural that a disgraced spy should hurry to the kennel of the Dog Noble to return his vomit on the Haytian authorities.
Before refuting his slanders, let me say that I prize my reputation as a man of honor and an Abolitionist infinitely above my position under the Haytian government, and vastly over my desire to see a powerful Negro nation in the Antilles as the foundation of a mixed West India Confederacy of free-cotton-growing Commonwealths. I did not seek either honors or office in Hayti; both were forced on me-both were equally unexpected to me. Favor did not follow fawning, but the most inflexible independence of thought and action. I have friends among all parties there, but I flattered no one of them, and stood-aloof from them all, while I always expressed my opinions freely. Certainly, I have every reason to be zealous in the service of the Haytian Government; but, were it to violate any one of its promises and guarantees to emigrants. I would not hesitate one moment to crush out the movement in the United States, and be the most vehement in denouncing any act of bad faith. My personal reputation is at stake in this matter; and no consideration whatever would induce me to permit it to be sullied by any one, whether a Government or individual, whose agent I might happen to be. If a war is declared by Hayti against Spain, I shall go there and enlist, but I will not permit any one to emigrate, without the fullest knowledge of all the chances for peace or war. Hence, I have suspended emigration for two months, although I might have sent emigrants to the island every week; and hence, in my journal, The Pine and Palm, I give the fullest news from all sources, about Hayti, whether favorable to her or the reverse. I was an American Abolitionist before I was a Haytian Commissioner; and among the various titles Chat friends and enemies have conferred on me, I still place that of fanatic as first in order.
To return to the Echo. There was-another passenger by the Echo, a colored man,-personally known to Mr. Garrison,-whose veracity is undoubted, and who had come back to go South to incite insurrections. He had been a fugitive slave. He denied each and every statement of the Spanish spy. Mr. Galloway had just arrived from St. Mark when that vessel sailed, and left all the emigrants contentedly working on their free farms-not one of them having been impressed into the Haytian army-not one having been compelled to work two days in each week, or one hour each month, even, for the government of Hayti. The government has not only redeemed all its pledges, but done far more for the emigrants than it promised.
<c03>
"Now, as to the work performed under government auspices by the emigrants, see how different a version of it Mr. Galloway gives. He says that the land given to the emigrants would be improved, it was found, by irrigation, in certain localities, and that they had prepared to dig a long canal from the Artibonite river for that purpose. But some of the emigrants could not afford the time, and Mr. Lewis, (of Maine,) asked for an appropriation, in aid of the project, of §60,000 Haytian. The government granted it, and more. This generous act the Spaniard, or dog Noble of the Express, now tries to pervert into an act of oppression."
Letters received by the last arrival from Hayti confirm these statements. I received, also, by the Echo, letters from emigrants, who spoke of no such outrages, but, on the contrary, were exceedingly laudatory of the government of the Republic.
With much esteem, your obedient servant,
JAMES REDPATH.

ORATION OF HON. EDWARD EVERETT.
A very able and elaborate Oration was delivered in the Academy of Music, in the city of New York, on the 4th of July, by lion. Edward Everett, on Southern Secession, and the present War growing out of it. It would occupy more than two entire pages of our paper; but we are unable to find room for any more than that portion of it which relates to the Slavery question.

INTERFERENCE WITH SLAVERY THE GREAT ALLEGED GRIEVANCE.
But the great complaint of the South, and that which is admitted to he the occasion of the present revolt, is the alleged interference of the North in the Southern institution of slavery: a subject on which the sensibilities of the two sections have been so deeply and fearfully stirred, that it is nearly impossible to speak words of impartial truth. As I have already stated, the declaration by South Carolina, of the causes which prompted her to secede from the Union, alleged no other reason for this movement than the enactment of laws to obstruct the surrender of fugitive slaves. The declaration does not state that South Carolina ever lost a slave, by the operation of these laws, and it is doubtful whether a dozen from all the States have been lost from this cause. A gross error, on this subject, pervades the popular mind at the South. Some hundreds of slaves in the aggregate escape annually; some to the recesses of the dismal swamp; some to the everglades of Florida; some to the trackless mountain region, which traverses the South; some to the Mexican States and the Indian tribes; some across the Free States to Canada. The popular feeling of the South ascribes the entire loss to the laws of the Free States; while it is doubtful whether these laws cause any portion of it. The public sentiment of the North is not such, of course, as to dispose the community to obstruct the escape or aid in the surrender of slaves. Neither is it at the South. No one, I am told, at the South, not called upon by official duty, joins in the hue and cry after a fugitive; and whenever he escapes from any State south of the border tier, it is evident that his flight must have been aided in a community of slaveholders. If the North Carolina fugitive escapes through Virginia, or the Tennessee fugitive escapes through Kentucky, why are Pennsylvania and Ohio alone blamed? On this whole subject the grossest injustice is done to the. North. She is expected to be more tolerant of slavery than the South herself; for while the South demands of the North entire acquiescence in the extremest doctrines of slave property, it is a well-known fact, and as such alluded to by Mr. Clay in his speech on the compromise of 1850, that any man who habitually trafficks
in this property is held in the same infamy at Richmond and New Orleans that he would be at Philadelphia or Cincinnati.
While South Carolina, assigning the cause of secession, confines herself to the State laws for obstructing the surrender of fugitives, in other quarters, by the press, in the manifestoes and debates on the subject of secession, and in the official papers of the New Confederacy, the general conduct of the North with respect to slavery is put forward as the justifying, nay, the compelling cause of the revolution. This subject, still more than that of the tariff, is too trite for discussion, with the hope of saying anything new on the general question. I will but submit a few considerations to show the great injustice which is done to the North, by representing her as the aggressor in this sectional warfare.
The Southern theory assumes that, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution, the same antagonism prevailed as now between the North and South, on the general subject of slavery; that although it existed, to some extent, in all the States but one of the Union, it was a feeble and declining interest at the North, and mainly seated at the South; that the soil and climate of the North were soon found to be unpropitious to slave labor, while the reverse was the case at the South; that the Northern States, in consequence, having from interested motives abolished slavery, sold their slaves to the South, and that then, although the existence of slavery was recognized and its protection guarantied by the Constitution, as soon as the Northern States had acquired a controlling voice in Congress, a persistent and organized system of hostile measures, against the rights of the owners of slaves in the Southern States, was inaugurated and gradually extended, in violation of the compromises of the Constitution, as well as of the honor and good faith tacitly pledged to the South, by the manner in which the North disposed of her slaves.
Such, in substance, is the statement of Mr. Davis in his late message, and he then proceeds, seemingly as if rehearsing the acts of this Northern majority in Congress, to refer to the anti-slavery measures of the State legislatures, to the resolutions of Abolition societies, to the passionate appeals of the party press, and to the act of lawless individuals, during the progress of this unhappy agitation.

THE SOUTH FORMERLY OPPOSED TO SLAVERY.
Now this entire view of the subject, with whatever boldness it is affirmed, and with whatever persistency it is repeated, is destitute of foundation. It is demonstrably at war with the truth of history, and is contradicted by facts known to those now on the stage, or which are matters of recent record. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, and long afterward, there was, generally speaking, no sectional difference of opinion between North and South, on the subject of slavery. It was in both parts of the country regarded, in the established formula of the day, as "a social, political and moral evil." The general feeling in favor of universal liberty and the rights of man, wrought into fervor in the progress of the Revolution, naturally strengthened the anti-slavery sentiment throughout the Union. It is the South which has since changed, not the North. The theory of a change in the Northern mind, growing out of a discovery made soon after 1789, that our soil and climate were unpropitious to slavery, (as if the soil and climate then were different from what they had always been,) and a consequent sale to the South of the slaves of the North, is purely mythical; as groundless in fact, as it is absurd in statement. I have often asked for the evidence of this last allegation, and I have never found an individual who attempted, even, to prove it. But however this may be, the South at that time regarded slavery as an evil, though a necessary one, and habitually spoken of in that light. Its continued existence was supposed to depend on keeping up the African slave trade; and South as well as North, Virginia as well as Massachusetts, passed laws to prohibit that traffic; they were, however, before the Revolution, vetoed by the Royal Governors. One of the first acts of the Continental Congress, unanimously subscribed by its members, was an agreement neither to import nor purchase any slave imported after the first of December, 1774. In the Declaration of Independence, as originally drafted by Mr. Jefferson, both slavery and the slave trade were denounced in the most uncompromising language. In 1775, the traffic was forbidden in Virginia by State law, no longer subject to the veto of Royal Governors. In 1784, an ordinance was reported by Mr. Jefferson to the old Congress, providing that, after 1800, there should be no slavery in any territory, ceded or to be ceded to the United States. The ordinance failed at that time to be enacted, but the same prohibition formed a part, by general consent, of the ordinance of 1787 for the organization of the North-Western Territory. 
In his Notes on Virginia, published in that year, Mr. Jefferson depicted the evils of slavery in terms of fearful import. In the same year the Constitution was framed. It recognized the existence of slavery, but the word was carefully excluded from the instrument, and Congress was authorized to abolish the traffic in twenty years. In 1796, Mr. St. George Tucker, Law Professor in William and Mary College in Virginia, published a treatise, en-
<c04>
titled, "Proposal for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery, dedicated to the General Assembly of the People of Virginia." In the preface of the essay, he speaks of the "abolition of slavery in this State as an object of the first importance, not only to our moral and domestic peace, but even to our political salvation." In 1797, Mr. Pinckney, in the Legislature of Maryland, maintained that, "by the eternal principles of justice, no man in the State has the right to hold his slave a single hour." In 1803, Mr. John Randolph, from a committee on the subject, reported that "the prohibition of slavery by the ordinance of 1787 was wisely calculated to promote the happiness and prosperity of the North-Western States, and to give strength and security to that extensive frontier." Under Mr. Jefferson, the importation of slaves into the Territories of Mississippi and Louisiana was prohibited in advance of the time limited by the Constitution, for the interdiction of the slave trade. "When the Missouri restriction was enacted, all the members of Mr. Monroe's Cabinet-Mr. Crawford, Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Wirt-concurred with Mr. Monroe in affirming its constitutionality. In 1832, after the Southampton Massacre, the evils of slavery were exposed in the Legislature of Virginia, and the expediency of its gradual abolition maintained, in terms as decided as were ever employed by the most uncompromising agitator. A bill for that object was introduced into the Assembly by the grandson of Mr. Jefferson, and warmly supported by distinguished politicians now on the stage. Nay, we have the recent admission of the Vice-President of the Seceding Confederacy, that what lie calls "the errors of the past generation." meaning the anti-slavery sentiments entertained by Southern statesmen, "still clung to many as late as twenty years ago."
To this hasty review of Southern opinions and measures, showing their accordance, till a late date, with Northern sentiment on the subject of slavery, I might add the testimony of Washington, of Patrick Henry, of George Mason, of the, of Pendleton, of Marshall, of Lowndes, of Poinsett, of Clay, and of nearly every first-class name in the Southern States. Nay, as late as 1849, and after the Union had been shaken by the acquisitions incident to the acquisition of Mexican territory, the Convention of California, although nearly one-half of its members were from the slaveholding States, unanimously adopted a Constitution by which slavery was prohibited in that State. In fact, it is now triumphantly proclaimed by the chiefs of the revolt, that the ideas prevailing on this subject when the Constitution was adopted are fundamentally wrong; that the new government of the Confederate States "rests upon exactly the opposite ideas; that its foundations are laid and its corner stone reposes upon the great truth, that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery-subordination to the superior race-is his natural and normal condition. This our new government is the first in the history of the world based upon this physical, philosophical and moral truth." So little foundation is there for the statement that the North, from the first, has been engaged in a struggle with the South on the subject of slavery, or has departed in any degree from the spirit with which the Union was entered into, by both parties. The fact is precisely the reverse.

NO ANTI-SLAVERY MEASURES ENACTED BY CONGRESS.
Mr. Davis, in his message to the Confederate States, goes over a long list of measures, which he declares to have been inaugurated, and gradually extended, as soon as the Northern States had reached a sufficient number to give their representatives a controlling voice in Congress. But of all these measures, not one is a matter of Congressional Legislation, nor has Congress, with this alleged controlling voice on the part of the North, ever either passed a law hostile to the interests of the South, on the subject of slavery, nor failed to pass one which the South has claimed as belonging to her rights or needed for her safety. In truth, the anti-slavery North never has had the control of both Houses of Congress, never of the judiciary, rarely of the Executive, and never exerted these to the prejudice of Southern rights. Every judicial or legislative issue on this question, with the single exception of the final admission of Kansas, that has ever been raised before Congress, has been decided in favor of the South, and yet she allows herself to allege "a persistent and organized system of hostile measures against the rights of the owners of slaves" as the justification of her rebellion.
The hostile measures alluded to are, as I have said, none of them matters of Congressional legislation. Some of them are purely imaginary as to any injurious effect, others much exaggerated, others unavoidably incident to freedom of speech and the press. You are aware, my friends, that I have always disapproved the agitation of slavery for party purposes, or with a view to infringe upon the Constitutional rights of the South. But if the North has given cause of complaint, in this respect, the fault has been equally committed by the South. The subject has been fully as much abused there as here for party purposes, and if the North has ever made it the means of gaining a sectional triumph, she has but done what the South, for the last twenty-five years, has never missed an occasion of doing. With respect to everything substantial, in the complaints of the South against the North, Congress and the States have afforded or tendered all reasonable-all possible-satisfaction. She complained of the Missouri Compromise, although adopted in conformity with all the traditions of the government, and approved by the most judicious Southern statesmen; and after thirty-four years acquiescence on the part of the people, Congress repealed it. She asked for a judicial decision of the territorial question in her favor, and the Supreme Court of the United States, in contravention of the whole current of our legislation, so decided it. She insisted on carrying this decision into effect, and three new territories, at the very last session of Congress, were organized in conformity to it, as Utah and New Mexico had been before it was rendered. She demanded a guarantee against amendments of the Constitution adverse to her interests, and it was given by the requisite majority of the two Houses. She required the repeal of the State laws obstructing the surrender of fugitive slaves, and although she had taken the extreme remedy of revolt into her hands, they were repealed or modified. Nothing satisfied her, because there was an active party in the cotton-growing States, led by ambitious men, determined on disunion, who were resolved not to be satisfied. In one instance alone, the South has suffered defeat. The North, for the first time since the foundation of the government, has chosen a President by her unaided electoral vote: and that is the occasion of the present unnatural war. I did not, as you know, contribute to that result; but I did enlist under the banner of "the Union, the Constitution, and the Enforcement of the Laws." Under that banner I mean to stand, and with it, if it is struck down, I am willing to fall. Even for this result, the South has no one to blame but herself. Her disunionists would give their votes for no candidate but the one elected by leaders who avowed the purpose of effecting a revolution of the Cotton States, and who brought about a schism in the Democratic party directly calculated, probably designed, to produce the event which actually took place, with all its dread consequences.

REPRESENTATION OF THREE-FIFTHS OF THE SLAVES.
I trust I have shown the flagrant injustice of this whole attempt to fasten upon the North the charge of wielding the powers of the Federal Government to the prejudice of the South. But there is one great fact connected with this subject, seldom prominently brought forward, which ought forever to close the lips of the South, in this warfare of sectional reproach. Under the old Confederation, the Congress consisted of but one house, and each State large and small had but a single vote, and consequently an equal share in the government, if government it could be called, of the Union. This manifest injustice was barely tolerable in a state of war; when the imminence of the public danger tended to produce unanimity of feeling and action. When the country was relieved from the pressure of the war, and discordant interests more and more disclosed themselves, the equality of the States became a positive element of discontent, and contributed its full share to the downfall of that short-lived and ill-compacted frame of Government.
Accordingly when the Constitution of the United States was formed, the great object and the main difficulty was to reconcile the equality of the States, (which gave to Rhode Island and Delaware equal weight with Virginia and Massachusetts,) with a proportionate representation of the people. Each of these principles was of vital importance; the first being demanded by the small States, as due to their equal independence, and the last being demanded by
<c05>
the large States, in virtue of the fact that the Constitution was the work and the government of the People, and in conformity with the great Law in which the Revolution had its origin, that Representation and Taxation should go hand in hand.
The problem was solved in the Federal Convention, by a system of extremely refined arrangements, if which the chief was that there should be two Houses of Congress, that each State should have an equal representation in the Senate, (voting, however, not by States but per capita,) and a number of Representatives in the House in proportion to its population. But here a formidable difficulty presented itself, growing out of the anomalous character of the population of the slaveholding States, consisting as it did of a dominant and a subject class, the latter excluded by local law from the enjoyment of all political rights, and regarded simply as property. In this state of things, was it just or equitable that the slaveholding States, in addition to the number of representatives to which their free population entitled them, should have a further share in the government of the country, on account of the slaves held as property by a small portion of the ruling class? While property of every kind in the non slaveholding States was unrepresentative, was it just that this species of property, forming a large, proportion of the entire property of the South, should be allowed to swell the representation of the slaveholding States?
This serious difficulty was finally disposed of, in a manner mutually satisfactory, by providing that Representatives and direct Taxes should be apportioned among the States on the same basis of population, ascertained by adding to the whole number of free persons, three-fifths of the slaves. It was expected at this time that the Federal Treasury would be mainly supplied by direct taxation. While therefore the rule adopted gave to the South a number of representatives out of proportion to the number of her citizens, she would be restrained from exercising this power to the prejudice of the North, by the fact that any increase of the public burdens would fall in the same increased proportion on herself. For the additional weight which the South gained in the Presidential election, by this adjustment, the North received no compensation.
But now mark the practical operation of the compromise. Direct taxation, instead of being the chief resource of the Treasury, has been resorted to but four times since the foundation of the Government, and then for small amounts; in 1798 two millions of dollars, in 1813 three millions, in 1815 six millions, in 1815 three millions again, in all fourteen millions, the sum total raised by direct taxation in seventy-two years, less than an average of 200,000 dollars a year. What number of representatives, beyond the proportion of their free population, the South has elected in former Congresses, I have not computed. In the last Congress she was represented by twenty members, in behalf of her slaves, being nearly one eleventh part of the entire House. As the increasing ratio of the two classes of population has not greatly varied, it is probable that the South, in virtue of her slaves, has always enjoyed about the same proportionate representation in the House in excess of that accruing from her free population. As it has rarely happened in our political divisions, that important measures have been carried by large majorities, this excess has been quite sufficient to assure the South a majority on all sectional questions. It enabled her to elect a candidate for the Presidency in 1800, and thus effect the great political revolution of that year, and is sufficient of itself to account for that approach to the monopoly of the government, which she has ever enjoyed.
Now, though the consideration for which the North agreed to this arrangement may be said to have wholly failed, it has nevertheless been quietly acquiesced in. I do not mean that, in times of high party excitement, it has never been alluded to as a hardship. The Hartford Convention spoke of it as a grievance which ought to be remedied: but even since our political controversies have turned almost wholly on the subject of slavery, I am not ware that this entire failure of the equivalent, for which the North gave up to the South what has secured her in fact the almost exclusive control of the government of the country, has been a frequent or a prominent subject of complaint.
So much for the pursuit by the North of measure hostile to the interests of the South; so much for the grievances urged by the South as her justification for bringing upon the country the crimes and sufferings of civil war, and aiming at the prostration of a government admitted by herself to be the most perfect the world has seen, and under which all her own interests have been eminently protected and favored: for to complete the demonstration of the unreasonableness of her complaints, it is necessary only to add, that, by the admission of her leading public men, there never was a time when her "peculiar institution" was so stable and prosperous as at the present moment.

THE ADVOCATES OF PEACE.
There can be no peace until it be firmly, definitely and finally settled that we have a government. This is the issue, and it must be met without faltering, without hesitating, without wavering; sternly, vigorously met, and decided now and for all time. No compromise now! no holding back the sword, and extending the olive branch! Is it barbarous? is it brutal? is it bloodthirsty to speak thus? Call it such who may, so do not we. It is the only policy that can save this country and this government from ruin and destruction. Nor is it with vindictiveness or bitter hatred against one single human being that so we speak; but with none the less determination-with a stern, unyielding, unflinching, fixed and settled purpose, that the majesty of the law, the divine right of government, shall be upheld and maintained at all hazards, and at every sacrifice of blood and treasure that necessity requires.
What use to talk of peace and compromise now? Peace and compromise were offered; nay, more than offered-urged upon those now in rebellious arms against the government, until we were taunted well-nigh as cravens. And these offers were made in good faith, with unparalleled forbearance, in the very face of acts of the most unblushing treason and plunder towards the national government. But the first gun which, with hostile intent, sent forth its missile of death against Fort Sumter, changed, as with the touch of a magician's wand, the whole aspect. The deadly hatred of the South to the North -deep-seated, long-smouldering, concentrated, and envenomed by its very repression-had burst forth at length without any guise or concealment. And it has spread like the blast of the death-angel over the length and breadth of the Southern States, until its poisonous infection has well-nigh stifled the common feelings of humanity. Is this mere rhetoric? Is it the production of a heated imagination? What say the facts? One example shall suffice.
We know, through a lady but recently from the South, that a lady of Charleston, S. C., pretending refinement and delicacy, expressed the barbarous and revolting wish-and this without any personal or peculiar reason for hatred-that every fly in Charleston were in the hospital at Fortress Monroe, to batten and feed on the festering sores of the soldiers sick there with the small pox. Talk of hatred and cruelty! Why, the wish for the whole North to have but one neck, that some delicate lady's arm might exterminate them all by one blow, even as Judith smote off the head of Holofornes, is mercy and tender compassion in comparison.
Gentlemen then may cry, "Peace! peace!" but again we say, "There is no peace. "What peace will they have? Will they have a peace congress -a peace convention? That has been tried without effect. What greater efficiency can such a measure have now? What oath, what treaty, what armistice, what truce, what solemn obligation, can we rely on now, after the baseness, the deceit, the utter disregard and violation of the most sacred ties and bonds from which we have already suffered so much, and whose disastrous effects we still feel?
Will any alteration or amendment of the Constitution of these United States satisfy the traitors? None! Their rebellion waited not even an attempt to procure such amendment by legitimate and peaceful means. The founders of the Constitution, it seems from Mr. "Vice-President" Stephens, had erroneous views on slavery. Upon how many more points are these new lights in the science of government to discover that Washington, Jefferson, Madison and Hamilton were, mistaken? Mistaken, not in points of detail, as to the length of terms of office and the like, but in principle, deep-lying essentials of a free republican government. If we yield to a demand to nationalize slavery, and bow down ourselves to King Cotton, dragging his enslaved millions in eternal chains, how long will it be before we shall have another king or other kings, to reign over us? The Constitution affords every just
<c06>
guarantee and protection to all the rights of life, liberty, property, and the pursuit of happiness of each and all the inhabitants of these United States, whether as citizens thereof or of any individual State. Shall we be "coerced" into its amendment now? Never! Not a letter must be amendment a "t" crossed nor an"i" dotted under the threat of coercion.
Up, then, citizens of these United States of North America-up for the Government, of the Constitution, for liberty, for all that is scared in a free Republic, for the rights for which your fathers fought and bled! Trust not the syren, aye, even timid, faltering, treacherous, traitorous voices, that would lull you to inaction with the cry, "Peace! peace! when THERE IS NO PEACE!"-<illegible> phial Press.

SECESSION TRAITORS ABROAD.
It is useless to disguise the fact that there are, in our midst and scattered throughout the country, a few cowardly secession traitors. who, while they outwardly profess to sustain the government, secretly lose no opportunity to rejoice over every reverse our brave and patriotic soldiers meet with; gloat over the assassination of the lamented Ellsworth; seize every occasion to thwart and discourage the enlistment of volunteers; claim that nine-tenths of the soldiers who have gone to fight the battles to preserve the Union are democrats, and then tell those soldiers that the war is unjust and <illegible> and yet claim to support the government and these democratic soldiers who are prosecuting this"unholy and unjust war"!
This is secession consistency. It is cowardly treason! Every one of these traitors would rejoice of the last Northern solder should meet his death in the South, at the hands of the rebel assassins.
These men are cowards at heart, or their acts would be in accordance with their words. Why do they not join the Southern army? The country would then be rid of a set of traitors- a dead weight which is destroying the best government in the world, and who, if opportunity presented, would be found openly what they are secretly -traitors to the North and the government, and destructive to the democratic party.
Now let us see what effect this secession language will have on the democratic party. It is claimed by the secession paper in this country, and the secession talkers, that seven-tenths of all the volunteers are democrats; and yet they pronounce the war unjust and unholy, and glory over the defeat and assassination of those democratic soldiers, and the success of the rebels.
Do those democratic volunteers regard this war as unjust and unholy? If so, they would not go there, because there is no compulsion. Can it be expected that those soldiers will ever vote for any of the men, or with any party, who give, "aid and comfort" to the enemies of the government, and who secretly desire that the volunteers from the North may fill bloody and hospitable graves" in the South?
Never! The man who shall run on any ticket, who has aided and countenanced secession, would not be dignified by being placed among the seattering. There can be no justification of these Southern rebels. The act of secession has been a predetermined thing with them for years, only waiting a favorable opportunity to strike the blow. Finding no reasonable, excuse, they broke up the Charleston and Baltimer, conventions, and run Breckinridge to insure the election of Lincoln.
The running of Breckinridge was a mere farce. They went into the contest upon the principle of the gambler who tossed pennies, "Heads I win, tails you lose." The Southern States elected Lincoln by running Breckinridge, and then held his election as their justification for secession. One alter another they seceded, and bad actually matured a plan to march on and take Washington.
At this stage of things, the North rose as one man, and it is the duty of every patriotic citizen to strengthen the hands of the government in this emergency. The Union will the sustained at any sacrifice of blood and treasure, and these Southern rebels will be taught a lesson it would be well for the country if they had learned earlier. The will be brought back subdued and humiliated: and woe to the traitor of to-day who shall venture into politics after a peace shall be concluded! He will be marked and doomed.-Catskill (Democratic) Journal.

THE PEACE THAT MEANS PEACE.
Peace is surely desirable. Its value ran hardly be estimated. Civil war, such as we are now entering upon, is among the very worst of national <illegible>ties. The ill-blood between sections, which will grow out of it, is another great misfortune. The waste of treasure and of human life, involved in the struggle, will be fearful. And yet, peace might be too clearly purchased. We should not be disposed to rejoice over a dishonorable peace. We should not be disposed to rejoice over a peace purchased by a compact binding us to the maintenance of slavery anywhere. Slavery is the cause of this war; and has been the cause of all our civil troubles. It is itself a sort of chronic war. We should not rejoice,-we should rather mourn,-over any peace which committed us to its maintenance, or sanctioned its extension. Give us, rather, the opposite policy, and root out the cause of our troubles, even though it cost all it seems likely to cost.'
To buy back the rebels-to offer them a price to come into the Union and rule over us again, would be the height of folly and weakness.
It would establish rebellion as a regular resource of defeated parties, and the means whereby they could carry the ends they could not carry by the ballot-box. To recognize their independence would be to make secession the resource of every slightly dissatisfied State, and our Union would crumble rapidly to pieces.
But no compromise can now he successful. The North is determined to wipe out, once for all, the great rebellion of 1861, and or make an example of it that shall deter demagogues in future from attempting to overthrow the nation because the people have decided they shall not rule it.-Delhi (N. Y.) Republican.

THE "CONTRABAND" AT FORTRESS MONROE. A correspondent of the New York World writes from Fortress Monroe as follows:-
"On my way into the camp, I passed a group of negroes sitting on the edge of the bluff, and looking towards Africa. They were of all ages, sizes, sexes and costumes. In brief, they were a group of the famous 'contrabands' who had come in during the night from the adjacent country, and were to be sent down to Fort Monroe by the next boat, which happened to be the one on which your correspondent embarked.
One of them-a little fellow with a face as black as an ink-bottle, big, tumorous lips, white ebonies and brief breeches, who wore also an enormous cap a <illegible> militaire, of the precise pattern adopted by the secession army-looked at me with a peculiar grin as I passed.
'Are you a contraband?' I inquired.
'Yah! yah! yah! I gueff so!' was the response. 'Massa run away, den de darkies run away too! continued he, laughing, and all his companions joined in the demonstration.
On the boat coming down to the fort this afternoon, there was a large number. I questioned some of them, and I can assure you the stupid ignorance which they have been supposed to exhibit is a mistake. They are bright and intelligent. The most of them seem happy at the thought of escape, though the uncertainly of their future, and the strangeness of the scenes through which they are passing, impresses them deeply. One old female slave assured me she had 'a kind -a <illegible> kind massa!' 'Why, bless de Lor'!' she added, in proof of the fact,'he nebber put wires in his <illegible> is all his life!'"
NO PREJUDICE AGAINST COLOR. The Vicksburg Whig is in extacics over a tree negro named Jordas Chavis, who has written a letter to the agent of the confederate loan, in which he states that he has long been a resident of the county, and has received a land warrant for services in the war of 1812; but being too old for active service, he now desires to present a horse to a cavalry company, and he also authorizes the agent to draw upon him for $500, to be paid out of his next crop, for the use of the confederacy. The paragraph is headed "Patriotic Liberality of a Colored Man." There is no intimation that he is a "negro" or a "nigger," or even a "boy;" but he is spoken of as "a real bona fide colored man, long well known in this community, who, by his correct and honest deportment, has gained the esteem of all who know him. "There is nothing said about forcing the negro to work upon entrenchments, as there would have been, probably, if he had no property. Yes it is possible he had his fears on the subject, had lest he might lose all his property, made a virtue of the necessity. Negroes are sometimes shrewd.
