THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent. 
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our countrymen are all Mankind 
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 43. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1557.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SPEECH OF HON. WILLIAM L. YANCEY.
Extracts from an audacious, defiant, and ribaldrous speech, in defence of slavery, delivered in Faneuil Hall, Friday evening, Oct. 12, before ‘The National Democracy' [!!] of Boston, by Hon. [!] William L. Yancey, of Alabama:-
In a late speech, Mr. Seward compared the Northwest to the South as the favorite region where the sons of freedom live. I have no doubt the sons of liberty live there. But we at the South are just as free as they in the Northwest. The Northwest last year-or in 1857 rather, three years ago-was nearly bankrupt. Why, the Northwest aint out of debt yet. I, as a business man, happen to know that the merchants of Boston and New York sent notes to the South months before they were due, begging that they might be cashed, and I among others had to lend to Northern merchants to save them from bankruptcy, being enabled to do so by the brilliant prosperity of the South. 
When the gentleman undertakes to draw an invidious comparison between the North and the South, I do not return evil for evil by drawing an invidious comparison, but as your great statesman once said of Massachusetts-'There stands Massachusetts-look at her!' I say of the South-'There she is-look at her!' and that is enough. (Great applause.) 
Well, now, what share have you of that great wealth? We don't keep it all. This nigger institution, no matter what you say about it, has made it. Every man who makes shoes at Lynn is interested in every nigger. There are some shoemakers there who are interested, I know, for I buy shoes of them for my slaves. The South buys its shoes in Boston and New York. How much do you think they pay to the North? At a reasonable calculation, two millions out of the four millions of negroes wear shoes. The grown negroes, working men, have at least two pair, and, on a well regulated plantation, three pair every year. At two dollars to a negro, that makes four millions to those shoemakers here in Massachusetts to shoe our negroes. Now, supposing they were Jamaica niggers, how many shoes would they buy? (Laughter.) 
Now, then, about clothes. We clothe all our negroes. We of the South do not choose to spend our work in manufacturing. You can manufacture cheaper and better than we. We are a free trade people, and we want to buy where we can buy cheapest. If I cannot raise my meat as cheap as I can buy it, I will pay you for it. If I cannot make clothes for my negroes as cheap as I buy them of you, I will pay you for them. I will do what I think is for my interest. And I tell you that is the only way to make a good, great and happy people. (Applause.)
Build up a Chinese wall around Boston, and your people would starve in a little while. Four millions of niggers have to be clothed. On the average, it will take ten yards to clothe one of them. That is cheap enough; but ours is a mild climate, and little is required. There, then, is forty million yards. Your woolens must cost-some of your merchants can tell me-say twenty cents a yard, I reckon; and the cottons must cost in the neighborhood of ten cents. That makes forty millions of yards of cloth, averaging fifteen cents a yard. 
You perceive what a vast amount-say ten millions of dollars-is required to pay you for these clothes. We buy other manufactured goods of the New England and Northern States-all our hoes, ploughs and such things-say five millions of dollars worth. We have four millions of slaves, and we require fully five millions of dollars to buy these things to carry on our industry. We spend every year for the purpose of shoeing and clothing these negroes, forty millions of dollars. Some of your people at the North insist upon dealing with the ethics and morals of this institution, and say it can be dispensed with. I want to know of the Lynn shoemakers what will become of their employment? What will happen to all the pretty girls in the factories? You ought to have something better for them to do. They ought to go South, and become the wives of agriculturists. What is to become of this vast industry, which depends on keeping our niggers clothed and fed? 
A Voice-Would not they want clothes if they were free?
Mr. Yancey-They would not wear them if they had them. I will touch that branch of the argument presently. [Cries of ‘Put him out'-alluding to the questioner.] No, no-don't put anybody out-that is a very proper question to ask. It shows that your mind [to the querist] is working in the right direction. (Applause and laughter.) 
Well, after we have got our negroes in good condition to commence the year's work, January, 1861, you are prepared to spend your hard winter pretty comfortably. We can spend our mild winters very pleasantly; and you have got something to carry you through-I allude to the working mass of the community-the great industrial masses of the community, who, with wives and children to take care of, and occasionally some sickly member of the family who cannot labor. That deserves the interest and consideration of every man who dares to think for a moment that he is a statesman. 
The South has this year $250,000,000 of exports. What is to become of them? They come back through the ports of Boston and New York, assisting the shipping interests of the whole world. Our population is a wealthy and luxurious people, and spends millions every year to see your sights and your watering places, your Bunker Hill and your Mount Washington. They cover your rivers and your palatial steamers with travellers. We buy our fine shoes, our linens, our cottons and the gay dresses of our ladies. You get $100,000,000 out of that $250,000,000, and this added to the $40,000,000 spent for our slaves, makes $140,000,000 that is spent amongst you. It comes from the hardworking negroes, whose industry your philosophers would destroy by setting them free. (Applause.) 
The gentleman asked me a question: Will not the nigger do this if free? The answer is already in history. The wise men of England thought it could be done; the wise men of France thought it could be done. So, financial speculative theorists, honest, it is true, just such men as your Lincolns and your Sewards, got these Governments to abolish slavery in their West India Islands, which then produced more wealth than all the Southern States. And the nigger has been protected by the English Government. What do they do? Why, they sleep all day and prowl about all night. They make nothing themselves, and steal everything made by everybody else. (Laughter.) 
There is one thing that a negro will plant, and that is a pumpkin; but he will never work it after he plants it. He will prowl about among the neighbors' hen-roosts, their pigs and chickens and geese. I tell you the gleaning which is done in these fields by these niggers beats Ruth entirely. She was fair. No people can exist in the neighborhood of a mass of free negroes. They are naturally disposed to be lazy. Six months of the year the thermometer is as high as 110° in the shade, and 
<c02>
130° in the open sun; and in such a climate, man is disposed to be listless and quiet. Read the fate of St. Domingo, and of the islands where these people are set free. Where there were hundreds of millions of wealth, there are now only hundreds of thousands.
A VOICE-If your negroes were free, wouldn't they make cotton?
Mr. YANCEY-That's a fair question, and you will take my experience in relation to it. In that climate, where cotton is raised in its rigor, where it requires heat and moisture, the lands are level, the streams low and sluggish, and the trees are clothed with a weeping moss which seems to mourn the miasma which infests the country.
Several years ago, I passed over a road leading to Tuscaloosa, in Alabama, called the Old Line Creek road. It is a level cotton region. When I went to Alabama, in 1836, what do you think that was called? It was called the widow's road. There was not a male head of a family living there. The women lived there because they were not exposed to the noonday sun nor the night air. Being engaged in household duties, they escaped the mortality that carried off nearly every man living on that road. I mention this to show you the nature of the Southern climate. No man exposes himself to the heat of the sun without great danger, and we have to take great care of ourselves. The white man cannot stand the climate; the negro can. While the overseer would seek shelter under a tree or an umbrella, the negro would look the sun in the eye without flinching. He prospers and breeds like a rabbit.
What will the election of Lincoln do with this sort of labor? You would not touch a slave, but you demand that we shall keep where we are. You say that we are equals in this Government; but is it right to say we shall not carry our property into the territories? ('Yes!’ ‘Yes!’ ‘No!’ ‘No!’) You go with your labor where you please.
A VOICE-'No, sir! we can't go South!’ 
Mr. YANCEY-Yes, sir, you can go South. There isn't a man among you who is not welcome, if he don't come to steal our niggers. (' Good!' 'Good!') We have plenty of Northern men in our city; we have merchants and mechanics in Montgomery, and we have men who deal in shoes and hats and other goods, from New England, who are honored and respected citizens with ourselves. They do not try to steal our property, or to incite rebellion, and they stay. But let any one come, with a lighted torch to this magazine under us, to blow us up, and destroy our society, and we would be less than men if we did not hang him to the highest tree. (Great applause.) 
And why is it that I am allowed to speak here to-night, to this vast, intelligent auditory of men of all parties, and to be treated with respect? ('Free speech!’ ‘Free speech!') It is because of one single fact. I respect your rights, and trample on none of them. I will spend my life-blood in their defence, if necessary. (Great cheering.) Now, then, if this policy of Mr. Lincoln is to be inaugurated, what is to be the effect? Its effect will be that we shall be confined to the place where we are now. ('That's right!') Our negroes will decrease rapidly in price; the institution will be confined to one locality, and that will be an injury to our property and our prosperity. If you say to a farmer, you shall remain where you are, and shall not move when circumstances make it for your advantage to move, you have thus circumscribed him, you have struck a fatal blow at his prosperity. In the first place, you have struck a blow at his liberty of moving his property where he pleases. And to slave property, this is a greater blow than to any other species. I will tell you why. Virginia sells a large number of niggers every year. If the Republicans should come in power, their policy would be to prevent the slave trade between the States. They've already abolished it in the District of Columbia, and for the sake of argument 1et us admit that they have the right to prohibit it between the States. Does good faith, does good policy towards your brothers require that you shall do it or not? You restrict the institution in Virginia, and you destroy the value of our property. Now, then, wherever you take my property by saying you shall not sell, you destroy the value of that whole species of property.
Suppose you passed a law that the owners of real estate shall not sell it except for debt,-what a blow it would be to the real estate of Massachusetts! The value of property consists in the right of sale or interchange; and when you take away the right of sale, you nave destroyed property and its value. An element of property is the right to buy and the right to sell, and as quick as you limit the right, you destroy its value.
If the Republican policy is carried out, you make the people set these negroes free, and by law drive them out of the State of Virginia; and when they come by hundreds of thousands upon Massachusetts, when you have doubled your pauper houses and jails, then you will begin to pass laws to drive back this great herd. There is but one State that shows that her cant and cry about negro equality is not mere hypocrisy.
You in Massachusetts allow negroes to be lawyers; you allow them to vote. In our country-without meaning any disrespect, I say it-we have a white government; yours seems to be a mulatto government. Now our fathers never designed that-your fathers never designed it. Your fathers and my fathers built this government on two ideas; the first is, that the white race is the citizen, and the master race, and that every white man is the equal of every other white man. The second idea is that the negro is the inferior race. (Applause and hisses.) 
Your fathers so provided it that there should be slaves, and that they should be bought and sold. They held the negro to be the servile race, and you demanded the privilege of selling and buying them. You did buy and sell them, and we bought them of you, and hold them now. This is the government of the white man, and our civilization and industry rest upon the fact that our fathers recognized the truth that the negro was a slave, and was destined to be a slave.

LETTER FROM GEORGIA.
From the New York Journal of Commerce. 
TALBOTTON, Ga., Oct. 9, 1860.
MESSRS. EDITORS,-There is no heart that beats warmer for the Union of these States than mine; yet, I have fearful apprehensions as to its perpetuity and safety. For the Union with the Constitution, I do not think there can be found any stronger advocates anywhere than the people of the South; but, aggravated by the grievances and aggressions that have been committed against us on the part of the North, the most hopeful of us have almost despaired of ever sustaining; the Union on the basis whereon it was formed. In vain have we asked for a redress of our wrongs; in vain have we made every concession and compromise; in vain have we endeavored to preserve the Constitution as it was given us by our fathers. But the South is yet willing to stand by this princely heritage of American freedom. She says to the North, although you have violated the Constitution-although you have
<c03>
passed personal liberty bills to free our slaves, and denied us our rights under this Constitution-we will still live one united people, if you will give us the assurance in November next that no sectional anti-slavery party shall ever reign over this country.
I have my fears and my hopes; but I do honestly believe that this Union, formed by our fathers, would not survive the shock that would be given it, should such a party as Abe Lincoln's gain the ascendency in this government.
The people of the South would deplore such a calamity, and feel themselves degraded in the eyes of the civilized world. Humanity would even revolt at such an idea; for what would become of five millions of slaves, cast out upon the cold charities of mankind, should the doctrine of emancipation be carried out? Pause for a moment, my Northern brethren! Remember that the Christian slave is now happy and contented. Would you make him miserable by depriving him of his master, who loves him and provides for him? If you would, you are not a friend of humanity; you are a traitor to the best interests of your fellow-man. But if you believe his condition can be rendered better, why not be charitable towards him by permitting him to be benefitted by your benevolence? If you are in earnest about his happiness and freedom, why do you exclude him from your Northern States? Do you expect us of the South to live on an equality with the slave that you would emancipate? If you do, I tell you, as a Southern man, you are mistaken. You can never consummate such an end. Your purposes and plans are too vain and absurd. We know what is best for our condition. We are satisfied that the good of society and of mankind requires that the negro, among us, should be in the condition of slavery. Experience has proven that he is happiest in that condition. Why, then, do you war upon the South for his freedom? You tell me it is for the negro's good. But I tell you it is a war against the negro's good. Stop, then, your agitation, which arouses the hatred and passions of your countrymen against us. Now let us reason together. It is my individual opinion, and I speak the sentiment of thousands of my fellow-countrymen, that if Abe Lincoln is elected President, there is no possible chance for the preservation of this Union. Do you want me to tell you how it can be dissolved? Now I am not a disunionist,-not even if Lincoln is elected. But suppose a body of men, numbering one thousand, were to organize themselves in the State of South Carolina, for the purpose of resisting the government of Lincoln; and that if Lincoln should dispatch government troops to quell such a resistance, do you not think every Southern State would fly off its hinges to the aid of South Carolina? Undoubtedly they would. Then would bloodshed and war ensue. Suppose, again, that Lincoln should appoint an Abolition postmaster in every town and city of the South; do you think that the Southern people would submit to it? No! I tell you not, my Northern brethren; never. I do not believe that there are five hundred disunionists per se in the Southern States. But five or six hundred of such could disrupt this Union forever.
We are daily uniting here for the defeat of Lincoln's election; and we are happy to hear that such a movement has been made in New York and Pennsylvania. We trust that, with the vote of these two gallant States, the South will be able to defeat such an election. We have now only to look to the efforts of the Democracy and the conservative men of the North, to help us in this hour of need. If all such efforts fail, we are gone forever. 
There are true men in the North-thousands of them yet-man that I have ever loved, who will save the Constitution from destruction. Yes, men like Caleb Cushing, Dickinson and Hallett, who are powerful when the Union is in danger. 
As far as Georgia is concerned, we are going for Breckinridge and Lane, because they are for the Union founded upon the Constitution, and the equality of the States.
Now, Messrs. Elitors, let me close by invoking a just Providence, which has ever preserved us from danger, to continue us, (in prosperity as well as adversity,) one and inseparable, now and forever.
A UNION DEMOCRAT. 

FREEDOM OF SPEECH.
The following statement from the Charleston Courier will explain the reasons why Mr. Brewster of Kingston, in this State, was induced to leave the South for home sooner than he expected. He is now held up as a quasi martyr, as an inoffensive school-teacher, seeking employment at the South on account of his health, and driven away simply because he was a Northern man. We perceive that a conspicuous position was assigned to Mr. Brewster, ‘recently from Alabama,' in the Wide-Awake procession of Tuesday evening.
Upon the whole, the account of Mr. Brewster's retirement from the sphere of duties sought by him, upon rather treacherous pretences, considering he was an abolitionist, is not very creditable to him. It is in vain to reason with those who insist upon saying just what they please, just where they please. We have no idea that any Northern gentleman or lady would meet with the slightest indignity in any Southern State, if he conversed on any subject, even slavery, in proper company and in a manner becoming ladies and gentlemen everywhere. If he held conference with the negroes, in the spirit of an abolitionist, or seemed likely to do so, we should no more be surprised to see him sent away, than we should to see the same mischance happen to a Southerner, who should devote himself deliberately to stirring up discontent and ill-will between employers and the employed in any manufacturing town of New England. We mean no offensive comparison between the several classes; but every one would feel that the conduct of such a person was deserving the highest indignation-and it would receive it.
Perhaps the best illustration we ever heard, on this point, came from a friend who was conversing on the same subject with an indignant Free-Soiler, who complained that Northern citizens could not talk freely at the South. 'Why,' said our friend, ‘you have a powder-mill in South Carolina and an ice-house in Maine. You might think it objectionable to sport with fire-works about the one, but not at all so to fire away at your pleasure ever so near the other.'-Boston Courier.
The ‘Wide-Awakes' (this was the name borne by John Brown's troopers) paraded here Tuesday. There were companies from far and near, and of all colors. It is a little singular that these men should have selected the anniversary of Brown's murderous invasion of Virginia for their display, when they could have selected to-night or to-morrow night, just as well. It was not until after the Wide-Awakes had fixed the time for their display that the Union men appointed to-night for their demonstration. Do the Republicans of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana think that the anniversary of John Brown's murders at Harper's Ferry should be celebrated by torch-light processions? Do the Bostonians who illuminated their mansions last night, know that they were rejoicing over the murders and robbery of honest, kind-hearted Virginians?—1b. 
<c04>
SELECTIONS. 
From the Leeds (Eng.) Mercury of October 4th. 
THE REV. DR. CHEEVER ON AMERICAN SLAVERY. 
Last night, the Rev. Dr. CHEEVER, pastor of the Church of the Puritans, New York, delivered an address, in East Parade chapel, under the auspices of the Leeds, Young Men's Anti-Slavery Society, on' American Slavery.' EDWARD BAINES, Esq., M. P., presided, and amongst the ministers and other friends of the Anti-Slavery cause present, were the Rev. G. W. Conder, the Rev. W. Hudswell, Rev. P. Edwards, Rev. Dr. Brewer, Rev. J. Mather, Rev. P. M'Gowan, George Thompson, Esq., F. Baines, Esq., T. E. Plint, Esq., S. Clapham, Esq., John Wade, Esq., &c. There was a large and respectable audience.
Dr. BREWER having offered up prayer,
The CHAIRMAN opened the proceedings by observing that they were met that evening to give a hearty welcome to England and to Leeds of one of the most distinguished advocates of that great and sacred cause of human liberty-the emancipation of millions of slaves in the United States, from a cruel and degrading bondage. A more important and greater cause scarcely could demand their sympathy and their support-(hear, hear,)-and he thought he might also say that a braver champion of truth and right had seldom presented himself before a Leeds audience. (Applause.) He knew that the sympathies of Leeds were always with those subject to oppression, of whatever color and in whatever clime. They had lately had a meeting to testify their sympathy with Garibaldi in his noble efforts to secure the independence of Italy, but if they could be, as they were, enthusiastic in such a cause, how much more were they called upon to sympathise with those, who, though differing from them in color, were still of the same flesh and blood-children of the same God-but who were subject to a bondage infinitely worse than the political and civil bondage under which the inhabitants of Italy or of any other part of Europe were suffering. (Hear, hear.) He supposed it was not possible for him to use exaggerated terms in describing the slavery of the United States, but he felt that he ought not to enter into the subject, as it would be presented to them by a master who had studied near at hand all the features of that revolting system. (Hear, hear.) He was glad that they had assembled to welcome Dr. Cheever, who, if he had not come from scenes of blood, still came from the high places of the field in which the great struggle was carried on against this debasing system of slavery; for, unhappily, there was no city in the Union where there were to be found firmer and more determined friends of slavery than in the city of New York. Many there were whose consciousness had been awakened and whose hearts had been melted at the sufferings of the slave, but still in the very midst of the city of New York-he might even say in the Christian churches of New York-there was found to exist a degree of support to this system which was disgraceful to those who were guilty of it, and disgraceful, if anything could be, to the Christian churches of that city. (Hear, hear.) Dr. Cheever had been fighting for many years an extremely arduous battle,-he had set himself as a Christian duty to the exposure of the iniquity of slavery, and to show that it was condemned in the Scriptures. He was sure, therefore, that they would give him a hearty welcome when he came to ask them for that sympathy which had been given to him so slenderly in his own land, where he found not only pecuniary interests arrayed against him, but was subject to the most virulent opposition and calumny. To destroy Dr. Cheever would be the highest achievement of the pro-slavery party, and it was to strengthen his position that he came to seek their sympathy and support. Having freed themselves from the stain of slavery at an expense of twenty millions of money, England had a right to speak out on this subject without laying herself open to any charge of national jealousy or prejudice. (Hear, hear.) He was most desirous to be distinct upon that point. They did not come there from any feeling of antipathy or jealousy against their friends across the Atlantic; they would most willingly welcome them as their coadjutors, in some respects their examples, in the great cause of civil liberty; but they came forward to declare their testimony on this subject, and to testify to their brethren on the other side of the Atlantic that they were upholding a great and grievous crime against God and against man. (Hear, hear.) Dr. Cheever was there to speak from his own personal knowledge or from the testimony of those upon whom he could rely, and he was a witness who had no personal interests to serve, except that his interests would be like that of too many, to obtain peace for himself and unity for his own church, by passing over this painful subject, but God had happily given him something of the spirit of the living martyr, and as he had fought the fight in America, he was here to carry it on in England. (Applause.) Mr. Baines concluded by introducing
DR. CHEEVER to the meeting, and the Rev. Gentleman was received with loud applause. Having ascended the pulpit, he proceeded at considerable length to address the audience. He expressed the delight with which he addressed an audience of the friends of the enslaved, and in the manifestation of the cordial, hearty, and effective hatred of slavery animating the Leeds Young Men's Christian Anti-Slavery Society-a society whose influence has been felt in America through the noble protest and rebuke of their Wesleyan churches in this country, against the continued complicity of the same churches in the United States with this sin. (Hear, hear.) Throwing himself upon their forbearance, and expressing his heartfelt gratitude and thanks for their sympathy and kindness towards him and his faithful though much-abused church, and especially towards the despised slave, he said that freedom and its possibility just now in the United States, and certainly for the future, were comprehended in one word-Abolition!-a hated word, but if the thing was not made a reality, all their freedom must become the worst of despotisms. He stood there to fulfil a duty of patriotism, philanthropy, and piety in denouncing the system of slavery and the act of slaveholding as always, inherently and inevitably, a sin against God and a cruelty against man-which God himself had denounced, along with the crime of murder, as worthy of death. They were accused of a want of patriotism and of being traitors to their country, because they endeavored to save it from destruction, because they endeavored to awaken the people to a sense of their guilt and danger, because they called upon them to rid themselves of this opprobrium and curse, and to cast off the tyranny of this crime. It was no want of patriotism to reveal a conspiracy against their country's freedom, to disclose the enemy within their gates; and was he to become their enemy because he told his countrymen the truth? Their native land was under the yoke of an intolerable tyranny. They were laboring to break it, and the true patriots in America were those who detested slavery, and demanded its abolition. (Hear, hear.) Their republicanism, their 
<c05>
constitution, their religion were invaded by the codes and armies of the Slave Power, and their patriotism compelled them to resist these insolent foreign lords and despots. It was a despotism worse than personal-the despotism that compelled them to be the base, despicable tools for fastening chains on others, -the despotism that proclaimed its property in man, and commanded them to act the part of brawny, national blacksmiths at this devil's anvil to forge and rivet for millions those chains by which their oppressors would hold them also in their power. (Applause.) He could conceive nothing more degrading than such submission and such drudgery! Which would they rather do-be bound themselves with chains, or endure the more servile thraldom of a task-master? his irons on their soul, compelling them to do his work of fettering and scourging others, their life's greatest accomplishment being to strengthen and perpetuate his power; and by a still more terrible refinement, being compelled at the peril of their lives to maintain the blasphemous assertions against God, their own souls, and the whole world-of this system of chains and moral assassination being the revealed will of the Almighty, and the most perfect system of religion, freedom, civilization, and social happiness and glory? What was more execrable than the character and work of the slave driver? and what slave-driving was worse than that which put even the church in political coffles to sustain the Slave Power of the Government of the country? They stood as Abolitionists the only true patriots in defence of their country against this foreign foe. (Loud applause.) He would next speak as to the accusation of being the slanderers of the church and ministry in the States, or at least of misrepresenting or denying their piety or faithfulness, when he charged many of them with a guilty silence and complicity, and others with the iniquity of a bold and shameless defence of the slaveholder, and sanctioning the sin. There was no possibility of denying these positions. The charge of unfaithfulness, most extreme and culpable, was made out even by Mr. Barnes (a very moderate man), in his often-quoted declaration, than which nothing could be more true, that American slavery could not exist at all outside the American churches, were it not sanctioned and sustained within. (Applause.) If the churches and the ministry would unite evangelically against it, trusting in God, they could sweep it from the whole land in twenty years. (Renewed applause.) It was a fearful thing to see the indifference of many whose calling and commission should place them foremost in the strife, and to see others deliberately pledging their religion as mere caterers of the politics of the country. Its being sanctioned in the church made it impossible that the political world should regard it as an evil; its being legalized in the Government made it impossible that a religion which did not condemn it as a sin should oppose it as a legal institution. Now, the efficacy of the gospel, if ever demonstrated, must be in its application against such wickedness. (Hear, hear.) If slaveholding were not sinful, they had no right to interfere with it; if it were a sin, they had no right not to interfere-(hear, hear,)-no right to keep silence. Every man had a commission from God and his conscience to speak out, and as God's ministers they could not refuse to speak, and be innocent. (Hear, hear.) There was a time when their religion stood against it, but its influence had corrupted their piety, and gradually things had come to such a pass that the sin was deemed not incompatible with the purest piety. The church had admitted the iniquity to her communion, and not having the vital force to purge it away, to expel it, had baptized it, put the sacramental robe upon it, and enthroned it as a household god. The pearl oyster, it was said, surrounded the cutting and irritating grains of sand that had got within its shell with an effusion from its own substance which hardened into pearl; and their religion, distressed by the enormity of slavery in the church, yet powerless to exclude it, covered it with a cloak of piety, and adopted it as a child of God. That the cross of Christ should thus be made the minister of sin was intolerable. To think of the unutterable shame of the Church of God becoming a pack-horse for this iniquity, an army of sappers and miners, blasters and builders to carry a military road for the Slave Power over even the Simplon of an outraged universal conscience!-to think of the Church in so infamous an attitude and act as that of pander and procurer for the establishment of slavery as a providential missionary institute! In their partnership with this sin, they had lost sight of its enormity. Give it an inch anywhere, and it would take an ell. (Hear, hear.) 
He defended the Abolitionists from the accusation of violence, vituperation, fanaticism, and injurious persistency in their mode and frequency of the application of Divine truth to this wickedness, and said that it occupied no greater place in their preaching than it did in the Word of God. They could not possibly speak in affectionate terms, either of the sin or its supporters. Nothing but the Word of God, and the loud, impassioned, reiterated remonstrances of it in God's name, against the sin of slaveholding, would produce any effect; and the secret of the conflict as it raged against his particular church, more than anywhere else, was simply and solely the avowed determination on their part, trusting in God, to keep up this battle as a religious battle, for the entire abolition of slavery. (Loud cheers.) It was because they avowed themselves abolitionists, and were determined to be nothing at all in this great cause, if not that. (Hear, hear.) This was called vituperation, ultraism, madness. They were content with this charge, knowing that they were not mad, but spoke forth the words of truth and soberness. 
After referring to the admirable rebuke recently administered by Lord Brougham to the American Ambassador, occasioned by the presence of a colored man at the Statistical Congress, and denouncing the insolence of Mr. Dallas in refusing a passport to an American lady because of the color of her skin, he said it was necessary on this great question to be outspoken. It had been said, in effect, that God, by giving them Africa, had made slavery inevitable, and that they were but His ministers in the execution of His will. The recklessness and diabolic grandeur of such ravings against the Most High, in casting upon Him the authorship of this wickedness, carried this at last with them, that the sin was completed, and that the end was nigh. (Hear, hear.) There was no describing the shame of aiding in the transmutation of human sensibilities into the habit of enduring and claiming as under the approbation of a holy God, a system of inhuman and almost incredible atrocities, 'the sum of all villanies,' the insurance of the constant violation of every commandment in the Decalogue. Yet this was the very process now going on in the States, and men of rank and intelligence, of moral and political influence and acuteness, men of eloquence, ' to make the worse appear the better reason,' were instilling these doctrines almost without rebuke, and entirely without shame, into the public mind. From the common range of immoral men giving way to temptation and betrayed into sin, they had become studied, educated, moral monsters. How were these things to be resisted? Certainly not with affectionate words and loving courtesies,
<c06>
but by condemning and excommunicating them in the name of God and applying to them exactly the terms of His own reprobation and wrath, ( Applause.) Then came the plea of vested-rights; state rights, plantation-rights; church-rights. Here were four millions of human beings voted to be merchandise. That was a nation. Was there a vested right of oppression over them? Who invested it? and with whom, and by what covenant? on what agreement, and in whom residing? There was also the vested right of human freedom, and so sore as there was any machinery of cruelty, working and sanctified by men with their vested rights of robbery and murder in the profits, God had another providential machinery running on to meet it. Would to God that there was as clear and rapid sweep of justice with the crime of stealing a man, as there was with that of stealing his pocket-book or signing his name! (Hear, hear.) Bat here the Church, with her vested right of refuge, as in the darkest ages, was in the way. A monk's cowl, a bishop's crozier and robes, once protected the vilest criminals; the profession of religion, membership in a Protestant church, now protected the slaveholder and the iniquity of slaveholding from condemnation, as being a Christian sinner and a Christian sin, and until this enormity was put away from the church, there was no remedy against it. (Hear, hear.) The preaching of the Gospel and the discipline of the' Gospel must go together, and the Church must sustain a constant, persistent, pungent application of the truth by the ministry, demanding in God's name, by God's authority, the entire abolition of slavery. On this ground he took his stand with his church, and they maintained that God's Word was to be applied against this sin, and against those who were guilty of it, just as it was to be applied against adultery and murder. But in the midst of churches where the holding of men as slaves was regarded as perfectly consistent with the Christian character, they could hardly conceive the rage and bitterness produced by such an application of Divine truth. This was their ultraism, fanaticism, imprudence; this was that violence and ferocity by which they were accused of doing infinite mischief to the cause of the enslaved. For himself and friends, they declared that they had no other purpose in this conflict but the deliverance of those now held in bondage, just where they were thus held, and that they meant to apply the Word of God and the Constitution of their country for this object. They demanded in God's name the opening of the prison-doors, and the letting of the oppressed go free, the breaking of every yoke from Virginia to Texas, and not merely an injunction levied against yokes in Oregon. Consistently with this view of duty, and their corresponding action, they defended the heroism of John Brown, and the right of that grand Christian patriot to trample on the wicked laws of Virginia, and to move for the deliverance and organized freedom of the slaves of that State. When they took that ground, the rage, both of the pro-slavery Christian community and of opponents amongst themselves, was extreme. The leader of the recent and present effort against the church, who, up to that time, had professed himself a friend, became openly an enemy, and declared that it was high time the abolition career of the church was stopped. The latest news from this man and his coadjutors was the protest which they had published, and sent to England, against the appeal for British sympathy and aid. In that they had the hardihood to declare that slavery had nothing to do with their present opposition. It was the independence of the church, and its duty to sustain itself without aid, that they insisted upon, and their own mortification and shame in being placed by the church in such a position. He was sure that this last attack would prove as bootless as the falsehoods they had previously circulated. (Hear, hear.) Desiring that still more might be done towards combining all classes of Christians and of true-hearted abolitionists in the onset against this sin, he said that they greatly needed the aid of England at this time of peril. They had been cheered and animated by the sympathy and aid received from their brethren in Scotland; the speeches of men like Dr. Candlish and Dr. Guthrie had been of incalculable importance, and though the expression of sympathy from Great Britain aroused a tempest of wrath in some quarters, and the very idea of receiving aid from England was repudiated by others with indignation and scorn, these things had drawn men's minds anew to the issues of the great cause for which they were battling, and had produced a new impression in regard to their resolute obstinacy in this sacred work. Their enemies from within had been worse by far than those without. Acting through the trustees, and in the society, when baffled by the church, they had attempted to sell the chapel, they had attempted to alter the title-deeds of the church property, so that the church should have no more control over it, as to cut off the revenue due from its annual assessed taxes, and so as to prevent those who held with the pastor and the majority from gaining the complete and undisturbed possession of their rights. These men had injured them by, bold, reiterated slanders, and where they could not be present to answer their misrepresentations, thither they had scattered their pamphlets through the press. (Loud applause.)
The Rev. G. W. Condor briefly moved, and the Rev. F. Edwards seconded the following resolution:
'That this meeting, in tendering a hearty welcome to the Rev. George B. Cheever, D. D., pastor of the Church of the Puritans, New York, United States, takes this opportunity of assuring him of its sympathy and esteem. Feeling deeply interested in the result of the great conflict in which he is engaged, and concurring with the principles he has so boldly proclaimed and maintained; admiring his devotion and self-sacrifice, we honor him for his fidelity, and pledge ourselves to render him support- praying that Almighty God may crown his labors with success, and bless every instrumentality which has for its object the abolition of American slavery.'
The Rev. Dr. Brewer moved a vote of thanks to the trustees for the use of the chapel.
Mr. George Thompson seconded the resolution, and after regretting that the resolution moved by Mr. Conder did not contain an expression of sympathy with the Church of the Puritans, as well as with Dr. Cheever personally, proceeded to vindicate the position of the Rev. Gentleman, and to commend him and his church to the support of the English public. In a brief and eloquent address, he denounced the evils of slavery and the complicity of the American churches with this evil.
The resolution was carried.
Mr. Conder explained that the expression of their sympathy with Dr. Cheever was as the pastor of his church, and not as an individual. They certainly intended to include the church as much as the pastor. (Applause.)
The Rev. Dr. Brewer then took the chair, and on the motion of the Rev. W. Hudswell, seconded by Mr. Plint, a vote of thanks was passed to the Chairman.
Mr. Baines acknowledged the compliment, and the meeting terminated.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is' a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE BOSTON MOB OF 1835.
TWENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY!

From the Liberator of Nov. 7,1835.
TRIUMPH OF MOBOCRACY IN BOSTON.
I shall give,as far as I am capable,an exact and faithful account of the ruthless disturbances which took place in Boston on Wednesday afternoon,Oct.21st,and by which this city was suddenly transformed into an infuriated pandemonium.It is the most disgraceful event that has ever marred the character of Bostonians,whether reference be made to the time of its occurrence,or to the cause which was assailed,or to those who stood obnoxious to violent treatment.The recent pro-slavery meeting in Faneuil Hall supported the theory of despotism,and the tumultuous assembly of Wednesday carried it into practice-trampling all law and order,the Constitution and personal liberty,public decorum and private decency,common humanity and Christian courtesy,into the dust.The light of day did not cause a blush,nor the certainty of exposure restrain from indecent and barbarous behavior,nor profession or station deter'respectable,wealthy and influential citizens'from enacting the part of ruffians and anarchists.All distinctions (excepting that of color,to the honor of the BLACK MAN be it recorded) were blended,for the purpose of gagging the advocates of freedom,and infusing new strength into the arm of the remorseless scourge of Women at the South.The merchant and the aristocrat-the wealthy and the learned-the'respectable'and the'influential'-the professor and the profane- were all huddled together in thick and formidable array,with every variety of feeling,but with one prevalent design,namely,to insult,annoy and disperse the Female Anti-Slavery meeting,(brave,gentlemanly,chivalric men!) and to tar-and-feather,or put to death,GEORGE THOMPSON or my self! Was it not a sublime spectacle to behold four or five thousand genteel ruffians courageously assembling together,to achieve so hazardous an exploit as the putting to flight one man and thirty defenceless females?
As the scenes of the last week are historically connected with those of the present,it is necessary to recapitulate them,in order that the beginning and the end of the late tumult may be seen at a glance by the reader; and that Boston,the boasted Cradle of Liberty,may obtain every particle of that infamous renown which she has so dearly earned,and of which she seems so insanely covetous.
The Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society has been in operation about three years,humbly aiding with its prayers and limited means the cause of bleeding humanity,and gradually increasing both in number and efficiency.Its members are industrious,estimable,intellectual and devout women,and exemplary mothers,wives and daughters.He who sneers at them,knowing their true character,must he destitute of honor,virtue and benevolence; and he who aims to suppress their association must first drag them to the stake,and consume them to ashes,before he can succeed.They are worthy to be ranked with the females of Great Britain,to whose untiring efforts EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND slaves in the British Colonies are mainly indebted for their emancipation-and what higher praise need be given? Hear what the great Irish champion of freedom- the fearless and eloquent O'Connell-said,in relation to the merits of women,in his sublime and spirit-stirring speech,delivered in Exeter Hall,London,July 13,1833:-
'I have,however,moments of exquisite delight.I remember that 1,500,000 of the people of this country have joined in petitioning Parliament for the total and immediate abolition of slavery.(Cheers.) O,blessings upon them! Every age,every station,and both sexes,have united in these petitions.THE WOMEN OF ENGLAND HAVE LED THE WAY; and under the banners of the maids and matrons of England,proud must that individual be,who shall have an opportunity of telling them,"At your command we have done our duty,and SLAVERY IS AT AN END!" (Cheers.) A ruffian in this country taunted the females who signed the petitions,by calling them the Dorothys,and Tabithas,and Priscillas.I stigmatized him as a ruffian,in my place in Parliament; and I stigmatize him as such here.(Loud cheers.)'
The constitutional period for holding the annual meeting of the Society occurred last week; and,accordingly,the Secretary gave public notice that the meeting would be held on Wednesday afternoon,Oct.14,at Congress Hall,and that an address would be delivered on the occasion by GEORGE THOMPSON,at the request of the Society.It did not occur to the members,(but,surely,their forgetfulness is a pardonable offence,) that they were not competent to conduct their own business,or to choose a speaker to address them,without suitable instructions from the upholders of Southern slavery; and that they were solemnly bound to inquire of the editorial creatures who manage the Commercial Gazette,and Alias,and Courier,and Centinel,-when,where,and how to assemble,and whom to invite to be present,and the proper manner of conducting their meeting.They felt perfectly able to transact all the business of the Society,independently of the assistance of profligate and impudent intermeddlers; nor could they readily believe that anything in the shape of a man could be so lost to shame,or so great a dastard,as to assail their meeting in broad daylight,or threaten the personal safety of any of their number.
It was summarily stated in the Liberator of last week,that the reading of their notice from some of the pulpits on the preceding Sabbath excited the amiable fury and holy horror of many a hypocrite and Pharisee-of those who take tithe of mint,anise and cumin,and neglect the weightier matters of the law,judgment,mercy and faith-in the various congregations;-that the Commercial Gazette,Courier,and Centinel,of Tuesday,put forth violent and seditious articles respecting the meeting,for the purpose of inflaming the worst passions of a slavery-loving community against it;- that,in consequence of the furious tone of those papers,and the alarming symptoms of a riot,the lessee of Congress Hall felt it to be his duty,as the only chance of preserving his property from destruction,publicly to forbid the Society occupying the hall;-that,being thus unexpectedly deprived of a place in which to assemble,the Society advertised in the morning papers of Wednesday,that the meeting was necessarily postponed until further notice;- that,notwithstanding their advertisement,a crowd of respectable and well-dressed'disturbers of the public peace gathered tumultuously around the hall,vainly hoping to seize Mr.Thompson,that they might beat their murderous spite upon his person; -that,being falsely told that the Society was holding its meeting at Ritchie Hall,thither they rushed with frantic joy,and finding a meeting of the Ladies'Moral Reform Society convened together in the hall,they behaved so infamously as to cause its dispersion;-that,in the sequel,the Mayor made his appearance,and succeeded in causing the riotous'gentlemen of respectability and influence'to withdraw,by assuring them that the object of their hatred was not in the city-&c.,&c.
This unmanly,impertinent and anomalous procedure failed to intimidate the members of the Female Anti-Slavery Society,or to convince them that they ought not to hold their annual meeting,agreeably to the precept of their Constitution.They were made of sterner stuff,and had too clear an apprehension of the duty which they owed to God,their country,and the perishing slaves,to be driven from a lawful and holy purpose by an irruption of Goths and Vandals upon their assembly.To retreat,under such circumstances,would savor of apostasy from the cross of Christ; and to be passive,would seem to argue an imbecility of mind,a lack of Christian faith,or a sacrifice of principle.They were not requested; by their shameless assailants,to postpone or suspend their meeting for a limited time,on the score of expediency; but they were virtually commanded to desist,at once and forever,on the ground of brutal authority,from their Christ-like design to bind up the broken-hearted,to open the prison-doors,and to set the captive free.They were threatened as slaves,not kindly advised as equals.They had no other alternative,therefore,than to move steadily on to the regular discharge of their duty,or to be branded as recreants to a cause which they had pledged to support,'under all circumstances,and through all perils.Accordingly,they gave public information to the ladies of Boston,that their meeting would be held in the Anti-Slavery Hall,46 Washington street,on Wednesday afternoon,Oct.21,at 3 o'clock,and that several addresses might be expected on the occasion.It was not advertised that Mr.Thompson would attend,nor was his presence deemed to be essential or expedient,either by himself or the Society.He therefore left the city on Tuesday,that there might be no pretext for causing ah interruption of the meeting on the ensuing day.The aspect of things looked tranquil until Wednesday morning,when inflammatory articles appeared in
<c02>
some of the daily papers,and it was stated that several store-keepers,in the immediate vicinity of the hall,bad petitioned the Mayor and Aldermen to suppress the meeting,as it might endanger their property by causing a riot! Yes,to accommodate their selfishness,they declared that the liberty of speech,and the right to assemble in an associated capacity peaceably together,should be unlawfully and forcibly taken away from an estimable portion of the community,by the officers of our city-the humble servants of the people! Benedict Arnold's treachery to the cause of liberty and his bleeding country was no worse than this.As properly might they have petitioned for leave to slaughter every man who should venture to maintain the exploded doctrine,that all men are created equal.Such sordid men would sell their country for less than thirty pieces of silver,under favorable circumstances.If they felt that the safety of their goods would be endangered by the contemplated meeting,-or.rather,by the ruffians who had conspired to break it up,-they had an unquestionable right to warn the city authorities of the fact,and to demand adequate protection,but not to ask for the suppression of a benevolent and lawful meeting.Of course,-however much inclined they might have been,in spirit,to comply with so daring a request,-the Mayor and Aldermen comprehended the limitation of their authority too well,and had too much respect even for the equivocal patriotism of the people,to interpose their authority.A seditious and blood-thirsty placard,-printed,I presume,at the office of the Commercial Gazelle,was circulated through the city,stating that the infamous foreign scoundrel,Thompson,'would bold forth in the Anti-Slavery Hall,in the afternoon; that'the present was a fair opportunity for the friends of the Union to snake him out'; and that'a use of $100 had been raised by a number of patriotic citizens to reward the individual who should first lay violent hands upon him,so that he might be brought to the tar-kettle before dark.'In consequence of the inflammatory state of the public mind,the Mayor,THEODORE LYMAN,sent a deputy to the Anti-Slavery Office,to ascertain whether Mr.Thompson contemplated addressing the meeting; for,if he did not,the Mayor said he wished <illegible> be enabled to apprise the multitude of the fact,and thus induce them to retire-or,if he did,the Mayor was anxious seasonably to enroll an efficient constabulary force to protect the meeting and preserve order.As this information was asked,not as a matter of right,but seemingly with just intentions,I sent word to the Mayor,that the Female Anti-Slavery Society could not feel obliged,at any man's bidding,either to suppress or to publish the names of those whom they had invited to speak at their meeting; but,as I trusted that his request was made in a spirit of kindness,and not of impertinence or domination,I felt not only willing but desirous to inform him,that Mr.Thompson was not in the city,nor would he be present at the meeting,and that he might make proclamation to that effect to all who should assemble for riotous purposes.
As the meeting was to commence at 3 o'clock,P.M.,I went to the hall about twenty minutes before that time.Perhaps a hundred individuals had already gathered around the street door and opposite to the building,and their number was rapidly augmenting.On ascending into the hall,I found about fifteen or twenty ladies assembled,sitting with serene countenances,and a crowd of noisy intruders (mostly-young men) gazing upon them,through whom I urged my way with considerable difficulty.'That's Garrison,'was the exclamation of some of their number,as I quietly took my seat.Perceiving they had no intention of retiring,I went to them and calmly said-'Gentlemen,perhaps you are not aware that this is a meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society,called and intended exclusively for ladies,and those who have been invited to address them.Understanding this fact,you will not be so rude or indecorous as to thrust your presence upon this meeting.If,gentlemen,'I pleasantly continued,'any of you are ladies-in disguise-why,only apprise me of the fact,give me your names,and I will introduce you to the rest of your sex,and you can take seats among them accordingly.'I then sat down,and,for a few moments,their conduct was more orderly.However,the stair-way and upper door of the hall was soon densely filled with a brazen-faced crew,whose behavior grew more and more indecent and outrageous.Perceiving that it would be impracticable for me,or any other person,to address the ladies; and believing,as I was the only male abolitionist in the hall,that my presence would serve as a pretext for the mob to annoy the meeting,I held a short colloquy with the excellent President of the Society,telling her that I would withdraw,unless she particularly desired me to stay.It was her earnest wish that I would retire,as well for my own safety as for the peace of the meeting.She assured me that the Society would resolutely but calmly proceed to business,and leave the issue with God.I left the ball accordingly,and would have left the building,if the stair-case had not been crowded to excess.This being impracticable,I retired into the Anti-Slavery Office,(which is separated from the hall by a board partition,) accompanied by my friend,Mr.Charles C.Burleigh.It was deemed prudent to lock the door,to prevent the mob from rushing in and destroying our publications.
In the meantime,the crowd in the street had augmented from a hundred to thousands.The cry was for'Thompson! Thompson!'-but the Mayor had now arrived,and,addressing the rioters,he assured them that Mr.Thompson was not in the city,and besought them to disperse.As well might he have attempted to propitiate a troop of ravenous wolves.None went away-but the tumult continued momentarily to increase.It was apparent,therefore,that the hostility of the throng was not concentrated upon Mr.Thompson,but that it was as deadly against the Society and the Anti-Slavery cause.This fact is worthy of special note-for it incontestably proves that the object of these'respectable and influential'rioters was to put down the cause of emancipation,and that Mr.Thompson merely furnished a pretext for their lawless acts!
Let not any,therefore,who are disposed to be friendly to our cause,suppose that Mr.Thompson is the chief,or even the slightest obstacle in the way of its triumph,or that his departure would bring popularity and repose to the abolitionists.Is James G.Birney,or Theodore D.Weld,or William Jay,or Arthur Tappan,treated more tenderly than George Thompson by the enemies of liberty? No.Their base design,then,is not simply to drive an English philanthropist from our shores,but to maltreat,gag and enslave AMERICAN,NATIVE-BORN CITIZENS! The struggle is between Right and Wrong- Liberty and Slavery-Christianity and Atheism- Northern Freemen and Southern Taskmasters.The great question to be settled is not merely whether 2,000,000 slaves in our land shall be immediately or gradually emancipated-or whether they shall be colonized abroad or retained in our midst; but whether freedom is with us-THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES-a reality or a mockery;-whether the liberty of speech and of the press,purchased with the toils and sufferings and precious blood of our fathers,is still to be enjoyed,unquestioned and complete-or whether padlocks are to be put upon our lips,gags into our mouths,and shackles upon that great palladium of human rights,the press;- whether the descendants of the Pilgrim Fathers,the sons of those who fell upon Bunker Hill,and the plains of Lexington and Concord,are to fashion their thoughts and opinions,and to speak or be dumb,and to walk freely or with a chain upon their spirit,and to stand upright or to crook the knee,and to obey Jehovah or worship Mammon,at the bidding of Southern slave-drivers and oppressors; whether the truths of the Declaration of Independence are still to be acknowledged as'self-evident,'and valuable beyond all price-or whether they are to be regarded as ingenious fictions and mere'rhetorical flourishes';-whether Equity,and Law,and Public Order,are to be enforced,irrespective of political or religious opinions-or whether Jacobinism,Anarchy and Confusion are to reign in our midst,to the prostration of all that makes life a blessing and society desirable;-whether citizens,guiltless of crime,are to walk without molestation,and to repose without danger,and to assemble together without hindrance-or whether they are to be seized with impunity by lawless ruffians,dragged ignominiously through the streets,thrust into prison,and forced to fly from the endearments of home,for self-preservation.Nay,more.It is a question of life and death to this nation-of Christian freedom and abject bondage- that we have now to decide.I rejoice,and thank God,that it assumes such a shape,and is presented at such,a crisis.The people-blinded and misled for a time-will In the end see and decide aright.We,then,to their deceivers! A tide of indignation shall sweep them from the high places of power,and sink them into the lowest depths of infamy.NEW ENGLAND will settle,this question-for herself,
<c03>
the nation,and the world.Ere long,I have faith to believe,
'From her Green-Mountains to the Sea,
One voice shall thunder-We arts are free!'
But even if the sun of her own liberty has set forever,still,the discussion of this great question can never be suppressed,so long as a single abolitionist is left alive upon her soil.Slaughter-houses must be erected in every town and village,and the scenes of the French revolution be re-enacted; and men and women,and children,even,put to death by human butchers,until the earth be drunk with blood,and the slain cease to find a covering for their mutilated bodes.The victims are ready to be sacrificed-throughout the Common wealth,and all over the land-a noble company of martyrs! Is Boston prepared to commence the work of extermination?
Notwithstanding the presence and frantic behavior of the rioters in the half,the meeting of the Society was regularly called to order by the President.She then read a select and an exceedingly appropriate portion of Scripture,and offered up a fervent prayer to God for direction and succor,and the forgiveness of enemies and revilers.It was an awful,sublime and soul-thrilling'scene-enough,one would suppose,to melt adamantine hearts,and make even fiends of darkness stagger and retreat.Indeed,the clear,untremulous tone of voice of that Christian heroine in prayer occasionally awed the ruffians into silence,and was heard distinctly even in the midst of their hisses,yells and curses-for they could not long silently endure the agony of conviction,and their conduct became furious.They now attempted to break down the partition,and partially succeeded; but that little band of women still maintained their ground unthinkingly,and endeavored to transact their business.
An assault was now made upon the door of the office,the lower panel of which was instantly dashed to pieces.Stooping down,and glaring upon me as I sat at the desk,writing an account of the riot to a distant friend,the ruffians cried out-'There he is! That's Garrison! Out with the scoundrel!'&c.,&c.Turning to Mr.Burleigh I said-'You may as well open the door,and let them come in and do their worst.'But he,with great presence of mind,went out,locked the door,put the key into his pocket,and by his admirable firmness succeeded in keeping the office safe.
Two or three constables having cleared the hall and staircase of the mob,the Mayor came in and ordered the ladies to desist,assuring them that he could not any longer guarantee protection,if they did not take immediate advantage of the opportunity to retire from the building.Accordingly,they adjourned,to meet at the house of one of their number,for the completion of their business; but as they passed through the crowd,they were greeted with taunts,hisses,and cheers of moboeratie triumph,from'gentlemen of property and standing from all parts of the city.'Even their absence did not diminish the throng.Thompson was not there-the ladies were not there-but'Garrison is there!'was the cry.'Garrison! Garrison! We must have Garrison! Out with him! Lynch him!'These and numberless other exclamations arose from the multitude.For a moment,their attention was diverted from me to the Anti-Slavery sign,and they vociferously demanded its possession.It is painful to state,that the Mayor promptly complied with their demand! So agitated and alarmed had he become,that,in very weakness of spirit,he ordered the sign to be hurled to the ground,and it was instantly broken into a thousand fragments by the infuriated populace.O,lamentable departure from duty-O,shameful outrage upon private property- by one who had sworn,not to destroy,but to protect property-not to pander to the lawless desires of a mob,however'wealthy and respectable,'but to preserve the public peace! The act was wholly unjustifiable.The Mayor might have as lawfully surrendered me to the tender mercies of the mob,or ordered the building itself to be torn down,in order to propitiate them,as to have removed that sign.Perhaps-nay,probably,he was actuated by kind intentions; probably he hoped that he should there-by satisfy the ravenous appetites of these human cormorants,and persuade them to retire; probably he trusted thus to extricate me from danger.But the sequel proved that he only gave a fresh stimulus to popular fury; and if he could have saved my life,or the whole city from destruction,by that single act,still he ought not to have obeyed the mandate of the mob-no indeed! He committed a public outrage in the presence of the lawless and disobedient,and thus strangely expected to procure obedience to and a respect for the law! He behaved disorderly before rebels,that he might restore order among them! Mr.HENRY WILLIAMS and Mr.JOHN L.DIMMOCK also deserve severe reprehension for their forwardness in taking down the sign.The offence,under such circumstances,was very heinous.The value of the article destroyed was of no consequence; but the principle involved in its surrender and sacrifice is one upon which civil government,private property and individual liberty depend.
The sign being demolished,the cry for'Garrison!'was renewed,more loudly than ever.It was now apparent,that the multitude would not disperse until I had left the building; and as egress out of the front door was impossible,the Mayor and his assistants,as well as some of my friends,earnestly besought me to effect my escape in the rear of the building.At this juncture,an abolition brother,whose mind had been previously settled on the peace question,in his anguish and alarm for my safety,and in view of the helplessness of the civil authority,said-'I must henceforth repudiate the principle of non-resistance.When the civil arm is powerless,my own rights are trodden in the dust,and the lives of my friends are put in imminent peril by ruffians,I will hereafter stand ready to defend myself and them at all hazards.'Putting my hand upon his shoulder,I said,'Hold,my dear brother! You know not what spirit you are of.Of what value or utility are the principles of peace and forgiveness,if we may repudiate them in the hour of peril and suffering? Do you wish to become like one of those violent and blood-thirsty men who are seeking my life? Shall we give blow for blow,and array sword against sword? God forbid! I will perish sooner than raise my hand against any man,even in self-defence,and let none of my friends resort to violence for my protection.If my life be taken,the cause of emancipation will not suffer.God reigns-his throne is undisturbed by this storm -he will make the wrath of man to praise him,and the remainder he will restrain-his omnipotence will at length be victorious.'
Preceded by my faithful and beloved friend,Mr.John R.Campbell,T dropped from a back window,on to a shed,and narrowly escaped falling headlong to the ground.We entered into a carpenter's shop,through which we attempted to get into Wilson's Lane,but found our retreat cut off by the mob.They raised a shout as soon as we came in sight,but the proprietor promptly closed the door of his shop',kept them at bay for a time,and thus kindly afforded me an opportunity to find some other passage.I told Mr.C.it would be futile to attempt to escape -I would go out to the mob,and let them deal with me as they might elect; but he thought it was my duty to avoid them,as long as possible.We then went up stairs,and finding a vacancy in one corner of the room,I got into it,and he and a young lad piled up some boards in front of me,to shield me from observation.In a few minutes,several ruffians broke into the chamber,who seized Mr.C.in a rough manner,and led him out to the view of the mob,saying,'This is not Garrison,but Garrison's and Thompson's friend,and he says he knows where Garrison is,but won't tell.'Then a shout of exultation was raised by the mob,and what became of him I do not know; though,as I was immediately discovered,I presume he escaped without material injury.On seeing me,three or four of the rioters,uttering a yell,furiously dragged me to the window,with the intention of hurling me from that height to the ground; but one of them relented,and said-'Don't let us kill him outright.'So they drew me back,and coiled a rope about my body-probably to drag me through the streets.I bowed to the mob,and requesting them to wait patiently until! could descend,went down upon a ladder that was raised for that purpose.I fortunately extricated myself from the rope,and was seized by two or three of the leading rioters,powerful arid athletic men,by whom I was dragged along bareheaded,(for my hat had been knocked off,and cut in pieces on the spot,) a friendly voice in the crowd shouting,'He shan't be hurt! He is an American!'This seemed to excite sympathy in the breasts of some others,and they reiterated the same very.Blows,however,were aimed aft my head: by such as were of a cruel spirit,and at last they succeeded in tearing nearly all my clothes from my body.Thus was dragged through Wilson's Lane into State street,in the rear of the City Hall,over the ground that was stained with
<c04>
the blood of the first martyrs in the cause of LIBERTY and INDEPENDENCE,in the memorable massacre of 1770; and upon which was proudly unfurled,only a few years since,with joyous acclamations,'the beautiful banner presented to the gallant Poles by the young men of Boston! What a scandalous and revolting contrast! My offence was in pleading for LIBERTY-liberty for my enslaved countrymen,colored though they be-liberty of speech and of the press for ALL! And upon that'consecrated spot,'I was made an object of derision and scorn,some portions of my person being in a state of nudity.
They proceeded with me in the direction of the City Hall,the cry being raised,'To the Common!'whether to give me a coat of tar and feathers,or to throw me into the pond,was problematical.As we approached the south door,the Mayor attempted to protect me by his presence; but as he was unassisted by any show of authority or force,he was quickly thrust aside; and now came a tremendous rush,on the part of the mob to prevent my entering the hall.For a time,the conflict was desperate; but at length a rescue was effected by a posse that came to the help of the Mayor,by whom I was carried up into the Mayor's room.
In view of my denuded condition,one individual in the Post Office below stairs kindly lent me a pair of pantaloons; another,a coat; a third,a stock; a fourth,a cap-&c.After a brief consultation,(the mob densely surrounding the City Hall,and threatening the safety of the Post Office,) the Mayor and his advisers said my life depended upon committing me to jail,ostensibly as a disturber of the peace!! Accordingly,a hack was got in readiness at the door; and,supported by Sheriff Parkman and Ebenezer Bailey,Esq.,(the Mayor leading the way,) I was put into it without much difficulty,as I was not at first identified in my new garb.But now a scene occurred that baffles the power of description.As the ocean,lashed into fury by the spirit of the storm,seeks to whelm the adventurous bark beneath its mountain waves,so did the mob,enraged by a series of disappointments,rush like a whirlwind upon the frail vehicle in which I sat,and endeavor to drag me out of it.Escape seemed a physical impossibility.They clung to the wheels-dashed open the doors-seized hold of the horses- and tried to upset the carriage.There were,however,vigorously repulsed by the police-a constable sprang in by my side-the doors were closed-and the driver,lustily using his whip upon the bodies of his horses and the heads of the rioters,happily made an opening through the crowd,and drove at a tremendous speed for Leveret street.But many of the rioters followed even with superior swiftness,and repeatedly attempted to arrest the progress of the horses.To reach the jail by a direct course was found impracticable; and after going in a circuitous direction,and encountering many'hair-breadth ï¿½scapes,'we drove up to this new and last refuge of liberty and life,when another desperate attempt was made to seize me by the mob,but in vain.In a few moments,I was locked up in a cell,safe from my persecutors,accompanied by two delightful associates,-a good conscience and a cheerful mind.In the course of the evening,several of my friends came to my grated window,to sympathize and confer with me,with whom I held a strengthening conversation until the hour of retirement,when I threw myself upon my prison-bed,and slept tranquilly.In the morning,I inscribed upon the walls of my cell,with a pencil,the following lines:-
'Wm.Lloyd Garrison was put into this cell on Wednesday afternoon,Oct.21,1835,to save him from the violence of a "respectable and influential" mob,who sought to destroy him for preaching the abominable and dangerous doctrine,that "all men are created equal," and that all oppression is odious in the sight of God." Hail,Columbia! "Cheers for the Autocrat of Russia,and the Sultan of Turkey! 
'Render,let this inscription remain till the last slave in this despotic land be loosed from his fetters.'
'When peace within the bosom reigns,
And conscience gives th'approving voice,
Though bound the human form in chains,
Yet can the soul aloud rejoice.
'Tis true,my footsteps are confined-
I cannot range beyond this cell;-
But what can circumscribe my mind?
To chain the winds attempt as well!'
'Confine me as a prisoner-but bind me not as a slave.
Punish me as a criminal-but hold me not as a chattel.
Torture me as a man-but drive me not like a beast.
Doubt my sanity-but acknowledge my immortality.'
In the course of the forenoon,after passing through the mockery of an examination,for form's sake,before Judge Whitman,I was released from prison; but,at the earnest solicitation of the city authorities,in order to tranquillize the public mind,I deemed it proper to leave the city for a few days,accompanied by my wife,whose situation was such as to awaken the strongest solicitude for her life.
My thanks are due to Sheriff Parkman,for various acts of politeness and kindness; as also to Sheriff Sumner,Mr.Coolidge,Mr.Andrews,and several other gentlemen.
I have been thus minute in describing the rise,progress and termination of this disgraceful riot,in order to prevent (or rather to correct) false representations and exaggerated reports respecting it and myself.It is proper to subjoin a few reflections.
1.This outrage was perpetrated in Boston-the cradle of liberty-the city of Hancock and Adams the head-quarters of refinement,literature,intelligence and religion! No comments can add to the infamy of this fact.
2.It was perpetrated in the open daylight of heaven,and was therefore most unblushing and daring in its features.
3.It was against the friends of human freedom-the liberty of speech-the right of association-and in support of the vilest slavery that ever cursed the world.
4.It was a dastardly assault of thousands upon a small body of helpless females.
5.It was planned and executed,not by the rabble,or the working-men,but by'gentlemen of property and standing in all parts of the city'; and now,that time has been afforded for reflection,it is still either openly justified or coldly disapproved by the'higher classes,'and exultation among them is general throughout the city.
6.It is virtually approved by all the daily presses,except the Dally Advocate and the Daily Reformer.These independent presses have spoken out in a tone worthy of the best days of the Revolution.
7.It is evidently winked at by the city authorities.No efforts have been made to arrest any of the rioters.The Mayor has made no public appeal to the citizens to preserve order; nor has he given any assurance that the right of free discussion shall be enjoyed without molestation; nor did he array any military force against the mob,or attempt to disperse them,except by useless persuasion; on the contrary,he complied with their wishes in tearing down the anti slavery sign.He was chairman,too,of the pro-slavery meeting at Faneuil Hall,at which WASHINGTON was cheered for having been a SLAVE-HOLDER!
What will be the effect of this riot? Will it cause one abolitionist to swerve from the faith? Will it prevent either men or women from assembling together,to devise ways and means for the destruction of the slave system? Will it stop the freedom of discussion? Will it put down the Liberator? Will it check the growth of the anti-slavery cause? Will it slacken my efforts? No it will have a contrary effect.It will humble the pride of this city; it will rouse up and concentrate all that is left of the free spirit of our fathers; it will excite sympathy for the persecuted,and indignation against the persecutors; it will multiply sterling converts to our doctrines; it will increase the circulation of anti-slavery writings; it will substitute a thousand agitators in the place of one,and make the discussion of slavery paramount to all other topics; it will make the triumph of truth over error,and of liberty over oppression,and of law over jacobinism,and of republicanism over aristocracy,more signal and glorious; it will enable the most blind to see that the existence of Southern slavery is incompatible with the exercise of the rights and privileges of Northern freemen; and it will nerve my arm to strike heavier blows than ever upon the head of the monster OPPRESSION.We give our enemies their choice of weapons,and conquer them easily.The TRUTH that we utter is impalpable,yet real: it cannot be thrust down by brute force,nor pierced with a dagger,nor bribed with gold,nor overcome by the application of a coat of tar and feathers.The CAUSE that we espouse is the cause of human liberty,formidable to tyrants,and dear to the oppressed,throughout the world-containing the elements of immortality,sublime as heaven,and far-reaching as eternity-embracing every interest that appertains to the welfare of the bodies and souls of men,and sustained by the omnipotence of the Lord Almighty.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON.
<c05>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON,ESQ.
[In connection with this account of the memorable mob of 1835,we deem it pertinent to publish the following extract from a most eloquent Letter written by GEORGE THOMPSON,Esq.to Mr.GARRSON,dated'Marblehead,Oct 22,1835.'
A mob in Boston! The birth-place of the revolution-the Cradle of Liberty! A mob in Washington(!) Street,Boston,TO PUT DOWN FREE DISCUSSION!
'Hung be the heavens with black!'
Shrouded in midnight be the heights of Bunker! Let the bells of the Old South and Brattle Street be muffled,and let the knell of the country's boasted honor and liberty be rung! Ye hoary veterans of the revolution! clothe yourselves,in sackcloth,strew ashes on your heads,and mourn your country's down fall!
'For what is left the patriot here?
For Greeks a blush-for Greece a tear!'
Would that you had died,ere the sad truth was demonstrated,that you fought and bled in vain!
A mob in Boston! O,tell it not in St.Peters-burgh! publish it not in the streets of Constantinople! But it will be told; it will be published.The damning fact willing through all the haunts of despotism,and will be a cordial to the heart of Metternich-sweet music in the ears of the haughty Czar,and a prophetic note of triumph to the sovereign Pontiff.What American lip will henceforth dare to breathe a sentence of condemnation against the bulls of the Pope,or the edicts of the Autocrat! Should a tongue wag in affected sympathy for the denationalized Pole,the outlawed Greek,the wretched Serf,or any of the priest-ridden or king ridden victims of Europe,will not a voice come thundering over the billows:-
'Base hypocrites! let your charity begin at home! Look at your own Carolinas! Go,pour the balm of consolation into the broken hearts of your two millions of enslaved children! Rebuke the murderers of Vicksburg! Reckon with the felons of Charleston! Restore the contents of rifled mail-bags! Heal the lacerations,still festering,on the ploughed backs of your citizens! Dissolve the star-chambers of Virginia! Tell the confederated assassins of Alabama and Mississippi to disband! Call to judgment the barbarians of Baltimore,and Philadelphia,and New York,and Concord,and Haverhill,and Lynn,and Montpelier; and the well-dressed mobocrats of Utica,and Salem,and Boston! Go,ye praters about the soul-destroying ignorance of Romanism,gather again the scattered schools of Canterbury and Canaan! Get the clerical minions of Southern taskmasters to rescind their'Resolutions'of withholding knowledge from immortal Americans! Rend the veil of legal enactments,by which the beams of light divine are hidden from millions who are left to grope their way through darkness here,to everlasting blackness be yond the grave! Go,shed your'patriotic'tears over the infamy of your country,amidst the ruins of yonder Convent! Go,proud and sentimental Bostonians,preach clemency to the respectable horde who are dragging forth for immolation one of your own citizens! Cease your anathemas against the Vatican,and screw your courage up to resist the worse than papal bulls of Georgia,demanding,at the peril of your'bread and butter,'the'HEADS'of your citizens,and the passage of GAG-LAWS! Before you rail at arbitrary power in foreign regions,save your own citizens from the felonious interception of their correspondence; and teach the sworn and paid servants of the Republic the obligations of an oath,and the guaranteed rights of a free people! Send not your banners to Poland,but tear them into shreds,to be distributed to the mob,as halters for your sons! When,next July,you rail at mitres,and crosiers,and scepters,and denounce the bow-string and the bayonet and the faggot,let your halls be decorated with plaited scourges,wet with the blood of the sons of the Pilgrims -let the tar cauldron smoke-the gibbet rear aloft its head-and cats and bloodhounds,(the brute auxiliaries of Southern Liberty men,) howl and bark in unison with the demoniacal ravings of a'gentlemanly mob'-while above the Orator of the day,and beneath the striped and starry banner,stand forth,in characters of blood,the distinctive mottoes of the age: DOWN WITH DISCUSSION! LYNCH LAW TRIUMPHANT! SLAVERY FOREVER! HAIL,COLUMBIA!
Before you weep over the wrongs of Greece,go wash the gore out of your national shambles-appease the frantic mother robbed of her only child,the centre of her hopes,and joys,and sympathies- restore to you desolate husband the wife of his bosom-abolish the slave marts of Alexandria,the human flesh auctions of Richmond and New Orleans-'undo the heavy burdens,''break every yoke,'and stand forth to the gaze of the world,not steeped in infamy and rank with blood,but in the posture of penitence and prayer,a free and regenerated nation!
Such,truly,are the bitter reproaches with which every breeze from a distant land might be justly freighted.How long-in the name of outraged humanity,I ask,how long shall they be deserved? Are the people greedy of a world's execration? or have they any sense of shame-any blush of patriotism left? Each day the flagrant inconsistency and gross wickedness of the nation are becoming more widely and correctly known.Already,on foreign shores,the lovers of corruption and despotism,are referring with exultation to the recent bloody dramas in the South,and the pro-slavery meetings and mobs of the country generally,in proof of the'dangerous tendency of Democratic principles.'How long shall the deeds of America clog the wheels of the car of Universal Freedom? Vain is every boast-acts speak louder than words.While
'Columbia's sons are bought and sold;'
while citizens of America are murdered without trial; while persons and property are at the mercy of a mob; while the city authorities are obliged to make concessions to a bloody-minded multitude,and finally incarcerate unoffending citizens to save them from a violent death; while'gentlemen of property and standing'are in unholy league to effect the abduction and destruction of a'foreigner,'the head and front of whose offending is,that he is laboring to save the country from its worst foe; while the entire South presents one great scene of slavery and slaughter; and while the North deeply sympathize with their.'Southern brethren,'sanction their deeds of felony and murder,and obsequiously do their bidding by hunting down their own fellow-citizens who dare to plead for equal rights;-
I say,while these things exist,professions and boasts are'sounding brass;'men will learn to loathe the name of Republicanism,and deem it synonymous with mob despotism,and the foulest oppression on the face of the globe! 
Your affectionate friend,
and devoted fellow-laborer,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
WM.LLOYD GARRSON.

AN INTERESTING ANNIVERSARY.
Sunday,October 21st,was an anniversary day worthy of a notice,especially at this interesting period of our political history.Twenty-five years ago,Sunday,William Lloyd Garrison was mobbed in this city,because of his anti-slavery sentiments; on the same day Gerrit Smith and Beriah Green,at Utica,N.Y.,and Samuel J.May at Montpelier,Vt.,were also made the subjects of mob violence.Mr.Garrison,it will be remembered,was dragged about the streets,and threatened with death; Messrs.Smith,Green and May received not much milder treatment,the two former gentlemen being driven out of Utica,and compelled to fly to Peterboro'.It was a very singular coincidence that these four young men,at that time the pioneers of the anti-slavery enterprise,should all have met,on the same day,with mob violence,at the hands of American citizens,simply for exercising the right of free speech.That day made a black record on the page of American history,one of which all honest and honorable men are now ashamed,and would gladly have effaced.But bow striking and instructive the contrast of that day with the present! A quarter of a century has rolled away-all these men,who went out with their lives in their hands to defend the opinions on their tongues,are yet living; and,however we may disagree with them in their present political sentiments,we must accord to them the high honor of unswerving,persevering adherence to the advocacy of human liberty.
And what a wonderful progress are they able to note! To-day,a majority of the American people are elevating to the Chief Magistracy of this Republic the man of their choice,because he is opposed to slavery extension; and in all the free States- nay,even in Washington,Baltimore.St.Louis,and many other places on wave soil- the advocates of the limitation and extinction of slavery may
<c06>
freely speak their convictions.It is not ten days since the Republicans of Washington celebrated,by a triumphal procession,the victory in Pennsylvania,and a throng of thousands listened respectfully and applauding to the speeches of two gentlemen,well known anti-slavery men,one from Indiana,where,until recently,no man could safely speak against slavery,and another from that same Boston,where Garrison was mobbed.Verily,the world does move.Let us thank God that it has moved in the right direction,for there is no more glorious record of victorious progress than the triumph of the cause of free speech,achieved during the last quarter of a century.The freedom of to-day a tones for the intolerance of October 21st,1835,and we trust that the anniversary of 1885 will witness with gladness the utter extinction of the one,and the complete triumph of the other.-Boston Atlas of Bee,Oct.23,1860.
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON,OCTOBER 26,1860.

THE BOSTON MOB OF 1835.
Sunday last was the TWENTY-FIFTH anniversary of the memorable Boston mob-October 21,1835-when the pro-slavery ruffianism and commercial cupidity of Boston attempted,in a lawless and desperate manner,to suppress freedom of speech on the subject of slavery,and to inflict brutal outrages upon an association of anti-slavery women,and also upon the persons of prominent abolitionists.To us it proved a time of severe trial and imminent peril; nevertheless,'by the help of God,we continue unto this day.'As almost another generation has grown upon since that period,we have deemed it useful to republish,in preceding columns,the narrative we gave at the time of the proceedings of the mob throughout.Most of the prominent actors in that disgraceful outbreak have gone to their'final account'; but the glorious cause which they madly strove to crush is still going on,'conquering and to conquer.'Laus Deo!

MRS.DALL'S,'FRATEERNITYï¿½ LECTURE.
In spite of very unpleasant weather,a large audience assembled on Tuesday evening to hear the fourth lecture in the'Fraternity'course,by Mrs.Caroline H.Dall.She expressed her gratification in having had assigned to her,for this occasion,the subject she would spontaneously hare chosen.-The Progress of the Women's Cause.'Her discourse,of nearly an hour and a half,was densely tilted with ideas and illustrative facts,yet she several times alluded to incidental matters of great interest and importance,which time did not allow her to enlarge upon.
Mrs.Dall commenced by alluding to the fact that women were called to that platform by the wish of the Society to be faithful to Mr.Parker's ideal.She suggested that such faithfulness would require a larger proportion than they have yet given of female lecturers,and intimated that the Lowell Institute also should open its courses in literature,philosophy and science as freely to women as to men.
The women of Boston,said Mrs.Dall,in advocating the cause known by the distasteful name of'Woman's Rights,'have chosen to confine themselves to three points: Education,Vocation,and Civil Position.They regard a present consideration of the subject of Marriage and Divorce as premature and unwise,apart from the fact that these subjects were equally the concern of both sexes.
Education-being the development of all the faculties of mind and body-involves the right to Avocation,or the choice of the end to which those faculties shall be used.And this involves the right to protect that avocation; to say how far it shall be taxed,and how far legislation shall control it.It involves,in short,the elective franchise.
Women as well as men need the stimulus of a career publicly recognized as honorable.It is the struggle to live which develops man; the same struggle is needed to develop woman.Books and other tools lose their value,if you fetter the hand that should use them.Education is not won for woman until it gives her honor,respect and bread.How unjust in itself,and how discouraging to woman,is the fact,seen in our public schools and elsewhere,of $600 only given to a woman,for the same labor and service which commands $1500,or more.for a man!
The separate education of the sexes is a great mistake,and a great hindrance to the moral development of society. God has set the solitary in families,and our wisdom is to follow his methods.
England has done more than America in some branches of this great cause.At a recent meeting of the'Association for the Promotion of Social Science,'Mary Carpenter,of Bristol,had spoken worthily in the presence of Russell,and Stanley,and Brougham,and Florence Nightingale had written,for the same meeting,the words she had not strength to utter.
Moreover,at a late meeting of the'Naturalists'Field Club'in Liverpool,the three highest prizes (in botany,ichthyology and entomology) were taken by women.If England can organize associations like these,so can we.Not until this,is done,and all the fields of human labor are accessible to women as to men,can we judge of the possibilities of parity and perfect ness in human society.
One of the first duties of women is to add to the number of intelligent female workers,in even department of the needs of society.In trade,in the tine arts,in domestic,social and political life,a free,spontaneous,hearty and thorough action of women is needed. Dr. Harriot K. Hunt had done well,in entering her protest,year by year,against the tax which was levied upon her while her right of voting was denied; but more needed to be done,and by more persons. Female property holders should associate,and make a statement of their wrongs and their rights which should compel the attention of the authorities.
One of woman's rights which is little mentioned,and little regarded,is to find man in his proper place as her brother,friend and counselor,helping her endeavors and encouraging her aspirations.
Honorable mention was made,among women who have given high and noble examples to their sisters,of Mary Astell Mary Wollstonecraft,Anna Jameson,Harriet Martineau,Mary Carpenter,Florence Nightingale,Caroline Chisholm,Jeanette Fuller,Mrs. Griffith,Margaret Fuller,and others.
The efforts of women to improve their own position have certainly done something; for,since 1850,the property laws have been changed in their favor in nineteen Slates of the American Union.
The changes thus made in Massachusetts were made in 1855,under the supervision of Samuel E.Sewall,John A.Andrew,and our late lamented friend,John W.Browne.And in the spring of the present year,the State of New York passed the most complete property bill on record,securing,among other things,the right of a mother to her child,and giving her the right (heretofore denied) to sue for an injury done her child.
The abstract right of women to vote is not for us to settle.It was settled some hundred years ago,and numerous instances are on record of its being reduced to practice.The real question is,whether the American Democratic experiment is,or is not,a failure? Shall we go back to the property basis for our franchise? If man has a right to vote on simply human grounds,why not woman?
Is it asked-Who-shall rule human society? Let him who aspires to rule make himself superior in understanding and moral purpose,and be will rule.
This admirable lecture should be asked for by the managers of Lyceums and others in the coming winter.It is interesting,not
less than valuable.-C.K.W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
MR. SUMNER-THE CONSTITUTION-THE MADISON PAPERS.
We have a word to say in regard to the assertion, so common just now in Republican speeches, that the Constitution of the United States does not view slaves as property. The misrepresentation is not worth correcting when made by partisan orators for party ends, or coming from Mr. Abraham Lincoln, at Cooper's, Institute; but it is worthy of notice when such a man, as Mr. Sumner gives, it his sanction-an able lawyer, a fair disputant, and an honest man. We shall criticise only one of his classes of proof-that taken from the Madison papers. Those papers contain the debates of that Convention which drafted the United States Constitution. Mr. Lysander Spooner, the ablest champion of this doctrine of an Anti-Slavery Constitution, declines to open the record of those debates, alleging that they were merely the talk, in secret conclave, of the clerks who drew the instrument, and are not binding on the people, or admissible evidence to show in what sense the people, outside and a large, accepted the Constitution. He knows full well, that if those debates are once opened and admitted as evidence, the pro-slavery character of the Constitution is beyond dispute. Mr. Sumner, on the contrary, quotes several passages from them, (in his speech June 4, 1860,) to show that the framers of the Constitution did not suppose that it recognized property in man. We will not now remind him, that if be may quote one page, we surely may cite the next; and no one will dispute, that taking the whole contents of the Madison papers together, they prove, beyond dispute, the pro-slavery character of the Constitution:-prove unmistakably the intention of the three clauses relating to representation, the slave trade, and the surrender of fugitive slaves.
But our purpose now is to show that the very passages Mr. Sumner quotes do themselves, when read with the context, prove the very contrary of what he claims: prove that the very speakers he names did themselves, at the time, view the Constitution as proslavery, and as recognizing property in man. Hence, so far as their opinion is conclusive, they prove all the Garrisonians affirm. Mr. Sumner says:-
The enormity of the pretension that slavery is sanctioned by the Constitution becomes still more apparent, when we read the Constitution in the light of great national acts and of contemporaneous declarations.'
The only ‘great national acts' Mr. Sumner cites are the Declaration of Independence, and the well known address of the Continental Congress, which makes it ‘the boast of America that the rights for which she has contended were the rights of human nature.' What control these have over the interpretation of a document made years after, and which neither refers to them nor adopts them, puzzles us to determine. But this is not our present business. He goes on:-
‘But, in strict harmony with these are the many utterances in the Convention which framed the Constitution: of Gouverneur Morris, of Pennsylvania, who announced that “he would never concur in upholding domestic slavery; it was an nefarious institution:” of Elbridge Gerry, of Massachusetts, who said that “we had nothing to do with the conduct of the States as to slavery, but we ought to be careful not to give any sanction to it;" of Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth, of Connecticut, and Mr. Gorham, of Massachusetts, who all concurred with Mr. Gerry; and especially of Mr. Madison, of Virginia, who, in mild juridical phrase, “THOUGHT IT WRONG TO ADMIT IS THE CONSTITUTION THE IDEA THAT THERE COULD BE PROPERTY IN MAN.” And lastly, as if to complete the elaborate work of freedom, and to give expression to all these utterances, the word “servitude,” which had been allowed in the clause on the apportionment of Representatives, was struck out, and the word “service” substituted instead. This final exclusion from the Constitution of the idea of property in man was on the motion of Mr. Randolph, of Virginia; and the reason assigned for the substitution, according to Mr. Madison, in his authentic report of the debate, was, that “the former was thought to express the condition of slaves, and the latter the obligations of five persons.” Thus, at every point, by great national declarations, by frank utterances in the Convention, and by a positive act in adjusting the text of the Constitution, was the idea of property in man unequivocally rejected.'
The reader will notice there are seven persons named above: Gorham, 1; Ellsworth, 2; Randolph, 3; Gerry, 4; Morris, 5; Madison, 6; Sherman, 7. Of the first two, Gorham and Ellsworth, we wish Mr. Sumner had quoted any anti-slavery word. Our copy of the debates shows them submissive and willing tools, on all occasions, of Southern masters. They might be candidates to-day on the Bell and Everett ticket, and have nothing to fear on their record.
Next, Mr. Randolph. On his motion, (Sept. 13, 1787,)' the word “servitude” was struck out, and “service” unanimously inserted, the former being thought to express the condition of slaves, and the latter, the obligations of free persons.” The whole clause is-
‘ART. 1, SEC. 2.-Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole number of free persons, including those bound to service for a term of years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other persons.'
The last six words (which we have italicised) are the poison of this clause. If, beside the ‘free persons' named, Mr. Randolph wished, by using the word ‘service,’ to show, beyond mistake, that these ‘bound-to-service persons' were also free, then he only gave additional force to the words ‘all OTHER persons'-emphasizing still more the reference of those words to the property of the South; revealing still more plainly the ‘enormity of slavery sanctioned by the Constitution.'
‘Mr. Gerry thought we had nothing to do with the conduct of the States as to slaves, but ought to be careful not to give any sanction to it.'
This remark he made (Aug. 22) as a commentary on or an objection to the clause which permitted the slave trade. What did the Convention do? They adopted the clause, and permitted the trade. So far, then, as this remark goes, they did sanction slavery. 
He said before (June 11) that he ‘thought property not the rule of representation. Why, then, should the blacks, who were property at the South, be in the rule of representation, more than the cattle and horses of the North?' Yet the blacks were afterward counted ‘in the rule of representation,' and accordingly Mr. Gerry refused to sign the Constitution, for that reason, among others. So much for Mr. Gerry's opinion on the question whether the Constitution views slaves as property.
Mr. Morris said ‘he would never concur in upholding domestic slavery; it was a nefarious institution.' This remark he made (Aug. 8th) as an objection to counting three-fifths of the slaves in the basis of representation.
The Committee of Detail had reported (Aug. 6th) Art. 4, Sec. 4-'The Legislature shall... regulate the number of Representatives by the number of inhabitants, according to the provisions hereinafter made, at the rate of one for every forty thousand.' Mr. Williamson moved (Aug. 8th,) to strike out the words ‘according to the provisions hereinafter made,' and insert the words, ‘according to the rule hereafter to be provided for direct taxation.' This was agreed to. It referred to counting three-fifths of the slaves in the basis of representation. After some remarks by King and Sherman, Mr. Morris moved to “insert the word “free” before the word “inhabitants.” Much, he said, would depend on this point. He never would concur in upholding domestic slavery. It was a nefarious institution.'
He went on immediately to add, in the same speech, in direct reference to this three-fifths basis, and the guarantee against slave insurrections, ‘that domestic slavery is the most prominent feature in the aristocratic countenance of the proposed Constitution... He would sooner submit himself to
<c02>
a tax for paying for all the negroes in the United States, than saddle posterity with such a Constitution.' 
Well, what did the Convention do in this matter? They adopted the plan of counting three-fifths of the slaves—the very thing Mr. Morris disliked, and which he made these remarks to prevent! According to Mr. Morris, therefore, slavery is now ‘the most prominent feature in the aristocratic countenance of the Constitution,' and it does ‘uphold domestic slavery.'
He had before stated (July 13) that if the negroes were considered ‘inhabitants,' their whole number should be counted, not three-fifths only, which would bring them under the denomination of ‘wealth.' Yet the ‘wealth’ basis of three-fifths was adopted! So much for Morris's testimony. And Morris submitted, and ‘saddled posterity' with exactly the Constitution he had denounced!
We will consider Mr. Sherman and Mr. Madison together, as they joined in the same debate. Mr. Madison' thought it wrong to admit in the Constitution the idea of property in men.' He made this remark as an objection to taxing slaves imported before 1808. It occurred thus. Mr. Sherman had said, (Aug. 22,) that ‘he was opposed to a tax on slaves imported, as making the matter worse, because it implied they were property.' Again, Aug. 25, when it was proposed (in the second part of Article 4, Section 4,) to tax slaves ’at a rate not exceeding the average of the duties laid on imports.' Mr. Baldwin moved to alter it, and tax them at a rate not exceeding the ‘common impost on articles not enumerated.'
On this, the Madison Debates say—
'This was agreed to, nem, con.
'Mr. Sherman was against this second part, as acknowledging men to be property, by taxing them as such under the character of slaves. 
'Mr. King and Mr. Langdon considered this as the price of the first part. Gen. Pinckney admitted that it was so. 
‘Col. Mason. Not to tax will be equivalent to a bounty on the importation of slaves.
‘Mr. Gorham thought that Mr. Sherman should consider the duty, not as implying that slaves are property, but as a discouragement to the importation of them. 
Mr. Gouverneur Morris remarked that, as the clause now stands, it implies that the Legislature may tax freemen imported.
'Mr. Sherman, in answer to Mr. Gorham, observed that the smallness of the duty showed revenue to be the object, not the discouragement of the importation. 
'Mr. Madison thought it wrong to admit in the Constitution the idea that there could be property in men. The reason of duties did not hold, as slaves are not, like merchandise, consumed, &c. 
'Col. Mason, in answer to Mr. Gouverneur Morris. The provision, as it stands, was necessary for the case of convicts, in order to prevent the introduction of them.'
Well, what did the Convention do? They gave Congress power to tax such importation not 'exceeding ten dollars for each person,' which was agreed to, nem. con. (This only shows that no one spoke against the proposition, not that each one agreed to it, since the whole debate, and Sherman's and Madison's protest, were against Mr. Baldwin's motion, which, it is stated, passed just before in the same way, nem. con.) According to Mr. Madison and Mr. Sherman, then, the Constitution does recognize property in men; and Mr. Madison, in the 54th number of the Federalist distinctly asserts that 'the Federal Constitution, therefore, decides with great propriety on the case of our slaves, when it views them in the mixed character of persons and PROPERTY.'
This number of the Federalist, written by Madison, is in the form of a debate between a Northerner and Southerner. The first objects that slaves are recognized as property, and the Southerner defends it; both allowing that the fact is so. In the course of the debate occurs the sentence we have taken.
The argument stands thus:
1st. Mr. Madison objects to taxing imported slaves, since that would recognize them as property. The Convention taxes imported slaves.! 
2d. Mr. Madison describes the Constitution as rightly’ viewing the slaves in the mixed character of persons and PROPERTY.'
Do we need any further evidence of James Madison's opinion? If we do, turn to his speech in the Virginia Convention, met to adopt the United States Constitution, where he says:—
'Another clause secures us that property which we now possess. At present, if any slave elopes to any of those States where slaves are free, he becomes; emancipated by their laws. For the laws of the States are uncharitable to one another in this respect. But in this Constitution” no person held to service, or labor, in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor; but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service, or labor may be due.” THIS CLAUSE WAS EXPRESSLY INSERTED TO ENABLE OWNERS OF SLAVES TO RECLAIM THEM. This is a better security than any that now exists.' 
Before closing, let me add, that the Republicans often quote the Madison debates of Sept. 15, in relation to the fugitive slave clause—
'Article 4, Section 2, (the third paragraph,) the term “legally’ was struck out; and the words, “under the laws thereof,” inserted after the word” State," in compliance with the wish of some who thought the term, legal equivocal, and favoring the idea that slavery was legal in a moral view'-
to show that this clause does not refer to slaves! But certainly, if it proves any thing, it proves beyond dispute, that however anxious the framers might be to avoid language that was, as they said, 'not pleasing to some people,' they did refer to slavery in this article. Else why this anxiety about the wording of it? They confess they are speaking of slaves, but wish to do it in a way that will least shock sensitive tastes.
The reader will please observe, that I am not now arguing that the Constitution does view slaves as property, but only showing that the witnesses Mr. Sumner calls prove, when allowed to speak fully, just the opposite of what he claims; and, if their opinion is to be trusted, the Constitution does view slaves as property. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 

THE GROWING POWER OF THE WEST.
EARLVILLE. La Salle Co., (III.,) Oct., 1860.
TO THE EDITOR:
'The West' is a term of most extensive meaning. Our New England States are so small, and our geographical ideas made up, or matured there, so contracted, that we can hardly contemplate the West without weariness, after we are fairly in it, and have; learned something of its vastness. To travel almost two thousand miles, and then meet rivers that have been flowing to meet you almost two thousand more, gives some conception of it. Between the Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains lies an empire; and west of the mountains is another; and we travel through still another, of mighty importance, in wealth, population and resources to reach them. Few of our people, as yet, have any just notions of the extent of their possessions, or the responsibilities of their stewardship. And it is as important in the eye of the friends of freedom and human progression, as a field for moral and spiritual culture, as it can be to the political economist as an exhaustless depository of wealth, and the means of material prosperity. The East does not know the West, and never will, until differently introduced and related. The politician has been the principal missionary; and he has only told the people of their greatness and intelligence, to seduce them into supporting his party. Many emigrants from the Eastern States, as well as from other countries, depend wholly on the instructions of their party-leaders, in the discharge of their political functions. Such are, of course, an easy prey. Then the land-speculators are a merciless gang, who spend much of their time here in an unrighteous system of bargain and brokerage in the soil, on which their, very feet are pollution itself. To these should be 
<c03>
added an army of ministers of all denominations and of almost every grade of talent, though generally below mediocrity—sent, many of them, by missionary associations, who seem, to think, like much of the East, that ‘anything, is good enough for the West'; and though of a low order, many of them in every respect, they still act most chillingly on many minds. 
But there is still a large number of people, all over, the West, not always, perhaps, the most known, who will not suffer in comparison with the best parts of the Eastern States, in whatever light they are viewed. The past three years have been a period of financial disaster, owing, mostly, to a remarkable failure of the crops, of which, I fear, we at the East have been wholly too oblivious. And I am told here of instances, of noble generosity and self-sacrifice, of divisions of last loaves, dollars, and bags of meal, to save the most needy from absolute want, not to speak of the magnificent retrenchments, as well as gifts of the more fortunate, that are truly honorable to humanity, and are a more hopeful sign and assurance of the future prosperity of these rising States, than the planting of a hundred sectarian churches, or all the revivals that have been boasted in forty years in all the denominations.
My meetings are well attended, and the people listen with a candor, and appreciation, too, worthy the best parts of New England. Loftier minds, nobler, souls, braver hearts cannot be found anywhere, than are scattered, here and there, like the beautiful groves,; all over these wondrous plains. Would that the East and West were better known to each other, in a higher and more interior sense than comes within the scope of speculators, politicians, or a narrow, sectarian priesthood! PARKER PILLSBURY. 

THE CURSE AND CRIME OF SLAVERY.
NEW YORK, Oct. 20, 1860.
W. L. GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR—You will perceive, by the date of this note, that I am now, by the good Providence of God, on the American side of the Atlantic. After a somewhat rough passage of nearly fourteen days on board the 'City of Washington,' we landed at this city on the 11th.
I need scarcely say, that I am again on my way to the land of the free; for such is the glorious title which has been claimed by Hayti, for now more than half, a century. Happy indeed is that country which is not cursed by the presence of slavery. I have indeed been told, sometimes, by some of the friends of African slavery, that there is a vast amount of human misery in England, which demands our sympathies; but, however true this may be, it is certainly not from the friends of slavery that we may look for any remedy in this case, nor should the fact be lost sight of, that it is principally those who are conscientiously opposed to the iniquity of slavery, who at this moment are laboring in the interests of suffering humanity, both in England and elsewhere. Thank God, however, that neither in England nor in Hayti is the savagism of the lash employed to wring out uncompensated labor from the energies of human beings; nor is there, on either of those shores, the power to tear and sell wives from their husbands, or children from their parents, and thus to dispose of them, either as beasts for commerce, or for slaughter. Well indeed might the celebrated John Wesley declare such a system to be ‘the sum of all villanies.'
Since my arrival in the States, I have observed that to speak of the right of one man to hold property in another is called taking a philosophic view of the subject! I must confess this has struck me as being quite strange. I can scarcely conceive what philosophy has to do with mere buying and selling. It is true that where there is a human being who becomes an article of merchandise, it may, with some peculiarly constructed minds, become elevated to the dignity of a philosophical transaction! Such are the absurdities to which men are liable when simple right and truth are thus strangely perverted.
During my absence from Hayti, I seem to have thought and felt more on the subject of slavery than I had ever done before, and I cannot but rejoice to find that the enormities of this fearful system, while they are gradually developing themselves before the light of Christian truth and justice, are looked at with increasing horror by every real friend of human progress, whatever be his religious creed; and the more I reflect upon the fact, that by the power and goodness of Divine Providence, Hayti has been triumphantly free, the more I rejoice therein. Nor do I feel my joy in this case to be incompatible with any amount of grief and sorrow at those sanguinary and deadly conflicts which were provoked and brought on by the white slaveholder of former days in that country; for, in this case, as in many others recorded in the history of mankind, it was the oppressors, and not the oppressed, who first lighted up the flames of discord, and who, by an obstinate and blind perseverance in injustice, at last brought on their own ruin; leaving thus to posterity a lesson which it would, be well for them to learn. Let slavery only cease, and there will be peace; but, let its irritating friction go on, between all the tenderest and most touching interests of human nature, and, unless man ceases to be man, something must somewhere, or somehow, explode. Such at least has been the history of man in all ages. They, therefore, alone, are the true friends of peace and happiness, who would annihilate the cause of misery and woe. God grant that the United States may soon be delivered from the fearful plague of slavery, which cannot but act as a blighting and withering power on all the elements of true greatness and prosperity, to any country. Sublime indeed would be the spectacle to mankind, of the great Republic of North America, free and unfettered, even to her utmost verge; for no country can be said to be free where slavery exists. How can that man be free, who is in any way chained up, either to or in the interests of slavery? He may indeed imagine himself to be free, as he buys, or sells, or drives his fellow-beings; but he himself, in the presence of genuine liberty, feels that his dignity as a man is beset, degraded and fettered by such a position. In fact, it must, in the nature of things, be, that the degradation of slavery must attach itself to the enlightened white man, who stoops to practise it against the voice of both conscience and reason, rather than to the ignorant black man, who suffers it by a force of circumstances which he has no power to resist; and I do sincerely trust that the day is coming, even speedily, when the slave-owner will feel, and shrink from, the shame and degradation of his own position. But, alas! for the present, there are many who, feeling the injustice of slavery, think they find shelter in neutrality; hence, in conversation with an American lady, a few days since, on the subject of slavery, she observed that she thought the best thing she could do for the freedom of the slave was to let slavery alone; and, in fact, this seems to be a feeling that is but too prevalent. And that such a feeling or idea should exist where slavery is not seen to be an evil, is not so much surprising; but that such a feeling should exist in a soul, as was the case with the lady referred to, and is the case, with thousands of others, where slavery is acknowledged and felt to be an evil, is passing strange. What would Satan himself desire more than to be let alone, and thus to have full sweep throughout the realms of crime and darkness? In fact, a slave-owner himself observed to me, not long since, that if the Anti-Slavery party would only be moderate, things would be much better. But who has not learned, long since, that a far mightier lever than that of indifference and lukewarmness (principles which Heaven itself spews out of its mouth) must be employed for the uprooting of the evils of the world? This indeed was not Washington's feeling, nor would it ever have won either. Haytian or American independence; neither was it the principle of the Son of God, who declared that he who was not for him was against him.
<c04>
Let him, therefore, who in heart deprecates and dreads the conflagration, take away the torch which must inevitably produce it. Truly, a more dangerous torch to human interests and feelings never was than that of slavery. God grant that, for the interest, safety and welfare of all parties, this torch may soon be extinguished! But most certainly it will never be put out by either neutrality or lukewarmness. I have been told by some, that I have adopted violent principles. This, however, I am at a loss to understand, for I wish no man any harm; but I am anxious that he who is harming himself, by clinging to a system which has already engulphed so many slaves and slave-owners in utter ruin, would cease to do so. All the violence I wish is, that men would ‘cease from, evil, and learn to do well.' The violence is on the part of those who, with their eyes open, resolutely persist in the practice of such principles and systems as must, in the end, shake the very foundations of society. More than ever am I convinced that they only are the peace-makers, who do away with the causes of discord and, war, and thus render them impossible. I am anxious, as a friend, not only to this great country, but to the progress and welfare of the world, that the North American Republic, and its noble institutions—apart from slavery—should not only be untarnished, but that it should become, permanently safe. But slavery is a deadly serpent, which stings, envenoms and embitters everything; it is a plague in the very bowels of the nation, and an evil from which every kind and degree of evil may be feared. M. B. BIRD,
[Missionary to Hayti.] 

PARTICULARS OF THE CAPTURE OF SHERMAN M. BOOTH.—When Mr. Booth was taken at Berlin, he had been to a Wide-A wake meeting, as we have stated, at which Ichabod Codding had been speaking, and the martyr was coming away from the meeting after it was over between two ladies, one on each arm. We believe the Wide-Awakes were also coming away from the meeting, with torchlights, &c. At this moment, Deputy U. S. Marshal Taylor, and a farmer from the vicinity of Berlin, named E. M. Randall, (who left his team in the street, and afterwards came to Milwaukee,) stepped up to Booth, and taking hold of him, declared him to be their prisoner.
He attempted to get hold of his implements of destruction, but was prevented, and he also cried out, ‘Freemen, to the rescue!' but was but was hushed up, and got out of the way, before scarcely any were made aware of what was transpiring.
The ladies in company with Sherman at first seemed to feel greater solicitude for the officer and his companion than for Sherman, and stepping off, cried out to them, ‘Don’t you touch him! Look out! He is a brave man! He carries dangerous weapons!'
This, however, had not the effect to deter them, and they hurried him into a buggy which they had near by, and drove rapidly to the depot. Booth was armed with a revolver and bowie-knife, and made the most desperate resistance.
They arrived at the depot about ten o'clock, and found, on reaching there, that the cars were just about to start for Milwaukee. On removing Sherman from the buggy to the sleeping car, he refused to walk at all, and would lie down and be dragged along. Some one at the depot, feeling sympathy for him, no matter who he was, inquired indignantly of the officer and his companion,’ 'What they were hauling a man about in that manner for?' Sherman told him that ‘they were kidnapping him.' But the men bearing him off, hushed him up, and getting him into the sleeping car, the train sped away, and, as we have said, about half-past five this morning he was conducted to the Custom House.-Milwaukee Wisconsin, 9th. 

THE RECENT SLAVE RESCUE CASE IN ILLINOIS.-The following is an extract of a private letter received in this city, says the Boston Traveller, from Ottawa, Illinois:—
'John Hossack, of Ottawa, Illinois, who has just served out a ten days' sentence in the jail at Chicago for assisting in the rescue of a fugitive slave at Ottawa last year, has been named by the Republicans in this region for the office of Governor. Mr. Hossack is a Scotchman by birth, but spent many years of his life in Quebec, following the occupation of a baker. About twenty years since he removed to Ottawa, Ill., and assisted in the construction of the Illinois and Michigan Canal. He has been for some years past a prominent dealer in grain. He is possessed of considerable wealth obtained by enterprise and industry, and is considered one of the most upright and intelligent citizens in the community.' 

A PANIC IN SOUTH CAROLINA.-The latest ‘scare' has been started at Marlborough, S. C., where the community are said to have been thrown into a state of great excitement by the arrest of two citizens of western New York, who had under their care a large stand of arms. The Columbus South Carolinian says that they were searched, and invoices found calling for another lot, amounting in all to about twelve hundred. The arms were consigned to parties in Wilmington, to which place a gentleman had been sent to make investigations, and to secure others who may be implicated. Their complicity and direct agency were so thoroughly established that they were committed to jail. The feeling was so intense that it was with great difficulty that their violent seizure and immediate execution could be prevented. 
ATTEMPTED SLAVE INSURRECTION IN MISSISSIPPI.-The St. Louis Evening News says:—
'The Mississippi papers bring us accounts of an attempted negro insurrection in Winston county in that State, plotted by white men, but fortunately discovered and circumvented through the revelations of a negro girl belonging to Mr. C. D. Kelly. Thirty or forty negroes were arrested in the county, who, on being examined, told substantially the same story—that they had been instigated by white men to poison their white masters and mistresses, and on election day burn the dwellings, take possession of all the firearms they could secure, and organize for a war of extermination against the whites. Great excitement prevailed on the discovery of the plot, and the citizens were forming vigilance committees and armed patrols for protection. One white man, an ambrotypist named G. Harrington, and one negro had been hung.'
The state of nervous terror and excitement in which the people of the South perpetually live, is well illustrated by the following extract from the Oxford (N. C.) Leisure Hour:—
'On Monday evening of last week, the usual quiet of Oxford was somewhat disturbed by the announcement that a little negro, apparently some eight or ten years old, had been taken at Kittrell's Springs, and brought here to jail, on account of some startling disclosures he had made to several persons at the Springs. He represented himself as having been born in the woods, and stated that he had passed his life in a cave, which was inhabited by three runaways. He said his mother belonged to Seth Ward, of Franklin county; that she also formerly lived in the cave, but had been caught and taken to her master. He described the cave very minutely, and also the habits and mode of life of its inmates. The announcement that a den of runaways existed in Granville created some excitement among our citizens, and on Tuesday morning, Dr. S. A. Williams, A. F. Spencer, W. H. Paschall, and James M. Wood, Esqs., determined to go in pursuit of the fugitives. Accordingly, armed with double-barreled guns and other necessary weapons, and accompanied by the little negro, who had promised to point out the whereabouts of the rendezvous, the four above named gentlemen started on the hazardous expedition. About dusk they returned, and a blanker looking set was never seen. They had been most egregiously sold. The plausible tale of the negro turned out to be sheer fabrication.'
CAPTURE OF FUGITIVE SLAVES.-A few days since, Deputy United States Marshal Mason received information that a party of six fugitive slaves, who owed service in Manson County, Kentucky, were living on the Lake Erie shore, about two miles from Sandusky. He took with him a posse of five or six men, and on Friday evening, about eight o'clock, he came upon their quarters. They made a most desperate resistance, and shouted ‘Kidnappers!' ‘White men, to the rescue!' &c. They were finally overpowered, and, although the Marshal and his aids were pursued, and several times fired upon by a powerful party of whites and blacks, they managed, by running with their prisoners through cornfields and woods, to successfully elude their pursuers, until they reached the railroad track, between two stations. There they succeeded in stopping the down train by swinging a redcolored lantern, and, taking passage, arrived here safely yesterday afternoon. The fugitives were taken before a United States Commissioner, where they owned they were slaves, and were accordingly remanded to the custody of their masters, and are, ere this, safe at their old Kentucky home.-Cincinnati Enquirer, 14th. 
Mrs. Washington, the wife of John A. Washington, Esq.., late of Mount Vernon, died a few days since. 
<c05>
FROM HAYTI. News from Hayti to the 22d of September has been received.
Efforts are making by the government to introduce trial by jury. All citizens of the Republic, of a proper age, will be liable to jury duty, excepting the preachers of any religion, the government officials, and the military in active service.
Subscriptions continue to be taken up for the widow of John Brown. Subscriptions are also received for Lamartine's Works. 

THE BARBARISM OF SLAVERY. A NEGRO BURNED TO DEATH. The Columbus (Ga.) Enquirer has a letter dated at Tuskogee, Oct. 9, giving an account of the burning of a negro slave, for some crime which is not mentioned. He was arrested in the morning, and a large number of the citizens, about one hundred-and fifty, met, tried and sentenced him, and before, the sun set, HE WAS BURNED; TO ASHES! No judge presided, no jury was empanelled.

A SLAVE IN COURT. A man from Georgia, who had brought his slave woman to New York, was before the courts on Saturday, in that city, accusing her of theft. As he had brought her voluntarily into the State, the woman was free, but Mr. Cohen charged her with theft, to get her entangled in the meshes of the law, and thus obtain possession of other again, if possible; but the charge was not sustained, and the Judge ordered the woman to be discharged. 

HORRIBLE MASSACRE BY INDIANS. Telegraphic despatches of California news announce that an entire emigrant train of forty-six persons, nineteen of whom were men, and the rest women and children, had been massacred by the Snake-Indians upon the Western Plains.

DEATH OF ONE OF THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY. Andrew B. Hutchinson, son of the late Jesse Hutchinson of Milford, N. H., and a brother of the well-known Hutchinson singers, died at the Lunatic Hospital, at South Boston, of chronic insanity, on Saturday. He was fifty-two years of age, and for many years was a grocer on Broad street. 
The report contradicting the death of the Methodist preacher, Rev. Mr. Bewley, at the hands of a Texas mob, was untrue. The particulars of the execution are given in the Houston papers. He was arrested near Cassville, Mo., by a vigilance committee from Arkansas, and taken to Fort Worth, where he was hung on a tree. He refused to make any disclosures, saying that he knew they were determined to hang him any way.
A patrol has been appointed in each election district of St. Mary's County, Md., whose duty it is to ‘vigilantly watch all negro meetings and disperse, the same, and to arrest and bring to justice all Abolitionists and other persons who may be found violating the laws of the State on the subject of slavery.' 
The Governor of South Carolina has issued a proclamation, calling an extra session of the Legislature of that State for the purpose of electing Presidential electors, and, ‘if advisable, to take action for the safety and protection of the State.' 
The commission appointed by the Virginia Legislature to procure arms for the defence of that State have sent to England for 2,500 Enfield. rifles at $16 each. 

THE WEYMOUTH ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR, 
(To be held at the South-Shore Railroad Depot,)
WEYMOUTH LANDING,
Will open on TUESDAY EVENING, October 30th, and continue through Wednesday and Thursday. The annual Tea-Party, at which Mr. EDMUND QUINCY is to preside, will take place at the same Hall, on Thursday evening, November 1st. Eloquent speakers are expected from Boston, Weymouth, and the surrounding towns. The annual Dancing Party will be on Friday evening, November 2d. 
CHARLES L. REMOND and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Vermont as follows:—
Washington, Friday, Oct. 26.
West Brookfield, Saturday, Sat. and Sun., 27, 28. 
A. T. FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. S. Society, will speak in New Hampshire as follows:—
Northumberland, Friday, Oct. 26.
Northumberland Falls, Sunday, Oct. 28.
Lancaster, Tuesday, Oct. 30. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak in Taunton, Mass., Sunday, Oct. 28, all, day and evening. 

LITTLE CHILDREN can be furnished with board and kindly cared for at No. 1 Newland (out of Dedham) street, by Mrs. J. M. SPEAR. 
DIED—In Concord, Mass., Sept. 19, JOHN GARRISON, aged 93.
In Pawtucket, R. I., Oct. 12, HORATIO W. FOSTER, aged 45. 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE'S 
ANNOUNCEMENTS! 
HARRINGTON;

A Story, of True Love. 
By the Author of ‘What Cheer?’ ‘The Ghost—A Christmas Story,' &c.
'Herein may be seen noble chivalrye, curtosye, humanitye, friendlynesse, love, friendshype, cowardyse, murder, hate, vertue and synne. Doo after the good, and leve the evyl, and it shall brynge you to good fame and renowne.'—[Sir Thomas Malory: Preface to Morte D'Arthur.
This is the most brilliant novel ever written in America. It is of an anti-slavery character, and altogether the most fascinating story of the kind yet published. 1 volume, 12 mo. Ready first of November. 

II. 
HALF-BATTLE WORDS FROM THEODORE PARKER. 
'Few deeds are equal to his words. His prose was a half-battle.'—[Jean Paul Richter on Martin Luther. One volume, 12mo.
This volume will contain some of the most salient passages to be found in Theodore Parker's Sermons, and also extracts from his famous portraitures of character, such as Channing, John Quincy Adams, General Taylor, Daniel Webster, Washington, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, R. W. Emerson, Humboldt, &c., &c.
[To be issued immediately.] 
III.
THEODORE PARKER: 
IN MEMORIAM. 
Embracing the tributes to his memory, by Emerson, Phillips, Garrison, J. F. Clark, W. E. Channing, May, Alger, Belcher, Frothingham, Conway, Higginson, Wheelock, Charles Sumner, G. W. Curtis, &c., &c., with a biographical sketch.
This volume will be issued in elegant style, and be embellished with a superb steel portrait. 1 vol. 12mo. 
[In active preparation.] 

IV. 
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL. 
Written by herself. Edited by L. MARIA CHILD. 
A work presenting a new phase of the Peculiar Institution, of especial interest to every woman, and to all who love virtue. 1 volume, 12mo.
[Ready in November.] 

V.
HISTORY OF SLAVE INSURRECTIONS. 
By T. W. HIGGINSON. 
This volume will embrace the papers in the Atlantic Monthly, contributed by the author under the title of ‘The Maroons of Jamaica,' ‘The Maroons of Surinam,' &c., with a history of all other notable slave insurrections. A work of peculiar interest to the American people, as well as a valuable contribution to historical literature. 1 volume, 12mo. 

A NEW VOLUME OF POEMS! 
By WALT WHITMAN. 
A handsome brochure of 150 pages. 1 volume, 16mo. O26 2w
<c06>
IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT 
THE PERUVIAN SYRUP. 
INTERESTING TO ALL INVALIDS. 
THREE-FOURTHS of all the sickness and suffering in this world are the result of derangement of the physical system, consequent upon a weakness and impaired condition of the natural forces.
The principal vital force is the iron contained in the blood. This is derived from the food we eat: but, if from any cause or derangement, the necessary amount of iron is not taken into the circulation, the whole system suffers, and unless the deficiency is supplied, all the natural powers are weakened, and sometimes to a degree which brings on entire prostration of the physical and mental forces. Then follows every imaginable complaint, all arising, however, from a deterioration or bad state of the blood.
Among these are Dyspepsia, Nervous Debility, Languor and Depression of Spirits, Scrofula, Piles, Skin Diseases of every description, Tendency to Consumption, Weakness of the Sexual Organs, Prolapsus Uteri, and diseases of the female system generally, and all complaints accompanied by weakness or prostration, of physical and mental energy. In all these cases, THE PERUVIAN SYRUP has effected the most astonishing cures, and the great secret of the wonderful success is, the simple fact that it at once supplies the deficiency of that indispensable ingredient, Iron in the Blood.
The statements of cures which are published in our pamphlet may be relied on as strictly true in every case, in proof of which, we will, at any time, on application, show the original letters and statements of the persons cured.
EVERY INVALID SHOULD READ THESE FACTS, and avail himself or herself of this invaluable remedy. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CARTER, 
No. 39 Summer Street, Boston. 
For sale by all Druggists.
Oct. 26. 6w. 

PORTRAIT OF 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
A SPLENDID crayon Portrait of Mr. Phillips has just been drawn by Thomas M. Johnston. It is pronounced by the most intimate friends of Mr. P. the very best likeness for which he ever sat. It will be drawn on stone in the very highest style of the lithographic art, and copies will be furnished to subscribers at ONE DOLLAR EACH.
C. H. BRAINARD, 
322 Washington street, Boston. 
Oct. 26. 
Historical Pictures Retouched. 
A VOLUME of Miscellanies, in two parts. Part I., Studies. Part II., Fancies. By Mrs. C. H. DALL, author of ‘Woman’s Right to Labor.' A volume at once scholarly and popular, instructive and interesting, which is sure of a cordial reception from all readers of the work on ‘Labor,' and certain to take a place in our standard literature. 16mo., $1. 
'Written with a freshness of style, and vigor and independence of thought An important contribution to that branch of social science in which its author is laboring.'—Norfolk County Journal. 
'By an author whose literary culture, patient industry, and earnest spirit, have deservedly placed her in the front rank of writers.'—Bangor Whig. 
'These essays evince rare literary culture, patient industry, and strong reasoning powers.'—Portland Transcript. 
Published by 
WALKER, WISE & COMPANY,
245 Washington street, Boston.
Oct. 26. 3t 

LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY.
274 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.
THE Second Annual Course of Lectures will commence on Thursday, Nov. 8, 1860. 
LECTURERS.
WALTER BURNHAM, M. D., on Practice of Medicine and Surgery.
SUSAN R. CAPEN, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., Surgical Anatomy, Physiology, and Materia Medica.
SARAH W. SALISBURY, M. D., Anatomy and Hygiene. 

Intending students will apply to Dr. W. S. BROWN, 15 Congress Street, Boston.
Oct. 5. 4wis 
WEIS & ZOEBISCH, 
Manufacturers of and Dealers in 
EUROPEAN AND FANCY FURS,
184 WASHINGTON STREET. 184
CORNER OF FRANKLIN ST., BOSTON.
E. ZOEBISCH will pay particular attention to Altering and Repairing old Furs. 
FACTORY, 6 CENTRAL STREET.
DR. E. A. KITTREDGE
WOULD inform the public that he has taken a most commodious mansion in Fairmount, Milton, (seven miles from Boston on the Providence railroad,) where he is prepared to give Hydropathic and Kinnisipathic treatment, Diseases of Females specially attended to. Office in Boston, 13 Avery Street.
Patients visited anywhere in New England, as usual. Oct. 12. 

SERMONS AND OTHER DISCOURSES. 
WITH BRIEF BIOGRAPHICAL HINTS. By BERIAH GREEN. Pages 556 12mo. With Portrait engraved by Ritchie. 
In spite of the modest, and to most readers, perhaps, unpromising title of this volume, it will be found to bear the impress of a vigorous and original mind, and to contain a fund of earnest thought, profound feeling, and eloquent expression. The topics mostly relate to the great practical interests of life, the application of the highest principle to daily affairs, and the influence of Christianity on politics, business, education, and the general relations of society. With a strong faith in the vitality of justice, Mr. Green contends strenuously against every form of oppression, insisting on the exact adjustment of social duties by the standard of ideal right. His powerful reasoning is always accompanied with novel and suggestive illustrations, showing no less felicity of statement than sincerity of conviction. No one can peruse the volume without respecting the zeal and integrity of the author, and receiving a new impression of the worth of the principles to which his labors have been devoted.'—N. Y. Tribune, 29th Sept. 
'One thought pervades throughout—that of the absolute supremacy, the all-sovereign authority of the Throne of the Eternal, of great Truth and Justice. They are the life of the world, the soul and substance of whatever has vitality, worth, permanence among men. Here are wisdom and strength, the secret spring of all accomplishment and success. Fidelity is achievement, and unfaithfulness is failure and defeat. The ideal is the standard, to which everything must be carefully adjusted. All usages and institutions are tried in this light, and each to be accepted as good and worthy only as it may conform to and symbolize the inner Verities. There is warm appreciation of heroism in life, and especially high adoration of Jesus as ‘the Hero of all heroes,' realization utmost of the perfections of wisdom, virtue, and nobleness in history. And there is correspondingly deep disgust and abhorrence of all baseness. He has indignant loathing and abomination for those wretched idols before whom the multitudes bow down and worship—those cunning, soulless quacks and jugglers who, vaulting up perpetually into the high places of society, busy themselves but to bewitch and bewilder, to befool and destroy.'-Review in National A. S. Standard, Sept. 22d.
Price, $1.25. When prepaid by mail, $1.46.
S. W. GREEN, 
16 Jacob St., of Box 3159, New York. 

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each, proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Third edition. Price 15 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar.
A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
Oct. 5-6m. 274 Canal street, New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
VALEDICTORY TO THE PRINCE OF 
WALES.
Victoria's Son! young Prince of Wales!
Thou’.st seen our land so fair;
Hast looked upon its hills and vales,
And heard its people's prayer.
Thou'st heard them of their freedom boast,
The flag which o'er them waves,
While all along their Southern coast
Dwell millions who are slaves.
Our muse would raise one prayer for thee,
As thou art' homeward bound,'
That thou the friend of man may'st be,
Wherever man is found.
If thou shalt at some future day
Sit on Old England's throne,
May'st thou no tyrant's sceptre sway,
To dim thy kingly crown.
May holy wisdom guide thy youth,
Thy manhood's noble prime,
And be thy motto, 'Love and Truth,’
E'en to the end of time.
Boston. Oct. 19, 1860. JUSTITIA.
Holmes's Ode.
For the Liberator.
THE CHRISTIAN (P) MISER’S PRAYER.
Mammon,-the only god I know,-
O listen to my prayer!
Give me,-‘tis all I wish below,-
Of gold a larger share.
If there's a soul within my breast,
A spark of life divine’
I pray thee of that life divest,
And make me wholly thine.
Help me to keep an open eye
On every chance for gain,
And when the poor for bread shall cry,
From hearing to refrain.
O teach me better how to lie,
To cheat on larger scale,
To heap up treasure till I die,
Though I of Heaven should fail.
Help me for my own self to live,
Nor raise one thought above;
My only wish that thou wilt give
Me wealth, what most I love.
Gold, gold is all that I desire,
Its love my being fills;
Give this, I'll fear no future fire,
I’II brave all present ills.
And if it ever should seem clear
That godliness ‘will pay,’
Help me put on a saintly air 
Upon the Sabbath day.
Thus help me better to deceive
Those whom I would defraud,
And while their pockets I relieve,
Tell how I love the Lord.
Thus men the cheat may never know,
‘Tis done with so much grace,
And I through life shall richer grow,
Then go to my own place.
Boston, Oct. 16, 1860.
JUSTITIA. 
For the Liberator.
THE LOST CHILD.
Written on hearing a bereaved mother lament that 
she had obtained no satisfactory remembrance of her lost child.
The sculptor's rapt, impassioned thought
Hath from th’ impassive marble wrought
Each feature so divinely fair,
Nor life itself seems wanting there;
Till, mirrored in a mother's eyes, 
How cold, how pale the statue lies!
Vainly the painter's heaven-born power,
The soul of beauty for its dower,
With rose-hued cheek and dancing curl,
And 'witching mouth and brow of pearl,
And blue orbs bathed in liquid light,
May burst upon the startled sight.
The proudest triumph of his art
Must bow before a mother's heart!
Thou hast his form engraven there
So true, so life-like, and so fair,
Nor life nor death can e'er efface
The impress of such childish grace.
Then grieve no more, but hail with joy
That portrait of thine angel boy;
For never, never couldst thou find 
Such truth in sculptured marble shrined,
Nor hope to win, from earthly dyes,
The look that's borrowed of the skies.
Lowell. AMELIA.
A WARNING.
His voice was loudest of the loud
Of all the gay and thoughtless crowd,
And lightsome were his jest and laugh
As he the ruby wine did quaff;
Whilst as he high his hand did wave,
He said, ‘Let pleasure lead the brave.'
I warned him of his danger great,.
The dreadful doom that might await,
And all the suffering and the pain,.
If drink should prove to be his bane;
I urged him not to touch again
That which had ruined better men.
He heard me with a scornful sneer:
'Away!' he said-‘I do not fear;
Waste not your breath to talk to me,
A drunkard I shall never be,
I can with ease myself restrain,-
’Tis only fools that need abstain.'
I will not trace his quick downfall-
Friends, home and business lost were all;
Each eye would glisten, each cheek pale,
Were I to tell the fearful tale;
But 'tis enough to say that now
The moldering sod lies o'er his brow.
This we may learn ere 'tis too late, 
To dread the cause of his sad fate;
That wisdom teaches that we should
Deny ourselves for our own good,
And that 'tis safest to avoid
That which so many hath destroyed.
England. JOSEPH A. HORNER.
OCTOBER.
BY GEORGE COOPER.
Hail to thee, month of purple grape!
Hail to thee, time of the laden vine!
Hail to thee, month of the golden days!
And time of the silver nights benign!
Hail,. season rich of the open palm!
Lo! broadcast from the bending bowers,
Fall the fair gifts of thy lavish lap,
Over the land in luscious showers.
Hail to thee, month of the amber woods!
Hail to thee, time of the crispy meads!
Hail to thee, month of the merry winds!
Singing away in the rustling reeds.
Look! the bright lasses on tip-toe stand,
Gleefully plucking thy clusters rare,
While lie ungathered their sweet lips on,
Reddest of roses in sad despair!
Hail to thee, month of the ripened vine!
Hail to thee, time of the topax lawn!
Hail to thee, month of the silver nights!
Hail to thee, month of the golden morn!
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR 
REVIEW OF MR. YANCEY'S SPEECH.
A large and highly intelligent meeting was held at the Joy Street Church, in Boston, on Monday evening, 15th inst., to listen to a review of the speech of the Hon. W. L. Yancey, at Faneuil Hall, on the Friday evening previous The meeting was opened by a few remarks from Rev. J. SELLA MARTIN, and then addressed by WM. WELLS BROWN.
SPEECH OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
FELLOW-CITIZENS: This is an interesting crisis in the political history of our country, and especially as it regards the Anglo-African race For the last forty years, there has been a great struggle between freedom and Slavery in the United States, and the Slave Power has spared no pains and no amount of money to carry its unholy cause. While the advocates of freedom have not been permitted to go South and agitate the subject, slaveholders have been freely admitted to the free States, and permitted to speak as they pleased; and, on Friday evening last, many of us who are here to-night went to Faneuil Hall, to listen to one of the fire-eaters of the South, Hon. W. L. Yancey, of Alabama. He is no doubt one of the ablest as well as one of the most eloquent men of which the Slave Power can boast. And it is for the purpose of listening to a criticism upon that gentleman's speech, that you have assembled here this evening. I wrote Mr. Yancey on Saturday, inviting him to be present to-night, promising that he should have an opportunity of replying to me, if he wished. If he is not here, the fault is his, and not mine. Although the honorable gentleman on Friday evening averred that he would treat the subject fairly and candidly, he nevertheless entirely ignored conscientiousness and morality. He made a long argument, and brought forward many figures to prove that slave labor was more beneficial to the country than free; all of which I will pass over by putting ' Helper's Impending crisis’ against him. It has been shown that the product of the hay crop alone in the Free States is worth more than the entire products of the South. So I will turn Mr. Yancey out to grass. (Applause.) He said that the Declaration of Independence meant that white men were created equal, and did not include the negro. 'It was never intended,' said he,' that the blacks should be citizens.'
Upon this point, Mr. Yancey shows his ignorance of history, and proves that with all his smartness, he has been a very dull student. What says the history of our country on this question of negro citizenship? We were regarded as citizens by those who drew up the articles of Confederation between the States in 1778. The fourth of said articles contains the following language: ‘The free inhabitants of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in the several States.' That we were not excluded under the phrase ‘paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from justice,' any more than the whites, is plain from the debates that preceded the adoption of the article; for, on the 25th of June, 1778,' the delegates from South Carolina moved the following in behalf of their State: In article fourth, between the words free inhabitants insert the word white. Decided in the negative, ayes, two States; nays, eight States; one State divided.' Such was the decision of the Revolutionary Congress, upon the citizenship of the negro.
At the ratification of the articles of Confederation, all the free native-born inhabitants of the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey and North Carolina, though descended from African slaves, were not only recognized and considered citizens of those States, but such of them as had the necessary. qualification possessed the elective franchise on equal terms with the other citizens. Judge Gaston, of the Supreme Court of North Carolina, in the case of the State vs. Manuel, clearly defines the law on this point. Says he, ' The Constitution of the State extended the elective franchise to every freeman who had arrived at the age of 21 years, and paid a public tax; and under it, free persons, without regard to color, claimed and exercised the franchise until it was taken away from free men of color, a few years since, by our amended Constitution.' And, as late as the year 1859, Judge Catron, of the Supreme Court of the United States, in a letter to the Nashville Union and American, in which he opposes the forcible expulsion of the free colored people from Tennessee, says, 'Under our Constitution of 1796, the free colored men voted at the polls. That the old Constitution extended to them, and protected their rights, is free from doubt. They were considered citizens.'
Thus it will be seen that several of the States, including at least two of the slave States, regarded free colored persons as citizens. Yet Mr. Yancey has not read the history of his country enough to find it out. (Applause)
And why should the black man not be considered in the light of citizenship? Did not the Negro contribute his proportion towards securing the liberty and the independence of the country? If we go back to the foundation of the Republic, we shall find colored men in all the scenes of the great American drama. In times of peril has our aid been called for, and our services as promptly given. When the country, its interests, its best and most cherished rights and institutions have been assailed, not unavailingly have we been looked to. When the people of the Colonies, aroused by the injustice of British policy, arose as one man, for the maintenance of natural and imprescriptable rights, the colored man stood by the side of his white fellow-citizen. During that memorable conflict, in severe and trying service, did they contend for those principles of liberty set forth in the Declaration of Independence, which are not for white men alone, but which pertain alike to every being possessed of those high and exalted endowments that distinguish humanity. The Negro's blood mingled with the soil of every battle-field, made glorious by revolutionary reminiscence; and their bones have enriched the most productive lands of the country. But, what cares Mr. Yancey about history or facts? He goes for slavery, without any regard to complexion. He would as soon have his plantation stocked with men taken from the audience which he addressed on Friday night, as to have them from the coast of Africa. As I listened to the loud applause which was given to the speaker by the hard-fisted laboring men of Boston, and knowing how the working man is looked upon in the South, I felt a degree of mingled shame, pity and contempt for them. Who has forgotten that impudent speech of Mr. Senator Hammond of South Carolina, a year or two since, in which he said-
'In all social systems, there must be a class to do the menial duties, to perform the drudgery of life; a class requiring but a low order of intellect and little skill. It constitutes the mud-sill of society and of political government. Your whole class of manual hireling laborers at the North, and your ' operatives,' as you call them, are essentially slaves' 
And who will ever forget the contemptuous remarks of the editor of the Museogee Herald, published in Mr. Yancey's own State, and by one of his nearest neighbors? Hear what he thinks of such men as the honorable(?) gentleman spoke to in Faneuil Hall:-
'Free society! We sicken at the name. What is it but a conglomeration of greasy mechanics, filthy operatives, small-fisted farmers, and moon-struck theorists? All the Northern States, and especially the New England States, are devoid of society fitted for well-bred gentlemen. The prevailing class one meets with is that of mechanics struggling to be genteel, and small farmers who do their own drudgery; and yet who are hardly fit for association with a gentleman's body servant. That is your free society!
<c03>
And in a political Convention held in Alabama, in 1856, at which Mr. Yancey made a speech, a resolution was unanimously adopted, in which the following was embodied:-
'The great evil of Northern society is, that it is burdened with a servile class of mechanics and laborers, unfit for self-government, and yet clothed with the attributes and powers of citizens. Master and slave is a relation in society as necessary as that of parent and child, and the Northern States will yet have to introduce it. The theory of free government is a delusion. Slavery is the natural and normal condition of the laboring man, white or black.' 
But I leave the Alabama Senator in the hands of the sun-burnt and hard-working men who applauded him so enthusiastically on Friday evening, and the Democratic Committee that imported him to Boston, to settle with them for this contempt of honest labor.
In his remarks, Mr. Yancey contended that the North should go for the increase of slave States and slaves, because slaveholders purchased shoes and clothing for their negroes from Northern manufacturers. 'No,' said he, ’the nigger won't work if free.' Now, if Mr. Yancey had wished, he could have told his audience that there were 16,000 free colored people in Alabama, and the census of 1850 shows that among the citizens of Montgomery there are five free men of color set down as worth $20,000 each, and one of these was a slave till thirty years old. It is well known that there are nearly seventy thousand free colored inhabitants in Maryland, some of whom are worth more than $100,000. It was only during the last session of the Virginia Legislature, that a bill was introduced to enact a law driving the free blacks from the State. The only reason given for this expulsion was, that ‘the free negroes were getting too wealthy and too influential in the State.' Judge Catron, of whom I have already spoken, says of the free blacks in Tennessee, 'They are industrious, useful, and among them are 
some of the best mechanics and artizans in the State, and to drive them out would be great injury to ourselves.' A St. Louis paper of a recent date has the following paragraph:-
In the foundry of Gaty, Mr. Cune & Co., in this city, among its two hundred and seventy operatives are two negroes, who began life at the establishment, in 1849, as slaves. By dint of unflagging industry, in due course of time one of them bought himself, wife and five children, paying for himself $1400, and on an average for his wife and children $800 each. This negro is now supposed to be worth, in his own right, more than $5000 in real estate in that city. Another negro entered the factory about the same time, amassed sufficient money by his attention to duty to purchase himself at the price of $1500, his wife at $500, and four children at $400, and is now worth $6000 in real estate. These negroes were bought from their masters by Mr. Gray, with the understanding that they should work themselves free, and out of his own pocket he gave two per cent, interest on the deferred payments.' 
Yet Mr. Yancey is of opinion that 'the nigger won't work, if free'! 
The Alabama Beacon of March 6, 1858, tells its readers that ‘there are free negroes of too much wealth in the State, and that they ought to be driven out.'
Let me turn to another phase of the subject. 'You say,' said the speaker,' that our institution demoralizes the whites and the blacks. I say you are mistaken.' And here the gentleman undertook to prove that raising cotton was the highest idea of morality. Cotton-cotton-cotton-was the burden of his song. It reminded me, fellow-citizens, of the servant girl, not long from the Emerald Isle, who wanted her employer, an old gentleman, to read a letter from her lover; and not wishing him to know its contents, she came with the letter in one hand and some cotton in the other, and said, ‘Please, Mr. Maine, will you be kind enough to read this letter for me? and as you won't want to know what is in it, I brought this cotton, that you might put it in your ears, so that you might not hear what was in the letter.' (Loud applause.)
But let us try the moral character of slavery in Alabama by the testimony of her own citizens. Mr. John Balch, a resident of Tuscaloosa, in that State, advertises his runaway woman in the following manner:-
‘Ranaway from me, a negro woman, named Fanny. She is as white at most white women; with straight light hair, and blue eyes, and can pass herself off for a white woman. She is very intelligent; can read and write, and so forge passes for herself. She is very pious, prays a great deal, and was, as supposed, contented and happy. I will give $500 for her delivery to me.’
Mr. John Peck, of Mobile, Ala., has lost his man Sam, and says: 'He has light sandy hair, blue eyes, ruddy complexion, and will no doubt try to pass himself for a free white man.' Whether Fanny and Sam got their’ blue eyes, straight hair, and white complexion,' as such slaves generally do, from their masters, or not, I will leave Mr. Yancey to say. The Hon. C. C. Clay, who once occupied the seat in the United States Senate, now held by the orator of Friday night last, said, in a speech in his own State, 'Slavery corrupts the morals of the whites as well as the blacks. The evils of the system cannot be enumerated. They glare upon us at every step.' Yet Mr. Yancey thinks that there is nothing immoral in the institution! (Applause.)
The speaker was asked if men from the North could go South. He replied, 'Yes, if you don't go there to steal our niggers.' If the person who made this inquiry had kept pace with the insolence of the Slave Power, he could have found an answer to his ‘own question in the expulsion of the bookseller from Mobile, three years ago, for obtaining a copy of Frederick Douglass's Narrative for a customer. During the present year, a book agent was arrested in Alabama for soliciting subscribers to ‘Fleetwood's Life of Christ,' published by a Northern publisher. The Methodist Conference was in session at that time, and the case was noticed on the floor of that body. The members advocated the unfortunate agent's immediate expulsion from the place, on the ground that his continued presence would be dangerous to the existence of Southern institutions! A paper was drawn up, adopted, and published in the newspapers, setting forth, the ground of their action, substantially as follows:
'We have examined this man's case. We find no evidence to convict him of tampering with slaves, but as he is from the North, and engaged in selling a book published at the North, we have a right to suspect him of being an Abolitionist, and we therefore recommend, in order to guard ourselves against possible danger, that he be immediately conducted by the military out of this county into the next adjoining.'
Here is a poor simple book agent escorted out of the town by the military, to save him from a mob of Mr. Yancey's friends and constituents! The Hon. gentleman knew very well that no Northern man is safe at the South, if it is suspected that his opinions are against oppression.
'The superior ought to govern the inferior; the blacks were intended for slaves, owing to their inferiority,' said the Alabama Senator. What opportunity has he ever given his slaves to show their intellectual endowments? The whole South is aware that the blacks would rise from their present degraded condition, if they had the chance (loud applause); therefore the slave is forbidden to have a book or to learn to read. Genius may always rise, as it often has done, from the cottage to the mansion, from manual labor to mental occupation, from the hard lot of the many to the privileges of the few, to occupy positions of power in the State, or of eminence in the republic of letters. But intellect must have the opportunity of free development; it must not be placed in the hands of such men as Mr. Yancey, whose highest boast was, that he gave his slaves two pain of coarse shoes every year.
 ‘The nigger can't be any thing,' exclaimed the speaker; and in the next breath he said, ‘You have nigger lawyers her in Boston; we don't have such in our State.' The gentleman stopped short at this
<c04>
point, for he saw that if men could be lawyers in Boston, they could be in Alabama, if they were permitted. He stands with his feet upon the neck of the negro, and exclaims, ‘He’s inferior, because he don't rise!' And who is this man that claims a superiority over the black man? Will his antecedents bear a critical examination? Let us see. ’When the Britons first became known to the Tynan mariners, ’says Macaulay,' they were little superior to the Sandwich Islanders’ Hume says, 'They were a rude and barbarous people, divided into numerous tribes, dressed in the skins of wild beasts. Druidism was their religion, and they were filled with superstition.' When the Romans invaded Britain, the people were reduced to a state of slavery or vassalage, as degading as the slavery on Mr. Yancey's plantation. Their king, Caractacus, was captured, and sent a slave to Rome, Still later, Henghist and Horsa, the Saxon generals, presented another yoke to the Britons, which they were compelled to wear. But the last dregs of the cup of humiliation were drunk when William of Normandy met Harold at Hastings, and with a single blow, completely annihilated the nationality of the Britions Out of this conglomeration of Britons, Romans, Normans and Saxons sprang the proud Anglo Saxon of to-day. During the time that the Anglo Saxon was passing through this crucible of refinement, his condition was scarcely less humiliating than that of the slave on the banks of the Mississippi. And it is the descendant of such a race who claims a superiority over us! (Loud applause.)
But, fellow-citizens, this is not all. It is an historical fact, that when the Stuarts were on the English throne, it was the custom to transport their convicts to the West Indies and to the American Colonies. Many of these criminals were sent to the Colony of Virginia, and afterwards rose from their servile condition, spread over the Southern States, and their antecedents lost in the increase of population. Now, as it is a physiological fact, that the parent transmits his propensities to the child, it is reasonable to suppose that the convict blood of 1640 courses through the veins of the proud sons of the South of the present time. And instead of that blood becoming purer by the removal, it has become still more corrupt by its course through the veins of nine generations of woman-whippers, slave-traders and filibusters. (Loud applause.)
Now let me look at the antecedents of the negro, three thousand years ago, when in the period of their greatness and glory, when they hold the foremost rank in the march of civilization; when they constituted, in fact, the whole civilized world of their time. Euclid, Homer and Plato were Ethiopians; Terence, the most refined and accomplished scholar of his time, was of the same race; Hanno, the father of Hamilcar and grandfather of Hannibal, was a negro. Herodotus, the father of history, says that the Ethiopians were black, and had curled hair. The Romans, Saxons and Normans, who swallowed up the Britons, and gave them, a name and a language, received their civilization from Egypt and Ethiopia. When Mr.Yancey’s ancestors were bending their necks to the yoke of William the Conqueror, the ancestors of his slaves were revelling in the halls of science and learning. If the Hon. Senator from Alabama wants antecedents, he shall have them; and upon such, I claim a superiority for the negro. (Loud applause.)
But an editorial from the Montgomery Mail, Mr. Yancey's own paper, tells us the reason why he spoke as he did on Friday evening. It says:-
"The Democrats of the South, in the present canvass, cannot rely on the old grounds of defence and excuse for slavery; for they seek not merely to retain it where it is, but to extend it into regions where it is unknown. Much less can they rely on the mere constitutional guarantees of slavery; for such reliance is pregnant with the admission that slavery is wrong, and, but for the Constitution, should be abolished. If we slop there, we weaken our cause; for we propose to introduce into new territory human beings, whom we assert to be unfit for liberty, self-government, and equal association with other men. We must go a step further. We must show that African slavery is a moral, religious, natural, and probably, in the general, a necessary institution of society. This is the only line of argument that will enable Southern Democrats to maintain the doctrines of State equality and slavery extension.' 'Northern Democrats need not go thus far. They do not seek to extend slavery, but only to agree to its extension, as a matter of right on our part.'
Thus it will be seen that the whole drift of Mr. Yancey's speech was settled before he left his State.
Now, fellow-citizens, I have done with the Alabama Senator; but I must confess that I felt ashamed of the intelligence of that portion of the working men of Boston, who applauded so loudly on Friday evening, when, if they should go South, Mr. Yancey would not shake hands with them with a pair of tongs ten feet long. (Laughter and loud applause.)
CORRECTION OF ‘J A H.'
ROCHESTER, Oct. 15, 1860.
MR. GARRISON:
You will oblige me by allowing me to say in your columns, that the letter OF ‘J. A. H.' which appeared in the Liberator of Sept. 28, did me injustice in the part it represented me as having taken in the proceedings of the recent Political Abolition Convention held in Worcester. Neither Mr. Foster nor I undertook the formidable work which your correspondent in his letters ascribed to us. I beg to assure you, the annihilation of the American Anti-Slavery Society ' was no part of the business of that Convention. The language of your correspondent is much too strong. It conveys an exaggerated idea of what took place on the occasion it purports to describe. Every body knows, that to criticise the position of association in respect to a single point in its plan of operation, is a very different thing from discrediting an association altogether, and working for its destruction. I plead guilty to the first, but not to the last impeachment. There is no good reason for misrepresenting even an enemy, if I must be deemed such. I did freely dissent from one of your leading doctrines, and did my best to prove it unsound; but in no such spirit as would be inferred from the language of your Worcester correspondent. My objection to the American Anti-Slavery Society respected its plan, not its life. So far from working for the annihilation of that Society, I have never failed, in the worst times of my controversy with it, to recognize that organization as the most efficient generator of anti-slavery sentiment in the country. And this I did repeatedly at the Worcester Convention. The compliment which 'J. A. H.' pays Mr. Howland for the part he took in the Convention is, perhaps, natural, but scarcely modest, since the complementor and the complimented are one and the same person. If manliness consists in calling a man a liar to his face, or what is about the same thing, telling him he knows he tells a falsehood, I must prefer manners to manliness. To me, Mr. Howland's manners and language on that occasion, and of which he now strangely boasts in the Liberator, were better becoming a slave plantation among slaves, than an Anti-Slavery Convention among equals.
What had I said to call forth this ill-mannered charge of falsehood from Mr. Howland? “Why, in substance this: That the plan of operation adopted by the American Anti-Slavery Society did not embrace the abolition of slavery by means of the Government, and that the Radical Abolition party was the only organization which proposed such abolition. This is what I said, and what I meant to say. Mr. Howland, by suppressing or forgetting a part of what I did say, and adding a little which I did not say, makes out a case of falsehood against me. His zeal has in this instance outrun his discretion, and I leave him to retrace his steps in regard to me, as I am happy to see he has done in the case of Mr. Higginson.
Respectfully yours,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS
<c05>
HO! TO THE RESCUE-ALL!
STEUREN, (Me.) Sept, 18,1860.
DEAR GARRISON-It was a grand saying of that brave old Roman poet,-Terence’-which he put into the mouth of a slave-
‘Homo sum; nil humanum, a me alienum puto.’
[I am a human being, and I deem nothing human foreign to me.]
The defence of Humanity against all wrong and outrage is the most sacred right and duty of all of human kind. It is the right and duty of every human being, and every combination of human beings, to seek the destruction of all customs and institutions, of all religions and governments, and of all churches and States, that cannot exist except by outraging our common humanity, as it is represented in the poorest and most despised and most deformed of human kind.
Nations, as well as individuals, are beginning to recognize this doctrine and duty. England interfered, by law and the sword, to abolish the practice in India of burning widows on the funeral pile of their husbands, simply because it was inhuman; and all nations, even slaveholding America, said Amen. America, England, France and Russia rushed to rescue Humanity from the outrages of Turks upon the Greeks, on the score, ostensibly of their inhumanity. England, France, Russia, Austria, Prussia and Sweden cry out against the massacre of Christians by Mohammedans, now being perpetrated in the mountains of Syria-professedly on the score of their inhumanity ; and they are forwarding their armed men and ships to those regions and seas, to defend men and women-merely because they are men and women-against outrage. It is all just and righteous, viewed even from their own stand-point. It is the right and duty of each and every human being to protect Humanity against all outrage, by whomsoever committed, and each one by such means as he or they shall, deem just and right.
Mark this! The news that the king of Dahomey, a king of a savage tribe in Africa, is about to sacrifice two thousand human beings to the memory of his father, has sent a thrill of horror throughout Christendom. It has startled all Europe and America. The subject has been taken up in the British Parliament, and the government has actually sent an earnest and solemn remonstrance to the king of Dahomey, threatening to interfere by ‘force and arms, to protect Humanity against the outrage,' should he persist in executing his design. France, has, as a nation, discussed the subject. Allusions are made to it by the public functionaries of this country; and this is, by the churches and ministers and politicians of the South, urged as a reason why the people of Dahomey, with their king, should be brought to America, and made into chattels. All to protect our common nature from being immolated on the altar of a bloody and barbarous national custom.
So America and England and France rallied, and mutually engaged to unite their powers to defend our common nature against the slave-trade on the high seas, and on the coast of Africa. They did this, ostensibly, on the ground of its inhumanity. So these same nations combined to invade the Barbary States to free white slaves from the cruelty and inhumanity of African corsairs. The great argument was and is, that to enslave white citizens of England, France, America, Spain or Portugal, is a crime against Humanity.
With all my soul, I rejoice that human beings, as individuals and nations, are beginning to see and feel that it is their right and duty to defend Humanity in the persons of Greeks, against the wrath and cruelty of Mohammedans; in the persons of white slaves in the Barbary States, against the cruelty and inhumanity of African corsairs; in the persons of the 2000 victims, against the
terrible superstition of the king and people of Dahomey; in the persons of the Christians of Syria, against the rape, rapine and murder of their merciless foes; and in the persons of the defenceless men and women of Western Africa, against the slave-breeding pirates of the United States and all other countries;-and that all this is being done out of respect and reverence for Human Nature. These deeds are inhuman outrages against our Common Humanity ; therefore, not to be tolerated by human beings.
God be thanked for this tendency of the age-to fly to the protection of Humanity, as such, against outrages, whether perpetrated in the name of religion, of government, of custom, or under any other pretence.
But what are the outrages against Humanity done by the Turks of Syria, by the king of Dahomey, by the Brahmins and Priests of Hindostan, by the African corsairs, or even by African slave-traders, compared to those perpetrated daily and hourly upon four millions of men and women by American corsairs! The king of Dahomey kills and sacrifices 2000 human beings to the memory of his father; American corsairs, American slave-traders and slave-breeders, with their Northern confederates, abolish the relation of husband and wife, of parent and child, of brother and sister, make all efforts at intellectual, social and moral culture a crime punishable with death, and punish with death all efforts of husbands, fathers and brothers to defend their wives, daughters and sisters against the lusts and rapes of their white ravishers, among four millions of human beings and blot them from the record of the race, as human beings, and enrol them as brutes and chattels
The people of the United States, led on, not by the king of Dahomey, but by a far more murderous and malignant foe to Humanity, even the President of the United States, daily perpetrate a deeper, more savage and inhuman deed against human nature, in the persons not of 2000 merely, but of 4,000,000 of men, women and children, by consigning them to the dark, unutterable horror of that living death, chattel slavery.
'Give me liberty, or give me death.' Whose heart does not respond to this? The savage king of Dahomey takes the life of his victim, instantly takes away his sense of suffering, and burns or devours the dead body; but the United States, that gigantic American corsair, buries alive four millions of intelligent, sentient, immortal beings, our fellow-beings, in the damp, dark, foul sepulchre of chattel slavery-a sepulchre filled, not with dead bodies and bones, but with the active brains, and warm, loving hearts of living men and women. Compared with this, the inhumanity of the king of Dahomey, of the Hindoo priests, or of the Turks of Mount Lebanon, is angelic mercy.
Then ho! all peoples, states, nations and kingdoms, to the rescue of our common humanity from the outrages of American slavery! Ho! all husbands, fathers and brothers, come to the rescue of the wives, daughters and sisters of your fellow-husbands, fathers and brothers-from the rapes and rapines that American slave-breeders, and slaveholders, and their confederates, are committing upon them! Ho! all mothers, rush to the rescue of mothers from the anguish inflicted on them by American baby-thieves and cradle-plunderers! Ho! all women, rush to the rescue of women from the lusts of slaveholders, who make it a crime, punishable with death, for a woman to raise a hand to defend her person against rape, and who deny to them all the endearments, the joys and innocence associated with husband, father, son, brother, and lover! Ho! all of human kind, rush to the rescue of your fellow-beings from the unspeakable and unrivalled darkness and horror of the sepulchre of chattel slavery, in which four millions of tender, loving, living human hearts are entombed in a living death! Ho! all the people and States of the North, hasten to the rescue of your fellow-Christians, your fellow-citizens, your fellow-husbands and wives, parents, and children, and brothers and sisters, and your fellow-beings, from the dehumanizing power of American slavery!
<c06>
Heed not constitutions, compacts, compromises, or creeds! Stamp them all beneath your feet, if they sustain slavery any where. Heed only the behists of Humanity! Say to the slaveholding God that speaks in constitutions, compacts, courts and creeds-‘Get behind me, Satan!' Heed only the voice of the anti-slavery God in your own soul, who says-Deliver the enslaved out of the hands of the enslavers!
HENRY C. WRIGHT
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORES?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
To THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty One year ago, my hair was very gray and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. ‘Allen's Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y.., Nov. 22, 1855.
President J. I., EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but not withstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctlty visible, THE FALLING OFFS of HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor 'Ladies Repository,' incinnati, Ohio.
I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N.Y.
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R, FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. See. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston, Masss.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. "Guide to Hcliness,' Boston.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among sour other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes.We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a verv lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY. UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'

GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rer. Mrs. E. S. ANDURS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the'American Baptist,-.'I have derived much benefit from, the use of Mrs. S. Allens's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed .’Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement, ' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y.
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.’
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisment, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 37 1/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &C., to ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has ‘Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be prosecuted by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALTH .
Oct. 1859.
lyeop
