THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVER FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $ 1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
selections.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. 47. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1816.
<c01>
Selections.
THE ALABAMA CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the (London) Morning Advertiser:
MR:-The Timex, through its contributor, “Historicus” has lately been commenting upon the correspondence between Earl Russell and Mr. Adams, adopting, of course, the arguments of Earl Russell. Will you allow me a few words on the other side, on the principle so long adopted by the Morning Advertiser, of giving a hearing to both sides of every question of importance.
Mr. Adams's first charge against the British Government is, that immediately upon the proclamation of the blockade of the Southern ports of America, held by the Confederates, we declared belligerent rights in favor of those Confederates, who were in own rebellion against the United States. Earl Russell "Historicus,” and The Times maintain, on the other hand, that the act of the United States in proclaiming the blockade of certain ports held by the rebels, not only justified our Government in granting belligerent rights to, the Confederates, but in a manner forced us to do so. To this point alone I shall confine this letter, as this was the only one commented upon by "Historicus” in his two letters just published.
In the first place, then, I maintain that it is a principle of international law, that no nation whatever is under any obligation to grant belligerent rights to those who rise up in rebellion against a sovereign State. Another nation may grant belligerent rights if it pleases; but this is not a necessary duty; and if it does so, it must take its account with being viewed by the sovereign State as having acted a most unfriendly part, especially if it can be shown that the declaration of belligerent rights to rebels has been the direct cause of great loss of property to private individuals, and has been the means of needlessly prolonging the rebellion.
By declaring belligerent rights in favor of the Confederates, we gave the American rebels a flag, of recognized the flag which they had adopted as a lawful one. Without this recognition, on our part, of the rebel flag, every vessel sailing the ocean under their commission would have been regarded as a pirate craft, and would have been treated accordingly, not only by our own men-of-war, but by those of every civilized State. Had it not been for the granting by England of those belligerent rights, neither Mr. Laird, nor any other shipbuilder of the Mersey or Clyde, would have dared to supply the Confederates with a single ship of war; for such an act would have been felonious, rendering them accomplices in piracy. The same act-that of supplying the Confederates with war vessels, after the declaration of belligerent rights-was merely the contravention of an act of Parliament, the Foreign Enlistment Act; and which carried along with it nothing but a fine or claim for damage, which the shipbuilders were willing to risk for immediate gain. Mr. Adams was therefore right in his despatch to Earl Russell, when he said that the granting belligerent rights was the origin of all the injury which was done to American commerce and American citizens by the Alabama and other Confederate privateers. It is thus for us to justify this act of recognition, and to prove that it was a necessary act, which we could not avoid doing, in order to free ourselves from the responsibility of all the injury that was done thereby.
Let us now examine the reasons assigned by Earl Russell and The Times for our declaration of belligerent rights. The first reason alleged appears to be of a very futile nature. It is asserted that because there was war and fighting between the Federals and the Confederates, both parties were entitled to the privilege of being considered and treated as lawful and equal belligerents. Such a maxim as this the English Government has no right to evoke. Until the insurrection against the United States, we have always refused to grant belligerent rights to rebels until they had fully established their independence. When Hungary rose up against Austria, and drove the Austrians out of their country. England never thought of giving the Hungarians belligerent rights, which are, in reality, a quasi recognition of the rebel power as an independent State. When the Italians held Venice, and the Austrians blockaded that port, we did not proclaim belligerent rights in favor of the Venetians. In the last insurrection of Poland against Russia, the Emperor of the French, who wished to lead us into a war with Russia proposed to us to declare belligerent rights in favor of the Poles. This proposal Earl Russell himself positively refused, on the ground that Russia would be entitled to take offence at our doing so. 
Now, do not those examples prove that we always considered it our privilege to judge, on all occasions, whether or not we should declare belligerent rights to those who had risen in insurrection against a sovereign State? These premises being settled, the next question is, why, or for what exceptional reasons, we granted belligerent rights to the Confederates, we being at full liberty to grant those rights or not, according as we judged proper.
The principal, indeed, the only reason assigned by Earl Russell and "Historicus" for this is, that the United States having proclaimed a blockade of several harbors occupied by the rebels, this act was a full justification for the English Government placing the rebels upon a perfect equality with the sovereign States from which they had revolted, and bestowing upon them equal belligerent rights with our ally, that sovereign State. Such a doctrine is tantamount to saying, that whenever a sovereign State finds it necessary, in order to subdue a body of rebels, to blockade a port which has fallen into possession of those rebels, neutral and friendly nations are justified by that act alone the blockade of the rebel harbor-to grant the same belligerent rights to the rebels as would have belonged to an independent nation, whose harbors were blockaded by a foreign enemy. This is the sole argument, I repeat, of Earl Russell and "Historicus," and it is one directly contrary to the law of nations laid down by all the writers on international law. By these writers it is laid down that every nation is entitled to blockade a port occupied by rebels in the same way that it would blockade a foreign enemy’s port. And I defy “Historicus” to point out a single passage in any writer on international law, which states that this act of blockade places the rebels in any other legal position than they would have been, had the port not been blockaded.
“Historicus” says that the United States, by blockading Charleston and Mobile, acquired the right of stopping and searching English vessels attempting to enter those harbors. There is no doubt of this, for it is the acknowledged law of blockade. But “Historicus” adds that England, being subjected to the inconveniences of this blockade, is entitled, on her part, to exercise all her rights as a neutral nation. This is also true. But the question is, what are those rights? Does our Government pretend to say that our rights as neutrals-because we are subjected to a legal blockade-are to encourage
<c02>
and legalize rebels to issue letters of marque to ships built and armed in foreign ports, to attack, plunder, and burn the merchant vessels of our ally, and that, without we ourselves reaping the slightest benefit from it? Had we ourselves derived the slightest benefit from this recognition of rebels, there might have been some excuse for our conduct. But no advantage accruing to ourselves from it, it can only be regarded-and such has it always been regarded by the citizens of the United States-as a wanton act of spite and ill-will towards a neutral Power, with whom we were continually professing to be on the most friendly terms. 
I shall now sum up the purport of this letter in the following propositions:-
I. According to international law, every sovereign State has the right to proclaim a blockade of any port in its territory, which has fallen into the bands of rebels.
II. Such proclamation of blockade does not entitle, in any way, a neutral nation to declare belligerent rights in favor of such rebels, any more than if no such proclamation of blockade had been proclaimed. 
III. A proclamation of belligerent rights in favor of rebels is a quasi recognition of those rebels, a declaration that those rebels have a legitimate right to separate from the parent Slate, and are therefore entitled to be treated by all neutral nations as being on a complete footing of equality. 
IV. The proclamation of belligerent rights in favor of the Confederates not only did what has been stated in our third proposition, but was in a manner tantamount to the issuing of letters of marque, to any vessels which the Confederates might engage, to plunder, burn and destroy the merchant vessels of our ally, the United States.
In conclusion, I shall shortly point out the position in which Earl Russell has placed us by his American policy. He has announced, by his despatches, that whenever a sovereign State is obliged to blockade a port which rebels have taken possession of, the act of blockade entitles the rebels to hoist a maritime flag and to be recognized as lawful belligerents. “Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones," says the proverb; and there is no nation in the world that will suffer more injury from the carrying out of such a doctrine than England, with her commerce in every clime, and her merchant marine traversing every sea. Suppose another mutiny should take place in India, that the Hindoo rebels should obtain possession of some port, and that we should be obliged to blockade it. The doctrine laid down by Earl Russell would justify France and the United States to allow or wink at privateers being sent out from Bordeaux and New York, manned by Frenchmen or Americans, and having two or three Hindoo officers aboard for form's sake. These Hindoo Alabama would attack our ships on the coast of Europe, in the same way as the Alabama and the Florida attacked the American shipping in Chinese and Australian waters. Suppose, again, that an Irish rebellion should take place, and that the Irish rebels, with the assistance of Louis Napoleon, should take possession of Cork, and that we should blockade it. In such a case, according to Earl Russell, the Irish rebels would be entitled to be reckoned lawful belligerents, to hoist the flag of Green Erin, and to hire and engage American steamers to take, plunder, and burn English merchantmen in whatever quarter of the globe they might find them. JAMES AYTOUN. 
St. Anne’s Hill, Cork, Oct. 21, 1865.

SOUTH CAROLINA RE-ESTABLISHING SLAVERY.
We have received a copy of the new Slave Code of South Carolina. A Commission was appointed, at the request of the late Convention, by the Provisional Governor, to prepare a code for the regulation of labor and the protection and government of the colored population of the State. It is their report which lies before us, and which is introduced, we are informed, into the Legislature as a Bill, shortly to become a Law. Messrs. D. L. Wardlaw and Armistead Burt, compose the Commission, and put their names to the report. We do not doubt they have done the work they were expected and desired to do, and that their code is such a one as will in substance be enacted into statutes by the Legislature. It is of a character to suit the Southern temper, but as it is not in all respects of a character to suit the Northern temper, we must admonish Messrs. Wardlaw and Burt, and their master, Mr. Perry, that the publication of it before South Carolina is altogether reconstructed, seems a little premature. The strongest argument against reorganization with no other guaranty for the future than the Constitutional Amendment, is, that the freedom secured by it is only nominal. This code supplies abundant illustrations of the perils still impending over both the negro and the Union, under State Governments which shall be at liberty to disregard everything but the technical requirements of the amended Constitution. Nor does South Carolina mean to respect even those technical obligations. The amendment enacts that there shall be no involuntary servitude except for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted. The code imposes at least three distinct forms of slavery, in direct violation of the amendment, and in substantial conformity with the old law of the State. 
It is enacted that a husband who abandons his wife, or fails to maintain his wife and children, shall be bound to service by the District Judge from year to year, and the profits of his service applied to their maintenance. What "bound to service" means will appear shortly. In the second place comes the apprenticeship system, with this very remarkable and sweeping provision, viz:
“Colored children between the ages mentioned, (2 to 21,) who have neither father nor mother living in the District in which they are found, or whose parents are paupers, or unable to afford them a comfortable maintenance, or whose parents are not teaching them habits of industry and honesty, or are persons of notoriously bad character, or are vagrants, or have been convicted of infamous offences, and colored children in all cases where they are in danger of moral contamination, may be bound as apprentices by the District Judge or one of the magistrates for the aforesaid terms.”
Under that section, there is no colored minor in the State who is safe for one moment from compulsory apprenticeship-itself only a form of slavery, and in this code surrounded with almost every incident of slavery.
The third means by which the same end is reached is through a vagrant act. A long list is given in that act of persons who shall be deemed vagrants in law, including all persons who have not some fixed and known place of abode, and some “awful” and reputable employment; all peddlers without license; all disorderly persons; all “suspicious” persons, and many other descriptions. As in the case of apprenticeship, the language of the statute is designedly broad enough and loose enough to include almost every colored person in the State. Who shall say that in the eye of South Carolina law, any black man is not “suspicious”? Being suspicious, he may be
<c03>
arrested, tried by two white judges, sentenced to hard labor, and hired by the magistrate to any owner or lessee of a farm, or sent to hard labor on streets, public roads, or public buildings. 
Here we have, then, three modes at least by which the law imposes unremunerated compulsory labor on black men, whom the Constitution of the United States emancipates. For every one of these cases, the most significant symbol of slavery and its most degrading instrument is authorized to be employed. South Carolina does not believe in a slavery without the lash; so she provides that the apprentice and the laborer bound to service by his own contract, and the vagrant or other offender bound to service against his own will, may be whipped. In the case of the apprentice, the law gives the master authority "to inflict moderate (!) chastisement, and impose reasonable restraint, and to recapture him if he depart from his service." In the case of a free laborer, who makes his own contract, the provision is as follows:
"For any acts or things herein declared to be cause for the discharge of a servant, or for any breach of contract or duty by him, instead of discharging the servant, the master may complain to the District Judge, or one of the Magistrates, who shall have power, on being satisfied of the misconduct complained of, to inflict on the servant such corporeal punishment as is lawful in the army or navy of the United States."
That is a very adroit way of putting it; but it is impossible to disguise the fact, that the law means to hold the lash over the free negro as a means, not for the punishment of crime, but for enforcing a contract. Being thus legalized, being put in the hands of the master himself in the case of an apprentice, and in other cases in the hands of the Magistrate, sure to be the friend and neighbor of the master, there will practically be no more limitation of punishment under this new Slave code than before the war under the old Slave code.
So much appears upon the first glance at this code. It covers, however, thirty-six closely printed pages, and embraces many more provisions than we can collect or refer to in a single column. Such extracts as are made above suffice to show its spirit and purpose. They will suffice also, we trust, to give the North some hint of the sort of reconstruction likely to take place by the admission of States clinging thus desperately to old institutions.-N. Y. Tribune.

FREEDMEN IN NORTH CAROLINA.
The following most interesting and instructive details are from a letter to the Independent by a gentlemen connected with the Freedmen's Bureau in North Carolina:-
There are 350,000 freedmen in this State. Of this number, only 8,000 are dependent. This does not show a very lazy or inactive spirit among these people, for the whites, who had all the land and money, have been supported to a larger extent than the negroes. 
The negroes, brought up to doubt everybody, when declared free, could not believe it until they tried for themselves; consequently, some left old homes and went to cities and towns, and tried the life of ease and leafing awhile. Many, too, heard and believed that Uncle Sam would give each of them a farm, and refused to make any arrangements to work with land owners. Others thought they had earned, by a life's work, the piece of land they lived on, and demanded it of former owners. 
Col. W. issued a circular, telling the freedmen that the Government would divide no lands in this State among freedmen, and advised them to work with old masters, but make written contracts, and when they had earned money, they could buy land. Forms of contracts were printed, and many were induced to go to work. They sometimes break a contract, and it will take time for them to learn all their obligations. They have been cheated in every county, and have some reason to doubt the same men, even though a written contract is made. Another trouble with the contract system is this: they are to receive a third or a fourth of the crop; a man must work through the year, a little doubtful all the time of his employer, receiving nothing but his peck of meal and four pounds pork every week, and work and wait at least eight long months, before he receives anything like pay.
There are no laborers that will work in this way but negroes, and I wonder that no more of them refuse to do it. If a man should come here with capital, and pay his hands every Saturday night, he might pay them one-sixth less than one third of the crop, and his labor would be everything he could wish. This is a fact. I have the records of many such cases in the office. They want to feel of money; want to be able to buy for themselves; and, in the now unsettled state of things, don't feel free if they work along one year without receiving anything until the crops are gathered. I don't wonder, either.
They do work now, the majority of them; and I would risk, if I had it, $20,000 in a cotton farm tomorrow, for I know that, if I paid my hands every week, they would be the best and cheapest labor the world can furnish.
The people of the South, too, have a different way of treating laborers from Northern employers. They demand, and often threaten. They have al ways compelled, and cannot get over that way of doing now. We at the North offer a man so much money for so much labor, and, if he do not suit, we offer it to some one that will. If our hands are insolent or unruly, we don't shoot them or knock them down, but send them off. If a hand whom you hire to do farming objects to dig a ditch, you tell him he can dig it, or you will find some one who will. But if a negro here tells Mr. Chivalry that he is not accustomed to dig ditches when be hires to plant and hoe, Mr. Chivalry feels insulted, and shoots or beats the lazy black scoundrel for presuming to demur at any job set him.
Negroes will work if you treat them as any efficient laborers must be treated-viz., as human beings. Irish, German, or any other people will not work in any other way. A planter in North Carolina thought to try white labor. He sent North, made a contract with fifty Irish laborers, brought them to his farm at great expense, and thought he had done with “niggers.” The men came to him the second day after their arrival, and told him they would burn his house down unless he sent them all home. He did it. They will not work for ten dollars a month, a peck of meal and four or five pounds of pork a week; nor any other people, but these people just freed, and virtually slaves still.
We have, through oar officers, heard and settled 547 cases of different misdemeanors: theft, abuse, assault and battery, etc. I have reports of them all. Many fines have been levied on the whites for knocking down “niggers.” It is a new order of things. They pay with a poor grace. We have sent twelve cases before military commissioners, all of them crimes: murder, four; assault with intent to kill, eight. If a man attack a negro with a whip or cat-o”'-nine-tails, we try him for assault; and if he beats severely, we put in with intent to kill.
<c04>
Two murder cases have been tried, and in each one the sentence has been a mere farce.
A woman (lovely young lady of good family!) shot, in cold blood, a negro. The murder was proved a brutal one, of the first degree. The sentence was $1,000 fine. Black makes a distinction in some men's minds, that destroys all sense of right and justice. 
A man shot a negro dead. The negro had taken a horse to ride. White man shouldered his gun and started in the same direction, and met the negro coming home with the horse.
”What are you doing with that horse, you black?
“Nothing, massa; I gwine home now; went to do some business for you.”
White man replies by blowing his brains out, for presuming to insult him. A court of U. S. officers fined this man $600, and sentenced him to six months in jail.
Do you ask what will be the fate of these people when the Bureau is gone? I do not believe Southern courts will be more just toward them than a court of officers in the U. S. service, and such are their decisions.
However, a freed people most suffer in the change from slavery to freedom; but when once free, they will know how to appreciate and use freedom. 
There are now in the State 68 schools for freed men, with 85 teachers, and about 5,624 pupils. Many of these schools are taught by freedmen, and are self-supporting; others are taught by teachers from the North, whom I consider as true self-sacrificing missionaries as ever earned a crown. They are not received into white society here, but are looked down upon by the citizens, and, although ladies of refinement and education, are dependent entirely on themselves for society. They live uncomfortably, teach dirty, ragged children in old, dirty rooms, because the South don't think niggers ought to be intelligent, and the negroes are too poor to clothe themselves. 
We are restoring all property in the State as fast as we can make out the orders. There is no land confiscated in the State. We have employed about 9,000 negroes on farms, plantations, etc., and have raised about 900,000 lbs. cotton, 57,000 bbls. turpentine, 32,715 bushels corn, 1,000 bushels potatoes 5,800 bbls. tar.
We have in the State 14 hospitals, reporting to us for the first quarter-July, August, September-2,680 deaths. We have aided 5,441 sick persons. 257 contracts have been made, giving employment to 1,847 freedmen, at wages averaging from $10 to $15 per month for men; $7 to $10 for women, and rations.
512 marriages have been performed by ministers selected by officers of the Bureau. We are trying to elevate the morals of this people. They have never felt the sacredness of the marriage-tie. They have had no good example set them by their masters. In two instances, I have seen mother and daughter children of one white man. I think these points will give you some idea of what we are doing and trying to do. 
F. H. B. 

"NIGGER EQUALITY."
Senator Wilson-who has spoken effectively for the Union cause and ticket at Rhinebeck, Oneida, Cortland, Fonda and Johnstown, during the last week-closed the canvass on Saturday at Little Falls, where be thus elucidated the chief copperhead bugaboo:-
"Our country,’ said that illustrious statesman, John Quincy Adams, ‘began its existence by the universal emancipation of man from the thraldom of man.' Amid the darkling storms of revolution, America proclaimed as its living faith the sublime creed of human equality. From out the rolling clouds of battle, the new Republic, as it took its place in the family of nations, proclaimed in the ear of all humanity that the poor, the humble, the sons of toil, whose hands were hardened by honest labor, were the equals, the peers, before the law, of kings and princes and nobles. This declaration of the rising Republic in the New World was an inspiration to the champions of popular rights in the Old World, and a hope to the people in whose hearts still lingered the dimly remembered accents of liberty. To men crushed in struggling for the rights of humanity, the proclamation of the self-evident truth, that all men are created equal and have an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, has been for two generations a living faith, that would illume their darkened pathway to liberty protected by law. Eighty-nine years alter the proclamation of the sublime creed of human equality, which has been an inspiration to humanity the wide world over, our ears are pained and our souls made sick here in our own America with the brutal and vulgar outcry of 'nigger equality.' Here in Christian and Republican America, every effort of patriotism, liberty, justice and humanity, to lift the burdens imposed upon a poor race by centuries of slavery-every effort to instruct the intellect darkened by years of oppression-is stigmatized by the brutal and vulgar demagoguism of America as' nigger equality.' ‘Nigger equality!' Whenever I hear a man, born in this land, educated in these free schools, taught in these Christian churches, instructed in these varied industries, prate about 'nigger equality,' I accept it as a confession that he instinctively feels that the negro is his superior, and demands legislation to make him his inferior. ‘Nigger equality!' It is the language of brutality and vulgarity. No gentleman in America prates about 'nigger equality.' The creature that is so base as to do so must be, and is, a vulgar fellow. He may live in a fine house; he may dress in the garb of a gentleman; but a noble or manly sentiment never dwelt in his bosom. I remember on one occasion when a Senator was addressing the Senate and indulging in calling a negro a nigger, that Mr. Seward turned to me and said,' that man will never be President; the people always mean to elect a gentleman for President; and the man who spells negro with two g's can never be President.' He is a vulgar fellow who raises an outcry about 'nigger equality,' and he is a poor, pitable creature who fears it. Under just, humane and equal laws, no man should look up to any one as his superior, nor down to any one as his inferior. The poorest man in the land is entitled to equality before the law with the wealthiest citizen of his country. His cabin may be humble; but it is as sacred as the palace of the rich man. His wife may be clothed in rags; but she is shielded by the same equal law that protects the jeweled bride of the richest man in all the land. His child may be a little barefoot boy, but he is the peer of the son of wealth and pride. Away with the brutal, vulgar, wicked outcry about ' nigger equality'! It was born of the pit. Send it back to its native depths. Remember those other words that come to us from the heavens: ‘Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these, ye did it unto me.’ Walk the earth with your forehead to the skies, in the conscious dignity of the equality of humanity-that you are men whom God made and for whom Christ died-
<c05>
and that it degrades not, but ennobles him who lifts up the sons and daughters of toil, misfortune and sorrow, of all the races and kindred of men.”

NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
One objection which is urged against permitting the negroes of the South to vote is, that they are not prepared for the proper exercise of that right. Well, perhaps they are not as fully prepared as the Yankees, born among free institutions, nurtured in our educational institutions, who read the papers, and engage in public affairs. They may not be as intelligent as these, but when will they become such? Will depriving them of all opportunity for improvement and gaining self-respect do it? Will keeping them in a degraded state do it? Not at all. They must have opportunities for culture; they must be made to feel they are somebody, and this can be done by placing them in higher situations, and presenting them something to contend for. This, the right of suffrage will do. It will stimulate them to effort by showing them they are somebody-it will incite them to a desire to attain knowledge, distinction, position. 
If they need education to fit them for the appreciation of this right, which we grant, then educate them. A boy cannot learn to swim on dry land. He must try the water, and run the risk of being drowned. So the use of the ballot is the best training for the responsibilities of the citizen, although blunders may for a while result. Put the Bible, the Spelling-book, and the Ballot in the field together, and they will win the victory. 
But how are they to acquire this education? Is it at all probable that the men who have heretofore been their masters, who have looked upon them as menials, and threatened them as subjects, that they will be specially ready to engage in efforts to educate their former slaves? We do not believe it. It is not at all likely that they will engage in any such efforts, because they know that education would deprive them of control over the blacks, of using them as tools, of keeping them in subserviency. If education is requisite for them, and that cannot be questioned, then place them in situations where they can acquire it, where, seeing its importance, they will be ready to engage in it, foster and encourage efforts for their education. Give them a voice in electing the rulers, in making the laws. This will stimulate them to acquire knowledge; this will give them a position, so that when they demand laws for the advancement of learning, they will be felt as a power, and their influence cannot be disregarded. This, then, is a strong reason why they should have the privilege of voting. It will incite them to attain knowledge; social elevation. We may ask with propriety, if you deprive the negro of the ballot because he is ignorant, why does not the same rule apply to white men who are ignorant? But this one thing is certain, the negroes of the South cannot make a greater failure in the exercise of the ballot than the white population of that section have done. We also assert that they will value the right more sacredly, and will ever exercise loyalty.-American Sentinel.

AN HOUR WITH PRESIDENT JOHNSON.
Hon. A. K. McClure, of Pennsylvania, lately had an interview with Mr. Johnson, of which he gives an account in a letter to the Franklin Repository, under date of October 31, 1865. After speaking of the President's appearance and manners, Mr. McClure says:-
"However reticent he may be on some issues, he seems to have no reserve as to the policy he conceives to be the true one to bring back the insurgent States. He discussed the position of those Slates and their people with great interest and occasional warmth, and with a frankness that left no doubt as to his purpose. He holds that they were never out of the Union; that secession, however accomplished as a fact, cannot be accomplished in law; that the supreme authority of the government in those States was not overthrown by rebellion, bat simply in abeyance, and of course it logically follows his premises that, since rebellion has ceased, the States resume their proper place in the Union, and restoration is accomplished. 
This, in brief, was the stand-point from which the President discussed the question of reconstruction for more than an hour, and answered suggestive objections at times with an earnestness that demonstrated how ardently he is working to give success to his policy. I could not but remind him that his theory stripped all traitors of the protection they might claim as public enemies, that it would stamp as guilty of treason within the law, every man who aided the rebellion, and of necessity demand at his hands commensurate punishment for what he must hold as unmitigated crime, as appalling murder and desolation, for which there is no extenuation to be plead.
I shall not soon forget the emphasis with which he declared that the South must come back and be a part of us,' and,' he added,’ it must come with all its manhood. I don't want it to come eviscerated of its manhood!’ He said that he had not yet gone as far in his amnesty, either general or special, as Mr. Lincoln proposed. He explained, what is not generally known, that his pardon, are mainly of business men, many of whom were Union men, who most have pardons to enable them to sell or mortgage their lands, or to get credit in their business operations, and added that be bad not yet reached the consideration of such cases as Lee, Stephens, Longstreet, Beauregard, and others of that class. 
He spoke freely of the proposed trial of Davis, and said that as yet the government bad not taken any steps in the matter. If I were going to guess on the subject, I would say that Davis is more likely to be parolled during the next year than to be tried, and if he is ever hanged, he must do it himself.
The President is clearly adverse to confiscation, and that question is practically settled. Whatever might be the views of Congress, confiscation is not possible with an Executive determinedly hostile to it, and with the pardoning power in his hands. I infer, however, that on this point, Congress will harmonise with the Executive, as a number of even the radical leaders, such as Greeley and Sumner, openly oppose it. If our credit can be sustained otherwise, I am content. Five years hence, we shall all be wiser on that point than now.
I believe that the President will wield all his power to effect the admission of the representatives of the rebellious States into Congress during the next session. The Senate being organized, the question cannot come up there until it is brought up in order; but there will be a strong pressure to force the admission of the Southern members by placing their names on the roll when the House meets. This, Mr. McPherson will not do. The question of their admission will agitate the House, and I fear make a sad breach between the President and Congress. The South is encouraged by the position of the administration to be importunate in its demands for ad-
<c06>
mission, and it is not improbable that it will in the end be admitted. I have seldom seen Congress struggle against power and hold out to the end.
On the future of the freedmen, the President talks well. He displays more sense than sentiment on the question, and means to solve the problem fairly, as demanded by civilization and humanity. Of their ability to win a position that will enable them to be incorporated into our system of government as citizens, he is not eminently hopeful, but feels that it must be fairly tried, with an open field for the negro. That failing, he looks upon colonization as the only alternative.
It would be foolish to disguise the fact that the President, both by word and deed, disclaims the position of a partisan Executive, and that he is not insensible to the flattering approval of his administration by the Democratic party. I do not mean by this that he is in sympathy and fellowship with them; but I do mean that he is not wholly in sympathy against them; and he will, I feel warranted in saying, adhere to the political fortunes of the Southern States, without regard to political consequences. This may or may not sever him from the party that sustained and cherished him in the darkest days through which he passed, and that won him the highest honors of the nation through a flood of obloquy; but if it does, I infer that he will accept the situation. He evidently means, above all other thing, to compass the admission of the Southern members and the complete restoration to power of those States, and it Massachusetts and South Carolina can strike hands over the administration, then will we have a faithful President and a harmonious country. If not, I leave the future to tell the story. Where in all this record, soon to be made up, the nation shall see that ‘treason is the greatest of crimes and must be punished,’ is not to my mind apparent.”
SENATOR WILSON'S NEW WORK. The following letter from Judge Advocate General Holt to Senator Wilson, written after reading the valuable contribution of the last-named gentleman to the history of our Republic and of Freedom, is worthy of publication:-
HON. HENRY WILSON: My Dear Sir,-I have read with great enjoyment the volume which you were so kind as to place in my hands a few evening since, and now return it, with my sincere thanks. It strikes me as entirely unique in its character-being a grand history, for grand it certainly is, which is made to report itself in the very words of the actors thus imparting to the narrative an interest absolutely dramatic in its freshness and charms.
From the pressure of occupation, I was not able to keep pace in my reading with these debates when they occurred, and hence the pages of this admirable work are for me full of instruction, while they afford proofs in which rejoice, how nobly our friends sustained themselves in the conflict. It was meet that one who bore so distinguished a part in shaping these events should become their historian, and in presenting, in a form at once so attractive and so accessible to all, the details of the progress and the results of the sublime battle for freedom which has taken place in the Capitol, you have performed a service that entitles you to the gratitude of the whole country.
Very respectfully and sincerely,
JOSEPH HOLT.
Senator Wilson's book, thus complimented by an impartial Border-State man, is already recognized as a political text book. The new edition is eagerly looked for.
The Montgomery Ledger, whose editor was an extensive slave-owner, and who has systematically misrepresented the freedmen, has furnished a conclusive argument against the assertion that negroes will not work. He has offered his former slaves one-half of the crop made, they paying one-half the expenses, rent, &c. They willingly assented to the proposition, and this is the calculation which the land-owner make s in regard to the profit of the arrangement. He says:-
"We will now proceed to figures, and take thirty hands for the number. These thirty hands will easily cultivate 500 acres: of this, 300 will be cotton, making 150 bales; 200 acres in corn, making 4000 bushels; 150 bales weighing 500 pounds, at 30 cents, will come to $22,500; 4000 bushels of corn, at 50 cents, will be $2000. The total of the crop will then be $24,500;. At $3 per acre rent, the half of 500 acres will come to $750. Allowing 150 pounds of meat to the hand for 30 hands, the total will be 4500 pounds, which, at 20 cents, will come to $900, the half of which is $450. Half of the corn used for ten months, beginning 1st November, for twenty mules and thirty hands, will be about 2500 bushels, the half of which, at fifty cents, will be $625. The hire of half the mules, at twenty-five dollars each, will be $250. The expenses of tools of all kinds, $500; half, $250. The sum total of expenses till the 1st of September next will be $2,375; this taken from the half of $24,500, will leave to be divided between thirty hands $10,125, or $337 in round numbers.
The proprietor will get $12,250 as his half the crop, with $750 added for their part of the rent making $13,000.
If this calculation can be relied on, the negro is stimulated to work, and the proprietor does better than he ever did when he held him as a slave.”
Where rabid and bitter men, formerly owners of slaves, are moved to conclusions like these, there is hope that a similar wisdom will in time develop itself throughout the South.
NEGRO LAZINESS. We copy the following from the N. Y. Tribune in reference to the “incurable laziness and vagabondism “of the negro race-showing conclusively that a nigger won’t work except under the lash, and that a state of slavery is best for him-also, showing how much ahead of the nigers the Southern whites are in industry and other self-supporting qualities:-
“As there is much misapprehension affect with regard to the consumption of Government rations by ‘contrabands,’ and others, we always gladly welcome say one who gives us naked facts elucidating the subject. Here is an item:
A correspondent in East Tennessee given the following official return of persons receiving government rations at Chattanooga:
Whites, 904
“Niggers” 43
Superior race ahead by 861
Another correspondent says Colonel S. Thomas, Superintendent of Freedmen for Mississippi, has sent to Washington a report dated August 15, which thus sums up the business in that State, where the black are a decided majority of the population, while the whites own all the property:
‘The amount of <illegible> issued in whites is about.
PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRACE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished latte from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen, Wads-worth, taking strong ground in favor of universal its frage:-
“You desire to know, is the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage.
Now, since you know my private localizations as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can’t see-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or at least, suffrage on the basils of intelligence and military serves. 
How to better the condition f the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serous and desired an to what course I shall pursue in the premless, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation’s guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the republic, they demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended.”
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
the same as issued to freedmen. Not less than 5,000 people are cutting wood for steamers on the Mississippi river, and more people are engaged in this business than ever, but they support themselves. The total number of freedmen in the State is estimated at 346,000, of whom only 3,000 are receiving assistance from Government.”
RECEPTION OF THE COLORED SOLDIERS 
AT HARRISBURG.
HARRISBURG, Nov. 14.This is a day that will long be remembered by the colored people of the State of Pennsylvania. In view of the large number of colored soldiers who are coming home, many of whom pass through this city, it was determined by the colored people of this city that they should have a fitting reception accorded to them. A committee was at once organized, and Mr. George, E. Stevens, one of the original members of the 54th Massachusetts Volunteers, who was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant for bravery at Fort Wagner, was selected to carry the arrangements into execution.
All last evening the streets were fairly alive with the soldiers and their friends, but there was not the slightest confusion, and nowhere was there to be seen any insubordination. They remembered that all were looking upon them, and conducted themselves in a worthy manner.
But to-day was the great epoch. At nine o’clock, the procession began to form on State street, north of the Capitol, and by ten o’clock the column was in motion. T. Morris Chester, of this city, acted as chief marshal, assisted by a number of aids,. They then passed through a number of streets to the residence of General Simon Cameron, on Front street. The line was drawn up in front of his house, when the old patriot appeared and was received with all the honors. He then spoke as follows:
I cannot let this opportunity pass without thanking the African soldiers for the compliment they have paid me, but more than all to thank them for the great service which they have been to their country in the terrible rebellion. I never doubted that the people of African descent would play a great part in this struggle, and I am proud to say that all my anticipations have been more than realized. Your services, offered in the early part of the war, were refused; but when the struggle became one of life and death, then the country gladly received you, and, thank God, you nobly redeemed all you promised. [Applause]
Like all other men, you have your destinies in your own hands, and if you continue to conduct yourselves hereafter as you have in this struggle, you will have all the rights you ask for, all the rights that belong to human beings. [Applause] I can only say again that I thank you from my heart for all that you have done for your country, and I know the country will hold you in grateful remembrance.
I cannot close without saying that there is at the head of the National Government a great man, who is able and determined to deal justly with all. I know that with his approval, no State that was in rebellion will be allowed to return to the benefits of the Union, without first having a constitutional compact which will prevent slavery in the land for all time to come; which will make all men equal before the law; which will prescribe no distinction of color on the witness-stand, and in the jury-box; and which will protect the homes and the domestic relations of all men and all women. He will insist, too on the repudiation of all debts contracted for the support of the war of the rebellion. Remember, when the war began, there were 4,000,000 of slaves in this country, protected by law. Now all men are made free by the law. Thank God for all this! for He alone has accomplished the work!
Brevet Major General J.B. Kiddoo, one of the pioneer officers of colored troops, was loudly called for, and made a few remarks, which were well received by the assemblage.
The column then resumed its. march, and proceeded to the Capitol grounds. Here the troops were again drawn up in line, in front of the main building. Seats were placed under the portico for the accommodation of the speakers and the invited guests, while the steps and grounds were filled with an eager audience.
Marshal Chester then introduced Rev. J. Walker Jackson, who offered prayer.
The band then played, “My Country, ’tis of thee’” after which, Rev. Stephen Smith, the President of the day, made a few remarks, thanking the assembly and the Garnet League for the honor that had been conferred upon him.
The following letters were then read:
LETTER FROM GENERAL MEADE.
HEADQUARTERS MlL.DIV OF THE ATLANTIC,
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 12th, 1865. 
GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITTEE: I regret exceedingly that my duties and engagements will not permit of my being present at Harrisburg on the 14th inst., at the reception which you propose to give to the returned colored soldiers. This reception meets my cordial approval, and I am glad that the colored soldiers are to be thus welcomed. I trust you will be enabled to give them a reception worthy of their services, of the cause they have been upholding, of the State whose honor they have been maintaining.
Respectfully yours, GEORGE G. MEADE, 
Major General U. S. A.
LETTER FROM GENERAL BUTLER.
LOWELL, Mass., November 3.GENTLEMEN OF THE COMMITTEE: If my engagements will possibly permit, I will be present to meet my colored fellow-soldiers on their return from the service of their country. I have witnessed their patience and discipline in the camp, and their bravery and good conduct on the battle-field, and, above all, their devotion and unswerving loyalty to the flag and the Government, and I deeply feel that they are entitled to the gratitude, bounty, and unfaltering justice of their fellow-countrymen. As the possibility of my being with you on this occasion is so doubtful, I beg that you will not publicly announce that I will be present. Very respectfully,
BENJAMIN F. BUTLER.
At the conclusion of the reading of this letter, the applause was deafening.
A letter was also read from Hon. George L. Stearns, of Boston, in which, after regretting his inability to be present at the reception, he says:
“History will yet vindicate the patriotism of our colored citizens of the free States. When their offers of service in the beginning of the war were rejected with contumely, they promptly volunteered at the call of their country when she needed them to help conquer a relentless foe. Every battle-field on which they were permitted to face the enemy bears witness to their steady valor, and their perfect discipline. She expects them to do as they have done, and steadily rise to all the advantages which they desire and claim, and thus they will help the cause of freedom and manhood all over the world”
Dr. John P. Smith, of Boston, read the resolutions, as follows:
Whereas, we, the colored citizens of Pennsylvania, have assembled to welcome our gallant brethren, who braved the perils of the battle-field at their country’s call, to fight for the truths enunciated in the Declaration of Independence who poured forth their lifeblood at Vicksburg, at Port Hudson, Fort Wagner, Oulustee and Milliken’s Bend, and showed to the world that they could be soldiers as well as men, and have won the right to be equal before the law; and it is, therefore,
Resolved, That our thanks are due to our brethren, the colored soldiers of the American Union; and we thank God that he has rendered them able to vindicate our aspersed humanity; and that while we sincerely mourn the gallant brave who have fallen, we cordially welcome home the gallant brave who survive.
Resolved, That we earnestly appeal to our white fellow-citizens to show their gratitude to their colored defenders by undoing the mighty wrong done to the colored freemen of Pennsylvania, in that amendment to the Constitution which, deprived them of the elective franchise.
Resolved, That while the United States are bound by the Federal Constitution to guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government, such a form of government, truly interpreted by the lights afforded by the Declaration of Independence, is utterly incompatible with a distinction based on race or color.
Resolved, That this land of our birth is, if possible, more endeared to us, and rendered ours more rightfully by the courage of colored soldiers in its defence, and that we cannot but regard any attempt at our expatriation as a class, as an additional injustice offered to us.
The band then played “Tramp, Tramp, Tramp,” after which the President introduced Professor William Howard Day, of New York, the orator of the day.
Professor Day delivered the oration, in which he discussed the attitude of the colored man before and during the war. He held that they had indeed shown their manhood, and cited numberless instances of personal daring among members of the African race for the last hundred years. They had demonstrated the fact that they were fit to be free, and to take part in the Government. He welcomed the soldiers of the Republic, soldiers of loyalty and lib-
<c02>
erty, of truth and justice, against rebellion and slavery. They were thrice welcome. To the members of the Garnet League he returned thanks for the energy and zeal they had evinced in inaugurating and carrying forward the receptions to success.
The address of Professor Day was listened to with rapt attention, and many and hearty were the bursts of applause which it elicited from all bearers. The facts, of which many were cited; the historical allusions which were brought forward, betrayed deep research, and showed that the utmost care had been taken in its preparation.
This closed the exercises of the day at the Capitol. A meeting was held at the court-house in the evening, followed by a grand ball at Brant’s Hall.
The following regiments of United States Colored Troops were represented here to-day by squads and detachments: 3d, 6th, 8th, 22d, 24th, 32d, 41st, 43d, 45th and 127th. The 11th United States Colored Heavy Artillery, and the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Volunteers, were also represented.
Thus closed this pleasant and happy day— Cor. Philadelphia Press.

SPEECH OF SCHUYLER COLFAX.
THE DUTY OF CONGRESS TO THE COUNTRY.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18.
This evening a large crowd of the friends of Speaker Colfax repaired to his quarters, and complimented him with a serenade. In response to earnest calls, the honorable gentleman appeared and addressed them.
After some preliminary remarks, he said:—
“It is auspicious that the ablest Congress that has sat during my knowledge of public affairs meets next month to face and settle the momentous questions which will be brought before it.
It will not be governed by any spirit of revenge, but solely by duty to the country. I have no right to anticipate its action, nor do I bind myself to any inflexible and unalterable policy; but these ideas occur to me, and I speak of them with the frankness with which we should always express our views.
Last March, when Congress adjourned, the States lately in rebellion were represented in a hostile Congress and Cabinet, devising ways and means for the destruction of this country. It may not be generally known, but it has been revealed to me on the testimony of members of the so-called Confederate Congress, that Gen. Lee, the military head of the rebellion, declared last February, in his official character, that the contest was utterly hopeless, but that their Congress and Cabinet determined to continue the struggle, and twenty thousand men fell after that time on both sides in the battles around Petersburg, Richmond, Five Forks, and other battle-fields,. Since the adjournment of Congress, not a single rebellious volunteer surrendered, not an army laid down its weapons, not a regiment abandoned their falling cause; but the Union armies conquered a peace, not by compromise or voluntary submission, but by the force of arms. Some of these members of the so-called Confederate Congress, who, at our adjournment last March, were struggling to blot this nation from the map of the world, propose, I understand, to enter Congress on the opening day of its session, next month, and resume their former business of governing the country they struggled so earnestly to ruin. They say they have lost no rights. It seems as if burning the ships of our commerce on the ocean, the starving of our prisoners on land, and raising armies to destroy the nation, would impair some of these rights, until their new governments are recognized by Congress.(Cheers.) The Constitution, which seems framed for every emergency, gives to each House the exclusive right to judge of the qualifications of the election returns of its members, and I apprehend they will exercise that right, Congress having passed no law on reconstruction.
President Johnson prescribed certain action for these States, which be deemed indispensable to their restoration to their former relations to the government, which I think are eminently wise and patriotic.
First, that their conventions should declare the various ordinances of secession null and void, not as some have done, merely repealing them, but absolutely without any force and effect. Second, that their Legislature, should ratify the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery, that this cause of dissension and rebellion might be utterly extirpated. Third, that they shall formally repudiate the rebel debt, though by the terms it will be a long while before it falls due, as it was payable six months after the recognition of the Confederacy by the United; States(Cheers) This reminds me of an old friend in Indiana, who said he liked to give notes payable ten days after” never."(Laughter and cries of good) But there are other terms in which I think there is no division among the loyal men of the Union. First, that the Declaration of Independence must be recognized as the law of the land, and every man, alien and native, white and black, protected in the inalienable and God-given rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Mr. Lincoln, in that emancipation proclamation which is the proudest wreath in his chaplet of fame,(cheers) not only gave freedom to slaves, but declared that the Government would maintain that freedom.(Applause.) We cannot abandon them and leave them defenceless at the mercy of their former masters. They must be protected in their rights of person and property, and these freemen must have the right to sue in courts of justice for all Just claims, and to testify also, so as to have security against outrage and wrong. I call them freemen, not freedmen. The last phrase might have answered before their freedom was fully secured; but they should be regarded now as freemen of the Republic. (Loud and enthusiastic cheers)
Second, That the amendments of their State Constitutions, which have been adopted by many of their State Conventions so reluctantly, under the pressure of despatches from the President and the Secretary of State, should be ratified by a majority of their people. We all know that but a very small portion of their voters participated in the election of delegates to these conventions, and nearly, if not all, the conventions have declared them in force, without any ratification by the people. When this crisis has passed, can they not turn round and say that these were adopted under duress, by delegates elected by a meagre vote, under Provisional Governors and military authorities, and never ratified by a popular vote? and could they not turn over the Anti Lecompton argument against us, and insist, as we did, that a Constitution not ratified by the people may have legal effect, but no moral effect whatever?
Third, That the President can, on all occasions, insist that they should elect Congressmen who can take the oath prescribed by the act of 1862; but in defiance of this, and insulting the President and the country, they have, in a large majority of instances, voted down, mercilessly, the Union men, who could take the oath, and elected those who boasted that they could not, and would feel disgraced if they could. Without mentioning names, one gentleman elected in Alabama, by a large majority, declared in his address to the people, before the election, that the iron pen of history would record the emancipation act as the most monstrous deed of cruelty that ever darkened the annals of any nation. And another one, who avowed that he gave all possible aid and comfort to the rebellion, denounced the Congress of 1862 as guilty in enacting such an oath. (A voice, “Put them on probation.") The South is filled with men who cannot take the oath. It declares:” I have not voluntarily taken part in the rebellion,” &c. Every conscript in the Southern army can take that oath, because he was forced into the ranks by their conscription act, and every man who staid at home and refused to accept a civil or military office can take that oath; but these were not the choice of the States lately in rebellion.
Fourth While it must be expected: hat a minority of these States will cherish for years, perhaps, their feelings of disloyalty, the country has a right to expect, before their members are admitted to a share in the government of this country, a clear majority of each of these States should give evidence of earnest and cheerful loyalty, not by such speeches as are so common-that they submitted the issue to the arbitrament of war, but that they are willing to stand by and fight for the flag of the country against all enemies at home or abroad. The danger now is in too much precipitation. Let us rather make haste slowly, and we can then hope that the foundation of our government, when thus reconstructed on the basis of indisputable loyalty, will be as eternal as the stars, (Applause)
In President Johnson I have unshaken confidence. I cannot forget that in the Senate, at the opening of the rebellion, he was the only Southern member who denounced it and its originators, and that he was faithful among the faithless found. (Applause)
<c03)
Nor do I forget that on his way from the Capital to his home, insulted though he was at many railway stations, he never faltered in his devotion to the Union. Nor can I forget his speech, when Military Governor of Tennessee, to a mass meeting of colored men at Nashville, in which he declared that all mass should have a fair start and equal chance in the race of life, and let him succeed who has the most merit. You all remember his speech to the colored regiment of the District of Colombia, where be repudiated that stereotyped declaration that this is the white man's country alone, and insisted that it was theirs also. You remember, also, his remarks to the South Carolina delegation, that the only right system was to protect all men, both white and black, and that if they got the general principles right, the details and collaterals would follow. We all remember, too, his earnest despatches to these Southern Conventions, and in settling the Richmond elections.
With a suitable tribute to President Lincoln, and hopeful anticipations of the country's future, he, closed, amidst cheers and congratulations.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24,1865.
THE LAST QUARTER.
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable, but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to It should promptly remit what is due; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed—and more—to enable us to complete the volume.
THE ABOLITIONISTS AND THEIR SUCCESSORS.
Thirty-five years ago, a determined movement was commenced in this country for the overthrow of American slavery. It was humble enough, as to the numbers and resources of the few who pledged themselves to it; quite insignificant, indeed, in respect of any show it made among men, or when tried by any of the accustomed standards of power and respectability. But it was a real movement. It had to do with a real wrong, gross and palpable as a mountain, the cries of whose victims had already long been heard, forcing themselves up through every impediment and against all deafness, cries which again and again had found expression in the voices of faithful men and women, yet none of whom had discerned or declared the adequate remedy. Jefferson, Morris, Martin, Franklin, Madison, Jay, and others of our earliest statesmen had seen, lamented, pointed out, and striven to prevent the growth of that slavery which they knew must prove a terrible curse. They died remonstrating(feebly, in most cases)against the wrong, which, in spite of their remonstrances, daily grew stronger, and spread a more ominous cloud over the country's future. Jesse Torrey, in 1807, published his “Portraiture of Domestic Slavery." This plain but touching story of: the negro's wrongs, though unheeded by many and unknown to most, nevertheless did its sure work on some hearts, and laid a good foundation for effective work in the future. Rush, Hicks, Lundy, and their associates, did not allow the work to slumber. Much like” the voice of one crying in the wilderness" they were. Nevertheless, they” prepared the way," and fulfilled the important work of leaving the soil mellower and more ready than before to receive the sowing of the truth, at the hands of more clear-sighted laborers, though not more earnest or faithful.
The real remedy did not remain always hidden. It was so simple and obvious, indeed, that that alone could explain the fact that it was not sooner seen and recognized. To “break off the sin” at once by repentance, by reparation, by right-doing, this was the sure way. The true remedy was, THE IMMEDIATE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY, and no other method of dealing with the wrong, no other specific which had or could be devised, could possibly meet and cure the evil disease which had fastened itself deep down on the very vitals of the nation. And when this was seen and felt to be the true remedy, it was declared with a direct and fearless power, which took no counsel of earthly considerations. “I am in earnest I will not equivocate-I will not excuse—I will not retreat a single inch and I will be heard." The Remedy, and the Purpose to apply it, were found at length. The necessary conditions of arousing the nation existed at length. And soon the good fruit from truth's seed in congenial ground began to appear. Wherever there was a living conscience, it responded to the summons; wherever there was a true heart, it spring up to answer the appeal.
And what a power they grew to be! Not numerous at any time, they were yet as numerous as leaders need be; and though always themselves surprised that there were no more of them, yet, as events have shown, they were numerous enough. We need not recite their names. They were to be found in every free State, and out of the darkest Egypt of the most fanatical slave States God called some sons and daughters, whose spirit and deeds fully proved their divine calling. Agreeing together in nothing else, perhaps, they were as of one heart and one mind in the great cause of abolishing slavery, rescuing the slave, and redeeming the land from the sin and shame which slavery had brought upon it. The “common people heard them gladly” The cause of the ignorant, degraded, abused, outraged slave became the cause of thousands of pitying hearts. It grew to be an enthusiasm. It became a mighty revival of God's truth, grace, and power, though ignored by churches and scorned by clerical men. So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
The slaveholders at first and for a little time affected to despise the Anti Slavery movement, and their Northern servants plied them with assurances of its utter contemptibleness. But their contempt soon gave way to alarm and anger, and they set about in earnest to crush it. Many times they affected to believe they had succeeded. Again and again and continually they wielded the power of the Federal government against the Abolitionists, and turned the thunders of the churches against them. But to no purpose. A mighty hand was in the work, to whose strength their united forces were less than the spider's web to hold the lion, and so these heathen raged in vain. Slowly but surely the education of the American people went on, in principles which their fathers had forgotten, or bartered off for offices and wealth, and the mighty moral force was marshalled and made ready, before whose majestic presence Slavery itself trembled, with terrible premonitions of its doom. Then came the martyrdom of the old man JOHN BROWN, by no means the first in the history of the cause. How Slavery exulted, as, by means of Federal bayonets, she laid her clutch on him and his few associates, and doomed them to death;—even in the very moment of her supposed triumph, taking the one step surer than any other to bring down on her the scorn and condemnation of mankind, and to seal her own destruction!
Thus, for thirty years, grew the Anti-Slavery cause, and obtained an ineradicable hold in the national soil. But it was seemingly very far from its triumph, seemingly doomed to be for yet a long time a theory, a faith, a hope, rather than an actual reality. Yet at that very moment, Slavery was receiving its death-blow in the house of its friends and worshippers, as they conspired together to make its reign perpetual, and to compel all the land to bow down before it.In 1860, maddened by the consciousness of their own numberless and unspeakable crimes, they resolved to strike a bold and desperate blow for supremacy. They left the Union, cursed its Constitution, proclaimed war upon its government and people, fired upon its flag, seized upon its forts, <illegible> and other property, and began the war for its destruction. The struggle was long and terrible. They taxed their powers, numbers and resources to the very utmost,—they received constant sympathy and aid from England, and not a lit
<c04>
tle from France,-they were constantly encouraged and animated by vile men in the North, who blasphemously took to themselves the name of democracy:—and yet they failed,—defeated by the men whom they had always insulted, and for years affected to despise. Through every hour of that Woody contest, the people were coming to know slavery as it was. In the midst of the war, the President of the United States proclaimed freedom to more than three millions of the slaves, the National Congress struck out the shameful decrees of slavery from the Statute-book, and, on the last day of January, of the present year, it adopted, by a magnificent majority, and with unexpected good will, an Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, abolishing and prohibiting slavery in the country forever. Ere the month of February was out, the legislatures of eighteen States had ratified the amendment. Other States have done so as their legislatures came together, until now twenty-five States have joined in the amendment, and but two others are wanting;—which, and even more, are morally sure to pass ratifying acts at an early day.
In these circumstances, the work of the American Abolitionists and Anti-Slavery Societies, as such, draws to a speedy close. When the constituted authorities of the Nation, in the prescribed manner, shall announce that the Amendment is adopted, that slavery has been abolished throughout the land, and is prohibited forever by its fundamental law, then should the Anti-Slavery Societies everywhere disband their organization, with profoundly grateful recognition of the Almighty guiding hand through all their work. The end of slavery makes anti slavery association thenceforward superfluous.
And who are the successors of the Abolitionists? for the end of slavery by no means puts an end to the cruel effects which slavery has wrought, nor extinguishes the spirit of oppression in the hearts of the old slaveholders. The AMERICAN NATION is successor to the Abolitionists! It has confessed the essential justice of the principles, the predictions, and the demands of the Anti-Slavery Societies. It has swept away the wrong against which they have contended so long, and is about to record an eternal prohibition of it as the worst enemy of the national peace, honor, and life. It therefore becomes the Nation’s duty-the duty of its government, and not less of its individual citizens and people-to render to the millions of slavery's victims, new-born as they are into freedom's light and air, all the protection, all the instruction, all the opportunities which their sufferings and wrongs make necessary, for their security in life, in liberty, and in all the rights of humanity and citizenship in the land.
And it is encouraging to see springing up in many places the associations which are to do the special work of educating and befriending the freed population-—to stand by their side in their first efforts to stand upright as free men. All these are successors to the Abolitionists, carrying forward for the free the work which they had done for the slave. It is encouraging, too, to see many religious bodies and churches confessing the mighty work which God’s providence lays on them of lifting up the freed men, and bringing them into the full relations of manhood and brotherhood. Let no Abolitionist be found backward or halting in rendering his aid to this great practical work, through some of these many channels.
Chief among them all, as a direct instrument in the work, is the AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION, of which all the Freedmen's Aid Societies in the land, East and West, are helpers and auxiliaries. Its organization as a great popular force, coincident in extent with the whole country, is complete, and it summons every man and woman in the land to hold up its hands, and fill them with beneficent power for the noble work it has to do. Even now they summon us to a vast labor; pressing on us as an instant, imperative claim, to save almost one hundred thousand people from actual starvation in the coming winter. Can any Abolitionist refuse to see that in practical labors for the freed people is the true carrying forward, and legitimate succession, of his own earlier work?—S. M., JR.
HON.SCHUYLER COLFAX ON RECONSTRUCTION.
In the recent speech of Hon. Schuyler Colfax at Washington(the most important part of which may be seen in a preceding column) we have the testimony of another public man and a man whose character and experience give great weight to his opinion on the importance of further guaranties than President Johnson has demanded of the loyalty and sincerity of the States lately in rebellion, before they should be admitted, either to participation in the Federal Government, or to further official opportunities of extending State Rights into State Sovereignty at home.
It is most refreshing, inspiring, and full of good omens, to hear a man long conversant with political life making the serious public statement that” the Declaration of Independence must be recognized as the law of the land." In times past, the leaders of our politics have been accustomed utterly to ignore and disregard the fundamental truths expressed in the Preamble to the Declaration, and not only to refer us solely to the Constitution as the rule of action, but to emphasize its worst clauses as the ones which should govern and characterize our policy. The Revolutionary Fathers of New England earnestly sought to reduce to practice those vital truths of the Declaration of Independence. They were ready to give up that antagonistic system of slavery which had carelessly been suffered to plant itself among them, and to introduce civil and political equality among the people of the United States. But, by some fatal mistake, they assumed the alliance of some Southern partners to be worth more to the new nation than a consistent maintenance of that great idea. Hence their consent to a limited continuance of the slave trade; hence the it growth and extension of slavery; hence the rebellion. We have now, through the defeat of the rebellion, one more chance to make a right beginning; to make the Constitution as well as the Declaration express that grand Christian idea of the brotherhood of man,. and to administer our Government, State and National, in accordance with that idea. For Heaven's sake, let us not throw away this chance, it may be the last which God will bestow for our nation’s redemption. Let us take the course suggested by Mr. Colfax, and have” every man, alien and native, white and black, protected in the inalienable and God-given rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Only thus can our reconstruction be sound or permanent. Only when ready sincerely to co-operate in this idea should the States lately in rebellion be restored.
That we may have the best assurance that such sincere cooperation is desired and intended, it seems indispensable that we adopt Mr. Colfax's second suggestion, namely, that a majority of the people of each rebel State shall ratify the amendments to their State Constitutions; and we may read the importance of his third suggestion,(that no Congressman be admitted from those States who refuses to declare, in conformity to the Act of 1862, “I have not voluntarily taken part in the rebellion,” in the fact that most of the officials, State and National, thus far chosen by those States, have been not only voluntary partakers, but active leaders in the rebellion. The present voting population of the South evidently prefer men of this sort to rule over them. Until their minds are materially changed for the better, or else, until there shall be a new and different voting population, their admission to the rank of States should be delayed; and whether these conditions shall require a postponement of two years, or five years, or twenty years, they should be inexorably adhered to. We have already been obliged to pay, and at a fearfully costly rate, “for the trouble and expense of heating the poker.” It will be our own fault and folly, if, in addition to this, we suffer the madman to run the red hot poker into us.
Very likely it would take twenty years as to change the hearts and characters of Southern men as to make them a blessing father than a curse to the Union. But the other alternative above suggested gives a
<c05>
chance for a reconstruction far more rapid and far more satisfactory. Give a vote to the black loyalists who are already natives of the South, and encourage the <illegible> thither of other loyalists, black and white, until their votes, with those of the few Southern whites who remained true to the Union, shall form the required majority. This, besides being the speediest, method of sound and permanent reconstruction, is satisfactory and advantageous in all its relations. The black loyalists <illegible> the franchise, and will be stimulated by it to a more rapid improvement than any other course of policy would effect. Then the most imperative need of the South at present is an influx of white men who are not ashamed to labor. If the Government shall offer favorable terms of Southern settlement to whites and blacks from the North, the sight of their industrial avocations pursued in harmony, and in friendly relations with the laboring class already there, would be the most instructive and persuasive lesson that could possibly be given to the poor whites of the South. Under this stimulus, they also might begin to work.
To return to Mr. Colfax he does not in express terms mention the allowance of suffrage to the freed people in the South. Did he purposely omit it? And does he wish that it may be passed by for the present? Upon these points different conjectures will probably be made. Until he shall himself make some positive statement, I prefer to take for granted that he considers this point included in his first specification,” That the Declaration of Independence must be recognized as the law of the land." Is not the right of every man to a voice in to the Government plainly stated among the self-erident truths rehearsed in the Preamble to the Declaration? Let us see:
“We hold these truths to be self-evident-that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;, that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.”
If this does not mean that suffrage is a natural right, and plainly a natural right, what does it mean? 
The close of Colfax's speech gives President Johnson a more hearty endorsement than I can at present see to be justified. It seems to me that plain and frank criticism upon the President's course is yet needed, for the admonition and instruction alike of him, of the politicians and of the people. On the other hand, it is to be remembered that the President's policy is not yet fully developed, and that, in spite of unfavorable appearances, it may yet justify. Mr. Colfax's eulogy. Let us hope that it will do so.—C. K. W.
THE JAMAICA INSURRECTION. A late copy of the Kingston(Jamaica) Standard says that slightly over one thousand rebels have been hanged and shot in the parish of St. Thomas-in-the-East up to date; and it is not at all unlikely that ere the different courts martial close, their sittings, there will be far over two thousand who will have paid the penalty of their vile attempt to exterminate the white and colored races of this island. The most fearful atrocities have accompanied the outbreak of the blacks, who seem to have been animated with the most fiendish spirit; and yet the fact peers through the accounts given of their rising, that they have been made subject to a system of misgovernment and oppression very discreditable to the whites, which, associated with the idea that they had no legal mode of correcting it, led them to believe that the extirpation of their oppressors could only bring them relief.
The above is from the Boston Journal. We have had evidence, for some time, of the severe oppression to which the blacks of Jamaica were subjected by the planters and government of that island; and warnings of trouble to come at no distant day, if justice were not done. What has the British Government done to prevent it? or to stay the massacre, for it is nothing else, of the captured insurgents? Where has the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society been, with its protests and demands? For more than thirty years, the Jamaica blacks have waited for justice and fair dealing. Never before, we believe, since Emancipation took place in those islands, have they lifted a hand to take the life of one of their oppressors! On whose head comes the fearful responsibility of the bloody work just enacted there?
Mark, too, how an English Colonial Government deals with its rebels! Yet English papers and men, who support their government, cry out that America must not be vindictive against her rebels, and exhort them to spare every rebel life, even that of the leader of the rebellion, the representative-man of the conspiracy against the Union, the crafty traitor of almost a life-time, Jefferson Davis!—M.

"THE RIGHT WAY."
We have already noticed the new weekly paper of this name, issued from the Anti-Slavery Office, and to be gratuitously distributed for some months to come over the country. It is a great undertaking, but its projector. Major GEORGE L. STEARNS, is not accustomed to look back, when he has laid his hand on the plough. From the first number, we take the following extract, from an article on President Johnson:—
“We have supposed that we differed in opinion from Andrew Johnson upon some important points of national policy. We rejoice to hope from recent developments that these differences are less than we believed, and that some of them are theoretical rather than practical. But we have never doubted his patriotism and fidelity. How could we distrust a man who remained faithful when he had every motive to be faithless, except simple honor and integrity, and expect him to become faithless when he has every motive to be faithful, except, indeed, pure love of wickedness for its own sake? What Northern man has given a proof of love of country and fidelity to the Union to be compared with that which Andrew Johnson has given? What Northern man has been so situated that he could give such a proof? Go, read the records of the session of Congress of’60-'61, when, among all the Senators from his part of the country, Johnson stood alone, and boldly denounced the rest as traitors; read the thrilling stories of’61, when he was again and again insulted, threatened, and assailed by bodies of infuriate men, when his property was confiscated, his sick wife, with her child, driven into the street, a price set upon his head, and his patriotism seemed to have for its cost the loss of all that men hold dear on earth, and even of life itself; read the history of his subsequent administration as Military Governor of Tennessee; and then distrust ‘Andy Johnson' if you can."

THE FREEDMEN’S BOOK.
I have just published a book for the emancipated slaves, entitled, “THE FREEDMEN’S BOOK” The service is entirely gratuitous on my part, and by the assistance of Ticknor & Fields I am enabled to furnish the freedmen with the books at the mere expense of paper, printing and binding. Though prepared expressly for them, and carefully adapted to their degree of education, it is calculated to diminish prejudice against color at the North, and thus to promote just views on the suffrage question. It is 1 vol. of nearly 300 pages, and will be sold to all except the freedmen at the usual price of books of that size, in order to defray the necessary expenses.
L. MARIA CHILD.
RETURN OF GEN. HOWARD. General Howard, Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau, has concluded his Southern tour of inspection, and arrived in Washington. He reports that wherever he has been, the loyal whites and negroes are universally desirous of the continuance of the national troops among them.
MASSACHUSETTS. The Philadelphia Press pays the following compliment to this Commonwealth:
“In the East, Massachusetts pronounces with accustomed, yet accustomed unanimity, against a party that clings to slavery, even when slavery is ashamed of itself, How splendidly this pioneer and teacher of States and statesmen maintains her hard, won vantage-ground”
The Boston Post said, the day after election,”For news respecting New York and New Jersey, see the Republican papers.”
Probably the Rev. Petroleum V. Nasby no longer considers Noo  Gersey “The <illegible>’ Rest."
<c06>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XLVIL.
NEW YORK, Nov. 16, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I had intended, taking my theme from the elections of last week, to vindicate a little the character of New Jersey, which has rested till now under a cloud—to be sure, of its own choosing, yet none the less screening its really excellent parts from the public gaze. I should have quoted the observation of Mr. Lorenzo Sabine., in his work on the American loyalists, to the effect that the losses of New Jersey in the Revolutionary struggle perhaps surpassed those of say other colony; that her voluntary sacrifices of men and money were at least as large; that her soldiers in the continental army were conspicuous for their gallantry and fidelity; that within her limits were fought some of the most important battles of the war, and that there the best qualities of Washington as a commanders were displayed. I should also have compared that Revolution, so far as it related to New Jersey, with the present, and while finding a match for the her peculiarly infamous stories in her latter-day Copperheads, I should have pointed to as high a reputation achieved by her volunteers in the recent conflict for liberty as in that for independence. Finally, I should have expatiated some what on the natural advantages of the small but wonderfully –favored State; the diversity of her soil, elevation, and scenery; her improved and her undeveloped resources, whether agricultural or manufacturing; her position between the two chief cities of the nation; her water boundaries and water courses; and her only need the overthrow of a corrupt and corrupting monopoly in order to attract the intelligent and industrious, and to secure that competition which is the essence of liberty and progress. Instead, however, of such a presentation, I send you a medley in verse, which I hope may do something to ward making it not discreditable for any man to be a citizen or a native of 
NEW JERSEY.
ANNO DOMINI MDCCCLXV.
ANNEXATION.
Dame Freedom looked from out her bower;
Her garden stretched from sea to sea:
There was great New York, and Pennsylvania,
And Illinois, and Missou-ree 
She saw the waves of the Pacific 
To westward plain as plain could be;
But when she turned to the Atlantic,
The coast-line was not all to see.
Then called the Dame unto her gardener:
“O gardener, speak the truth to me.
“Who built the wall that rises yonder 
And shuts my garden from the sea?”
Then said the gardener to his mistress:
“It is the State of New Jer-see.”
“Now, gardener, tell me, if thou knowest,
Who may be king of that countree?” 
“They say, and I have heard my father, 
The C. & A. Monopolee” 
The Dame she tore her golden tresses:
“My very deadliest foe is he.
“Go, gather every lusty yeoman,
And batter down that wall for me.
“And add the land unto my garden,
And tell the people they are free.
And if they question, ‘By whose warrant?’
Answer, ‘Annexed by Liberty.’”
II.
RETURN OF THE PRODIGAL.
Scarcely thy husk-fed belly brought thee out
Of thy self-exile, with a heathen race 
Too long sojourning! When the saving doubt 
Of thy misconduct pierced thy deep disgrace.
Sit here and marvel at the unclean mire—
Not less that thou didst enter than emerge; 
Lo! does it seem as if the consuming fire,
Or wind, or flood, could such defilement purge?
Yet, for thy fate was sadder than our grief,
And weightier than our censure, and our love 
Outstripped thy erring, and refused belief 
That thou wast steeled to influence from above,—
Welcome without reproach to arms that ache 
With stretching toward thee, lost and found again! 
Arise new-robed, and of the feast partake: 
For thee this day the fatted calf is slain.
II.
CHANGEONS DE PIPEAUX.
Come, change the tune! the times are changed;
We’ll taunt no more our sister,
But now that on our side she’s ranged,
We’ll tell her how we missed her.
Since good has come from Nazareth, 
Why ply the worn-out query? 
Why waste another idle breath 
In this suppression veri?
New Jersey! underscore the  “New”-
The “Old’ deserved our sneering;
The State that hoists the Union blue, 
Can she get too much cheering?
Confess, it was no common stuff 
That rose from such a fever, 
Took up her bed and walked enough!
She says she’s well; believe her!
Hold out an arm lest she may fall
She is n't yet foot-steady
Ere long she'll trip it at the ball
Like any Free-State lady.
And change the tune! We sing no more 
Our sister’s degradation;
She walks with sunlight through the door
Of her and our salvation!
IV.
ENTENTE CORDIALE.
Hand-shaking, curtsy, and embrace, 
And then a count of noses: 
Not one is absent worshipping 
The serpent, O our Moses!
Hold up the tables of the law
The “higher law,” remember!
 We stand by that without a break;
Take courage from November!
We ask for equal rights for man
Just read the Declaration;
That only which unites the North
Can reunite the Nation.
Who’s that a-knocking at the gate?
“My Maryland!” “Missouri!”
Walk in! Who else? The wayward ones”
Hold there, Mesdames! no hurry!
Your papers!--h’m! “accomplished fact”—
“Submission”—no repentance. 
“Fast, prayer, and waiting, till you cry 
Peccavimus!” our sentence.
Hold up the tables, Magistrate!
The “higher law,” remember! 
No quarter to idolaters, 
The lesson of November.
PERLEY, of the Journal, writes from Washington
“The forthcoming report of the Provost Marshal of this District will show that this District only furnished about seventeen hundred and fifty-five white soldiers during the war, many of whom were drafted, but there were upward of thirty-five hundred colored soldiers, nearly all of whom volunteered. Yet the colored veterans cannot vote at the next municipal election.”
The N.Y. Tribune, referring to the election of Gen. Frank Barlow as Secretary of that State, says that he has captured two more Major Generals, and the entire Coppertead army.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
HON. GEORGE THOMPSON
SYRACUSE, Nov. 14, 1865
To the Editor of the Liberator.
Dear Friend-We have enjoyed a two abort but a very full visit of two day from George Thompson He came on Saturday evening, and left us yesterday afternoon. He has ever been a welcome guest in the fully never more so than this time His conversations at table, and in the later hours of the evening have been most instructive, entertaining and we have been most instructive, entertaining and silent. His use of the English language, always act is often exquisitely beautiful. But owing to his true, (consequent upon his abundant labors and less journeys during the last month.) we were obliged each of the time to give him up to himself, that he rebel rest-a comfort of which, I believer, he can have weaken rarely for the last thirty-five years.
On Sunday evening be addressed a crowded audience is out church on "The past the Present and the future of these United States." And I hesitate note to say, that seldom can there have been more percent and valuable historical information given, so any sound, essential political and economical principles announced, or more elevated and quickening any sentiments uttered in the same length of time.
Mr. Thompson showed more plainly, it seemed to be than it had been shown ten thousand times belongs that all our great national troubles which culminated in the awful civil war from which we have just regard were brought upon us in consequence of the narrow which the framers of our Republic made with those who impiously claimed property in human beings and he foretold with terrible clearness and force the still greater calamities which we shall bring those out nation, if yielding to out own or the prejudices if others against the color of the freedmen, we care to compromise any of the rights of those who will hereafter be a part of the constituents of this Government which is based upon " the will of the governed.
It may be a misfortune that the founders of our and constitutions ventured upon the principle of "universal suffrage". It does seem to have been <illegible>to great mistake, that they did not prescribe <illegible>some amount of intelligence as the qualification of such as should be admitted to the highest <illegible> of citizens. But the exclusion of any men <illegible>the franchise on account of their complexion is to the way to correct this mistake, or avert the evil subsequence of all political science; and there are hundred of thousands of colored men, scattered all one the land who not withstanding the disadvantage greater less which they have everywhere suffered are much better educated, and have attainted a higher moral culture, than a great majority of the a men who now come, unquestioned to the polls. No, If predicament of our Republic really be such that we cannot restrict the elective franchise men far as to give it only to those who can read the constitutions under which they are to act, then were we give it to all the adult males within our borbers on the same conditions as to any and straightly do all that can be done to avert the evils which by arise from an ignorant and vicious constituency, be going to all the people the most thorough education and the highest moral culture they can be <illegible> to receive.
This is the doctrine which ought to be preached and poeted upon the acceptance of the people, in all the be towns and villages throughout our country in those who are engaged in the momentous work is reconstructing our Union may be prevented from making a compromise which will be as disastrous to the there of our nation as the compromise of our fathers has been to the past.
Yours truly 
SAMUEL J. MAY.

LETTER FROM MAZZINI.
Sent by Moncure D. Conway to the Commonwealth
OCTOBER 30, 1865.
DEAR CONWAY:-You ask my opinion about the send men suffrage question. Can you doubt it? You have abolished slavery. You have as a crown as your glorious struggle, as a religious consecration battles, which otherwise would have only been <illegible> events decreed that the sun of the republic case on all that he who breathes the air of the republic is free: that as God it one. so, on the blessed and faith where liberty is not a mere hap arid-hazard fate, faith and a gospel, the stamp of man king is one if you mutilate this great principle? Can you cut a down to the monarchical half-freedom standard? proclaim the existence of the half-man? enthrone a begins of half-responsibility? constitute on the republic American land a middle ages class of political <illegible>Is there liberty without the vote? Is not political liberty the sanction, the guarantee of civil liberty <illegible> Is not the vot0e the stamp of self asserting human nature through the moral world, as the right of labor and property is its self-asserting stamp through the physical world? Will you turn, by envying that, your democracy to an incipient aristocracy? Will you decree that color is moral subalternity? Ignorance is, indeed, but you did not choose educated intellect as a test for the electoral right. Had you done subjections might arise on a different ground, but you could not be accused of betraying the very principle you have been proclaiming; of applying a differentiate to two sections of God's children; of saying: Those colored men will be called on to be the armed mosties national union, and to give their life for it, you their life will not be represented in the councils of mention."
And after all, is not the vote the first initiating step in education? Does not the very consciousness of a function to perform the man to progress? Is now the rising of the rational being in his own estimation the best educational beginning both for the child and nor the ignorant man? And what do you fear? Sunders? Have your whites never blundered! Is not invariably through blundering that we reach truth! Give the vote, and education with it; shorten them the blundering period; but do not put on a level the good you will achieve for all mankind by proclaiming the sacredness of a great principle, and the little evil which may come from the few transient <illegible> of minority. One thing is practically sure; these colored men will undoubtedly vote for those who have called them into political existence, while, if <illegible>of it, they will be a tool of extra-legal agitation in the hands of any man who will promise it. Those things have been, will be, said to you far more than by mine, by American voices. But Sere is your country men, as far as I know, touched upon by your countrymen and still is, it seems to me, a prominent, vital importance to us all and to yourselves.
It is that your task has changed, that you have a sacred duty to fulfil, and that you shad; not, until you have manfully fronted and solved the difficulty before "such you appear now to hesitate, be able to fulfil it.
There are, for every great nation, two stages of life. The first may be devoted to self-constitution, to inward organization, to the fitting-up, so to say, of the implements and activities through which a nation our undertake the work appointed, and proceed to fulfil the task which has been ordained for her by God for the good of all mankind. For a nation is a living task; be life is not her own, but a force and a function in the universal Providential scheme.
The second begins when, after having secured and asserted her own self, after having collected and shown to all the strength and the capability which breathe in her for the task, the nation enters the lists of humanity, and links herself, by noble deeds, with the general aim. You have triumphantly gone through the first stage; you are on the threshold of the second <illegible> and you may either betray your national duty or step beyond.
Through the almost fabulous amount of energies, as known to our old rotten monarchies, which you

<c02>
have displayed; the constant devotedness of your men and women; the all-enduring courage of your improvised soldiers; and mainly-do not forget it- the cancelling of the only black spot, slavery, which was sallying your glorious republican flag; you have struck deep in the heart of Europe t conviction that there it in you a strong, almost incalculable power to be reckoned with in the onward march of mankind. All the numerous and ever-increasing republican element in Europe have discovered in you their representative. Too have become a leading nation. You may act as such. In the great battle which is fought throughout the world between right and wrong, justice and arbitrary rule, equality and privilege, duty and egotism, republic and monarchy, truth and lies, God and idols, your part is marked; you must accept it. Workers of humanity, yon must feel that to stand aloof would be a sin; that indifference, when the cry of God's creation is claiming you, would be atheism. Yon must first sweep off the American continent the enemy who has availed himself of your troubles and dangers to skulk into your frontier and establish there an outpost of Caesarism; then help, mainly morally, materially, if needed, your republican brothers wherever the sacred battle is fought, and yon can usefully encourage and strengthen those who toil and bleed for truth and justice. There lies your mission -there your glory and safety-there your future. The fathers of your republic would now speak the same language. They taught the child, not the giant.
But to fulfil that duty, to accomplish that mission, you must have no threatening agitation at home; and this suffrage-question, unsettled justly now, will be to you a source of perennial agitation. A sacred programme not to be deserted to those amongst you who stand by religion and logic, a weapon to your enemies, a Damocles' sword in the hands of the four millions of political serfs, it will unavoidably absorb you, weaken you, keep you powerless and inert abroad, until it is solved.
Think of it, dear Conway, and speak of it. You may, of course, make any use of what I write; but such thoughts as these will be more listened to if coming from an American. A foreigner is always suspected of pleading his own cause, which God knows I am not. Ever faithfully yours,
JOSEPH MAZZINI.

WISH AND PURPOSE OF THE SOUTH.
The Southern Loyalist, a small weekly paper just commenced at Memphis, Tennessee, makes the following statement in regard to the wishes and plans of the men who formerly held slaves in the South:-
"What was their aim? The perpetuity of slavery, Do they still expect the reestablishment of slavery as it once was? No; they don't consider its reestablishment practicable. What do they want? What is now the heart's wish of the controlling element of the Southern people? What do the old slaveholders, the Southern editors, the Southern politicians and the Southern preachers all hope and work for? It is what Mr. Langdon frankly slated in the Alabama Convention. It is THE CONTROL OF THE NEGROES! Are not the negroes free! Is it not arrogant to demand, and presumptuous for them to expect, the control of freemen? Is not the faith of the nation pledged that the freedmen shall not be restored to the control of their old musters? Perhaps so. Would it not be a damning stain upon our national honor if the men who were implored in the nation's hour of extremest peril to and in saving it, and who nobly responded, should now be betrayed by the Federal government into the hands of its late and still unrepentant enemies? It might be shameful, it might in future years be a blot upon the national honor, but there is very great danger that it will be done. Without it, reconstruction may not be practicable in time to influence the next presidential election. What then? What will be the results if the control of the blacks it given to the dominant element of the South; that clement which is still unrepentant of its rebellion, which still thinks the enslavement of the negro a good thing, which will constitute the life of every Southern State legislature and every Southern military organization under President Johnson's reconstruction policy? What will it do with the blacks? We know that it will desire peace with the Federal government and with the North, but how will it treat the freedmen, the returned loyal black soldiers, the men and women and children betrayed into its hands, and against whose emancipation and elevation it fought desperately? Here is what it will attempt:-
1st. That no colored man shall possess or carry arms of any kind.
2d. That no colored man shall own land or real estate.
3d. That no colored man shall keep store, or engage in certain other avocations.
4th. That colored men without means or employment shall be bound out as vagrants.
5th. That colored men shall not be allowed to meet in assemblies, except by permission of some white official.
6th. That no colored man shall be allowed to testify against a while, or have a place in the jury box, and consequently that whites shall be rarely punished for wronging or outraging a negro.
7th. That negroes shall be compelled to work for wages determined by the State legislatures.
8th. That stringent laws shall be passed against persons from the North or poor whites giving encouragement to the colored people.
All these things are now advocated by Southern papers and their Northern lickspittles.

THE NATIONAL THANKSGIVING.
AMERICAN FREEDMEN'S AID COMMISSION. GENERAL OFFICE, 444 FOURTEENTH STREET.WASHINGTON. D. C., Nov. 15, 1865. )
THE President of the United States has set apart Thursday, the 7th day of December next, to be observed in all places of religious worship as a day of NATIONAL THANKSGIVING for the great mercies of God to our nation during the year now closing.
It is customary, upon days of Thanksgiving, to remember those who have received fewer of the common comforts of life, and to manifest our gratitude for the larger favors vouchsafed us, by generous gifts for the more needy.
It is therefore suggested, for the consideration of pastors and churches, who may not have provided already a better destination for this collection, that THE NATION'S WARDS are as yet the Nation's POOREST POOR.
For two hundred years systematically despoiled by State enactment and national consent, they have been tossed for the last four years upon the wildest waves of the fiery sea of war, until their very rags are torn away; and now, in weary millions, they creep along the shore of Peace, and see, far inland, waiting cottages and fields.
But the winter makes haste, and will bury thousands by the way, unless Good Samaritan hands shall cover their nakedness, and give them shelter from the storm.
After the winter, they will find the fields, and till them, and the cottages, and dwell in them.
But the winter intervenes.
The officers of the Bureau declare that thirty thousand will perish in Georgia alone; and forty thousand more in Alabama.
In Texas, in Louisiana, in Mississippi, in Tennessee, in South Carolina, in every Southern State, there are many who need.
It is not true that the able-bodied have not labored industriously and lived prudently hitherto, as they have had opportunity. It is susceptible of proof that no class of people in the United States have struggled with adversity more manfully or successfully, the circumstances being considered.
But the desolations of war, the utter confusion of all social and industrial conditions, the abject poverty in which the return of peace found white and black alike the extraordinary blight upon the very imperfect crops of this year, have together, not strangely, proven too much for the best endeavors of many. Thousands have succeeded-hundreds of thousands-despite all these difficulties, in providing for the winter, and ask no charity.
Other hundreds of thousands will by steady industry, although unable to provide in advance, keep the wolf at bay, until the spring drives him back; and these ask no charity.
But there remain the equally industrious but less fortunate, who can find neither work nor wages until the planting season returns; besides the infirm, and the thousands upon thousands of orphans, whose mothers cannot be found, and whose fathers gave up their lives that we might celebrate this peace.
The President of the United States assures up that, so plainly is the relief of those, the NATION'S POOR, the national duty, that he shall cause rations of food to be purchased and distributed generously, at the expense of the National Treasury.
For immediate relief, for the purchases of blankets and personal clothing, for the erection of temporary shelters, for the opening and maintenances of an hundred additional orphan asylums-not less than a million of dollars is needed.
It can be given in one day by the churches to whom this address will come, with the greatest ease, if the churches will it.

<c03>
Contributions may be sent directly to GEORGE C. WARD, Treasurer, 66 Wall street, New York; or to either of the local Treasurers named below.
WILLIAM ENDICOTT, JR.,
83 Summer street, Boston.
JOSEPH B. COLLINS.
40 Wall street, New York.
E. W. CLARK,
35 Sooth Third street. Philadelphia.
JESSE TYSON.
Baltimore.
C. G. HUSSEY. President,
37 Fifth street, Pittsburg.
JOHN M. WALDEN, Secretary,
25 Lombard Block, Chicago.
On behalf of the Commission,
MATTHEW SIMPSON. President.
JACOB R. SHIPHERD, Secretary,

CIRCULAR.
The attention of teachers and field agents of the Commission, and of other friends of the freed people, to whom this circular may come, is called to the following memorandum:
Louis Waddy's wife, Hannah, who formerly be longed to Charles W. Gresham, living at the Glebe, near Carter's Creek. Lancaster County, Virginia, quite near the mouth of the Rappahannock River.
Any person who can give any information in regard to the above-mentioned woman to her husband, Louis Waddy, care of Mr. George S. Whitney, Mount Morris, Livingston County, New York, will confer a very great favor. JACOB R. SHIPHERD, Secretary.

THE DISTURBANCES IN JAMAICA.
Our advices received by the steamer from Jamaica yesterday show that deplorable as are the excesses which were committed by an infuriated mob when the outbreak occurred, the affair was not what it has been represented, viz: a concerted movement among the Blacks all over the island to exterminate the Whites and the Browns, and to make themselves matters of the country. The outbreak was confined to one single parish out of the twenty-two parishes Into which the island is divided, and did not extend even over the whole of that district. In fact, it is described by the Jamaica Guardian of the 14th inst., in giving an account of its incidents, not as a rebellion of the Blacks, but as " Riot and bloodshed in St. Thomas in-the-East." It is true that subsequently to the publication of that account, statements appeared in that paper and other Kingston journals to the effect that the St. Thomas-in-the-East outbreak was only part of a widely ramified plot for the destruction of the Whites and the colored people by the blacks; but we have searched our exchange files in vain for any evidence in support of this averment; and, indeed, we find it staled in them that tranquility and order prevailed generally throughout those parts of the island not immediately adjacent to the scene of the disturbances. That this outbreak is not a negro rebellion got up for the extermination of the whites seems clear, from the fact that the Maroons, who are all Blacks, have rendered loyal and valuable service in capturing the insurgents, and defending the persons and property of the planters; and other Blacks, not belonging to that class of people, have done the same. And, even so far as the particular parish in which the outbreak occurred is concerned, it seems strange that the Blacks, if intending a massacre of the other inhabitants, should have gone to work as they did-that is, have given what was equivalent to a warning of their intentions, whereby the authorities were enabled to have a military force on the spot to suppress the outbreak. From all we can gather, it appears to us that this outbreak, which was local in its character, arose mainly from local causes peculiar to the district in which it took place. Fear always exaggerates danger, and we can make every allowance for those on the spot, who saw in the deplorable slaughter which resulted from the fight between the volunteers and the mob, and the subsequent murder of several planters by an infuriated populace, the first developments of n conspiracy for the destruction of the Whites and Browns; but, taking into account the peaceful character, loyalty and obedience to the laws, by which the Blacks of Jamaica have been distinguished ever since their emancipation, it will require evidence of the most explicit and decisive character to support the charges brought against them in this matter. That evidence has not yet appeared; and, without wishing to prejudge the case, we may say, we do not think it will ever be supplied. Be this as it may, however, it would seem from the action of the Government in the matter that apprehension is felt that political influences arc at work to promote disaffection among the black people of Jamaica. A noted political character, a member of the House of Assembly, charged with inciting people to rebel, was arrested in the city of Kingston a few days after the outbreak, and taken to Morant Bay, where he was tried by Court-Martial, sentenced to be hung, and immediately executed. The gentleman, Mr. G. W. Gordon, was a large landholder in the island, and the Jamaica correspondent of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society. Two or three ministers of dissenting churches have met with the same fate; and Mr. Sidney Levien, the editor of The County Union, a fearless, independent journal, ever ready to plead the cause of justice and liberty, has been arrested and taken from his home on the north side of the island to Morant Bay-a distance of one hundred miles-to be handed over to the military authorities. A Dr. Bruce, a white man, has also been arrested for politic it causes, and he too has been sent on to Morant Bay, to appear before a military tribunal. That the St. Thomas-in-the-East outbreak, beside leading to the execution, by shooting and hanging, of over 1,000 blacks in less than three weeks from the commencement of the outbreak, should have necessitated these extreme measures, would seem to argue that the ruling powers in Jamaica are not sure that the ground upon which they stand is altogether safe.-N. Y. Tribune.

SOUTH CAROLINA AND THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
Can we believe our own eyes when we see that South Carolina, of all the States in the Union, has ratified the Constitutional Amendment, forever prohibiting slavery on the soil of the United Slates! Truly, here is something to sit down and think over. It was deemed a marvellous thing when Rome, the persecutor of the early Christians, became herself subject to the new religion, and saw the cross raised above the throne of the Caesars; but that required for its accomplishment more than three hundred years. But in less than four short years, we have seen South Carolina, that led in fanaticism and intolerance all the slave States of the Union; South Carolina, that drove out Samuel Hoar, worshipped John C. Calhoun, and, through one of her Senators, stigmatized the laboring freemen of the North as " mudsills "; South Carolina, that advocated the revival of the African slave trade, and dictated the war of the rebellion, for the purpose of founding the great slave empire of the South, where the hated sound of free schools, free speech and a free press should never more be heard; even this South Carolina we have seen to be the very first of the cotton States to ratify that organic law which utterly and forever banishes slavery from the presence of the Union!
It is true that an ingenious scrutiny can detect many qualifications wrapped up in this great fact. We may be told that it is brought about simply by coercion, and is not done voluntarily-that even the apparent alacrity with which the step is taken only indicates a political dodge to propitiate the Government into allowing an early admission to the Union, which will be used merely to oppress the freedmen, and to save the utmost from the ruins of slavery which the situation will permit, even if lurking designs of its revival are not actually cherished. But allowing these considerations all the weight they can properly claim, and it will still remain true, that this step taken by South Carolina signalizes a mighty advance, and proclaims an achievement so inherently grand and beneficent, that we may well assume all its incidental risks. Such revolutions as this, in fact, never go backward. Even if they arc ignorantly or insincerely wrought In the first place, they so inseparably link themselves with the progress of the age, and pave their way with such unexpected blessings from the start, that time itself is not more unlikely to be checked and set back.
As to the bearing of South Carolina's ratification on the general prospects of the amendment, it may be briefly stated an follows: the sanction of twenty-seven States is necessary; that of twenty-four is now se-cured; while that of New Jersey, Iowa, Oregon and California only awaits the assembling of their Legislatures. The consummation of the amendment, therefore, is sure; but every one of the seceded States will be required to give in its adhesion, as the necessary condition of re-admission to the Union. - Boston Journal.

SOUTH CAROLINA LEGISLATURE.
The Legislature has not accomplished a great amount of labor the past week. Some of the members have encouraged a "masterly Inactivity."
One member thought we were in danger of in insurrection unless the "negro code" should pass. Another could not tee that the passage of each a code would in any manner lessen the danger. This code consists of four bills; the first one is "A Bill Preliminary to the Legislation Induced by the Emancipation of Slaves." It provides that persons having seven-eighths Caucasian blood shall be considered entirely white; that the old slave code is no longer applicable to the persons for whom it was made; that freedmen shall have the right to acquire property, make contracts, sue and be sued; that the same rights and remedies, of persons or property, and civil and criminal liabilities, shall apply to colored as well as white persons, except at modified by further acts of the code.
The other bills of the code are in regard to establishing the District Courts and amending the criminal code, and have not yet been printed.

<c04>
Considerable discussion has taken place in reference to repudiating the debt created by the rebellion. The President has sent word to Governor Perry that the war debt most be repudiated; and though the Legislature may not "wallow every pill which the Yankees offer," the pill of repudiation will doubtless go down.
The second bill of the code, as amended, prevents marriage between a white person and a person of color. A provision compelling masters to Bend colored apprentices to school six weeks in the year was stricken out on motion of Mr. Trescott, because the white father was not required to tend his own children to school. A clause which had reference to masters giving apprentices an opportunity of learning "some useful trade or business" was the subject of much debate. Mr. Mulvany was opposed to negroes being mechanics, as there was no demand for mechanics, and, if possible, they should be forced back where they belong- to the fields.
A gentleman who heard portions of the code read gave it as his opinion that it was more oppressive in many respects than the old slave code.-S. C. Leader.

PROSPECTS OF A RESTORATION.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 16, 1865.
It is simply amusing to occasionally meet here one of the old political oligarchy which so long ruled Congress, and to hear him complacently speak of the benefits which our national Legislature can derive from the prompt admission of the Southern delegations. Such men remind one (as Mr. Lincoln would have said) of that famous architect, Sir Godfrey Kneller, who, when told by Pope that, if the Supreme Being should reconstruct the world, he might get some useful hints from himself, replied, with great complacency, " I believe He might, Mr. Pope, I believe He might." There is not one of these old oligarchs who does not think that he could re-enter Congress and teach the members who have carried the Union triumphantly through the war how to re-construct the government and the country. Curious phantasies would be conjured up by the besotted imaginations of these played out champions of slavery, but their advice is not desired, neither will their presence be tolerated. The rightful members of Congress are equal to the task before them, neither do they desire a restoration of the tyrannical rule of the Southerners who so despotically dictated what should be done.
There are a few loyal Southern members-elect, who will doubtless be Welcomed in due time to seats and privileges. But others-some of them red-handed rebels-will not be desired as associates by those Congressmen whose utmost energies will be freely and fearlessly exerted to aid in placing the cause of human freedom and equal rights above all chance. It was a principle of action worthy of all remembrance that counted past deeds as nothing while aught remained to be achieved. A large majority of Congressmen have glorious records, but much remains for them to do. Institutions framed by the slave oligarchy call loudly for revision and reconstruction, for no restoration of the pat is desirable. Reform is the order of the day. The statute books must be cleansed, once and for aye, from the legislative impurities which have marked the unrighteousness of past legislation. Let there be no shadow of a compromise of the sacred truth promulgated by the Deity, that man can have no property in man; and if any unrepentant rebel has a desire to virtually restore slavery, let him have no opportunity for air his vile eloquence in the Capitol of a free and independent Republic.-Cor. Boston Journal.

A SOUTHERN VIEW OF THE REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC PARTIES. The Southern leaders are gradually getting their eyes open to the political situation of affairs, as may be seen by the following significant editorial from the Charlottesville, (Va,)
Chronicle:
"The triumph of the Union armies-the vindication of the National authority-the unity of the empire- the majestic figure of the victorious Republic, with its tremendous military power and its army of ironclads-all belong to the Republicans. They did it- and the North thanks them for it-which we do not. Here is the difference. Therefore, just in proportion as the Democratic partly is popular at the South, just in the same proportion is it unpopular at the North. It never will be popular at the North. It staked its existence on its war policy, and it lost. It is dead.
The South, with its military power broken, is at the mercy of the North. All we shall get now, we must get at the ballot-box, and through political combinations. We must either rest at the mercy of the Republican party, or we must beat the Republican party. How shall we beat them? With the Democrats? We have just shown that as this party becomes popular here, it becomes unpopular at the North, and our destinies are in the hands of the Northern voters. The South may rally as a unit on. the Democratic party, and what will be the consequence? The North will rally as a unit on the Republican party, and the transaction of the Presidential election of 1860 will be repeated. There will be sectional parties-the strong and populous North against the exhausted and sparsely settled South. There have been elections in the last six weeks in Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Iowa, Maryland, New York, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Missouri, Massachusetts and Illinois. The Democrats carried, (on the negro suffrage issue solely,) the first of these States, and the Republicans carried all the rest. This has been going on now for a number of years. If the South relies on the Democratic party to help it, it will merely keep at war with the Republican party, keep the Republican party compact, and be invariably beaten in the elections. The North never will forgive the Democratic party.
We regard the continued maintenance of the Democratic organization at the North as a positive injury to the South. They irritate our opponents, without the power to help us. The President, the rupture of the Republican party, and the formation of new parties, are the only hope of the South."

CONFISCATION IN VIRGINIA. At the opening of the U. S. District Court in Richmond, on Monday last, Judge Vnderwood repelled some charges which had been made against the court. His remarks are thus given in the Richmond Republic:-
"The Judge, on taking his seat, remarked that while some of the newspapers of the city had been very industrious in trying to make the impression that the District Attorney had acted very oppressively toward the people of Virginia, in regard to the confiscation of property under the President's Amnesty Proclamation, he would say that it was not true, and that he had not gone as for s he had been ordered to go, and had incurred the censure of the Attorney General of the United States for his leniency. He said that one quarter as much property had been libelled in the State of Virginia as in the city of New Orleans, and not as much as in the city of Luoisville, Kentucky. To this clemency on the part of the District Attorney very many people in the State were indebted for exemption from the trouble and cost of libels of their property for confiscation under the President's Amnesty Proclamation. He also said that many high officials thought that certain newspaper proprietors of this city should be indicted for disloyalty; but that he thought, with Mr. Jefferson, that the press should be left free and untrammelled."

THE FRIENDS OF OUR COUNTRY IN EUROPE-M LABOULAYE. From all quarters, we learn that our best friends in Europe are most anxious with regard to the present condition of our affairs. All who have stood by us throughout our troubles, and by their undoubted sympathy have earned a title as counsellors, unite earnestly in asking protection for the freedman as a condition precedent to all reconstruction. On the contrary, all who have been most against us now applaud the rapid processes by which, with their imperfect knowledge, they think freedmen are to be surrendered to the tender mercies of their old masters. This is especially the case with the newspapers of London and Paris. In the French capital, ail the journals which stood by the rebels now stand by immediate reconstruction, as it appeared to their minds in the middle of October. We mention this as a fact which has its significance, and ought Dot to be concealed.
On the other hand, there is Mr. Bright, who, in the letter recently published, has sounded the alarm. That veteran of reform, Lieut-General Perronet Thompson, has more than once written in the same drain. So has Professor Newman. So has Professor Cairnes, in his admirable article on "Negro Suffrage." In France, Henri Martin, the great historian, has borne his testimony against precipitate reconstruction, at the cost of the freedman. We have now before us a letter from Count Gasparin, in which he promises to write an appeal to our country, hoping to bring it to its great duty. We have also a letter from that true friend, M. Laboulaye, who brings to the questions which he discusses the learning of the professor and the grasp of the statesman. Here is what he writes:
"I am not a fanatic for the black race. I think that you have much to do in order to render to it the place which belongs lo it in humanity. But as a friend of liberty, I cannot understand how you can at pleasure drive the negro out of political life, at the same time counting him in the electoral population, and thus create anew, at great cost, the aristocracy which has caused you four years of war and woe Equality for all the inhabitants of the Union; for equality is here the condition of liberty. This is my desire. I think it must accord with yours."
Clearly it does accord with ours.-Transcript.
Several Indian chiefs were hang at Fort Smelling, Minnesots, on the 11th inst., for being engaged in the massacre of whites which took place some months since. They died stoically.
<c05>
REGULATION OF NEGROES. The Rebels have got another jewel in the person of "N. A. M. Dudley, Brevet Brig. Gen. Vol., Brevet Col. U. S. A., and Supt. R. F. and A. L." He superintends the Sub-District of Memphis, and has issued an order preventing the negroes from crowing the river, setting forth the law that " at nearly all the hands now on plantations are working under a written contract to work faithfully, a constant leaving of their labors and visiting the cities and larger towns for amusement, is not in keeping with the contract entered into, all ferrymen, boatmen, and others are forbidden to give transportation &cross the river to this class of persons, except the party asking for the same is supplied with a certificate from the employer, setting forth his approval of the employe's absence."
In other words, N. A. M. Dudley, &c., &c., &c.. quietly returns the slave to his old plantation, and keeps him there by force of arms, the sword of a general in the American army. The Memphis Appeal compliments the many-titled general, and finds consolation in the fact that he is an old army officer, and not, we suppose, a vulgar, brutal Radical. It is sad to see men who fought to put down slavery, using their power to build it op again.-Tribune.
THE GRORGIA CONVENTION. It will take a great deal of wise, patriotic conduct on the part of the Georgia Legislature to wipe out the sinister impressions left by the recent convention, and to prepare the State for admission into the Union. That convention did not do one hearty thing toward restoring the State to its loyal relations. It recognized the abolition of slavery, but with a proviso retaining claims of compensation for the loss of slaves. It repudiated, by a close vote, and after great pressure from Washington, the rebel debt, and then it refused, by a vote of 156 to 107, to make this measure a part of the new constitution- thus leaving it open to be repealed at some future time. In fact, a member has already proposed another convention, as soon as the Slate U fairly in the Union again, to undo the work of this one In that regard, and assume the war debt. Well did Mr. Hill, the leading Unionist in the convention say: "I confess, I fear that a sincere feeling of reconciliation, I will not say of attachment, to the Government, does not animate the breasts of many of the members of this convention." But It is fortunate that these developments are made thus early, before the President's message to Congress. They cannot but impel him to a course which will have the support of every loyal man in the country.-Journal.
Columbia, (S. C.) correspondence says some members of the Legislature express strong apprehensions of negro insurrections, and bills have been reported for the purpose of empowering State officers to seize all fire-arms found in the possession of freedmen, to prevent them from hereafter being possessed of arms, and to punish with severity any white person who proposes to sell the same to them. Measures have also been proposed to shut up the shops kept by freedmen, and prohibit any white person employing a negro servant without the consent of his or her former master having first been obtained. The South Carolinians are very anxious for the removal from their midst of all National troops, and the organization of their State.

PROTECTION OF THE FREEDMEN. Senator Wilson, in a letter expressing regret that he could not attend the reception of colored troops at Harrisburg, Penn., says:
" The faith of the country is plighted to man and to God to protect the liberties of the freedmen, and it will redeem its plighted faith. All constitutional privileges, all laws, all ordinances, all regulations of States, discriminating against colored men, must be made null and void. They must be under the same laws, be liable for the same offences, be tried in the same manner and punished in the same degree a white persons. Whatever differences of opinion may exist in regard to suffrage for the freedmen, all honest and just men must hold it to be the sacred duty of the Government of the United States to secure to them the same civil rights as the non-voting white inhabitants of their State enjoy."
MORAL INFLUCENCE OF FAIRS. The British Provincial Bishop of Frederickton is hard on bazaars, tea meetings, &c. He said, in St. John, the other day, he "would rather see a congregation worshipping in a hut, or in the open air, than in a building erected by means raised at picnics, tea-meetings, bazaars and races. The steps which had been taken in late years towards raising money for church purposes were such as to excite no wonder, if open, unblushing gambling be adopted a few years hence. "
DEATH OF A DISTINGUISHED COLORED MAN.-Dr. James McCune Smith, one of the best known colored men in this vicinity, died in Williamsburgh yesterday morning, of a pulmonary affection, from which he had been suffering for nearly twenty months, in the 52d year of his age. He was born in New York, was educated and graduated at Glasgow, Scotland, and had been a practising physician for a quarter of a century. He had always felt a deep interest in the cause of his race, and had labored zealously and constantly to ameliorate and elevate the condition of the colored men in this country, both bond and free, who have lost in him one of their best friends and most able advocates.- Tribune.
The mechanics and working men of Charleston, S. C., held a mass meeting on the 16th, at which an address was adopted, expressing the belief that the war had done great good in elevating the workingmen and making labor respectable. It says that labor has never been degrading except where slavery existed as an institution, or in communities of privileged classes. It enlarges on the ruinous competition of slavery with white labor in the past, and concludes as follows: "We are satisfied that the abolition of slavery, although at present looked upon as a great calamity, will eventually prove a great blessing to our beloved country, in the increased and remunerative employment of our children and the free white man at home, in our own State, instead of being forced to emigrate to some other land to procure their bread, producing that strength and prosperity that in the future will be our protection and safeguard."
THE "SOUL" OF JOHN BROWN. A few days since, John Brown, son of the old martyr forerunner of this new dispensation, made the following speech to a company of negroes at Ottawa, Ohio: " My colored friends, you have now the right to one box, and that is the cartridge-box; but there are two other boxes that you ought to claim, one of which is the ballot-box, and the other the jury-box."
This is the soul of the old man, beyond all doubt. If this intangible part of the old hero must still longer travel on the rough thoroughfares of our politics, we hope it will finally letch up in Connecticut.- Springfield Union.
MATTERS IN ALABAMA. A letter to the Chicago Tribune, dated Mongomery, Ala., Nov. 6, says:-
"Colonel Gayle, of Cahawba, who offered a million of dollars for the assassination of Mr. Lincoln, has not been pardoned. He was released from the Old Capitol Prison and sent here to report to the Hon. J. Q. Smith, United States District Attorney, who bound him over in the sum of $25,000 to appear at the next term of the United States Court, which is to be holden on the third Monday of this month.

THE FREEDMEN'S BUREAU. The New York Herald's Jackson (Miss.) correspondent expresses the opinion that the discontinuance of the Freedmen's Bureau would be unfortunate at the present time in Mississippi, as well for society generally as for the freedmen. He says that the negroes are still too much disposed to congregate in the towns, but does not believe that there is any foundation for the stories that they are arming, and meditating an insurrection. They seem to have a suspicion that the efforts made to induce them to remain with their former masters may be put forth with the view of ultimately again reducing them to a state of slavery.
Negro suffrage was literally pot in practice at New Orleans on election day, polls being opened for negro votes in the parishes of Orleans and Algiers, under the auspices of an association having in view the election of a delegate to Congress. No notice beyond the briefest mention is taken of it by the New Orleans papers, but the correspondent of the Mobile Register estimates that ten thousand votes; were cast, and that the voters contributed on the spot from fifty cents to two dollars spice is furtherance of the object.
The platform of the Louisiana Democracy has for two of its planks-compensation for emancipation, and "this is a government of white people."

THE REBEL WAR DEBT REFUDIATED. Washington, Nov. 8, 1865-The following despatch has been received by Presided Johnson:
MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., Nov. 7, 1865.
To His Excellency ANDREW JOHNSON, President of the United States:
The Convention has repudiated the war debt by a vote of 133 to 117. J. JOHNSON,
Provisional Governor.
COLORED TROOPS. New York, Nov. 9. -Twenty-six regiments of colored troops, numbering 15,000 men, are now on route, for this city, to be mustered out of the service. They belong mainly to New York, New Jersey and New England regiments.
<c06>
CLARK'S SCHOOL VISITOR.
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISTTOR will commends its tenth volume with the January number, 1868. This is the only Day School Periodical published at SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully Illustrated. New type, new features; Readings, music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Rebures, &c., from the very best writers.
The VISITOR has the largest circulation of any Educational Journal published. Now is the time to form clubs.
The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will &ct as an agent) at any post-office in the United States.
Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher,
1308 Chestant Street, Philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the "Visitor" for one year.
Nov. 10.

LESSONS IN ORNIOLOGY
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but white these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be Bade to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a mean of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisites colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be teen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be farther elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, &3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address.
GRACEANNA LEWIS,
Care of EDWARD PARRISH,
South west corner of Eighth and South Sts,, PHILADELPHIA.

TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-President of the &academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of " Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa,
ISAAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D.,
Author of “Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees,' and Entomologist of the State Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
VINCENT BARNARD,
Kennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania.
April 10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis’s instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions.
DILLWYN PARRISH, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH, MARGARET J. BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISH,
MARTHA KIMBER, CALEB S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, E. M. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M. D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.

Ayer's Pills.
ARE you tick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors-purify the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Aysr's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent la this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rapidly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costiveness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.

AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache, and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinism or any injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m.

IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her is producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also baa another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives is any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also parted for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
DR. DIC LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eaglewood School, New Jeremy, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's &academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.
$2000 A YEAR
MADE by any one with $15-Stenell Tools. No experience <illegible> The Presidents, Cashiers and Treasures of three banks endorse the circular. Sent free with samples. Address the American Stencil Tool Works, Springfield Vermont,
October 6. 3m.
Farm for Sale Franklin, Mass.,
CONTAINING thirty-five acres of tillage and <illegible> including eight sores of wood-land, Also, house, barn, and carriage house, all in excellent order, build some fourteen years ago, with all the modern improve, months, range, bath, &c. Also, apple, pear and peach trees, grapes currants, etc, Further information can be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Office, No. 321 Washington street, Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO A FRIEND.
Whew first I met your glance. By friend,
Some instinct seemed to speak,
And murmur, "Hear life quest my sad;
Behold the heart you seek!
“Long, long the watch, the veiling; long
The hope, the fell despair;
A Presence rites from the throng,
The answer to thy prayer!
"Now drop the burden of thy fears
Thy sorrows put away;
The light that in thy East appears
Shines to the perfect day.
"For thoe no more the bitter gloom,
The threat sings of the past;
Thy spirit, ransomed from its tomb,
Scapes to its life at last!"
What was thy charm? Not this hour
Could earthly spell command,
For me the witchery and the power
Held in thy careless band!
Was it, that in some vanished year,
-lost, lost is mints of yore,-
Thy soul was part of mine and here
Reclaimed its own once more?
I know not. Friend, thou mayet not see
(thou should not-it is best,)
All thy affection is to me,
My refuge and my rest!
The cloud? may lower around, and dart
The lightning's on the gale;
But,-still thins image in my heart,-
On! on! I will not quail!
Nov., 1865. X.

For the Liberator.
MODESTY,
BY KATY CARLASLE.
The lowliest one is lord of all-
The meekest heart is king;
His worth on soul and brow is stamped
With God's own signet-ring.
His brow is orbed large with thought,
And kingly eyes has he;
But O! 'tis pasting wonderful
His lowliness to see!
Bet O! its passing wonderful
His loweliness to see!
Meek treads he with bare feet the thorns
In paths of poverty;
Nor dreams be that his royal soul
Should fare more royally:
And when the pilgrims in those paths
Lift eyes with love all dim,
His forehead droops, his eyes grow wide,
To think they look to him!
Behold, ye proud, who crowns of gold
Or laurel garlands seek:
The grandest head the fairest bays
Are twined with violets meek!
Nor gold nor bays can give the grace
That modesty imparts;
So, viewless, sways his scepter strong-
So reigns be king-of hearts!

THE HARP OF ANDREW MARVELL.
These verses are an echo of Marvell's Ode to Cromwell. The Commonwealth of England, which by a successful war was placed upon a sure foundation of Freedom, was then, by an unsuccessful" reconstruction," slid back to its old corner-stone of monarchy. Let not the Freedom, was then, by an unsuccessful "reconstruction" slid back to its old corner stone of monarchy. Let not the Republic of American, after a like war, suffer a like fate']
O Marvell's harp! I dare to wake
Thy silent strings, for Freedom's take,
To tell how rain thy boast
Of Cromwell's conquering host.
Or would that Marvell's self, instead,
Could ware the living by the dead,
Hew freedom may be lost,
Though won at bloody cost!
Our shaken land, in peril's plight,
Sent forth her lowliest to the fight,
Until by men enslaved
The free themselves were saved!
But O, victorious State-unjust,
Perfidious, false to Freedom's trust!
Thy feet are trampling now
The men who crowned thy brow.
But O, victorious state-unjust 
Perfidious false to freedom trust 
Thy feet are trampling now 
The men who crowed thy brow.
Before the judge of all the earth
Men hold an equal rank of birth,
An equal right of breath,
An equal dust of death,
O Freedom! open thou a grave,
Where every king, where every slave,
Shall cast his crown and chain,
Till only men remain!
Create thou then a Christian State,
Sublimely just, supremely great,
Where men shall set no ban
On any right of man!
Meanwhile, I lay thee on the ground,
O harp! nor smite thee to a sound,
For now no poet's stroke
Hath power to break a yoke.
But when the tardy earth hath rolled
Her kingdoms to the age of gold,
At last a poet’s song
Shall crumble down a wrong!
THEODORN TILTON

FORGIVENESS.
My heart was heavy for its trust had been
Abused, its kindness answered with foul wrong:
So, turning gloomily from my fellow-men,
One summer Sabbath day I strolled among
The green mounds of the village burial-place;
Where, pondering how all human love and hate
Find one sad level; and how, soon or late
Wronged and wrong-doer, each with weekend's face
And cold hands folded over a still heart,
Pass the greet threshold of our common grave,
Whither all footsteps tend, whence none depart,
Awed for myself, and pitying my case,
Our common sorrow, like a mighty ware,
Swept all my pride away, and trembling, I forgave!
JOHN G. WHITTIER.

NUTTING TIME.
BY FITE-JAMES O' BRIEN.
The nuts are ripe and the day is fine,
The purple hills in the sunlight shine,
And the brown nuts redden the trembling tops
Of each gnarled tree in the hazel copse.
The copse is filled with the happy noise
Of laughing girls and climbing boys,
And the beaten branches yield their fruit,
That heavily drops at each old tree’s root.
Under the brow of the copse-crowned hill,
Ethel and I sit silent and still,
And I hold in mine her soft white hand,
The smallest and without in the land.
Gather your fruits, ye lads, above,
And flag the nuts at the girls you love;
The only fruit that to me was dear,
I have gathered to-day in the white hand here.

THE HARVEST MOON.
The moon has turned to a silvery gold;
The shorn is swaying around the fold;
The lark is asleep b the plough at rest;
Day is hushed to the black night's breast.
Thatched like huts stand the slanting slaved
On the broad field strewn with the poppy leaves;
And the red clouds hang, with a wandering leaves
The wood and the meadow and the stream above
<c02>
The Liberator.
SUNDAY OR SABBATH.
The Sabbath questions it up again in Scotland. Mr. James Robertson, a member of the Presbyterian Free Church In Glasgow, was taken to task by his Kirk-Session for spending some of the hours of Sunday in his regular employment as printer or reporter to a daily newspaper it appears however, that the scused knew his rights, and dared he maintain them He not only made an intelligent and spicited defence of the conduct in the body before which the accusation was first brought, but, when the authorities there decided against him, carried the case by appeal to the Presbytery, and afterwards to the" Free Church Synod of Glasgow and Ayr," conducting his own defence so skilfully as to call forth the admiration of the daily press. The dignitaries of the Church attempted to overawe him. He was abused by Professor James Gibson for daring to" drag his Kirk Session before the Presbytery, and the Presbytery before the Synod"-as if the very act of defending himself against an unjust charge were an additional offence. The Glasgow Herald, commenting upon the intemperate censoriousness of this Reverend gentleman, reminds him that to break the Ninth Commandment is not the best way of vindicating the Fourth, and records the sincere conviction of its Editor that" in the worth which constitutes a man, and in the faith and humility which constitute a Christian, James Robertson is any day fully up to the measure of the stature of James Gibson."
This case, without doubt, will be carried by appeal to the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, and the discussion to which it gives rise will be certain to do good in one of two ways: it will either cause that Church to recede from the unchristian and unscriptural ground which it now holds, or it will make manifest to observers that its dogma of a Sunday Sabbath it unchristian and unscriptural, and thus diminish the prestige by which it now holds a portion of the community in bonds to superstition and error.
We judge that the time is ripe for this discussion in Scotland from an intimation in the Glasgow Herald that there are eminent brethren in the ministry of the Free Church who are opposed to the ultra Sabbatarian views of Dr. Calder wood and Professor Gibson, and whose ideas upon the proper use of Sunday are more accordant than theirs with the spirit of the Gospel and the civilization of the age. In fact, there appears in the same number of that paper a communication signed" A West Country Minister," ably stating the liberal side of the question. This article (which is given below) is well suited to enlighten the Sabbatarians of this country, who are now trying to enforce unconstitutional laws in regard to the first day of the week. It is time for our Sunday laws also to be tested, and carried up by appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States.-C. K. W.

WAS IT SYNOD OR SANHEDRIM?
To fie Editor of the Glasgow Herald:
SIR-As a clergyman of the Church of Scotland I have been reading with care the various turning and windings which this Sabbath controversy ha been taking for some time past. The matter grow worse and worse, and the discussion in the Free Kirk Synod is the most extravagant of all have yet seen I write because I feel ashamed to see Christian ministers manage one of the most delicate points in the Gospel with such consummate folly and recklessness The commonest prudence would have suggested to Church courts to get this case of Mr. Robertson's a spottily and quietly ended as possible. And even the matter were to by publicly discussed in court after court, why could it not have been managed free from personality and open-mouthed railing against one a the most useful and honorable institutions of the age It was a bad day for Sabbatarians when they entered on this present dispute, both in connection with the Free Synod case and in connection with the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway. And worst of all was it to the Free Kirk to take up arms as Kirk to take up arms us the champion of narrowness. I read Mr. Robertson's defence of himself with a mixture of admiration and amusement. In part, it is decidedly impudent, and bold, and sarcastic; but, doubtless, he knew that he had a strange gathering of him self with a mixture of admiration and amusement. In part, it is decidedly impudent, and bold, and sarcastic; but, doubtless, he knew that he had a at rang gathering of narrow, bigoted men, of great narrow, bigoted men, of great official dignity and belief in their own infallibility, to deal with. Had I known what was to be, I would certainly have gone to the Free Synod to scan the faces of the astonished lenders as they listened to sentiments that contained such an amount of real truth, but go under frenetically put.
In case any one, having read thus far, should be beginning to think that the writer of this is a clergyman of the" unsound" sort, I beg to undeceive him by a serious declaration of the views I hold on the subject in question. My first opinion is, that a weekly day of rest dates from the beginning of our race, and was of Divine appointment, and intended to continue obligatory on all men to the end of time. My second opinion is, that we have the example of the Apostles and early Christians for observing the first day of the week, instead of the seventh, as had been done by the Jews. My third opinion is, that we should leave the exact nature of the Fourth Commandment an open question. And my last opinion is, that we should avoid the snare to calling the day Sabbath at all-it is a snare in argument and In the association of ideas. It is Sunday, or the Lord's Day, with which we Christians have to do; and it is a hopeful sign of a better estimate of the blessed day, that the old Judicial name is being gradually expelled by the proper Christian name.
I will jot down a few things, by way of suggestion, to those who may be disposed to think over the points in dispute reasonably and charitably. In making up my own opinion of the Lord's Day, I have been greatly guided by a desire to ascertain correctly its general spirit and character. One of its first marks seems to me to be that it is a day of gladness and cheerfulness, as distinguished from gloom on the one hand and sport on the other. It is one of the most striking facts in the Gospel, that one of the very few faults found with our Lord by unfavourable contemporaries was his supposed Sabbath breaking. Again and again he was so accused. Let those who interpret the Fourth Commandment in the thunder and lightning style pause to adjust it to the practical-commentary of the life of Jesus.
Another point,-What is the number of ministers of the Christian Church who interpret the Lord's Day in this rigid style that is causing so much controversy at present? What is the scholarship of these men, as compared with that of others who give a more liberal interpretation of all the Scripture passages on the subject?. How long hare the narrow views been held? and are they chiefly confined to a limited piece of Christendom? I shall answer my own questions. Poor Scotland is almost alone in this cold mist on the subject, and our confinement to the cold mist does not date at all from the period of the Reformation. The chiefs of the Deformed Church knew nothing of the "Sawbutb" bondage and bugbear. It was the little men, two generations or three later than Knox, that official dignity and belief in their own infallibility, to deal with. Had I known what was to be, I would certainly have gone to the Free Synod to scan the faces of the astonished leaders as they listened to sentiments that contained such an amount of real truth, but so un deferentially put. In case any one, having read thus far, should be beginning to think that the writer of this is a clergy man of the" unsound" sort, I beg to and receive him by a serious declaration of the views I hold on the subject in question. My first opinion is, that a weekly day of n rest dates from the beginning of our race and was of Divine appointment, and intended to continue obligatory of all men to the end of time. My second opinion is, that we have the example of the Apostles and early Christians for observing the first day of the week, instead of the seventh, as had bee done by the Jews. My third opinion is, that we should leave the exact nature of the Fourth Commandment an open question. And my last opinion is, that w should avoid the snare of calling the day Subbath a all-it a snare in argument and In the association of ideas. It is Sunday, or to be Lord's Day, will which we Christians have to do; and it is a hopeful sign of a better estimate of the Messed day, that the old Judaical name k being gradually expelled by the proper Christian name.
I will jot down a few things, by way of suggestion to those who may be disposed to think over the point in dispute reasonably and charitably. In making up my own opinion of the Lord's Day, I have been greatly guided by a desire to ascertain correctly its general spirit and character. One of its first marks seem to me to be that it Is a day of gladness and cheerfulness, as distinguished from gloom of the band an sport on the other. It is one of the moat striking facts to the Gospel, that one of the vary few faults found with our Lord by unfavorable contemporaries was supposed Sabbath breaking. Again and again he was so accused. Let those who interpret the Fourth commandment in the thunder and lighting style pause to adjust it to the practical commentary of the lift of Jesus. 
Another point,-What is the number of minister of the Christian Church who interpret the Lords Day in this rigid style that la causing so much controversy at present! What is the scholarship of these men, a compared with that of others who give a more liberal interpretation of all the Scripture passages on the subject! How long have the narrow views been held! and are they chiefly confined to a limited piece of Christendom! I shall answer my own question poor Scotland is almost alone in this cold mist on the subject, and our confinement to the cold mist does not date at all from the period of the Reformation. The chiefs of the Reformed Church knew nothing of the "Sabbath" bondage and bugbeer. It was the little men, two generations or three later than Knex, that inaugurated the inaugurated the views put forth so oracular by modern fanatics and views put forth so oracolarty by modern fanatics and bigots. Now, it is a vast injury to the Gospel that the better educated clergymen of Scotland should not come forward to establish this, as it can be done to demonstration. I know that there are scores of ministers of my own acquaintance who are quite dissatisfied with the narrow views, but who seem a afraid to come forward and state and advocate what is more consonant to Scripture, reason, scholarship and modem advancement, lest they should beacquistance who are quite dissatisfied with the narrow views but who seem afraid to come forward and state and advocate what is more consent to scripture reason scholarship and unsound latitudes and above all disciples of that endless figure of blackballed as unsafe, unsound, latitudinarian, and, above all, disciples of that endless figure of" the thin end of the wedge." It is not in Scripture, but only In the Shorter Catechism, that there is anything like an approach to the Barrow interpretation of the Lord's Day. It there that the "enormity and mercy"
<c03>
clause is used to coerce the weak and ignorant. But is there any need for taking the Catechism in its most stringent sense? Why not give the passages I have indicated a quiet skip over? reading them, or even committing them to memory, bat not following them up with close interpretation or application, the understanding being that the authors of the Catechism had been carried over the true boundary line of the Gospel, and bad mode a little confusion with Judaism, owing to a set of views then beginning for the first time to revive since the early time when St. Paul had to contend with the primitive Jadeites. It is surely easy to do this in a Church which professedly goes to the Bible direct for every point of faith and practice.
 Altogether, it is a very bad attitude for even a sectarian portion of the ministers of Christ's Gospel to get into, to attempt to hinder the daily use of common printed intelligence. Why go peeping into the details of printing offices? Are not editors and printers, for the most part, Christian men, with consciences as active and responsible as those of ministers? Above all, what ground is there to refuse participation in Church ordinances to any man on paltry grounds, when there is so much to be said on the other side? The foundation of the Puritanical Sabbath in theory is, moreover, a thing impracticable and impossible. No human being can keep the Lord's Dsy even once in that high-flying style of public and private devotion and exclusive religious convocation which we hear of no often. There are no persons who so much injures the true Lord's Day of the New Testament as those who gather the bigots of the churches in our city halls to talk intolerance, and who stir up cases of discipline needless as this Robertson Ian one, and who concoct anathematizing pastoral addresses and make impertinent appearances in the managers' rooms of railway companies. Newspapers, in resisting and exposing, and even in ridiculing, such extravagant proceedings, are doing what ought also in part to be done by the reasonable and liberal among the clergy. I am, &c.,
A WEST COURT MINISTER.

WORK FOR WOMEN.
The admission of a Miss Garrett to practice in London as a druggist is exciting much comment in England. She went through the usual course, five years' apprenticeship, a preliminary examination in arts, and two professional examinations, each comprising five subjects. It is said of Miss Garrett that her examination was particularly brilliant, and that be Chairman of the Apothecaries" complimented her on her preparation, expressing a wish that all men were as well prepared.” Whether we are to regard this as the Chairman's appreciation of her sex or not, the compliment seem to be deserved, and we trust Miss Garrett will succeed in gaining a large practice, thus earning a living for herself, and, we venture to hope, a prospective husband and future family. A London journal remarks that toward this lady the" regular practitioners are understood to feel a great jealousy," "just as the Irish in New York do of Negro candidates for work; and be will be a bold man who first consents to meet Miss Garrett in consultation." There is about as much sense in the opposition of the Irish chambermaid toward the chambermaid from Virginia, as there is in this dislike of London male physicians toward women. According to all the authorities, this woman is proficient in the arts and sciences; she has passed through all the forms of study, and certainly knows as much about the functions of the body, the cause and course of disease, the nature of remedies and the surest way of preserving health, as the bigoted Sawbones who believe that medicine is among the fixed sciences, and that all attempts at innovation are empirical.
It is with medicine as with all sciences The older we grow, the more we know. The laws of nature are not mere instincts. We must delve and toll, and go down to the bottom of the sea, and search the bowels of the earth, if we would obtain the rarest treasures. So with the science of medicine. The relations between our wonderful compound of flesh and blood, and the vast universe wherein it finds a mysterious home, are only indistinctly known, and every year gives us some new thought. Why does this hand move over this smooth, pale sheet of paper, making every line and curve exactly, and conveying with precision and swiftness the thought that we deem appropriate for a million of readers? Cool, moist, without feeling, nerve and vein and sinew in sweet and useful harmony, what violated law of nature may make it burns and throb, or become cold and dead with paralysis And, if this bad and most undesirable fate should befall it, why not a tender, gentle woman come to it, and search out the cause of the pain, and, by her knowledge of the laws of science, bid the fever to be gone-and the veins beat once more with life and hope? Because Sawbones is a man, and carries a gold-headed cane, and looks wise. I and scrawls Latin hierogh phics on Email scraps of paper, and lectures dogmatically about the tallies of the" apathies" who are not of his" patchy," must I we say that all the world is false, and he alone Itollies of the pathies "who are not of" his "pathy," must we tiy that all the work! is false, and lie alone true-that all men and women are charlatans, and he alone the true minister of health and science? We can understand, perhaps, why an Allopathist may sneer at the disciple of Homaeopathy; or why the Electropathist may assure us that the Hydropathist is a humbug. Each of these classes has been taught in a peculiar school, and the mind trained in one way. But what "pathy” is it that prescribes that none but men shall know its mysteries and expound them to a suffering world for so many dollars per hour? The "pathies" have multiplical so wonderfully in the last few years that we have as many "apathies" as “isms,” and we may be killed or cured in as many ways as we may be saved or damned. Behold, a new one comes from London-and henceforward there are to be Maspeth and women apathy-the difference being simply that the Monopolist wear broadcloth after a certain shape, while the Womanpathists array themselves is the latest colors from Paris. The Manpathisis have power, and they use it in a narrow, vulgar, jealous way, to repress a small and struggling class.
As we showed recently in these columns, the a question of work for woman is a problem that becomes more and more important, for the tendency of all civilization of close settlements and overcrowding population, is to make the female sex largely in excess of the male. It so in New England and in the cities of our Atlantic civilization. Twenty years from now, it will be so in many to the Atlantic States. Accepting marriage as the duty of all men and women, we find that, after answering this duty, we have a large female surplus, who must either support themselves or be supported by others, in the relation of sister and daughter and mother, many may find support without the necessity of personal labor; and whenever a brother, father or son can give that support, the duty is theirs. But this does not meet that case of the large class data who have neither son, brother or father to support them-who must live, if their lives are lives of virtue, by labor. We see them here in New York-in New England-in most of the countries of Europe. There are fantastic theorists who urge is that polygamy is the true way to use up this surplus of women. Pious think advocate the monastic system, and think it would be to the glory of the Catholic Church and development of womanly virtues to put the surplus in cloisters. Our civilization we blush to say it, has thrown up a class more infamous even than the unnumbered wives to Turkish lords, and infinitely more profitless than the light of the cloister, Is there, no way of deciding this problem? Must we go on from century to century-growing richer, happier, wiser every day, advancing morally, socially, politically, improving the whole economy of life, and yet dragging with us a class whose daily life is infamy? This is the ulcer that makes our purest civilization offensive. Shall we toy with it, and write rhymes and witticisms, and find pleasant phrases to hide its shame, as they do in France? or shall we assume the functions of the God of vengeance, like England, and curse to irretrievable perdition all women who make merchantion out of their virtue? The French plan and the English plan alike have failed. Miss Garrett's ease will illustrate the reason Here is an accomplished woman, who after years of study and labor is pronounced competent to practice medicine. She may he poor with a sick mother or a bed-ridden father, or with orphaned brothers and sisters to educate and raise to respectability. She rules proposes to do it by studying and practicing medicine. The Manpathist object. There is no reason except the vulgar prejudice that too often accompanies and debased power. Practice medicine! No,
<c04>
go to a brothel, and fester in crime; or to a factory, and die from consumption; or work sixteen weary hours a day, sewing shirts at ten cents apiece. You may have intellect, scholarship, judgment; you know as much or more than we; you can check a fever, or stay consumption, or control the cholera, as effectually as any Sawbones in London-but it matters not. You are a woman-so hence to a brothel, or a factory, or a garret!
We trust there is manly sentiment enough in London to sustain Miss Garrett in her calling-and we would that many of the women in New York would follow her example, and enter the learned professions. We believe in throwing open the widest door to Woman. Let her not be forced to the choice of poverty or shame. Give her our opportunities, and she will as readily take care of herself. her family, her happiness and her fame.-N. Y. Tribune.

NEW ENGLAND HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
The annual meeting of this institution took place on Tuesday afternoon. Nov. 14th, at the Warren street Chapel. Mr. Geo. W. Bond was called to preside, and prayer was offered by the Rev. Jacob M. Manning.
The Secretary, Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney, read the annual report. It was stated, in order to correct prevalent misapprehensions, that the Hospital was not free, except in cases of absolute inability to pay. Many patients had been taken at four dollars per week. The wives of country clergymen had, in several cases, been received at a nominal sum, and an appeal was made to the country towns to contribute to so good an object. Of the $5000, which most be raised by contribution in order to receive a like sum voted by the Legislature, $3000 have been raised, and $2000 are wanted. There is also a debt for improvements of about $2000, which should be paid. The ladies of Roxbury were thanked for the proceeds of a fair, amounting to over $600. In October last, four new wards in the building on Pleasant street were opened and named after those devoted friends to the cause, Lee, Hurd, Parkman and May. Dr. I H. Bowditch had been appointed Consulting Physician. The report was accepted. 
By the report of the Treasurer. (Mr. F. W. G. May,) it appears that the receipts from all sources were $14,484 49, including a loan from Mr. May. The current expenditures amounted to the same. Debt on account of repairs and fitting up the new wards, &4234 07.
The following Board of Directors were chosen: Mr. George W. Bond, Mrs. Louisa C. Bond, Miss Sarah J. Beck, Miss Mary, Bartol. Mrs. Mary C. E. Barnard. Mrs. Mary G. Boardman, Mrs. Anna H. Clarke, Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney, Mrs. Lucretia G. French, Miss Lucy Goddard, Mrs. John Goldthwait, Mrs. Charles G. Loring, Mr. F. W. G. May, Mrs. Joanna L. Merriam. Mrs. Mary A. S. Palmer, Hon. Samuel E. Sewell, Mr. J. H Stephenson, Mr. James Tolman, Mrs. Lyman J. Whipple, Dr. M. E. Zaczrewska, Mrs. Henry W. Putnam.
Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, of New York, delivered an address upon the "Necessity of Culture for Women Physicians." The subject was enforced and illustrated by an estimate of its importance when compared with other pursuits. The physician has absolute control of life and death oftentimes. Hence the need of honesty, high moral integrity and thorough education. The profession of medicine was thrown open to women in this country without hindrance, a fact not existing elsewhere. It was, therefore, of importance for the world's sake, and for the elevation of women, that this trust be not abused. Dr. Blackwell's address occupied about one hour, and was well worthy of the occasion and subject.
Dr. Zaczrewska, resident physician at the hospital, made a very interesting report, mostly connected with the hospital practice, and gave some details of the good it had accomplished. Her remarks were received with applause.
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, by request, read two little poems, entitled "Endeavor," and "A Parable."
Remarks were made by Mr. J. H. Stephenson, Mr. Barnard and others, after which the meeting adjourned.-Journal.

"WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH HER?"
[From the Christian Inquirer.]
A very interesting article appears in the November number of the Atlantic, said to be by Mrs. Stowe, on "the Woman Question, or, what will you do with her?" Very ably and clearly it sets forth the difficulties of householders in securing sufficient and adequate help in the work of the household; and very fully expresses the almost universal wonder that young American women, with their intelligence and handiness, prefer almost any occupation to the comforts and pay of domestic service. 
But do those numerous housekeepers, who, like Mrs. Stowe, look upon the unwillingness of American women to enter the kitchens of their neighbors in domestic service as a mystery, ever ask themselves, Why not buy this service, and pay enough to attract to it? A young woman who will not work at two dollars a week, might be tempted by five. It is evident that the service is worth more than is offered for it. The employer, in this instance, is not competent to say, "The price shall be so much, no more." The fact that the relationship is sustained by one class of persons at a certain rate, is no proof that the service is not worth more to another class. It takes two to make a bargain; and the other party to the bargain cannot be induced to accede to the terms proposed. A man might hire a housekeeper, and pay her wages; but he cannot get a wife for wages. Wives are worth more. American girls can't be had for domestics on certain terms. Try double, or triple. Try, until you pay enough.
If it should be thought by any housekeeper that she cannot afford to pay for social standing, intelligence, and ambition, more than she pay for the humbler ignorance, it is to be replied. The question then comes to this, how will she distribute her expenses among the various objects which she needs? She can buy intelligent and capable labor, if she will save on bonnets, camel's hair shawls, charlotte-russe, Wilton carpets, on her carriage and horses, on evening parties and summer journeys. She can set off luxury against luxury, and choose which she will have and which forego. Or she can set off luxuries against conveniences, and pleasures against duties. The outcry against American girls, for their unwillingness to serve in families, is unjustifiable, when people prefer expensive follies to their service and companionship.
But one or two expressions in Mrs. Stowe's article deserve no little reprehension. She proposes that it is a wicked and unchristian pride in American girls, that they refuse the admirable places offered them in domestic service; and urges the sublime humility of those who, like their Master, are content to serve. Her language would have some appropriateness, if she herself were occupying the station of a servant. Is it less than an insult, now, when it means, "I do not serve, I rule; come and serve me and mine, as a good Christian ought to do?" The language reminds one of the strong persuasions awhile since, to induce fugitive slaves to return to their masters-" Do now! to save the Union; you ought; you are a colored man; you ought as a Christian to return to your master." The best reply to which was made by an escaped slave: "The place is vacant, if any gentleman would like it." And the fugitive might have gone a little further, and said," If Christianity makes it somebody's duty to be a slave, in order to save the Union, and I do not want to go, then would it not be just for the commissioner, or the preacher, or other advocate of slavery to take his turn, and let me be relieved a little while?" Does Mrs. Stowe believe in "service," except when, for the convenience of her own class, she would persuade other people to serve?
But with all her philanthropy, her tenderness of heart and insight, Mrs. Stowe has not descended to the depth of the question, between the employed and employer in the same household. There is a difference wider than can be named, between service in the house, by one hired to stay in it, and service that concludes with the working-hours of the day, and allows or requires the laborer to go elsewhere for home and bed. The latter portion is far more independent, and well deserves most painful sacrifices to secure it. In the former position, the occupant loses her family name. She loses her title of Miss or Mrs. She is obliged to call others by terms of respect, which she must not have herself. The youngest child of the family is "Mr. John" or "Miss Mary;" she is only "Mary" to the oldest or youngest. Her whole time is sold. And not only that she has become a personal attaché. She is Mrs. Smith's girl or Mrs. Brown's. She does not work for them, she is theirs; so recognized in the commu-
<c05>
nity. Instead of being a whole person, she is only a part of somebody else; or a part of somebody's household, subordinate, subservient, to be commanded, to be ordered about; what rights has she reserved to herself? what rights is she certainly considered as possessing? What is her equality, the nature, or be degree of it? No, we doubt if it a not far better that she should seek the position of type-setter, book-binder, factory-operative, or any labor that makes the person an individual, that gives her a home, even the most miserable, so it be her home, that gives her the enjoyment of her own name, and saves her from the indignity of being Mrs. Smith's girl, or Mrs. Smith's servant, or Mrs. Smith's anything.
Just one thing is wanted in the domestic service, to make it attractive. It must be service no longer. It must be a home offered. The name servant must be disused. It is an exceedingly offensive one. The fundamental principle of equality must be guaranteed. The girl may not sit at the table with the family; let that demand go; it will settle itself in due season, if right principles are adopted. Equality means respect, equal respect. A family is bound by mutual respect, mutual love. The domestic must be a member of the family. You would like American domestics? Will you teach them" to know their place?" You cannot have them. You do not deserve to have them. You never can have American domestics until you can respect your hired help with that respect which is due to woman, until you can take that interest in them and bestow upon them that love which the human heart requires. Wages can never pay for service from the heart. No amount of money can ever pay for a kindness. We shall have American domestics when it is felt that our conduct toward our domestics, our personal regard for them, and our undying interest in them, make our home so attractive that people of humble circumstances want to come to share the happiness we diffuse, to receive the good which our hearts bestow, "I have called you friends," must be the motto over the kitchen-door.
There is among our American people a sad and shocking state of sentiment in regard to so-called servants. The sentiment of the slaveholder lives not at the South alone. When we see coachmen in livery, though it be but the buttons of the coat or the buckle on the hat, we see evidences of that love of authority over man, that desire to have inferiors, and to "keep people in their places," which culminated in our great war; that spirit which denies American ideas, democratic ideas, Christian ideas; the spirit of the tyrant and the spirit of the slave. 
"What shall we do with her?" as Mrs. Stowe asks, is a very important question. It is much more important to ask, how comes it that this question is left to us to solve, and not submitted to her? Give her wages, respect, interest and love; we shall then have no authority to ask the question, and no need to consider it. She will answer it herself.
TROY, N. Y. E. B.
REV. OLYMPIA BROWN. More than a year since, a female preacher. Rev. Olympia Brown, was installed pastor of the Universalist Society at Weymouth Landing. The novelty was calculated to create a temporary interest wholly independent of the merits of the preacher. Everybody must go at least once to see so strange a thing as a woman in the pulpit. But the novelty has worn away, and whatever prosperity now appears in the Waymouth Society ought, in common fairness, to be set down as genuine, and, therefore, as having all the elements of durability. It therefore gives us sincere pleasure to record a very successful ministry since the installation. If all the ministers of the stronger sex had half the zeal and industry of Rev. Olympia Brown, the results would be apparent in prospering parishes. During the long probation of more than a year, she has honestly earned a right to this honorable mention of her labors.-Universalist.

ME. NASEBY DREAMS A DREAM.
SAINTS REST (which is in the State uv Noo Jersey,) July 12, 1865,
Dreams is becoming the most commonest recreation I hev. I don't know whether these dreams is the spirit of prophesy, sugar-coated with sleep, or whether they are superimpose by the reglar three quarters uv a pound uv tripe I eat at about 11 1-2 P. M., but dreams I hev.
Last knight I deemed that I had bridge time, and wuz set ahead about nine months, which time brings forth events in pollytick ez well ez in other things, to tecjus to menshun.
Methot the south bed bin consillyatid and reconstructid, and hid cum back into the sisterhood uv States, ez sisters generally cum back alter a quarrel. South Carline wuz represented in the house by General Swisher, and all the Rests, et satyr, and Misapply by a dozen or 2 Kernels and Generals, for that State sent none to Congress caption its heroes. Goffstown Davis wuz a radiate, but haven sad in his zees for repudiation, that he was for repudiation all debts, his constituency wuz afraid that be mite include the Confederate war debt, so they deleted him, and elected General Me Go gum, who held that the Federal war debt: wuz unconstitutional, and must be repudiated, while the Confederacy's ought to be paid ez a consolatory measure. The genuine Democracy of the North had elected enough members to give the South controls uv Congress. 
In my deem I wuz seat id in the Gallery uv the House. A member from New York wuz intercoms-in a bill appropriating a sum uv money for the purpose uv erect in a monument to the memory uv the. Union soldiers who fell at Gettysburg. No sooner bed the fanatic read the title uv the bill, than Generals Me Go gum and Swisher, and Col. Palter, uv Georgic, walked over to his sect, and with their canes beet him over the had, twenty or fifteen urinates. He wuz carried out for deed.
Ginral McGougum claimed the floor.
"Mr. Speaker," said he, "I'm billion! Indignations is a heaving and toss in my shavers sole in a most tremens justly too mulches stile.
I am, Mr. Speeker, a citizens uv this gellorus Republic. I stand here, 2 day, reconstructed and consilyated-a loyal man. I hev took the oath, and sense hev violated no rool or custom uv this House I her drawd my pay promptly-I hev even wented so fur in the sperit ov fergivenis and Christian charity, ez to take that pay in greenbax, instid of demandin gold, notwithstandin every wun uv um bears the portrait uv that fiendish apc, that thirster alter gore, that destroyer uv habis corpusis and constooshnel rites, our late lamented President. After main these sacrifices, shell I set hear calmly and allow a nigger-stealing Yankee to insult the South with allusions to Gettysburg, and such? Never! She a New York massege nasbunist in this ere hall perpose 2 appropriate the treasure uv our common country to commemorate a field on which my const itooency was walloped, without rebuke? Never! He has bin rebuked-let him heed the warnin."
Several Ablisun members riz, but the Dimoceisy wuz firm, and woo dent let em speak. The Southern members wuz a going to withdraw in a body, when Fernandy Wood roze and propozed a compromize ez follows:
"That harmony and good feelin shood prevale, hentz4th and forever. The word 'War' shall never be yoked in these halls, that whenever referred to it shel be termed 'misunderstandins,'
That the flags, cannon and such like trophies found by the Federal army in various parts of the Southern States be to wunst destroyed.
That penshuns be payed to the misunderstandists from both sekshuns, for services rendered the Guvernment".
Senator Collamer, of Vermont, died on the 9th, at Woodstock, at the age of 73. He was a native of Troy, N. Y. but went to Burlington, Vt., in early childhood. He graduated at eighteen, and made a campaign daring the last war with England. He began practice as a lawyer at twenty-one, and served frequently in the State Legislature; was a Justice of Vermont's Supreme Court from 1833 to 1841; a Representative in Congress from 1848 to 1849; Postmaster-General in 1849-50; Justice of the Supreme Court of Vermont a second time. till 1854: and U. S. Senator from 1855 to his death. He was very prominent as Senator, and his prominence followed from his talents and honesty, and his strict attention to his duties. Vermont has sent many good and able men to the national legislature, but not one of their number was superior to Jacob Collamer. George W. Collamer, the Senator's brother, died last week, at Montpeller, and it is singulur that these deaths should have occurred almost simultaneously.
A SILLY RUMOR. The silly rumor that Count Montholon, the French Minister, had demanded his passport, has caused that gentleman so much annoyance that he has taken occasion to formally deny that there is or ever has been anything unpleasant in his relations with the Government.
<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age.
MORRILL'S 
PETROLEUM STOVE
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American
Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL,
WOOD, OR GAS
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any knows method; and is its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No. 36 Broomfield St., Boston, Mass.
Parking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown curst, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are "done to a turn."
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language,
"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler, "which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted. although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the <illegible> of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in iron heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeable of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economys and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to <illegible> requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night.-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves. If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent "Erovapor stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our <illegible> have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very voluble improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general one, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, l865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the Eruvapor Cooking. Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far supirior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does out fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nov. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON,. May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORBILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirable all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter. Pastor of the Methodists E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, Mass., May 20, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement;-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your "single burners," and find that for the common purpose of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. in point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans namely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of paltry, steaming broiling, and toasting, I do not he state to say that I never have seen its equal. I wanted to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the "doubles burner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio.
T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Confrontational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
O. F. MORRILL:
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfactive.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly your, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have. during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, much as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cock steak, while a person would be building a fir in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have sever fouled the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it is baking biscuit. bread, or pres. Yours, truly, V. H. HENES.
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the there mounted at freezing point, (32 degrees.) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S.A. BATTISON.
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H
WM. LLOYD GARRISON. Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Canning Street, Boston.
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage,-a good store, situated in the center of the Boston trade, and a extensive acquaintance with manufacturers.-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grewer than this. It is the headquarters for New-Bag land manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent, per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received is store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and <Illegible>. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall also to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to said the market. Letter, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box 1861.
References;
Messrs. HALLOWRLL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. Davis, FRS a & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.
THE RADICAL:
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS
CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S.H. MORSH. BOSTON.
