THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum is in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID,)to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Finance Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCES JACKSON, EDWARD QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON. Printers.
VOL. XXIX.NO .52. BOSTON,FRIDAY,DECEMBER 30,1859.WHOLE NUMBER,1513.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
REV.DER.DEWEY ON JOHN BROWN.
Rev. Dr. Dewey, pastor of the summer street church Boston, delivered a discourse on the text: 'He shall not strive nor cry: a browed reed shall be not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench;' and, in the course of his sermon, remarked upon John Brown and his sympathizers as follows:
'A grave question has been presented to us during the past week, which must be brought to the same let and tribunal of Christian law-the highest law we know. A band of men went down from the north, by force and aims to carry of a body of slaves from the state of Virginia. They were apprehended and tried, and their leader has been executed. A public expression of our sympathy for him is demanded by some of our fellow-citizens, and some even of our clergy, at the North. I say a public expression; and such an expression of sympathy with his enterprise. Whatever private reserves any may make in their own minds, it cannot, in the circumstances, mean any thing else. Certainly, it can mean nothing else to the people of the South.
There is many a man, every year, who suffers the death penalty; there are families whom every public execution involves in great distress. It is not for John Brown as victim of the law that our pity is invoked, and our help for his family; but for him as a man attempted to produce a slave insurrection in Virginia-for the attempt to carry off hundreds  of salves, and the collecting of arms to put into their hands, can bear no other construction. It was not the secret carrying off a few slaves that was proposed, but it was a bloody fight-and armed slaves to take part in it.
Now give me a moment's candid hearing, if I speak to any that differ from me in regard to what this case demands of us. I agree with you in much; and let the system of Slavery be ever so wrong-ever so much at variance with all natural justice-I agree with you that it is wrong. I agree with you that it is a most fearful and threatening calamity to this country And I trust and believe with you, that in some way there is to be deliverance from it. But is this the way-by stirring up and arming the slaves against their masters? Do you know what a slave insurrection is ?-to carry fire and slaughter, rapine and murder, horrors worse, if possible, than those of the story rebellion, all over the South country? If you do, consider it, and if you deliberately say that you desire to see a slave insurrection, then you may consistently gather meetings in the North to express sympathy with John Brown. If you do not, then surely every public, patriotic, brotherly, humane and Christian consideration forbids it to be done.
But may not one sympathize with John Brown-honor him in that he periled his life for his convictions call him a hero and a saint-express sorrow far his fate, and feel and say that the gallows should never have been the doom of such a man, without approving of his actions? I answer, not, in the present circumstances, by public meetings. I must confess, indeed, that I do not very well understand this separation of the actor from the act; but what private thoughts of the matter a man may have. I do not now consider. This is what I say-that to call public meetings to express sympathy for him, under the present circumstances, is to hold up a placard to the south, and to all the world, that says, 'We approve of his undertaking. 'And every public meeting so held takes the responsibility of producing another John Brown.
Are we prepared for this? This very enterprise, with the wide agitation it has aroused,-I will not say is likely, but it is liable to bring down other assailants of the same character upon the South. Do we wish to see other John Browns going down to the South for such a purpose? But I know not what could afford greater encouragement to them than these public meetings
No, we must distinguish here, and most say, that, however much we may dislike the system of slavery, we should look with inexpressible horror upon a salve insurrection, and upon any man who would open the door to such ineffable miseries. This must be the prevailing sentiment of the North, and it should be uttered in unmistakable tones, by the press, in the pulpit, and, if necessary, in public meetings convened for the purpose.'
[It is not at all surprising, but perfectly natural that the clerical trimmer who has avowed his willingness to send his mother or brother into slavery, to preserve the Union, should take this view of the affair at Harper's Ferry.]-Ed Lib.

BOSTON DEMOCRACY IN LEAGUE WITH VIRGINIA MAN-STEALING.
Gov. WISE, or VIRGINIA, AND THE JACKSON DEMOCRATIC CLUB,NO.1,OF BOSTON. The following is a copy of the resolution, unanimously adopted by the 'Jackson Democratic Club, No.1, of Boston,' on the evening of the 3d inst:-
Resolved, That we, members of the Jackson Democratic Club, No. 1, of Boston, is common with all Democrats throughout the country, view with unmixed and undisguised as satisfaction the prompt, sagacious, vigorous and patriotic conduct of Gov. Wise, of Virginia, in bringing to well-merited punishment that arch conspirator against the laws of the Old Dominion and of the United states, John Brown.
A Committee being appointed to forward a copy of the above to Gov. Wise , the following response was elicited from him, and read  at the meeting of the club on Thursday evening:-
RICHMOND, Va., Dec. 10, 1859.
GENTLEMEN - I have received, with cordial satisfaction, the resolution of the 'Jackson Democratic Club, No.1, of Boston.
'Virginia sent her noblest son, and not one alone, to bleed by the side of Warren, on Boston heights. We have not another Washington to send, in times to try men's souls; But the Washington and his neighbors who were lately takes out of their beds to be imprisoned and held in hostage by a marauding party of border ruffians, in the county of Jefferson in the Commonwealth of Virginia, would have freely left their beds, and volunteered again to go to Boston, and fight by your sides against any common fee of the common country. Why were they thus assailed in their house-castles? By Whom? In Webster's language I ask. 'Shall your children be aliens to my children?' Shall my children be aliens to your children? Heaven forbid that the countrymen of George Washington and John Hancock shall ever be aliens to each other! Yet that must be, if the prompters of John Browns are not put down in Massachusetts.
We rely on the Democratic Clubs to do it, and save the United States. May your struggle for us, and with us, be as of old, we be united forever! 
Present me gratefully to your club, and believe me, yours, truly,
HENRY A WISE.
To SAMUEL R. GLEN and others,
Committee of Jackson Club, Boston
<c02>
From the Richmond (Va.) Enquirer, Nov.16.
A <illegible> TRAITOR IN OUR MIDST-PASS HIM ROUND
Our attention has just been called to a copy of
the Clarke journal,(a weekly sheet, published at Berryville, Clarke county, Va.,) bearing date the 11th inst. This journal is professedly Democratic in polities, and now keeps the following ticket at the head of its leading columns:-
For President-R. M. T. HUNTER, of Va.
For Vice-President-D.S. DICKINSON, of N.Y.
Under color of this show of conservatism, the editor of the paper, Alexander Parkins by name, publishes as an  advertisement the full prospectus of the  New York Tribune, occupying an entire column, and for which, doubtless, Mr. Parkins receives a considerable moneyed compensation. That our readers  may properly appreciate the nature of the inflammatory article thus paid for and published within a few miles of Harper's Ferry, we reproduce the following sample of Greeley's prospectus:-
'The irrepressible conflict ' between Darkness and Light, Inertia and Progress, Slavery and Freedom, moves steadily onward. Isolated acts of folly and madness may for the moment give a seeming advantage to Wrong; but God still reigns, and the Ages are true to Humanity and Right. The year 1860 must witness a memorable conflict between these irreconcilable antagonists. The question, 'Shall Human Slavery be further strengthened and diffused by the power and under the flag of the Federal Union?' is now to receive a momentous, if not a conclusive answer. Land for the Landless versus Negroes for the Negroless, 'is the battle-cry of the embodied millions, who, having just swept Pennsylvania, Ohio and the North-West, appear in the new Congress, backed by nearly every free State, to demand a recognition of every man's right to cultivate and improve a modicum of the earth's surface wherever he has not been anticipated by the State's cession to another. Free Homes, and the consecration of the virgin soil of the Territories to Free Labor-two requirements, but one policy must largely absorb the attention of one Congress through the ensuing season, as of the People in the succeeding Presidential canvass; and, whatever the immediate issue. we cannot doubt that the ultimate verdict will be in accord at once with the dictate of impartial Philanthropy and the inalienable rights of man.' 
We merely suggest to the good people of Jefferson and Clarke counties that the squad of Yankee pedlers lately ordered away from their borders are emissaries of a much leas dangerous description than that to which Mr. Alexander Parkins belongs. A hired disseminator of abolition treason is the very man of all others to tamper with slaves, to run them off, or, it he had the courage to do so, to lead the van of servile insurrection. Whether Mr. Parkins has not already laid himself liable to fine and imprisonment in the county jail for his complicity with Horace Greeley's incendiary efforts, is a question which we recommend to the careful consideration of the prosecuting attorney of Clarke county. Bat there can be no doubt whatever that the people of Clarke and the surrounding counties owe it to their own safety to suppress this incendiary sheet. A respectful request to Mr. Parkins to leave the community, signed by all his subscribers, would perhaps prove efficacious; but don't lynch him. The friends and supporters of Messrs. Hunter and Dickinson, should especially attend to this matter. The impudence with which Parkins attempts to shelter his treason behind the names of these worthy gentlemen deserves especial reprobation.

THE UNION IN PHILADELPHIA.
On Wednesday evening, 13th inst. some twenty thousand assembled in Jayne's Hall and on Chestnut street, to reassert their devotion to the Union of the States. Joseph R. Ingersoll presided, the Vice Presidents numbered seventy-five, the Secretaries thirty-three.
Speeches in the spread-eagle style were delivered by the President. Judge King, Henry M. Fuller, Josiah Randall, Isaac Hazlehurst, Robert Tyler, B 
H. Brewster, Charles J. Ingersoll, Col. Page, Eli k. Price, and Richard Vaux. Mr. Randall wont beyond the bounds of propriety in inviting mob law.
'These Abolitionists, though small in number, are active and untiring in their treasonable efforts, and they have recently, under the protection of the armed municipal police, met together and promulgated  the most abominable opinions and sentiments. It is much to be regretted that the Chief Magistrate of our city did not take efficient measures to suppress such meetings, and prevent what must be the inevitable result, if they should be continued-an open violation of the peace and quiet of our city.(Cheers and applause.)
The South should understand our position. The people at large have no power to prevent such emissaries Wendell Phillips and Giddings coming here, and delivering abolition lectures-they have no power to prevent the Rev. Mr. Farness and Mrs. Lucretia Mott from disseminating their sceptical, disunion doctrines; but they have no part not lot with them.'
Mr. Brewster want the whole figure:
‘For my part, I have no scruples upon this subject of domestic slavery. Any man who will think for a minute will smile at the exaggerated opinions in this country, it has been and still is where it most exists, a necessity. For how, without such help, could the early settlers have subdued this vast wilderness, and cleared the way fur the free white man? It is now a social necessity, for bow can the Southern men, if they wished it, rid themselves of this race of needy and thriftless people? It would be a pitiless act of wanton barbarity to cast them loose upon their own resources, and it would be a wild act of self-slaughter for the whites to liberate them. It is a commercial necessity, for by their labor do we produce oar great staple cotton, with which we command the markets of the world, and by which alone we have maintained peace with other nations, and hindered their rulers iron inflicting upon us those injuries that would have retarded our growth and suppressed our national greatness.'
Col. Page did the ferocious:
Col. Page was received with 'three cheers and a tiger. 'His object in coming was to identify himself with those opposed to the black flag of Abolitionism (Cheers.) He was prepared to do everything to sustain the stars and the stripes, and to oppose all who dared to oppose it.(Cheers.) The enemy of civil and religious liberty, in the guise of Abolitionism, has been stalking abroad in this country.  He and they were here to express their opposition to any such sedition, let it cause from the platform, the pulpit, or the legislative halls.(Cheers.) He had no sympathy for John Brown or his traitors.(Cheers.)He would bang them as high as Haman. (Cheers.) The only mistake Virginia had made was in not shooting the traitors on the spot.
Another meeting was held outside the Hall, at which <illegible>
<c03>
UNION-SAVING MEETING IN NEW YORK. 
<ILLEGIBLE>
The following letter, from Ex-President Fillmore, was sent to the recent Union-wiring meeting at New York-a meeting characterized by every element of commercial selfishness, profligate demagoguism, un-blushing pro-slavery, and promiscuous rascality; and though a portion of it will prove very distasteful to the South, yet, as a whole, its appropriate place is in
the 'Refuge of Oppression.'
BUFFALO, Dec. 16, 1859. 
Gentlemen: Your letter of the 13th reached me yesterday, enclosing a call for a public meeting in New York City, headed 
'The North and the South-justice and Fraternity, 'and inviting me to be present on the occasion. As no time is specified, I hasten to respond by saying  that the objects of the meeting have my most hearty approval, but I have long since withdrawn from any participation in politics, beyond that of giving my vote for those whom I deem the best and safest his  men to govern the country; and I have uniformly, tab  since I was at the head or the government, declined all invitations to attend political meetings; yet, in view of the present stormy aspect and threatening  tendency of public events, did I feel that my presence  at your meeting could, in the least, tend to allay the growing jealousy between the North and the South, I should, at some personal inconvenience, accept your invitation; and cordially join you in admonishing the country, North and South, to mutual forbearance towards each other; and to cease  crimination and re-crimination on both sides, and endeavor to restore again the fraternal feeling and  confidence which has made us a great and happy people.
But it seems tome that if my opinions are of any importance to my countrymen, they now have them in a much more responsible and satisfactory form than I could give them by participating in the proceedings of any meeting. My sentiments on this unfortunate question of slavery and the constitutional rights of the South in regard to it, have not on changed since they were made manifest to the whole country by the performance of a painful official duty in approving and enforcing the fugitive slave law. What the Constitution gives, I would concede at every sacrifice. I would not seek to enjoy its benefits without sharing its burthens and its responsibilities I know of no other rule of political right or expediency. Those ware my sentiments then-they are my sentiments now. I stand by the Constitution of my country at every hazard, and am prepared to maintain it at every sacrifice.
Here I might stop; but since I have yielded to the impulse to write, I will not hesitate to press, very briefly, my views on one or two events which have occurred since I retired from office, and which in all probability have given rise to your meeting. This I cannot do intelligibly, without a brief reference to some events which occurred during my administration.
All must remember that in 1849 and '50, the country was severely agitated on this disturbing question of Slavery. That contest grew out of the acquisition of new territory from Mexico, and a contest between the North and the South as to whether slavery should be tolerated in any part of that territory. Mixed up with this, was a claim on the part of the slaveholding States that the provision of the Constitution for the rendition of fugitives from service should be made available, as the law of 1793 on that subject, which depended chiefly on State officers for its execution, had become inoperative, because State officers ware not obliged to perform that duty.
After a severe straggle, which threatened the integrity of the Union, Congress finally passed laws settling these questions; and the government and the people for a time seemed to acquiesce in that compromise  as a final settlement of this exciting question; and it is exceedingly to be regretted that mistaken ambition or the hope of promoting a party triumph should have tempted any one to raise this  question again But in an evil hour, this Pandora's box of Slavery was again opened by what I conceive to be an unjustifiable attempt to force slavery into Kansas by a repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the flood of evils now swelling and threatening to overthrow the Constitution, and sweep away the foundation of the Government itself, and deluge this land with fraternal blood, may all be traced to this unfortunate act. Whatever might have been the motive, few acts have ever been so barren of good, and so fruitful of evil. The contest has exasperated the public mind, North and South, and engendered feelings of distrust, and I may say, hate, that I fear it will take years to wear away. The lamentable tragedy at Harper's Ferry is clearly traceable to this unfortunate controversy about Slavery in Kansas; and while the chief actor in this criminal invasion has exhibited some traits of character that challenge our admiration, yet his fanatical seal seems to have blinded his moral perceptions, and hurried him into an unlawful attack upon the lives of a peaceful and unoffending community in a sister State, with the evident intention of raising a servile insurrection, which no one can contemplate without horror; and few. I believe very few, can be found so indifferent to the consequences of his acts, or so blinded by fanatical seal, as not to believe that he justly suffered the penalty of the law which he had violated. I cannot but hope that the fate of John Brown and his associates will deter all others from any unlawful attempt to interfere in the domestic affairs of a sister State. But this tragedy has now closed, and Virginia has vindicated the supremacy of her laws, and shown that she is quite competent to manage her own affairs and protect her own rights. And, thanks to an overruling Providence, this question about slavery in Kansas is now also settled, and settled in favor of freedom. The North has triumphed, and having triumphed, let her, by her magnanimity and generosity to her Southern brethren, show that the contest on their part was one of principle, and not of personal hatred, or the low ambition of a sectional triumph.
Finally, if I had the power to speak, and there were any disposed to listen to my counsel. I would say to my brethren of the South-Be not alarmed for there are few, very few, at the North, who would justify in any manner an attack upon the institutions of the South which are guarantied by the Constitution. We are all Anti-Slavery in sentiment, but we know that we have nothing to do with it in several States, and we do not intend to interfere with it. And I would say to my brethren of the North, respect the rights of the South; assure them by your acts that you regard them as friends and brethren. And I would conjure all, in the name of all that is sacred, to let this agitation cease with the causes which have produced it. Let harmony be restored between the north and the south, and 1st every patriot rally around our national flag, and swear upon the altar of his country to sustain and defend it. I am, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,
MILLARD FILLMORE.
Messrs. Samuel L. M. Barlow, Wilson G. Hunt, and James Brooks, Committee, Inc.
<c04>
SELECTIONS
DASTARDLY OUTRAGES UPON NORTHERN <ILLEGIBLE>AT THE SOUTH.
Correspondence of New York Evening Post.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Nov. 28.
Slavery has taken another advancing step, and this time it its free speech which has been stricken down in the capital of the country. I allude to the case 6f Dr. Breed, referred to in my last letter. The main facts, agreed to by all parties, are as follows: A gentleman who has lived in peace and respectability in Washington for the last seven years who has had high office under successive administrations a Quaker calls upon a neighbor upon business. He there meets a stranger, and is introduced to him, The two gentlemen talk of John Brown get excited both say extravagant things-get cool afterward -make up-shake hands, and part. The next day one of the parties is arrested for the expression of his sentiments respecting slavery, and he is forced to take his choice of a prison, or give $2000 bonds to keep the peace for a twelvemonth! No man swore that he was afraid Dr. Breed would attack him; not only that, but the man (one Dr. Camp) who instigated the arrest of Dr. Breed, himself threatened the life of Dr. Breed if he dared to utter certain sentiments respecting slavery.
Your correspondent attended the trial before Justice Down, and is forced to say that it was a farce from beginning to end. The two witnesses covered each other's tracks in their testimony; one of them swore positively that he did not believe either of the gentlemen (Van Camp and Breed) knew what they said-that they were much excited-and that he did not suppose Dr. Breed meant what it is alleged he said. It was evident to everybody present that it was simply an angry private discussion between two persons who call themselves gentlemen. Dr. Breed utterly denied, before Justice Down, the utterance of the sentiments imputed to him; and none of his friends here, who know him to be a Non-Resistant on principle, (or a moment credited the statement of Van Camp. Justice Down seemed to have no idea of law or justice, for he bound Dr. Breed to keep the peace in the sum of $3000, on the ground that, if he had uttered his sentiments before slaves, or a white audience, it would have endangered the peace of the community! What an insolent defiance of all law and justice!
In the court-room, a gang of ruffians was gathered and threats were openly and loudly made to take the life of Dr. Breed on the spot. One man cried out in open court: 'Let's hang him up when he goes out!' and no man reprimanded the scoundrel for his offence. The star very candidly admits that if the police had not been present in strong numbers, Dr. Breed would have been in danger. This affair did not occur in Virginia or Naples, but in the capital of the United States! Henceforth, Washington is to be set down an a spot where freedom of speech is not allowed. Any member of Congress may be thrown into prison by this so-called Justice Down, for words uttered in private conversation,  and left then till be will give bonds.
Brooks was fined three hundred dollars for making  a murderous assault upon a United States Senator in his Senatorial seat; while a Northern man is held to bail in the sum of two thousand dollars, and but for the presence of a friend, would have gone to jail, upon a charge of using 'seditious language. 'He might have blasphemed God, or threatened to dissolve the Union, with impunity; to speak against Slavery is the unpardonable sin.
Speaking of this affair, the Boston Traveller remarks:-
'The arrest of Dr. Breed, because he exercised the undoubted right of every man to utter his thoughts, is a scandal and a disgrace, and if he shall be punished for thus speaking, Congress ought to punish Washington for its villanous because it is the seat of Government, having no other means of support, and would sink back into its native slime were Government to withdraw its countenance from it; and it should be taught its place, and be made to know it cannot indulge in petty tyranny without being removed to a 'magnificent distance' from the national treasury, the only god it worships .We shall get, ere long, to be as badly off as were the Germans, when, as Henrich Heine said, a man could not send a notice to a public journal that his wife had given birth to a child 'beautiful as liberty,' without having the censor forbid its appearance.'
First be sure of public opinion before you express your own in a free country. Because he did not keep this sound maxim in mind, Mr. T. A. Salvo has had his head shaved gratis on one side, been treated to a coat of tar and feathers, ridden on a rail, and compelled to listen to a lecture. All this happened at Hamburg-not in Germany, for they are not enlightened there, but in-South Carolina. Mr. Salvo's offence was his expression of the opinion that slavery was not a good thing. Strong as were the arguments made use of to convince him of his error, we doubt if his sentiments have undergone any change. what a terrible cry there would be if  Palmetto man should be tarred and feathered in Massachusetts for saying slavery is a good thing! Yet the deed would be in no respect different from what has just been done in S0outh Carolina, because a man said he thought slavery was not a good thing. Traveller. 
MORE MOB SPIRIT.-On Friday evening of last week, the editor of the Peninsular news, a most excellent Anti-Slavery paper, published at Milford, Delaware, received an intimation that a mob of violent men were making arrangements to attack his office, and destroy the press and type. The matter having leaked out, several substantial citizens of Milford repaired to the office, and volunteered to assist in its defence. The mob collected around the office in considerable numbers, but concluded that the movement was not popular enough in that town, and retired. The attempt has created much indignation among the best portion of the citizens of Milford, who know that the News is telling the truth about slavery, and that mobs and all the efforts of Slavery-ridden Democrats will not stop the spread of such truths as it publishes.
MEN OF BUSINESS OBLIGED TO ABANDON THEIR BUSINESS Washington, Dec. 8.-Thirty-two gentlemen, agents of New York and Boston houses, arrived here to-day from the South, and report the feeling of indignation so great against Northerners, that they were compelled to return and abandon their business. These gentlemen have been known for years as traders in the South. They also report that Northerners of long residence in the South have been disfigured, and drives from their houses.
Eleven business men who were on their way South returned last night, after having reached a  station in Virginia, being turned back by a Vigilance Committee. They say the feeling in six of the States through which they have passed is very intense against the <illegible>
<c05>
IN A DILEMMA- A young gentleman, whose parents reside in a neighboring county in an adjoining State, is just now in rather and unpleasant dilemma in Kentucky, the result of the jealousy induced by the persistent attempts of Abolitionists to excite a servile insurrection, which culminated by the invasion at Harper's Ferry. The facts came to our Knowledge to-day, and are vouched for by men of veracity, though the name of the young man was not given. He was, it seems, employed as a teacher, and was in the full tide of success, and quite popular among the patrons of his school, until the fact became known that the frequently received letters from Oberlin, about which he was extremely shy. The excitement about the Harper's Ferry invasion, and rumors of contemplated attempts in Kentucky, awakened so much suspicion that the young man was finally taken into custody, and placed in the hands of a committee of citizens to investigate his case, about which suspicion was very much increased upon his refusal to divulge the nature of his correspondence with Oberlin.-Adrian paper.
A correspondent of the Charleston Mercury, writing from Blackville, in that State, after narrating the circumstance connected with the <illegible>tarring of Salvo, says:-
'On the 14th, we sent off a foot-traveller, who was passing through the country with an air-gun, a dice-box, and some stereoscopic views; and last night we started back to c Charleston a man named Jones, who came here with his wife direct from Vermont, for the professed purpose of taking ambrotypes, Having no use for such vagabond characters, when they hail from abolition territory, we advise them to keep away.'
ARREST OF A SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER IN CHARLESTOWN.-A man, who gives the name of Otis, and claims to hail from the town of Yonkers, New York, was arrested on Saturday under suspicious circumstance He made his appearance in the town at a late hour on Friday evening, and put up at the Carter House, and on Saturday he called on Rev. Mr. Waugh with a letter of introduction, which not being satisfactory to the reverend gentleman, he handed him over to the Mayor of the town, who had him placed under guard in one of the rooms of the hotel, where he still remains, but will probably be 'shipped' to-day. He has made a variety of statements, one of which is that he had been in Washington on business, and wishing to be present at the execution, left Alexandria for Leesburg, Va., and from that place he came here in a buggy, That he came through curiosity alone, having determined not to discuss the subject of slavery while here. He also says he was not aware that the Union had been dissolved, and was under the impression that he was still in the United States until be reached this town. Whilst conversing with the guard in relation to the hanging of Brown, he burst into a flood of tears, and on being asked the cause of his grief, he said he had lost his father a few months ago. In appearance and conversation he is very gentlemanly, and bears up under his confinement with patience. 
THE WAY ABOLITION EMISSARIES ARE TREATED IN SOUTHWESTERN VIRGINIA-A philanthropic pilgrim from the land of wooden nutmegs, supposed to be an agent of some Abolition Aid Society or underground railroad, was arrested the other day in the neighboring county of Pulaski, and dealt with in the most summary manner by his captors; one of the most influential and worthy citizens of the county acting as judge, jury, and executioner. After ordering him to be hung by the neck, he very coolly proceeded to execute the sentence. Having hung him up until the 'vital spark' was nearly extinct, he cut him down and gave him a breathing spell. When sufficiently restored to undergo another swinging, he was again haltered, and suspended for a few moments, After having undergone this process five times, (once each for old Brown, Coppic, Cook, Stevens, and Hazlitt,) he was kindly permitted to retrace his steps to a more congenial clime, but not until he had been fairly admonished that if ever caught in Virginia again, he would have to take the sixth and fatal leap. It is said by those who witnessed the whole proceeding, that when the fellow got loose, he ran like a quarter nag.'- Wytheville (Va.) Tel.
A MAN INDICTED FOR EXPRESSING SYMPATHY WITH BROWN.-The Grand Jury of Norfolk, Va., have found a true bill on an indictment against S. Daneburg, who keeps a clothing and shoe store in that city, for seditious language, calculated to incite insurrection. The Day Book says:-
'The first count charged him with having used the words, 'John Brown was a good man, and was fighting in a good cause, and did nothing but what any honest man would do.' And the second count charged that he had used the following expressions: 'John Brown was fighting in a good cause,' (meaning that he was fighting in the cause of the slave against the master,) 'and that owners have no right of property in their slaves'; and said that 'Brown did nothing but what any other honest man would do.' Daneburg left the city a few days ago, having an intimation that he had got himself into trouble. His case will come on early in the present term of the superior Court, now in session. 
TAR AND FEATHERS.-We learn that last night, about 12 0'clock, a party who had reason to doubt the orthodoxy, or who believed in the heterodoxy of Sewall H. Fisk, a dealer in shoes in this city, and a native of Massachusetts, waited upon him, and using some persuasive peculiar to themselves, induced him to exchange his usual habiliments, and don those that transmogrified him into a pretty fair representative of Plato's definition of a man-a cock. He was not game, however, for he had no spurs; nor did he exhibit any inclination to make fight or crow, being, we suppose, off from his own dunghill. The charges against him were, that he generally expressed Abolition sentiments, and that on last Sabbath evening, he read to negroes in his store. These charges, Mr. Fisk denied. He was called out of his store at night, and gagged before he could make either noise or resistance. He was then placed in a carriage, and driven a short distance from the city, and the application, as above, made to his nude person; he was then left to find his way back, as best be could. His first appearance in the limits was near the hospital, where he came in sight of a watchman, who was so alarmed at the sight that he gave a spasmodic jerk at his rattle, and took to his heels, not willing to face so dreadful an apparition. A reinforcement, however, was brave enough to approach him, when he was conducted home, the most pitiable object it is possible to imagine. Not a spot of his skin was visible, and his hair was trimmed close to his head. Mr. Fisk, it is but justice to say, visited his native State a few years ago, where, in a public meeting, he defended the institution of Slavery, and brought upon himself the censure of his relations, as well as the animadversion of the papers in Holliston, where he made his speech.-Savannah News, Dec.3.
Vigilance committees are being organized in every county, town and village of the Commonwealth. The following preamble and resolutions, adopted at
<c06>
A highly  respectable, meeting of the citizens of the counties of Madison and  Culpepper, held recently At; a place called locust dale, will suffice to show the object of those,  <illegible>. The <illegible> they express may be esteemed a fair index of those uttered at meetings held elsewhere for a similar purpose, and, in fact, of the general sentiment of the state :-
Whereas, in view of the present troubled state of the times, and the outrageous inroad made upon our peace and happiness by recent; fact that we have reason to believe that our country is traversed throughout its whole extent by abolition emissaries in the guise of peddlers and venders of patent rights. quack nostrums, &c., we, a part of the citizens of Madison and Culpepper, deem it a duty to ourselves, to the welfare of out country, and more, especially to the protection of our peculiar institutions, to adopt the following  resolutions, to wit:-
1. That a Vigilance committee be appointed, whose duty it shall be to examine all suspicious persons who cannot give a satisfactory account of themselves, and to dispose of said persons as may seem to them to be expedient.
2. That it be considered the duty of each member of this meeting to exercise the utmost vigilance in arresting every individual of suspicious character, and, in handing him over to the Vigilance Committee, and that every citizen be requested to co-operate with them. A third resolution. Naming twenty-six gentlemen as a vigilance committee, was then adopted.
A similar meeting was held in Luray, Page county, and a vigilance committee, consisting of thirty. Two, appointed for the same purpose. Meetings have also been held in Rockingham, Shenandoah, Orange, and several other counties, each of which has organized its Vigilance committee. Volunteer companies are also being rapidly organized in every town and village of the State.-Virginia corr. Of N.Y. Herald. 
MORE INCENDIARISM. -THE States and Union keeps up its vile and incendiary appeals against this office, in its issue of Monday, as follows:-
‘The police should have a scrutinizing eye on all suspicious, evil-looking persons who may take shelter in they city. They railroad depot should be closely observed. The incendiary printing offices should be closely watched. The ‘devil’s den,’ or Black Republican association lodge, should not escape attention.
‘If Black Republicanism had in its service john Brown, who risked so much upon an expedition to take Harper’s Ferry, what may not be undertaken with such shelter as may be afforded by the leagues of Black-Brown spirits who infest this community? The price of public security. Like that of public Liberty, is eternal vigilance. -National Era.
At Charlestown, the military authorities not only held possession of the telegraph, but also interfered with the mails. Letters directed to certain of the New York papers were not forwarded; and packages of newspapers from New York were suppressed. 
They Warrentown (Va.) Flag, having been informed that over twenty copies of the New York Tribune are taken at the Post offices of Prince William county, suggests that those receiving them should not only be presented before the Grand jury and fined heavily, but dealt with even more severely.
The Charleston Mercury publishes a letter signed ‘A merchant,’ in which the paper’s New York correspondents are requested to give the names of the leading Abolition houses in New York and elsewhere. For one, the writer pledges himself not to purchase on dollar’s worth of goods from such parties as shall be designated.
THE VIRGINIA FRIGHT.- The panic has seized all classes of the people, and most exaggerated reports are in circulation. Some think that hordes of Northerners are on their way to invade the State which has given birth to Presidents and statesmen. Petersburg has been divided into patrol districts, and fines of $25 and $50 are to be imposed upon those who disobey orders to perform patrol duty whenever Major Davenport, the officer left to protect the city, may call for their services. Sven men each from eight companies were on patrol duty last night, and special detachment was sent to guard the powder magazine on the other side of the river Appomatox. These warlike preparations are, of course, a serious interruption to all business in the city, and the suspicions which are excited by them contribute to the same result.
If five or six negroes are seen talking together, they are speedily magnified by rumor into a hundred, armed with pitchforks and scythe blades. Beggars, if they happen to be poorly dressed, are accosted by the police and examined. Two of this class, who were found a night or two ago, had in their possession a tin cup and a whiskey-flask, with a little spirits in it, supposed to be of Northern manufacture, an old jack-knife, and a piece of string. They were ordered to leave the city immediately; but before they had time to comply with the injunction; they were again taken into custody.-letter from Petersburg, Virginia.
EXITEMENT IN TALBOT COUNTY.- On Sunday last, an incendiary letter was picked up in St. Michael’s, which purports to give the outlines of an extended insurrectionary movement in Mary land and Virginia. It states the very improbable fact that over 12,000 men are engaged in the crusade, who can instantly recognize each other by a look in the eyes whenever they meet. The Plot contemplated the capture of the city of Baltimore by the aid of 40,000 men from the North, the time to be fixed by a State Convention of the crusaders to be held in this city. The name and date of the letter were both torn off. This resinous document created great excitement among the good people of Talbot. Patrols were immediately formed-in the St. Michael’s district, a strong guard placed in Easton on Sunday night. A public meeting of the citizens of the county took place in the court House at Easton yesterday. Afternoon, to take into consideration the existing state of affairs, but we have not leaned the result of their deliberations. -Baltimore Republican, Nov.30th.
Itinerant teachers, peddlers, drummers, &c., are so numerous in Frederick county, Md., that the people fear a second Harper’s Ferry affair, and have set a watch over the barracks, where 700 stand of arms are deposited, lest they should be broken into or taken possession of.
Mr. Alfred Caldwell, the Virginia State senator from the wheeling District, who, it will be remembered, avowed strong Republican doctrines in a speech at his home last summer, is placed in Coventry at Richmond. He is treated with extreme coolness by his brother Senators and the members of the other House. At the hotel at night, when all seem to re-engaged in conversation, he sits alone by the stove in the rotunda, as little recognized as though he were an entire stranger to all present. He will probably stand the pressure, and be improved by it.
The united states <illegible> is ‘Government with death, and an agreement with hail. ‘The free States are the guardians and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under; a generous’ impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other states, and by force <illegible> their rights; but they are without excuse, is <illegible> other states is binding on men an <illegible> yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, <illegible> THE CONATITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE <illegible> We their children, at the end of half a century, <illegible> the path of duty more, clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come fox looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow creatures; nor, ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.
WILLIAM ELLRRZ CHANNING.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
EXCTTENNT IN KETOUNT _ The Louisville Courier of the 21st inst. contains the following account of a proposed salve insurrection:-
The citizens of Frankfort the capital of the State, and Versailles, Woodford county, have been excited for some days, but by no means alarmed, at a report of a threatened rising of the negroes in those counties.
On Saturday a despatch from Harper's Ferry, Virginia, advised the Mayor of Frankfort that the negroes, at the instigation of some white scoundrels, designed an attack on that city and Versailles; and when theme places fell, is was their intention to devastate the country around.
The information was obtained through an intercepted letter from an abolitionist named Day, addressed to Osawatomie Brown. The intelligence was so direct and of such an alarming character that Mr. Hunter, the prosecuting attorney at Charles-town, Va., deemed it his duty to advise the authorities in Frankfort as above.
Immediately on its reception, the Mayor of Frank fort called the trustees together to devise means to avert such a calamity. Precautionary measures were taken in that city, and also in Versailles, by appointing an extra police force and patrols for each district in the counties. The new military company organized last week in Versailles were ready to respond with alacrity at the first sound of the tocsin of war.
This abolitionist Day has been connected with the notorious Delia Webster, who was once in the Kentucky penitentiary for running off negroes. He was
driven away from Trimble county some years ago for his negro-stealing propensities. If he is caught on this of the river again, we reckon he will be hung.
FREE SPEECH IN VIRGINIA._ The Norfolk Herald gives accounts of several instances of free speech, among which we copy the following:-
One was that of a resident on Ferry Point, opposite this city, John Fletcher by name, who came from Washington city some five years ago. On Tuesday last, in the grocery store of his neighbor, Mr. James P. Jones, in the presence of ten creditable witnesses, while in conversation about the Harper's Ferry affair, 'he avowed himself an abolitionist, and asserted that there were many in Norfolk and Portsmouth, but that they were afraid to say so; but he was free, white and twenty-one, and had no hesitation in declaring that if he had five hundred or five thousand dollars, he would give one half of it for the release or rescue of John Brownï¿½.
The by-standers were highly indignant at such language, and immediately had information of it lodged with T. Portiock, Esq., J. P., who thereupon issued his warrant for the apprehension of Fletcher. The warrant was given to officer John M. Drury to execute, who proceeded to Fletcher's dwelling, and knocked for admittance at his front door; but he made his appearance at a side door, and being told by the officer that he must go with him, said he would do so, and retired to get his coat and hat; but on his return said he bad changed his mind, and was determined not to be taken. The officer then attempted to seize him, when he held the door nearly dosed with one hand, while with the other be drew a knife, which be held up in a threatening manner, and said, 'you, if you attempt to enter, I will kill you.ï¿½ Mr. Drury then want and summoned persons to his assistance; and on his return. Fletcher, after consulting with members of his family, and being threatened with a forcible entrance by the posse without, quietly surrendered, and was taken off to jail to undergo an examination.
An Abolitionist Caught in Alabama.-We beard on Saturday that an abolitionist emissary had been detected at Prattville, in Autauga County, on the previous day, and rather summarily dealt with by the citizens of that village. He was immediately arrested and put upon his trial, which resulted in his being bound over in the sum of $10,000. It is stated that this fellow had is his possession several letters from some of Brown's men in the North, reï¿½lative to the plans of that infamous band of rebellionists, and containing advice as to how he should act-at what point to fix upon as headquarters, &c., &c. He was first arrested on suspicion of being the murderer of McCrabb, and, on examination, these incendiary documents were found about his person. We hope to be able to give full particulars of this affair in our issue of Tuesday. The plot, indeed, seems to thicken.-Montgomery Advertiser, Nov. 28.
FRIGHTENED BY A BLIND GIRL._ The Wheeling Intelligencer publishes the statement of a blind girl, who was recently expelled from Martinsburgh, Va., on suspicion of being an Abolitionist. She says: 'Some of the people treated me kindly enough, but the lady of the house insisted that I was an Aboliï¿½tionist; that coming as I did from Indiana, I was not entitled to belief. A gentleman came into my room uninvited, and questioned me in an impudent manner I applied to a minister who said he would be glad to assist me, but would advise me not to stay during the excitement. It was in consequence of this that I was compelled to leave.' In addition to this, the conductor of the train upon which the blind lady and her sister arrived, told us, in the presence of a number of gentlemen, that the ladies were not permitted to remain. He was asked if he knew them, and upon replying that he did not, was told that 'they could not stay there.'
SENT AWAY.-No less than four men, suspected of being abolition emissaries, were arrested in our city on Friday and Saturday, had examination before a committee appointed by the citizens , and were finally discharged with an injunction to leave, with their faces turned Northward-which injunction they seemed to obey, not only readily but thankfully. We understand that there was no strong, positive evidence of very improper conduct on the part of any of them, and, therefore, we refrain from giving a description of them. It is best for all transient Norï¿½thern men to have a known and honest business when they come South just now, and we do not condemn the disposition to expel them if they cannot exhibit such 'credentials,' nevertheless, we trust that the people of this and every other Southern community will continue to act coolly and cautiously-that they will not inflict personal violence without sufficient proof that it is deserved.-Columbus (Ga.) Enquirer.
Two persons, whose presence was considered undesirable on account of abolitionism, were ridden on a rail at Kingstree, S. C, on Wednesday of last week. One was an old man, and the other a young man of good personal appearance. They were carï¿½ried about the village, borne by negroes, and comï¿½pelled to sing while travelling in this manner. They were then turned loon. They took the noon train far Charleston, but the other passengers refusing to ride with them, they were pat out of the train, at St. Stephen's station.
A correspondent of a Charleston (S. C.) paper is highly indignant at what he calls ' a clear case of impendence,' viz: A Yankee peddler canvassing that city 'with the Constitution of the United States in bronze, with gilt frame!' It is not the market for any such document as that.
The Charleston, S. C. Courier contains a letter giving an account of a great excitement in Williamsburg. Two Northern teachers, W. J. Dodd and K. A. P. Hamilton, have been living as private teachers in the families of Messrs. Henry D. Shaw and S. j. Bradley, for upwards of a year; but, since the Harper's Ferry affair, have become objects of suspicion. A meeting of citizens was called, and they were requested to leave. The genï¿½tlemen in whose family they are, opposed the action of the meeting, as reflecting upon them. At a subï¿½sequent meeting, it was determined to permit the obnoxious individuals to remain until their present schools expire, on the 1st, the other on the 15th of December.
The Rockville (Md.) Journal says that a ma, was attested near the Great Falls, in that county on Wednesday last, for the expression of a feeling of sympathy with the late rebellion at Harper's Ferry. He is now in the county jail.
SECESSION OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.-Philadelphia, Dec.20._ At a meeting of Southern medical students to-day, it was resolved to secede in a body from the school in this city, and go to the Southern colleges. There was a large attendance; Jefferson College will loss 200, and Pennsylvania University 100 students. They will proceed in a body tomorrow night, in a special train, from the Baltimore depot. The proceedings were conducted throughout with great decorum and propriety, and there was no exhibition of violent feeling. A number will go to the Richmond Medical College.
<c02>
MOCK HANGING OR JOHN BROWN SR NEGROES. The Scottville (Va.) Register says-
ï¿½On Friday night, the 2d inst, Old Osawatomie Brown was (in effigy) escorted through the streets by a large concourse of men and boys, and a godly number of servants, who were more that pleased. The old murderer, horse0-thief and traitor was seated in a wagon, supported by negro Ben, who performed the office of executioner as systematically as any old sheriff could have done. indeed, the negroes enjoyed the proceedings beyond measure, and we are convinced they would, if necessary, arm themselves with Osawatomie pikes to aid in defending their masters. A black man played the fife, with which he "made the welkin ring.ï¿½
A CASE OF LYNCHING. A correspondent informs as that-'
A man, supposed to be an Abolitionist, of dark complexion, with black hair and a scar over the left eye, about five feet eleven inches in height, calling himself James W. Rivers, was taken up on the 13th instant, by the Vigilance Committee of Grahamville, (S. C.) who had him tarred and feathered, and the right side of his head shaved.'
Norris F. Stearns, of Greenfield , mass., a straight-out Democrat, was recently driven from Georgetown, S. C, where he went to sell maps, because he was from the North; and a subscriber to the Greenfield Gazette, in Georgia, has been obliged to discontinue his subscription on account of the anti-Northern feeling there. Nothing sectional in these and similar incidents, of course! The South is composed of national men!
At Danville, Va., a clerk in the Post-Office saw a man throw a letter, which be had just gotten, into the store, and, on taking it oat, found it to be a proposition for running off slaves. The man was arrested.
WHITE FAMILIES LEAVING VIRGINIA. The New York Times correspondent says that it has reliable information when it states that, in consequence of the Harper's Ferry affair, the heavy property-holders of Virginia begin to see that the subject of slavery is destined to produce interminable strife in that State in the future, and materially decrease the value of property. Families are accordingly preparing to leave the State: panic pervades all classes of citizens; there is no freedom of speech; suspicion and distrust are abroad; the last resort to check the progress of crime, the jury system, has become weak and corrupt; the spirit of religion is dying out, and infidelity taking its place. The country, according to this representation, is in fact but one degree removed from a state of anarchy.
Col. S. A. Cooley, of this city, was in Charlestown, Va., last weak. Mr. Penfield, agent of Sharpe's Rifle Company, was also there. Both were placed under arrest, but were treated kindly. Mr. Penfield showed a letter of introduction from the Secretary of War, Mr. Floyd. Col. Cooley protested that be was no abolitionist. But all availed nothing. The officer said, ' Gentlemen, we have no reason to believe that either of you meditate harm; but the authorities have directed that the movements of all strangers shall be guarded; this is absolutely necessary for our safety; persons pretending to be friendly bate been among us for some time, and our horses and cattle have been poisoned at night; our barns and sheds and haystacks have been destroyed by fire; the property of some of the jurors in John Brown's case has been burnt by incendiaries; we have only stopped these alarming proceedings by the moat decided action in permitting no strangers to be staying about here in idleness.' Messrs. Cooley and Penfield, seeing the absolute necessity for the regulations which had been established, then left the place. -Hartford Times, Dee. 14.
A correspondent of the Missouri Republican says that F. P. Blair was near being arrested by the gens-d'armes of Virginia, while eating his dinner at Martinsburg. He was let off, he adds, on giving assurances that he was going to Washington as fast as the locomotive would carry him.
Mr. Ashley, a Republican member of Congress from Ohio, went to Charlestown, Va., and witnessed the execution of John Brown. Some hours before the execution, he was discovered to be a spy, and he plainly avowed himself to the crowd to be a Republican member of Congress. His intrepidity alone saved his life. He was insulted, his life was threatened a hundred times, but by cool bearing be put his panic-stricken foes to shame, and they did not venture to attack him.
James Powers, a workman on the new State House at Columbia, S. C, being charged with seditious language, was treated to thirty-nine lashes, and a coat of tar and feathers, on Saturday night last, by a committee of vigilante.
LIFE IN VIRGINIA. A private letter from a postmaster in Virginia, whose locality we dare not indicate, for fear of exposing him to mob violence, says:-
'We are in the midst of a Reign of Terror here. There is no certainty that letters duly mailed will not be opened on their way. All men of Northern birth now here are under serveillance by the so-called Vigilance Committee; and any one suspected of thinking slavery less than divine is placed under care. Those who have been taking the New York Tribune are objects of especial ban. A company of ten came into the office last Monday, and gave notice that I must not give out any more Tribunes to the subscribers here. The law of Virginia punishes by fine and imprisonment a postmaster who gives out what are denounced as incendiary journals. The law of the United States punishes by fine and imprisonment, and further incapacitates from ever holding the office again, any postmaster who shall withhold or refuse to deliver any paper sent to a regular subscriber at his office. So here I am in a pretty fix.'
John C. Underwood, Esq., writing to Horace Greeley under date of 'Occoquan, Prince William Co., Va., Dec. 21, 1859,' says- ï¿½There are some ten or twelve copies of the Tribune taken at this office, and the Postmaster refuses to deliver them to the subscribers! The Attorney-General of this State has pronounced them incendiary!'
Here is another proof that there is neither honor nor honesty at the South:-
POST OFFICE, LYNCHBURG, Va., Dec. 2, 1859. Ma. HORACE GREELEY-SIR: -I hereby inform you that I shall not, in future, deliver from this office the copies of the Tribune which come here, because I believe them to be of that incendiary character which are forbidden circulation alike by the laws of the land, and a proper regard for the safety of society. You will, therefore, discontinue them. Respectfully, R. H. GLASS, P. M.
The following letter is furnished by the Ohio merchants who were arrested at Harper's Ferry. What submissive lick-spittles they are!
Baltimore, Dec. 2d, 1859.
To THE PUBLIC.-We, the undersigned, having been arrested by the military authorities of the State of Virginia, on the morning of Wednesday last, while proceeding over the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad as passengers for the East, were disposed to overlook the detention and annoyance to which we were subjected, in the belief that the officers were imposed upon, and acted entirely from erroneous information. Observing, however, that we are accused of having expressed ourselves antagonistically to the State, regarding its prisoners at Charlestown, and that this is offered as a reason for our arrest, we deem it due to ourselves thus publicly to declare the statement entirely without foundation; that we are not public agitators of any sort, bat order-loving business men quietly pursuing our own affairs. We would, at the same time, in view of the numerous exciting reports that an being published, take occasion to declare that we were treated with every proper consideration by the military and citizens of Martinsburg, where oar arrest took place, and that as soon as our case was made known to the Railroad Company, the President and other officers promptly telegraphed to the Commanding-General, and pro-cared our release, and, moreover, as further evidence of our exoneration of the Baltimore and Ohio Company from all blame for this unusual proceeding, and as entire confidence that no further annoyance to passengers will occur, we propose to return to our homes in the West, by that route to-morrow.
Signed, J. W. VANSANT, Fairfield Co., Ohio.
J. B. GLASSF0RD, Morgan Co., Ohio.
J. L. OOLUNS, Hocking Co., Ohio.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
BOSTON, DECEMBER 30, 1859.
A SUPPLEMENTAL NUMBER OF THE 
LIBERATOR.
In consequence of the immense mass of matter which the Harper's Ferry tragedy and the execution of John Brown and his associates have thrown upon our hands, and for a title of which we cannot find room in our columns, we shall publish an extra number of THE LIAERATOR, gratuitously, to be dated December 3l, 1859-thus making the number to consist of FIFTY THREE numbers. Among other interesting articles, it will contain a thrilling letter from the distinguished French exile, Victor Hugo-another from Lydia Maria Child in reply to one from Mrs. Mason of Virginia-and one from Theodora Parker-all in reference to the character and proceedings of John Brown. We shall also publish the doings of several commemorative meetings on the 2d of December, which we have not yet been able to notice.

THE TWENTY-S1XTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY 
SUBSORIPTION.
The Anti-Slavery families who have so long made Boston the seat of this annual social occasion, gratefully renew their invitation to all the early friends of Freedom, and cordially extend it to the multitudes of new friends in every part of the land, whom the past year has made; earnestly entreating the satiation of their company at
THE MUSIC HALL,
Boston,
On Wednesday, January 25th. Soiree at 7 o'clock. The general arrangements for the day and evening the same as last year.
We, who now unite in this heartfelt invitation, are not of Northern origin exclusively; some are of the South, and some have been slaveholders. But all seeing clearly that the present must be a year of unwonted moral exertion, if our country is to be carried successfully through the present hopeful crisis, unite in entreating oar friends to meet us in this way at its opening, for mutual understanding and co-operation, counsel and encouragement, sympathy and congratulation. Never were the signs of the peaceful extinction of slavery so full and propitious to the eyes long trained to read them aright.
We shall shortly send special invitations to both the earlier and later friends. In the mean time, we entreat all who love their native land, and are beginning to feel deeply moved, to serve and save it, to consider the necessity of steady, long-sustained, unremitting exertion, such as we carry on, and to uphold it now by presence, if possible-at all events by letter and by sympathy. The names of such as have reasons for avoiding publicity will be sacredly kept, and our grateful expressions conveyed to them by private acknowledgment.
Let none who sympathize with us be absent because our special invitation may fail to reach them, for accident and omission, however carefully guarded against, are almost unavoidable in issuing invitations on so large a scale: and the occasion is one that will, we trust, bring to our acquaintance many now unknown to us, whose co-operation will be most valuable.
We entreat any whose love of the cause induces them to hesitate about making what they, account a small subscription, to remember that while the largest sum is small in comparison with the grandeur of the Cause, the smallest may be the expression of high feeling, high thinking, and self-sacrifice.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,
MARY MAY,
LOUISA LOSING,
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN,
L. MARIA CHILD,
HENRIETTA SARGENT,
ANNE WARREN WESTON,
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN,
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON,
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL,
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS,
CAROLINE WESTON,
SARAH P. REMOND,
MARY WILLEY,
SARAH BLAKE SHAW,
SUSAN C. CABOT,
ELIZA ANDREW,
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
LYDIA D. PARKER,
ELIZA F. EDDY,
ABBY FRANCIS,
SARAH RUSSELL MAY,
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER,
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK,
EVELINA A. S. SMITH,
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL,
AUGUSTA G. KING,
ELIZABETH YON ARNIM,
ANNA SHAW GREENE,
ELIZA APTHORP,
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT,
MATTIE GRIFFITH,
ANNE LANGDON ALGER,
MARY E. STEARNS.

REMEMBER THE TERMS.
TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS. Those of our subscribers who have not paid for the current year,-that is, from January 1st, 1859, to January 1st, 1860,-are reminded of the standing rule by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1st, 1860, unless payment for the same be previously sent in.
The Financial Committee, in calling attention to the above standing rule, would also ask every subscriber, for the sake of the cause, as well as for the sake of the paper, to do what in him lies to extend the circulation of the Liberator, at least to the extent of procuring each one an additional name for our list.
THE PETITION FOR PROHIBTING SLAVEHUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
Friends! the time is short, and the work of securing names to the PETITION should be taken up and completed without loss of time. Do not let the work be thrown entirely on one or two persons in any place. In every town let a committee, of men and women. representing all parts of the town, be selected, who will see that the petition is presented at every house. By this division of labor, the work will be easily and speedily done. It needs only this effort to secure, we believe, the names of five-sixths of the men and women of Massachusetts to the petition. Many hearts and hands are now at work for this object throughout the North. Let Massachusetts not be found wanting.
Give the petition to your representative in the Legislature; or, if preferred, send it to the care of SAMUEL MAY, J r., 21 Cornhill Boston.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts: The undersigned, citizens of Massachusetts, respectfully ask yon to pat an end to SLAVE-HUNTING, in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person who has been held as a Slave shall he delivered up, by any officer or court, State or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes 'service or labor' to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.

A timely, able and outspoken Discourse on 'The Harper's Ferry Tragedy,' by Rev. Frederick Frothing ham, of Portland, occupies the principal portion of our last page. Read it!
<c04>
LOW GRADE OF MERAL DISORIMINATION INTHE OHUROHES.
A proverb the first part whereof represents a church theory, and the second part an obvious fact, has long been current in New England, to this effect: 'All deacons are good, but there's odds in deacons.' The same sort of thing may be stated (if we choose thus to combine the popular idea with the actual fact, in one sentence) respecting Tract Societies.
There are now in this country three Tract Society ties, of three different kinds, as follows: 
1. The American Tract Society, originally established and ever since carried on as a national institution, and (in connection with other labors) giving its influence to uphold our other national institution of slavery.
2. The Tract Society at Boston, which had originally a local name and a limited field of operation, which was made auxiliary to the National Society at the formation of tin latter in New York, and has remained its auxiliary to the month of May in the present year, thoroughly supporting, through most of that period, its pro-slavery policy, and which has now (after extending its field of operations to embrace the whole country, in violation of a deliberate pledge made to its late principal) assumed a transitional position in regard to slavery, whereof this is the first and the present phase: The Boston Society declares itself' not an Anti- Slavery Society,' but also declares itself willing fraternally to discuss ' those moral duties which grow out of the existence of slavery, as well as those moral evils and vices which it is known to promote.'
Those of the publications of this Society which thus far illustrate its meaning and purpose in regard to slavery are three. The first condemns 'oppression ' generally, without naming the particular form of oppression called slavery; the second takes for granted that slavery is right, but requires the master to give the slave religious instruction; and the third opposes the immediate emancipation of the slaves.
3. The American Reform Tract and Book Society, established at Cincinnati, Ohio, which (in connection with other labors) carries on a hearty, active and thorough warfare with slavery, opposing it instead of merely discussing it, and opposing the root instead of merely the branches.
These things being so, these three Societies existing and holding these three essentially different positions, a Convention met at Chicago on the 18th of October last, drawn together by a Call to 'Western Evangelical Christians opposed to the policy and operations of the American Tract Society on the subject of American slavery.' This Convention appointed a Committee to report a plan of operations, and adopted their report, which contains the following sentence:
'It is cause of devout gratitude to God, that in this emergency [the persistence of the American Tract So ciety in the pro-slavery policy which it has pursued from the beginning] just the instrumentalities the churches need offer themselves. Two Tract Societies which give the subject of slavery its proper place in their publications, one at the East (A. T. S. at Boston) and the other at the West (A. R. T. and B. S. at Cincinnati) are ready to help in the work that lies before us. We recognize the gracious providence of God in the history and present position of each of them,'
The Report, constantly speaking of the Boston and Cincinnati Societies as identical in their position, as equally right, and as equally to be trusted and aided by those who wish to protest against the American Tract Society, formally recommended that overtures be made to both for co-operation with a ' United Western Tract Agency' now to be formed, and these overtures have accordingly been made.
The want of moral discernment shown in proposing co-operation at the same time to two bodies so different in character (as if one should simultaneously join the American Anti-Slavery Society and the American Colonization Society) is one evidence among many of the extent to which both intellect and the moral seas are deteriorated in our popular churches. Their members seem incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong in any new thing-any thing in which their course is not designated by the traditions of the elders.
But this folly of classing together a Society which declares itself anti-slavery, and one which declares itself not anti-slavery-a Society which vigorously opposes slavery itself in all its relations, and one which expressly stipulates that it will deal only with the abuses of slavery, deal even with those only by fraternal discussion, and not by opposition, and abstain even from discussing such of those abuses as are connected with politic-this folly is committed not merely by this new Western Convention, but by the Oberlin Evangelist, and even by the Christian Press, the organ of the Cincinnati Society, and the Directors of that Society itself. For the body last mentioned, in their reply to the overture of the Western Convention, decline it, not on the ground of principle, not as refusing to be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, but merely on the prudential ground that,
ï¿½To our view, by the practical workings of the plen recommended at Chicago, should it go into effect, the A. R. T. and B. S. would cease to retain and enjoy the powers of independent existence.'
The Cincinnati Society and its organ have spoken manfully against slavery, but they shrink from rebuking the Janus-faced character and time-serving policy of the Bottom Society.-c. k. w.

THE DEATH OP JOHN BROWN.
'No! no! their ashes shall not die,
But, borne to every land,
Whereï¿½re their sainted dust shall fall,
Upsprings a holy band.
'Though Satan by his might may kill,
And stop their powerful voice,
They triumph o'er him in their death,
And still in Christ rejoice.'
Truth is the same, eternal, universal, whether it be baptized in the blood of the three young martyrs which called forth the preceding lines from the overflowing joy that filled Luther's soul at their triumphant death, in resisting despotism under the name of the Holy Catholic Church of Rome, or in the blood of old John Brawn, who has been added to the long list of martyrs, for upholding and defending it against' the despotism of the so-called Christian Democracy of America.
The deed has been committed. He is gone 'where the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest'; gone from the criticism of friends and the aspersion of foes; gone to the bar of eternal justice, where all secrets shall be revealed, and every act receive its due reward; gone to dwell in the fullness of that charity with which the infinite Father looks in compassionate pity on all his wayward and erring children. It becomes us now to study well our duty. In the eloquent words of another-' We may be done with John Brown, but he has not done with us. He has summoned this nation to judgment.' From the stillness of that noon-tide how come back to us the thrilling echoes of that voice, resolute unto death, bidding us study well the lesson he has left us. A stern one it is, but a stern discipline of mind and body was his. The great acts of he life, whether in their method deterring of censure or praise, when judged by the law of divine rectitude, are bat the natural fruits of faithful adherence to the theology that had been taught him, and unswerving fidelity to his views of religious morality, as he gathered them from the precepts of the Old Testament. Never was man more richly blest than he. As if the. hand of God the guarded him with peculiar care, he was served for more glorious achievements than the capture of Harper's Ferry. 'Christ saw fit to take from me a sword of steel, after I had earned it for a time; bat he has pat another in my hand-the sword of the Spirit'; and with it he has already won the homage of the world, and the peaceful rectories of the marry have eclipsed the fame of the hero Unconscious.
<c05>
ly, in teaching us that it is all an abstraction to die for an ides, he has been used as the symbol of faith, which , true to its own ideas of duty, whether right or wrong in its method, has been overruled by God for the accomplishment of purposes as far-reaching as eternity. Like the convulsive throes of an earthquake, he has suddenly roused us from our midnight slumbers to escape from the yawning chasm beneath us. He has marahalled the advancing hoats of Slavery and Freedom, presenting this great cause as God's Messish, which,
'offering each the bloom or blight,
Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep upon the right,
And the choice goes by for ever 'twixt that darkness and that light.'
He has frightened the heroic preacher of Plymouth
Church into a non- resistant, and summoned all professing non-resistant to a test of their principles. He has revealed the impotent timidity of the South, and the Constitutional weakness of the North. The North may forget him, as she has similar tragedies before, but the South, never, Like a nightmare, he will haunt her with troubled breath, till sleep shall be a stranger to her eyelids. Sleep! 'Slavery has murdered sleep!' My Republican friends, standing by the grave of him who has blended all our souls in one common wave of sympathy, gladly would we lay aside every badge of contention, and henceforth, dwell in that spirit of unison which for a few brief moments has made us feel its blessed thrill; but the aching heart and quivering lip of the slave mother and her child, speaking through the mouth of him who bore them with her latest Meeting to the throne of the Eternal, bid us-
'If we have whispered truth,
Whisper no longer; But speak as the tempest does,
Sterner and stronger.'
This nation is summoned before the tribunal of the world's conscience to answer the question, Who killed John Brown? Virginia said, 'We have a law, and by that law he must die.' Massachusetts said, 'If Virginia hangs John Brown, she is a scoundrel,'- and went on calculating her chances for the Presidency. Let us compare notes, and see that is the difference between Massachusetts and Virginia. One endorses the Fugitive Slave Law by erecting a statue to Daniel Webster, and the other executes it. One talks, and the other acts. Again 1 ask, what is the difference? 'Oh,' you say, 'we do net endorse the Fugitive Slave Law; it was the Daniel Web of Plymouth Rock.' What! you begin to feel so sensibly the decay of our national greatness as to despair of getting a living representative of the spirit of freedom, and must dig up the dead fossils of the past Joshua K. Giddings, the old veteran who needs only the opportunities to be another John Brown, in his seat in Congress, a few years since, told the South that if she would let as alone, we would not interfere with her slavery; and then, said he, 'as a bead of brothers, we will meet together to legislate. 'And we have before us the practical workings of this theory in the brothership of Got. Wise and John Brown, placing the sinner on the throne, and the saint on the 
scaffold.
People of the North! ye are the Belshazzar to whom John Brown is the hand-writing on the wall. If you heed not its warnings, well may it be said of you, 'neither would yon be persuaded though one rose from the dead.' How long will you be the willing partners of a confederacy which, in the person of Margaret Garner, compelled the sovereign State of Ohio, with Gov. Chase at the head, to bow herself in the dust, and confess her vassalage to the Slave 
Power?-which dares to lay its sinister hand on the royalty of a Phillips and the fidelity of a Brown? It is fitting that the government which could arraign Wendell Phillips for treason in Massachusetts should hang John Brown on a scaffold in Virginia. Think not that we do not appreciate year feelings, and read your thoughts. We know that in many of yon burns an intense hatred of slavery, which lacks only a knowledge of, and confidence in, the right method, to banish it from the soil. What is this bugbear, Disunion, at the sound of which yon tremble worse than at perdition itself? A few years since, there sprang up all over the Union a mushroom party called the Know Nothings. Its origin and history may be traced in this wise: One murky, misty night, when the air was particularly oppressive to the lungs, and the political horizon loomed up with heavy, portentous vapors, somebody, mistaking the overshadowing gloom of the country for the shadow of-the Pope extending across the water, called upon the people to resist his encroachments. Straightway there rose up, 
like Jonah's gourd, in the night, a large army, powerful enough to fight a shadow; bat what was their dismay on finding in the morning that the Pope of Rome had enough to do to maintain his supremacy at home, and had no intention of coming here to fight with ideas, the shadow which they really saw being reflected from their own Pope at Washington! The Republicans, with all their professed abhorrence of slavery, have so much greater of disunion, that they are seeking to avoid that, rather than array their forces against shivery, and therefore they tolerate Use yoke of the Constitution. Witness the protestations with which they are renewing their fealty to the Union, because the South has seized the present occasion to accuse them of disloyalty. She knows better. Though a coward, she is not a fool. She only seizes it as a watchword for making a fresh onslaught on our liberties. She knows that the moment she whistles and throws the bone, the North is ready to catch it. We mean by disunion simply, that when the General Government makes it a crime to perform the common offices of humanity, we should 're-enact the law of God' on oar own soil, there to administer justice and execute righteousness. You shudder at the thought of a civil war into which this would plunge us. It is no wonder that such as absurdity should create divisions among Abolitionists. No wonder that the stretch of charity which on the one side seeks to show up to the best advantage that undercurrent of feeling which, for the honor of oar common humanity, we may hope does exist, should be met on the other by the clear, irresistible logic, that such short-sighted, hollow-hearted sophistry should never be ohristened by the sacred name of Anti-Slavery. Civil war, forsooth! With whom will yon fight? With the ghoat of some departed Calhoun, or the shadow of what was once intellectual greatness, now sighing its requiem amid the floating melodies of Boston Common? Tea know, and the South knows, that she has in her midst fear million kegs of gunpowder ready to explode the moment the force that guards it shall be directed to soother point. This might furnish a ludicrous theme, were it net for the serious consequences involved. It is no occasion for mirth when a nation that traces its origin to the simple faith that freighted the Mayflower, and Ha freedom to the spirit of independence that spurned a tyrant" s yoke, and dared to trust the people with the untried experiment of self-government, becomes so lost to all sense of national honor and rectitude as to submit willingly to the galling chains of servitude, because its moral vision is so obscured as to read God's law backward, and interpret the forebodings of its own destruction as the harbinger of a mod successful compromise with sin. Suppose you she aid get a Republican President, (which yon sever will,) what could he do? He is bound hand and foot by certain clauses of the Constitution, inserted expressly for the protection of slavery, and, according to Dr. Howe, backed up by weapons which, though concealed ' like the dare of a cat in a velvet paw,' are none the less dangerous because they are concealed. Even Mr. Giddings dare net stand up in Congress, and raise his right hand in the presence of God and his fellowmen, so far to perjure himself to the slaveholding oligarchy of the South, as to avow that it is the design of the Republican party to abolish slavery.
<c06>
'Slavery will ultimately die out, if we can restrict it to its present limits.' It is useless to argue this point. If the long array of facts showing the triumph of the Slave Power in every contest since this Union was formed fail to carry conviction, words are powerless. The devastations slavery has wrought is blunting the moral sense of this nation, is most sadly displayed in the blind infatuation with which the people still pursue this<illegible> phantom of the Union, even when the South, no longer content with the spoil guaranteed to her by the Constitution, is stretching her bloody hands after the richest prey New England can yield. I recollect seeing suspended above one of our principal streets, last Fourth of July, this inscription' The fathers, where are they?' Methought, as I gazed upon it, that underneath there should have been placed another-'The children, where are they?' They are slumbering on a volcano, which every moment threatens to overwhelm them with its burning lava. Subsequent events have shown that it would not have been ill-timed. On the evening of the eventful 2d of December, a Massachusetts Senater, having made some very pertinent allusion to the fact that in the war of the Revolution, colored men fought for their masters' freedom, being themselves slaves, even here in Massachusetts, placed himself in the same list, virtually confessing himself a slave lighting for his master, the Union, by acknowledging the repugnance with which ho swore allegiance to the Constitution, while the thought apparently never occurred to him that in so doing he was sacrificing his manhood, and forfeiting the liberty he had inherited. Never are we so degraded as when unconscious of one degradation. When Abby Foster, with<illegible> fidelity, rose and rebuked him, his position was Sustained by a minister of the Gospel, a man who has been the acknowledged leader of pulpit anti-slavery in this city recognizing it as the only peaceful way in which slavery could be overthrown. We do not expect politicians to live on faith, but on good salaries. We have a right to expect something of a clear insight into principle from those whose professed mission it is to proclaim the sublime truths of faith and immortality. It was a sad evidence of the<illegible> power with which we have yet to contend, that, standing on the threshold of eternity, to which the events of that day had summoned us, when it would seem that the soul, catching a nearer glimpse of spiritual realities, would be raised above the things of time and sense to a nearer communion with the source of all inspiration, should yet fall short of a knowledge of the meaning of the simple text, that Satan cannot cast out Satan, and read in the beautiful law of God's harmony and love only ruin and desolation. Perjury will never hasten the millennium; it is a moral impossibility. We shall never effect emancipation, so long as we admit that there is a spot on our<illegible> which shall allow the 'wild and guilty phantasy that man can hold property in man.'
Massachusetts and Virginia, joined together in the unholy compact! Well may ye clasp your arms in sisterly embrace. But, stop! already the cold death sweat starts in clammy ice-drops from your brown, and the spirit of John Brown looks down from its celestial heights to witness the hour when the last gasp shall rend the chain, and usher into freedom the millions of human souls now waiting at death's door for deliverance. People of Massachusetts! when will you rise up in the dignity of your manhood, and rescue the immortal Declaration of Independence from the infamy that hangs over it. and prove that it means freedom for all? Recall your Charles Sumner from the United States Senate, and proclaim to the world that you have a your soil a place for honest men. Tell your Henry Wilson that it is far preferable to be hung as traitors, than remain the willing partners of a government which makes allegiance to God tram to itself. Send your God. Banks back to Waltham as his reward for incarnating the 7th of March<illegible> into a divinity for the people of Massachusetts, conquering their prejudices, to fall down and worship, but which, thank God, they never will!
Young men of the Commonwealth, upon whom rests the responsibility of guiding it safely through the shoals that threaten its existence, profit by the experience of the past, but be not misled by its errors. If it cannot be saved by doing justly, it will certainly perish by following injustice. Prove yourselves worthy descendants of that Pilgrim band whose rich legacy of faith is not yet exhausted, and dare to trust God and the future, as they trusted the put. We sat not be able to see exactly how redemption will come, but we know that it can come only through faith in righteousness.
'New occasions teach new duties; Time makes ancient good uncouth;
They must upward, still, and onward, who would keep abreast of Truth;
Lo! before us gleam her campers! we ourselves must Pilgrims be,
Launch our Mayflower, and steer boldly through the desperate winter sea,
Nor attempt the Future's portal with the Past's blood rusted key.'
Farewell to thee, John Brown! We would not re call thee; we would not pluck from thee the laurels thou hast won! From that realm where oppression shall no more disturb thee, nor suffering ever again mark thee for its victim, we feel the cheering influence of thy spirit, as we gird ourselves anew for the contest in which thou hast fallen. A single pulsation of thy manly heart has sent its electric thrill to the remotest corner of the empire; has heralded the glad tidings of salvation to the benighted hovels of the oppressed; has startled from its long death-sleep the withered chivalry of Virginia to a resurrection in hell, to be redeemed only when the baptism of fire and the Holy Ghost shall purge that Baptist church-yard from the blighting curse of infidelity, and rescue it from the hands of the unbeliever. Thou hast lifted this nation by its four corners, for one brief hour, from the consideration of worldly things to realize that there is a future, and in it are judgment and immortality. Thou hast called forth the heroism of woman's soul, and that noble letter of LYDIA MARIA CHILD shall go down to posterity, baptised with tears of gratitude by million of her sex, that, in the hour of our country's peril, when Senators were speechless, and honest men fettered by parchments, there was a woman who in the spirit of freedom that acknowledges no lawgiver but God, no limitations but the law of her conscience, stood forth to teach Gov. Wise constitutional law, and dared to tell him he was the traitor. Well may this nation fold thy loved ones in its arms as pensioners upon its bounty, as a small tithe of the gratitude they owe to thee! Genial as the summer breezes that revisited the earth on that bland December day, as if to celebrate the event, was the holy calm breathed over our spirits as the solemn sound of the tolling bell bore to our spiritual ears the glad anthems of thy ransomed spirit, heralding the dawn of that<illegible> when 'the blessings of the redeemed on earth, and the songs of the ransomed in heaven,' shall join in one grand chorus of praise to God the gracious given, who has permitted us to be thy co-workers in this glorious struggle, honorable only as we shall strive to imitate thy fidelity. S.B.W.
All friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause in Plymouth county, including the members of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society, are reminded of their customary meeting at this season, to be held at Plymouth, on Saturday evening and Sunday next.
A correspondent at Ann Arbor, Michigan, informs us that at Albion, in that State, one hundred guns were fired on the Second of December, in testimony of sympathy and respect for the character and heroic self-sacrifice of JOHN BROWN.
Frederick Douglass is now in Yorkshire. He is the guest of the Rev. Dr. Crofts, New Connexion minister, Halifax, who for many years was a missionary in America.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MESSAGE OF PRESIDENT BUCHANAN.
Though Congress still continues unorganized,-the House of Representative having for the last three weeks been turned into an informal gathering, by the Southern portion of it, for the discussion of the slavery question, as a patent method of suppressing all agitation upon the subject, (the Republican candidate, Mr. Sherman, on each ballot, lacking but four votes of an election,)-President Buchanan submitted his Message to both Houses on Tuesday last-a most questionable procedure. It was read in the Senate, and laid upon the table in the House. We have room for only the following extracts:-
Whilst it is the duty of the President 'from time to time to give to Congress information of the state of the Union,' I shall not refer in detail to the recent sad and blood occurrence at Harper's Ferry. Still, it is proper to observe that these events, however bad and cruel in themselves, derive their chief importance from the apprehension that they are but symptoms of an incurable disease in the public mind, which may break out in still more dangerous outrages, and terminate at last in an open war by the North to abolish slavery in South. Whilst, for myself, I entertain no such apprehension, they ought to afford a solemn warning to us all to beware of the approach of danger.
Our Union is a stake of such inestimable value as to demand our constant and watchful vigilance for its preservation. In this view, let me implore my countrymen, North and South, to cultivate the ancient feeling of mutual forbearance and good will towards each other, and try to allay the demon spirit of sectional haired and strife now alive in the land. This advice proceeds from the heart of and old public functionary whose services commenced in the last generation, among the wise and conservative statesman of that day, now nearly all passed away, and whose first and dearest earthly wish is to leave his country tranquil, prosperous, united and powerful.
If the peace of the domestic fireside throughout these States should ever be invaded-if the mothers families within this extensive region should not be able to retire to rest at night without suffering dreadful apprehensions of what may be their own fate and that of their children before morning-it would be vain to recount to such a people the political benefits which result to them from the Union. Self-preservation is the first instinct of nature; and therefore any state of society in which the sword is all the time suspened over the heads of the people, must at last become intolerable. But I indulge in no such gloomy forebodings. On the contrary, I firmly believe that the events at Harper's Ferry, by causing the people to pause and reflect upon the possible peril to their cherished institutions, will be means, under Providence, of allaying the existing excitement, and preventing further outbreaks of a similar character. They will resolve that the Constitution and the Union shall not be endangered by rash counsels, knowing that, should 'the silver cord be loosed or the golden be broken at the fountain, 'human power could never re-unite the scattered and hostile fragments.
I cordially congratulate you upon the final settlement, by the Supreme Court of the United States, of the question of slavery in the Territories, which had presented as aspect so truly formidable at the commencement of my admininstration. The right has been established, of every citizen to take his property of any kind, including slave, into the common Territoreis belonging equally to all the States of the confederacy, and to have it protected there under the federal constitution. Neither Congress, nor a territorial Legislatre, nor any human power, has any authority to annul or impair this vested right. The supreme judicial tribunal of this country, which is a co-ordinate branch of the government, has sanctioned and affirmed these principles of constitutional law, so manifestly just in themselves, and so well calculated to promote peace and harmony among the States. It is a striking proof of the sense of justice which is inherent in our people, that the prosperity in slaves has never been disturbed, to my knowledge, in any of the Territories. Even throughout the late troubles in Kansas, there has not been any attempt, as I am credibly informed, to interface, in a single instance, with the right of the master. Had any such attempt been made, the judiciary would doubtless, have afforded an adequate remedy. Should they fail to do this hereafter, it will then be time enough to strengthen their hands by further legislation. Had it been decided that either Congress or the Territorial Legislature posses the power to annul or impair the right to prosperity in slaves, THE EVEIL WOULD REINTOLERABLE. In the latter event, there would be a struggle for the majority of the members of the Legislature at each successive election, and the sacred rights of property held under the federal constitution would depend for the time being on the result. The agitation would thus be rendered incessant, whilst the Territorial condition remained, and its baneful influence would keep alive a dangerous excitement among the people of the several States.
<!-start-->
Thus has the status of a Territory, during the immediate period from its first settlement until it shall become a State, been irrevocably fixed by the final
decision of the Supreme Court. Fortunate has been this for the prosperity of the Terriritories, as well as for the tranquillity of the States. Now, emigrants from the North and the South, the East and the West, will meet in the Territories on a common platform,having brought with them that species of property best adopted, in their own opinion, to promote their welfare. From natural causes, the slavery question will in each case soon virtually settle itself; and before the Territory is preared for admission as a States in the Union, this decision, one way or the other, will have been a foregone conculsion. Meanwhile, the settlement of the new Territory will proceed without seriosu interruption, and its progress and proserity will not be endangered or retarded by violent political struggles.
When, in the progress of events, the inhabitants of any Terriotory shall have reached the number required to form a State, they will then proceed, in a regular manner, and in the exercise of the rights of popular sovereignty, to form a constituion preparatory to admission into the Union. After this has been done, to employ the language of teh Kansas Nebraska act, they shall be received into the Union with or without slavery, as their constitution may prescribe at the time of their admission.' this sound principle has happily been recognized, in some or other, by an almost unanimous vote of both houses of the last Congress.
All lawful means at my command have been employed, and shall continued to be employed, to execute the laws against the African slave trade. After a most careful and rigorous examination of our coasts and a thorough investigation of the subject, we have not been able to discover that any slaves have been imported into the United States except the cargo of the Wanderer, numbering between three and four hundred. Those engaged in this unlawful enterprise have been rigorously prosecuted; but not with as much success as their crimes have deserved. A number of them are still under prosecution.
THE WHITE HILLS: THEIR LEGENDS, LANDSCAPE, AND POETRY. BY THOMAS STARR KING. With Sixty illustrations, engraved by Andrew, from Drawings by Wheelock, Boston: Crosby, Nichols & Co. 117 Wasington Street, 1860.
This is a superb volume of 400 pages, printed on fine paper and a handsome, legible type, and as attractive and entertaining internally as it is externally beautiful. Its table of contents is as follows:- 1. The Four Valleys. 2. Exploration of the White Hilss. 3. Lake Winnipiseogee. 4. The Pemigewasset Valley and Franconia. 5. The Saco Valley and Chocorus. 6. The Vegetation of the White Mountains. 7. The Androscoggin Valley. 8. The Glen. 9. The Ascent of Mount Washington. 10. The Connecticut Valley. The numerous illustrations accompanying this volume are executed in a manner most creditable to the artist, however inadequate to convey any just conception of the real grandeur and magnificence of the mountain scenery of New Hampshire.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for January, 1860, promptly makes its apperance, with a very choice table of contents-as follows:-
Our Artists in Italy: The Amber Gods; Song of Nature; Nemophily; Substance and Shadow; Through the Fields to St. Peter's; The Experience of Samuel Absalom, Filibuster; Roba di Roma; Abdel-Hassan; About Spires; The Professor's Story; Andenken;
Central British America; Art; Reviews and Literary
Notices; Recent American Publications.

A private letter from Rome, dated November 
27th, says, Theodore Parker is slowly improving in
health, I think, and is cheerful, though, of course, 
he longs for his old work.' The writer goes on to
speak of Mr. Parker having most pleasantly kept
Thanksgiving day at his house in Rome.

The funeral of Edwin Coppie, of John Brown's 
army, took place near However, Ohio, on the 18th
inst, and was conducted according to Quaker rites,
his friends belonging to that order. There were 2000
persons at the funeral.
<c02>
THE PIRATE YACHT WAKDBREE. 
The famous yacht WANDERER made her appearance in Boston harbor on Saturday of last week in a most unexpected, and altogether unparalleled manner. She left Savannah on the 14th October last, in defiance, as has always been represented, of the revenue authorities of that port, far the purpose of making a voyage to Africa on a slave-trading expedition. In going down the river, the two cannon on board were loaded with grape and cannister, and all the pistols and muskets were heavily loaded with balls; and the captain swore that every man who did not assist in defending the vessel in case she was overhauled by the revenue
cutter, should be shot through the head. After getting well out to see, the captain called the men all and told them that, instead of going to Matanzas, and Nasaau, N. P., and back to Savannah-where they had shipped-he was going direct to the coast of Africa after a cargo of slaves, and threatened the life of each man if he did not carry out his orders to the letter. But a history of the voyage is best told by one who is well posted in the affair, Mr. Henry Welton of British North America, in whose charge the yacht has been brought home. He says
On the 20th of October at 9 P. M., Lincoln Patten, under the assumed name of David Martin, first having succeeded in getting on board the schooner about fifteen men to assist him in getting stores and provisions, came himself, accompanied by Edward Talbot and Captain T. Black, shipping agent for the vessel, and drawing a revolver, swore he would shoot the first man who refused his assistance, or offered resistance. in getting the vessel to sea. He loaded both cannon with grape shot, armed his crew, and made every preparation to resist the United States revenue cutter, if she interfered in the progress down the river.
He compelled Edward Talbot to pilot her down, in doing which she was twice run ashore, sad remained immovable for fire hours. Having supplied the crew copiously with liquor, he made sail and proceeded to sea. carrying most of the men away contrary to their wishes. Mr. Talbot and Capt. Black ha seat back.
The voyage purported to be for Matanzas and Nassau, N. P., for fruit. and back to Savannah, some on board having signed articles to that effect; but Capt. Patten, calling all hands on the quarter deck, declared the vessel to be without papers, the collector refusing a clearance. He declared his intention to proceed to the coast of Africa for a cargo of seven hundred negroes, and from thence to Cardenas to dispose of them at the rate of $650 each. He stated he was well acquainted with the trade, having already landed several cargoes in the barques Niagara, Ocean Tyrant, Frances Ellen and several other vessels.
In the hurry of leaving Savannah, he took neither chronometer, charts, or nautical almanac, and we were compelled to go entirely by the reckoning. On the 23d of October he boarded the ship Troy, of Boston, and succeeded in buying an epitome. Blunt's Coast Pilot, and a chart of the coast of Florida, for which he paid $975. After leaving the Troy, a barque hove in sight and the captain bore away in chase, firing a gun to bring her to. She proved to be the barque 'Eliza Brewer,' commanded evidently by some acquaintance, as the captain hauled bit wind and stood away from her under sail. The next day be gave chase to a schooner, both guns being loaded with grape, but on passing under her stern, he exchanged longitudes and kept on his course. Nothing material again occurred until the 28th of October, when all sail was made to overtake a brig which appeared in the northwest; came up with her at 8 o'clock P. M., but could not make her out; kept pursuing her, tacking every hour and firing heavy charges of grape to make her heave to, but without avail, for at 11 o'clock she was not in sight.
We again shaped our course for Fayal, encountering a severe gale. The captain being all this time full of liquor, was extremely reckless, and endangered the safety of the vessel in carrying sail, sometimes driving her twenty knots an hour. On the afternoon of the 5th we made the island of Floras, making the voyage in fifteen days. On nesting the settlement of Santa Cruz, we fired guns, and were boarden. by the English Consul, the Chief Magistrate, and a pilot, Patten than produced a false clearance of the vessel, under the name of the ' William, of Savannah, bound to Smyrna, staling that he had lost tails, water, provisions, spars, &c, galley and the chronometer, and asking for a supply of provisions, water and spars, which they agreed to let him have. The vessel laid 
here five days, and obtained the promised supplies. The magistrates becoming suspicious, Capt. Patten on the sixth day (having the night before smuggled two. women on board) slipped from the barber, leaving one man behind. He did not pay a dollar for his supplies, and took away three men from the island against their will. He made no great secret of his intention to dispose of the women on the coast to the highest bidder, declaring they would exchange for at least eighty Africans. 
We then steered for Madeira, and on the 7th day made the island, anchoring at a small village called Point de Sea, but the authorities refusing supplies and permission to land, we run for Funcha, twelve miles distant. Finding a British steamer here, the Captain bore away for Cape St. Ann, intending to pass between the Canaries. He declared his intention to board the first vessel that refused him provisions, and take them by compulsion, swearing that he would shoot the first man who refused to fight, or assist him in such an undertaking.
 On the 22nd of November we spoke the barque Clara, of Bordeaux, but she refused supplies, when the captain bore away for two other barques, and at 4 o'clock spoke the barque Jenny, of Marseilles, which agreed to the captain's demand. Patten launched a boat, and taking four men, boarded the vessel. We kept on oar course, set all sail, and steered to the eastward, determined to leave him, and give the vessel up to the laws of the United States. The next day we made the westernmost of the Canary group, and thence continued our course for Boston.
The Wanderer came to anchor off India wharf, about ten o'clock, Saturday forenoon. She has on board ten men and the two Portuguese women alluded to. The crew are young men in a state of destitution. Mr. Weliton proceeded at once to notify the Collector, who, as the vessel was without papers, is sued an order for her seizure until the matter could be investigated in the U. S. Courts. The owner of the vessel is Mr. Lamar, of Savannah, who, it will be remembered, advertised her as a runaway vessel at the time of her leaving Savannah.
The Wanderer, though styled a yacht, is a fore and at schooner of over 250 tons. She was built in New York for a pleasure yacht, and as such once visited this port. Her cabins, once elegant, are now in a dirty condition. She has now on board some 260 bushels potatoes, 25,000 gallons water, large quantities of bread, and other articles. Her water is stowed in iron tanks, which are placed in the hold and run of the vessel, and so made as to fit closely to the internal shape of the vessel. Her cabin is a very large one, considering the size of the vewel. Upon raiding the carpet, the loose floor of the cabin can be taken up, revealing the stores secreted in the hold. Her appearance is rakish, and she possesses great sailing power. Hundreds visited the wharves to get a look at the new lion of the wave, and the latest sensation of the city. The yacht was formally taken possession of, Saturday forenoon, by United States Marshal Watson Freeman. Mr. Weltan, it appears, quietly telegraphed of his coming to the Marshal or District Attorney Wood bury, from Tarpaulin Cove, and a libel was accordingly issued, changing her with being a slaver, by virtue of which she was seized.
The following are the names of the crew:
Charles Cole, Wm. Davis, Thos. J. Murphy, Nathl. Allen, Goo. C. Chesterfield, Wm. Leni, John Smith, J. B. Kenny, Henry Pratt, Albert Morgan, George Pepper, Henry Suntbers. The names of the two Portugese woman are Annie Felice and Mary Ann Jose. They an retained as witnesses.-Boston Atlas and Bes.
THE 'WANDERER' CASE.-The ease of the yacht Wanderer, libelled as a slaver, is undergoing an investigation by the United States authorities in this city. The examination for good reason is not to be made public at present. The two mates and crew of the vessel, together with the two Portuguese women, who were taken oa board at Santa Cruz, were brought before Commissioner A. S. Coshman yesterday noon, and ordered to be held as witnesses. A formal com plaint has been made against the captain of the Wanderer. The alleged owner of the yacht is said to be on his way from the South. The case is likely to bring up some interesting points, not the least of which is where the poor crew an to get their pay. Atlas and Be, 28th inst.
BATH, Maine, Dee. 26th.-The story that Lincoln Patten, of this city, was in any way connected with the schooner Waaderer, ia a gross fabrication. Capt. Patten has been at home for some time, seen and known of all men, and possesses not one of the characteristics attributed to David Martin.
LATER FROM LIBERA-A NEW PHASE OF THE SLAVE TRADE-NEW YORK, Dec. 21. Advices from Liberia, Africa, to the latter part of Sept, report a new and most extraordinary phase of the Slave trade. The Rebecca, a Baltimore clipper, commanded by Capt. Carter, arrived here in July, last, with 42 colored immigrants from New Orleans, liberated from the Donough estate. She was under a charter from the Colonization Society, but having landed the free blacks she moved off to the South west Coast, and took in a full cargo of slaves, with which freight she is now bound home.
What an extraordinary revelation!
<c03>
LETTER OF GOVERNOR WISE TO GOV. CHASE OF OHIO.
To His Excellency the Governor of Ohio:-
Dear Sir-I respectfully mend to you the information contained in a letter to the President of the United States, of which the enclosed is a copy. I submit it to you in the confidence that you will faithfully cooperate with the authorities of this State in the peace of our coterminous borders. Necessity may compel us to pursue invaders of our jurisdiction into yours; if so. joy may be assured that it will be done with no disrespect to the sovereignty of your State. But this State expects the confederate duty to be observed, of guarding you territory from booming dangerous to our peace and safety, by affording places of depot and rendezvous to lawless desperadoes who may seek to war upon our people. With the highest respect, I am, sir, jours, truly,
HENRY A. WISH
Governor Chase's Reply.
STATE OR OHIO, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, COLUMBUS, Dec.1, 1859.
Sir-Your letter of the 25th ult., postmarked 26th, together with a copy of the name date addressed by you to the President, were received yesterday. No intelligence, other than that contained in those letters, has reached me of any such preparations as are described in them, and the letters themselves convey no such information in respect to place or persons as is necessary to enable the authorities of the state, in the absence of other intelligence, to interpose with any certainty or effect. Whenever it shall be made to appear, either by evidence transmitted by you or otherwise, that unlawful combinations are being formed by any persons or at any place in Ohio, for the of Virginia, or for the commission of crimes against her people, it will undoubtedly become the duty of the Executive to use whatever power he may possess to break up each combinations and purposes and that duty, it need not be doubted will be promptly performed.
I observe, with regret, an intimation in your letter that necessity may compel the authorities of Virginia to pursue invaders of her jurisdiction into the territories of adjoining States. It is to be hoped that no circumstances all arise, creating, in their opinion, such a necessity. Laws of the United States, as well as laws of Ohio, indicate the mode in which persons charged with crime in another State, and escaping into this, may be demanded and must be surrendered; and the people of this State will require from her authorities the punctual fulfilment of every obligation to the other members of the Union. They cannot consent, however, to the invasion of her territory by armed bodies from other States, even for the purpose of pursuing sad arresting fugitives from justice.
I have the honor to be, Very respectfully, yours,
S. P. CHASE.
His Excellency, HENRY A. WISE, &c.
CHARLESTOWN, VA., December 21. 
The military are duly taping as fast as the railroad can carry them homeward. The Fincastle Guard left this morning. The military government will cease on  Saturday, when Gen. Taliafeiru and his staff will depart. The restoration of the civil government and  civil rights will be the occasion of a grand jubilee  among our people.
 President Buchanan has addressed a note to Andrew Hunter, asking whether Stevens will be tried in the United States Court or by the Virginia authorities,  He was unable to give any definite answer, on account  of the refusal of Attorney Harding to enter a nalle prosequi.
CHARLESTOWN, Dec 20.-A despatch from Columbia, dated 19th, says that both Houses have adopted a resolution that South Carolina owes it to her own citizens to protect them and their property from every  enemy, and that, for the purpose of military preparation for any emergency, the sum of $100,000 be appropriated. 
The Senate also adopted a resolution that, while still deferring to her Southern sinters, she respectfully announces to them that, in her judgment, the safety and honor of the slaveholding States imperatively demand a speedy separation the free-soil States of the confederacy, and earnestly invites and urges her sister States of the South to originate the movement of Southern separation, in which she pledges herself to unite. 
Philadelphia, Dec. 22.-The Committee of Arrangements of the State Union Meeting received letter from Governor Wise, acknowledging the reception of the proceedings of the Union meeting from this city. He says, Your State in the late disturbance has acted the part of a sister State. We rely upon her loyalty to conservative principles as they are embodied in the Constitution of the Union, and are assured that the mass of her citizens would be our brethren in arms against wrongs to either Commonwealth. I will invite the Legislature of Virginia now in session to take an order upon the presentation of a flag, which I pray may be a sign of our union forever.'
NEWARK, N. J., Dec. 23.-A large and enthusiastic Union meeting was held here this evening. Mayor Bigelow in the chair. The resolutions were conservative and soundly Democratic. They were unanimously parsed. Eloquent addresses were made, deprecating agitation, by Mean. T. F. Frelinghuysen, Wm. R. M. Donald, Garrett D. Wall, and other distinguished citizens of New Jersey. A great number of letters were received from public men by the Committee, which they intend to publish.
EFFIGY-Burning.-The students at Princeton College, N. J., showed their bringing up and rowdy proclivities the night of Dec. 3d, by a demonstration of Southern sentiment and practices. They marched in procession bearing such banners 'as' John Brown, the horse-thief, murderer and martyr;' '' Down with Seward;' Down with Henry Ward Beecher,' &c., They also bore effigies of Seward and Beecher, and burned them in front of the College with a wild hur­rah. Princeton should be purged.
The Medical Students Make an Exit.-The medical students of this city number about fourteen hundred, about six hundred and fifty of whom come from south of Mason and Dixon's line. In yesterday's issue we published the proceedings of the meeting, at which the participants resolved to leave en masse for their Southern homes. A little over two hundred of them, it is supposed, left last night by the night train. Some of the departing students informed us that about two hundred more would follow in a day or two.-Philadelphia North American, 224.
An Envoy from South Carolina to VIRGINIA.- The Charleston Courier, of Friday, says there is good reason for believing that the Hon. C. G. Meminger will be clothed with the honorable and important office of representing South Carolina as the Special Commissioner to the State of Virginia, according to the provisions made by the Legislature that has just closed its labors.
The correspondent of the Philadelphia Ledger says:-
'I learn that Governor Wise has laid before the joint Legislature over 500 letters and documents, sent him upon the subject of the Harper's Ferry Invasion. Part of John Brown's correspondence is also in Richmond, and more of it in Charlestown, Va. This correspondence was wide-spread between Kansas and New England, and though names, and dates, and places of writing are obliterated from some of the letters, it nevertheless implicates persons, I am told, now little suspected by the country. The Committee in the Senate will Wing these facts to light, but in all cases proof will be difficult.'
Browne, editor of the Washington Constitution, chief democratic organ of the nation, is charged with having applauded Mr. Crawford, of Georgia, when that gentleman made his disunion speech in the House. Had a Republican that acted, the last of it never would have been heard of, while the last of him would soon have come about; but as Browne it an Irishman and a democrat, he has a double right to be a disunionist, and a disturber of the peace. He is one of those Hibernians to whom lawlessness is first nature, and who carry the Tipperary code of morals with them wherever they go.- Traveller.
Senator Wilson was called to account, in the Senate on Monday, by one of the Southern masters, for attending a public meeting in Natiek. He succeeded in giving such apology as was condescendingly accepted, and has been allowed, therefore, to retain his seat. Had he told the scoundrel to mind his own business, it would have seemed more in accordance with that Constitutional equality of which the Southern lords are always boasting-Natick Observe
Will the Union Savers be pleased to look and see how the organ of South Carolina nullification treats them and their efforts:-
'But, let the jugglery go-it will amuse somebody, we suppose. Jack, stand one side, and let the  key. It is a funny. Mercury.
<c04>
THE LIFE OF JOHN BROWN.
Thayer & Eldridge, of Boston, are about to publish the life to Captain John Brown.
The Harper's Ferry affair has been a fruitful harvest to many pictorial journals and to writers, whose regard for truth was never much above zero. The country will probably be soon flooded with Various volumes, each purporting to be the life of John Brown. No one should purchase such a work, unless entirely satisfied of its reliability. What we need and desire is, a true picture of the old hero; and if we can get it in such form that each sentence will sound like the crack of rifle, and each page seem a miniature Bunker Hill, so much the better-it will be in keeping with John Brown's charter.
Who can so well write the life of Osawatomie Brown as James Redpath, who was with him in Kansas, and fully identified in felling with the noble object of the man's life? Had John Brown selected a biographer, James Redpath would unquestionably have been the man; and it is who is engaged upon the work the firm above named are about to issue. Anti-Slavery Buget.
A bill is now before the Lower House of the Legislature of Missouri, having passed the Senate, to sell or banish all the free negroes of the State. A correspondent sends us the following summary of its provisions:-
The first section prohibits the emancipation of a slave, unless the master gives bond, with sureties, to move the slave out of the State within ninety days.
Sec.3, dooms to slavery every free negro who shall be a resident of the State after September, 1861, and over 13 years of ago.
Sec.4, requires the Sheriff to bring every such negro before a magistrate, who, on proof of his freedom; gives the Sheriff a certificate, who, thereupon, must proceed to sell the free negro at auction.
Sec.6. The purchaser to have the same rights to the negro as if he had always been a slave. Sec.7. The proceeds to be paid into the County Treasury.
Sec.8. The sheriff to notify free negroes before September, 1860, of the act.
Sec.9. Free negroes under 18, after September, 1860, to be bound out as apprentices until 21, by the County Court, and allowed twelve months after that time to leave the State.
Sec.11. Should such free not to be found in the State after that time, he shall be sold as provided in Section 4.
Sec.15, punishes the officer who neglects his duty. 
Sec.17. Any free negro who comes into the State; and remains in it twelve hours, is subject to be sold a slave.
NEW YORK, December 25th.-The Washington correspondent of the Herald telegraphs that the officers of the Brown raid Investigating Committee are busy obtaining witnesses. To-day, the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate subpenaed Judge Arny, of Kansas, with whom it is supposed John Brown left some papers of value. It is said that they related wholly to his financial affairs, and had nothing to do with his incursion at Harper's Ferry. Arny refused to receive them, and be responsible for them, and they were left with Mr. Conway, Congressman elect, before Brown left Kansas, and Mr. Country put them in his safe. Mr. Conway, who is on his return to Kansas, will be sent for to testify. Augustus Wattles, formerly one of the editors of the Herald of Freedom, at Lawrence, Kansas, will be suspended. He is the author of a letter found in Brown's bag.
Capt. Montgomery, one of Brown's companions in driving Hamilton from Southern Kansas, will also be brought here. Hamilton has since died in Arizonia. G. P. Lowrey, Adjutant General of the Free State forces under Gov. Reeder, now practising law in New York, will be sent for. As Chairman of the Committee of Safety at the time the treaty of peace was made between Robinson and Gov. Shannon, Gen. Lowrey caused Brown to be arrested for attempting to atir up the people against any attempt of the Free State men to make peace with the pro-slavery party. Dr. Howe, of Boston, and Mr. Sanborn, of New Hampshire, who figured conspicuously in Brown's correspondence, will soon the subpenaed if they can be found. Also Gerrit Smith, if his health will warrant his coming.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.-We have been informed that Richard Realf, the John Brown Secretary of State, was seen in Broadway last night. If this be so, it is more than probable that the messenger from, the Senatorial Committee to Austin, Texas, will be disappointed in finding the object of his search.-New York Tribune, 27th inst.
INCONSISTENCY,-We copied a few days ago, a strong recommendation of non-intercourse between Virginia and the free States, from the Richmond Enquirer, which paper declared that Gov. Wise was an advocate of this non-intercourse system as the highest and necessary policy of the South. In that same Richmond Enquirer of yesterday-the non-intercourse-with-the-North Enquirer-- we find ten editorial laudatory notices of books, every one of which is published at New York or Boston, with any number of advertisements of goods for sale of purely Northern manufacture, and some headed with Northern and Eastern titles. Could there be a more explicit declaration that the talk about non-intercourse is just so much buncombe, and nothing more?-N. Y. Commercial. 
UNION-SAVING DOWN SOUTH.-What a humiliating commentary upon the Union-saving servility of the North was the recent attempt to hold a meeting on that subject in Washington! The South, and the South only, threatens to dissolve the Union. The two Houses of Congress are the focal point of these treasonable utterances. Right there, under the eaves of the capitol, where, above all places in the country, such a meeting was needed, some simple-minded people gathered an assembly. Of course, it was, broken up in a row. The peaceful portion of the audience escaped amid the jeering strains of martial music. Whether the tune was Hail Columbia, or the Rogue's March, the telegraph has not informed us. Could hypocrisy further go! How long will Northern men, who hold the title deeds of their own souls, consent to perform service and labor for the South in this Union-saving business? After this exhibition at Washington, one would think that even Commercial Doughfaceism would have pluck enough to refuse to he sold in market overtly by frightened fossils and political tricksters.-N. Y. Tribune. 
UNGRATEFUL. The southern fire eaters are not at satisfied with the efforts of the union Savers' in the North, and not a few of the journals and public men declare this in so many words. McRea of Mississippi even finds fault with Gen. Cushing's speech at Fancuil Hall, as lowering the standard to the enemy; Stewart, another member of Congress, from Maryland, says then meetings of the North amount to nothing;' the Charleston Mercury ridicules the conservatism of Edward Everett, because he is opposed to slavery, they say; the Richmond Enquirer says the election in New York city is worth more to them than all the resolutions that may be published; and all of them view Gov. Lincoln's speech as against them. These Southerners who growl at their friends here, who will not swallow a whole negro, little know what those friends have to sacrifice to support them.
THE RESULT.-While the diminished vote of Gov. Banks is doubtless owing in some measure to the want of interest felt by the Republicans throughout the State, owing to the absence of any exciting <illegible> and the confidence of success without great effort, it cannot be denied that it was due also, to some extent, to the dissatisfaction felt by many Republicans at the
policy of the Governor, and the inefficiency of the Legislature. We cannot otherwise explain the fact that Gov, Bank's vote has decreased nearly ten thousand, while that of Butler is but two or three thousand less than Beach's not withstanding the distracted state of the Republican party, and Mr. Brigga receives some three thousand votes more than Mr. Lawrence did last year. Mr. Bank's recommendation of the purchase of the Hancock estate, his opposition to the personal liberty bill, his advocacy of placing the Webster statue in front of the State House, and the general disposition he has manifested to court the favor of the hunkers of Hoston, have been received with dislike by many Republicans, and have tended to keep them away from the polls.-New Bedford Rep, Standard.
DR. ROCK'S LECTURE. The lecture by this intelligent and cultivated colored gentleman, last evening, upon Mme. de Stael, at Mercantile Hall, was well attended. The speaker gave a full sketch of the great writer's life from early childhood to her last hours, interweaving the prominent European events with which, by her genius and character, she was connected. This field of study, which will never fail to interest the cultivated and the curious, was worthily. traversed, the lecturer taking occasion to present his own views pointedly, while naturally, developing his subject. He showed a Vast range of reading, with a happy mastery over his materials. These were set off with a style of elocution which, though entirely devoid of pretension, was at once easy, dignified and impressive. We have listened to many a lecture which had the benefit of a distinguished name, that did not reveal half the merit of this. We trust that Dr. Hock may always have that hearing before the community which qualities deserve-and we know he wishes nothing more.-Boston Journal.
<c05>
AMERICAN ANTSLAVERY SOCIETY.
collections for the Tract fund, by Carolins F. Putnam.
Miss Susan J. Nowhall, Portland, Me., $15 00
Neal Dow, Esq., $5, Mrs. Elian Thomas 5,
Portland, Me., 10 00
B. D. Peck 3 50, Nathan winslow.2, do. 5 50
Miss octavia Fox 2, Mrs. Fitch 1 do. 3 00
Miss Titcomb, Mrs. Horton, Mrs. A. Ware, Mrs. 
Warren, Miss jane McLellan, Thos. Hammond, do., 1 dollar each, 6 00
5 others in Portland, 2 50
16 persons in Ellasworth, Me., 6 45
9 Persons in Babgor, Me.Me.,6 25
7 persons in cherryfield, Me 3 55
11 persons in hallewell, Me., 2 64
4 persons in S. Bridgton, Me., 3 15
4 persons in Mechanic falls Me., 1 36
2 persons in Orland, Me., 0 50
4 person in NewPorthland Me., 2 11
1 person in St Stephens, N. B., 0 50
7 person in florence, mass., 3 03
2 person in Canton, mass., 1 50
$73 04
Wm. R. Bryden, Boston, by S.M., Jr., for Tract Fund, 1 50
Donations.
Friend at Hackney, England, by Rev. s. J. 
May, 4 86
Miss mary Carpenter, Bristol, England, 4 36
Fall River anti-Slavery sewing circle, 30 00
collections by A. J. Grover, Earlvills, Illirois. 
Jacob Powell, sterling, Ill.,3 15
Collections at A.S. meetings,2 22
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treastirer.
PLYMOUTH. -The annual anti-Slavery gathering at Forefathers' Rock will take place on Saturday, Dec., 31st 1859. and january 1st.1860.
Meetings will be held in Davis Hall, Plymonth, through the day and evening of sunday, Jan, 1st
Wx, LLOYD GARRISON, WRNDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, CHARLES L RYMOND, SAMUEL MAY, Jr and other speakers, are expected to be present.
The annual meeting of the old colry Anti-slavery Society will be held in connection with the above. And all persons are invited to attend.
BOURNE SPOONER, President.
SAMUEL DYER, Sec.
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL COURSE OF ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES.
The fifth Lecture of this series will be given by E.H. HEYWOOD, on Sunday evening next, Jan. 31st, in Lyceum Hall.
Lecture to commence at 7 o'clock, Single admission, 5 cents.
CAROLINE BALCH,
Rec. Sec. Salem Female A. S. Society. 
Salem, Dec.28.
ANREW T. FOSS, an agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery society, will lecture as follows;-
Holden, friday, Dec.30
Barre, Saturday and sunday evenings, Dec.31 and Jan.1.
Petersham, Tuesday, Dec.31 and jan.3.
Athol Wednesday, Dec.31 and Jan.4.
Athol depot, Thursday, Dec.31 and Jan 5.
Bald winville, Friday, Dec.31 and Jan 6.
Fitchburg, sunday, Dec.31 and Jan 8.
CHARLES SPEAR will speak in Boylston Hall next sunday afternoon, on american Despotism, and in the evening on Virginia Tragedies. A New Year's Celebration will be held in the same Hall, on Monday evening, Jan 2d, at 7 o'clock, in aid of the cause.
DIED-In Westminster, Dec. 23d, of consumption, Lucy W., wife of BENSON BIGELOW, aged 50.In her passage to the heavenly home, her children have lost a true-hearted mother, her husband a faithful and earnest companion, society one ver ready to labor as her strength permmited in every cause designed to elevate mankind.
At Ann Arbor, Michingan, Dec. 9, MARY F. WENDELLINE, only child of G. B. AND CATHAR NE A. STEBBINS, was born to a higher life the day before her third birth-day.
'Another hand is beckoning us,
Another call is given,
And glowa once more with angel steps
The path that leads to heaven.
Fold her, O Father, in thine arms,
And let her henceforth be 
A messenger of love between 
Our human hearts and thee.
Still let her mild rebukings stand 
Between us and the wrong,
And her dear memory serve to make
our faith in goodness strong.'
Standard and Bugle, please copy.
20,000 COPIES
Already subscribed for
IN NEW ENGLAND,
IN ADVANCE OF PUBLICATION.
The great Book of the Day!
NOW READY.
THE LIFE OF 
CAPT. JOHN BROWN, 
BY JAMES REDPATH.
Authorized by, and having the sanctin of the Brown Family.
1 volume, 12 mo., 400 pages, handsomely bound in cloth, two beautiful engravings, and a 
MAGNIFIOENT STEEL PORTRAIT.
Price, One Dollar,
To be published before. 
This work will contain an autobiography of 
BROWN'S EARLY LIFE,
never before published, which is the most characteristic and interesting production of the kind since the 'Autobiography of Franklin.' No reprint of it will be allowed. This work will not be put in the book-stores, and must be procured of the publishers' Agents. A liberal per centage on each copy sold is secured by contract to the family of Capt. Brown,
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, Publishers,
Nos.114 and 116 WASHINGTON STREET.
D231W
HELPER'S
IMPENDING CRISIS. 
A LIVE BOOK
50,000 copies have been Sold.
NOW IS THE TIME!
THIS is the work that is creating so much excitement IN CONGRESS. Large 12 mo. Volume, 420 pages, cloth. Price,$1.00. octayo edition, paper covers, 50 cents,
For sale by Bookseilers and News-Agents every where. 
ACTIVE AGENTS WANTED,
to sell this work the country through. Terms liberal.
Single copies sent to any address, postpaid, on receipt of price. Address
A.B.BURDICK, Publisher,
D23 3:
No3145 Nasssau st., New York.
<illegible>
HOME SCHOOL.
THE next Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday Jan. 4.1860, and continue Fifteen weeks. For particulars, see Catalogue and Circular, to be had by addressing
W.S. HAYWOOD,
A.B.HAYWOOD,
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compund remedty, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alternative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarseparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsparills, is reputed to cure. it is believed that such a reinedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst case to be found do the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, EAUTTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SLAT RHEUM, SCLAD HRAND, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILLIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAG DISEASE, DROPST, NEURALGIA OR TRC DOULOUREUK, DEBILITY, DYSPRPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERTSIPE. LAR, ROSE OR Sr. ANTHONY'S <illegible> and indeed, the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITZS OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a grest prometer of health, when taken in the spring' to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of they year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes, can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruption, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it, whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live louget, for cleansing the blood keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disrodered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extract of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled. by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been franuds upon the slck, for they not only contain little. if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparills which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheatstill we call this compound sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for beliveing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cur. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
FREPARD BY
DR. J.C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottles six Reitles for $5.

Ayer's cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of throat and Lung complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, whever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throuhout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is keptup to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURT OF
Costizeness, Indigestions, foul stomach, Erysipelas, HEADACTS, piles, Rheumation, Eruptions and Skin diseases, Liver complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, and Sale, wornes, gout, Neuralgies, as a <illegible> Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive cape take them pleassantly, and they are the best sperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box;Five bores for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, physicians, Statearnes. eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedles, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. the agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also felt descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER;S, and take no others. the sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALE&CO.,
BREWERE, STEVENS &CUSHING,
Bostow.
BROWN& PRICE, sALEM;
H.H. HAY, Portland;
J.N.MORTON &CO., Concord, N.H.
Sold by Druggists and dealers in Medicine every where
6m
may?
JUST PUBLISHED, 
The John Brown Invasion,
AN AUTHENTIC HISTORY
HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY:
WITH FULL DETAILS OF THE
CAPTURE, TRIAL AND EXEOUTION OF THE INVADERS,
and all the incidents connected therewith; with a LITHOGRAPHTO PORTRAIT of Capt. John Brown,from a Photograph by Whippls.
Published by JAMES CAMPBELL, 62 and 64 Coruhill. Boston. For sale by J.J. DYER & CO., A WILLIAMS & CO., REDDING &CO., and by Newsmen and Perlodical Dealers throughout the Frse States.
Dec 30.
Resistance to Slaveholders!
THIS day published, a pamphlet of 36pages, entitled-
THE NATICK RESOLUTION:
OR,
Resistance to slaveholders the Right and Duty of the southern slave and northern Freeman.
BY HENRY C. WRIGET.
TO TIRANTS IS TO CON."
Price, 10 cents. To be had at Hela Marsh's 14 Bromfield street, Boston, and at the liberator office, 21 Cornhill.
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR:
OR, LOW WAGES AND HARD WORK.
THEREE Lectures by Mrs. C.H. Dall, as follows:
I. Death or Dishonor.
II. Verify your Credentials.
III. 'The Opening of the Gates.'
Forming a thorough examination,-with abundant and interesting Facts and Figures, or the while question of woman's labor. 1 vol. 16mo. Paper, 50 cents: cloth, 63 cents. Sent by mail, post paid, on receipt of the price.
Just published, by walker, wise & co., 14 Washington street, Boston.
Dec 9.
2wls.
JOHN BROWN.
An excellent license of the 'Here of Harper's Ferry,' with his autograph,-replies to questions propounded to him by Senator Mason and others, at the time of his capture,-and his inimitable address to the Virginia court when about to receive his sentence of death:-may be had at this office reading & co state street, wholesale agents Price. 15 cents-$10 per hundred.
Dec.16.
NOW READY. PRICE TWENTY CENTS, THREE DISCOURSES ON THE RELIGION OF REASON. BY GERRIT SMIZH. With a Letter to WILLIAM GOODETY. Orders supplied by ROSS & TOUSEY, 121 NASSATS New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
THE RIVEN OAK.
Firm the oak upon the hill-top,
Though its branches may be torn, 
Standeth in its solemn glory,
Standeth solemn and forlorn.
Though the lightning rend asunder,
And prostrate the noble bols,
Acorns that have fallen under
Shall increase a thousand fold.
So old Brown of Osswatomie,
With his sons in blood and death,
Like the dragon's teeth when planted,
Serried armies shall bequeath. D. R.
DAWN.
You've surely reckoned now without your host,
O, Henry Wise!
A voice already sounds along oar coast,
Borne from the skies,
That a new saint bath entered Heaven's courts,
Whose open gates receive the welcome guest;
And where the sweetest music ever floats,
No more by tyrants pierced he finds his rest-
His duty all fulfilled.
Peace his reward; but, ah! no peace for thee,
Proud, cruel land, cursed with this infamy,
Thou who his blood hast spilled!
Sing praises for him, then-the good, the brave!
Toll on, sad bells!
Your solemn music over land and wave,
The requiem swells,
Of one as true as steel, whose noble heart
Beat with fierce courage in the bondman's cause,
Who with God's poor so greatly chose his part,
and died the victim of accursed laws.
His spirit liveth still;
And lives to haunt the tyrants of mankind,
To wake new zeal in every noble mind,
And nerve heroic will. D. R.
THE LIBERATOR.
THE HARPER'S FERRY TRAGEDY.
A DISCOURSE,
Delivered in the Park Street Church, Portland, Me.
Dec. 4, 1859,
BY REV. FREDERICK FROTHINGHAM.
This past week is a marked one in our country's history. It has brought us a new and startling experience. For nearly eighty years, we have been drinking the wine of iniquity. Cup after cup has been presented to our lips. At first we did not like it. It made us sick. Then it became sweet. Gradually we found that it was stealing away our heart and brain, and making us prematurely old. We shook our head, and thought that to-morrow we would abstain. To-morrow did not come. Mean­while, we dashed down draught upon draught, each more nauseous than the one before, till at last, on the very verge of hopeless drunkenness, we have swallowed one so intolerably acrid, so unmistakably poisonous, that we are startled. Sobered, for once, by our terror, we seriously ask what is next to come. Well may we, if indeed it be not too late. It may be that we are so besotted, that only through the delirium tremens of fratricidal war, and the self-destruction thence to come, is deliverance possible from the horrid thraldom that has bound us so long. It may be that the mene, mene, tekel, upharsin of God's judgment has gone forth against us-that we have been weighed in the balance, and found wanting.
To-day, the American Church remembers the death of her Lord-the great malefactor of eighteen and a half centuries ago-slain for no crime save his exceeding holiness; for he did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth; slain because wicked men said, 'We have a law, and by that law he ought to die.' It might be thought that one such instance should suffice for all time. It was reserved for a land calling itself after that ancient malefactor, for an age self-complacent on account of the wide diffusion of his principles, for a people which owes more, perhaps, than any other to him, to prove the contrary; and with a deeper guilt than blackened Scribe and Pharisee-for they knew not what they did-to put to a malefactor's death one of his truest followers. And this not for crime, but because 'we have a law'-a law which makes humanity crime, and by that law he ought to die. Day before yesterday-the day consecrated, as is their wont, by many professing followers of Christ, to preparing for the commemoration and communion of this day-perished, by the hangman's rope, all that could die of nearly the noblest man our country has produced. He perished because he loved God with all his heart, and his neighbor as himself. Could there be conceived a fitter preparation for a thorough understanding of the Master's death?
His enemies thought they had extinguished the ancient malefactor. But they mistook. The deadly cross blazed with the glory of imperishable life. The ignominious tree lifted him into the light of an unfading honor. His enemies know enough of that ancient story to assure them that they hare not extinguished the American malefactor; that their deadly gallows shall blaze with the glory of imperishable life, their ignominious punishment lift him into an unfading honor. They feel that it has already done so with themselves, and they are troubled. Their feeling is prophetic. The end is not here, but the beginning of the end is; an end so certain, perhaps so sudden, that the word may come into our mouth as into David's of old-'I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay-tree. Yet he passed away, and lo! he was not; yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.' Brown's death, like that of his Master of old, is the sign of the close of the beginning of the end. In Christ's death, sin was slain. In John Brown's is slain the sin of slavery. But as Christ died, no hair of an enemy's head injured, but Brown with his enemies' blood upon his hands, so beware lest, as sin's night shall pass away before the peaceful rising of the Sun of Righteousness, the blackness of slavery's night pass away before the lurid blaze of the fires of bloody strife. If we go on as we have been doing, it surely will. Brown is the Jeremiah of that consummation. But if we rise in our might, and say not only that slavery shall go no farther, but that it shall not be even where it is, it may not be too late to avert the coming Nemesis of blood.
How close is the parallel between the disciples and the Master's fate! It gives me my text:
'And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.'-John 12: 32.
The drama of Harper's Ferry may now be said to he closed-i. e., in the same sense as a Paixhan shell's, when it has been fired from the gun into a city full of combustibles, and no man knows where it shall strike or what it shall do. It has given that petty Virginian village a name in history, from its connection with one of the world's heroes. In coming time, men shall make pilgrimages thither, as to a holy shrine, and fondly trace out every spot consecrated by the presence of the martyr for liberty.
The first act of this drama appeared too trifling to deserve serious treatment. It had even a ludicrous aspect. That twenty-two men-let us name the very largest number-should capture, without resistance, a town of 2000 inhabitants, put them to flight, and hold many of them prisoners, seemed a joke more worthy of the redoubtable Munchausen than a grave reality; as such, best met by being let alone. But I misjudged. Slavery is too sensitively conscious of its weakness and guilt to understand jokes; or to treat as such what would thus be most effectually settled. So it magnified this police affair into a widely-branch-
<c02>
ing insurrection. The troops of three States were thrown upon it. Yes, the President of the United States, who had no troops to suppress Border Ruffianism in Kansas, when soldiers stood idly by while outrage on the lives, property and peace of the citizens whom he has sworn to protect happened daily and nightly there, sent a body of United States marines to suppress the terrific outbreak-of two and twenty men. Presently we found ourselves spectators of a terrible tragedy. Interested, thrillingly interested spectators! Its chief actors a calm old man, so sublimely great that his very enemies revere him, and a motley crew so savage in their terror that neither helplessness, wounds, nor the sanctity of death, and hardly even the heroism of a noble daughter of Pocahontas, sufficed to protect from their ferocious barbarity. And then one after another of our noblest and best were pointed at as actors behind the scenes. Thus we found ourselves not merely lookers on, but, strangely enough! implicated; and grave questions came home to every man, requiring answer either to himself or to the world. What answers they have received! Truly, men have been brought to judgment. With what awful alacrity multitudes have taken their place among the goats! This, perhaps, is the most tragical portion of this mournful tragedy. This is no time for the pulpit to be silent; nor should it speak with doubtful tone. So far as it can, it is bound to point out the right in all this mass of wrong. Let me then try to meet the questions which face us all. And
1. What of John Brown?
Many are prompt to call him a madman or a villain, or both. At first, I thought him insane. That was the verdict of my ignorance. Now that I have examined, I confess, and make what reparation I can. If he be mad, our case is hopeless. If a villain, we are beyond salvation. His great trouble was, that he believed in God with all his heart. Strange delusion! And, still stranger! he thought God actually meant what he said when commanding him to love his neighbor as himself, and showing him that his neighbor was the poor wretch who had fallen among thieves, and by them been stripped and wounded and half killed, and whom priest and Levite had left bleeding in the way. The simple old man could not understand the modern interpretation of that ancient parable. He was not sharp enough to see why God did not love a negro as well as a white man. 'I want you to understand,' he says, in his noble conversation with Mason and Vallandigham, 'that I respect the rights of the poorest and weakest of colored people, of oppressed by the slave system, just as much as I do those of the most wealthy and powerful.' Why, where did he get that doctrine? Hardly, even in New England churches, could be found teaching so radically just as that. His tender heart could not comprehend why a slave could not feel as keenly as a freeman, and be included within the Gospel's glad tidings as well. As himself says, in his speech after his trial-'I see a book kissed, which I suppose to be the Bible, or at least the New Testament, which teaches me that all things whatsoever I would that men should do to me, I should do even so to them. It teaches me further to remember them that are in bonds as bound with them. I endeavored to act up to that instruction. I say I am yet too young to understand that God is any respecter of persons. I believe that, to have interfered as I have done, as I have always freely admitted I have done, in behalf of His despised poor, I did no wrong, but right.' Surely, he forgot the curse of Ham! And, more extraordinary still! he actually believed that God had raised him up, 'the American Moses,' to use the words of one who knew him, 'predestined by Omnipotence to lead the servile nation in our Southern States to freedom; if necessary, through the Red Sea of a civil war, or a fiercer war of races. It was no 'mad idea,' 'concocted at a fair in Ohio,' but a mighty purpose, born of religious convictions, which he nourished in his heart for half a life-time.' As he says himself, 'No man sent me here; it was my own prompting, and that of my Maker, or that of the devil, whichever you please to ascribe it to.' Thirty years long had this grown up in his mind. Call this delusion, if you will, ye who believe there is no God, or that God does not govern the world. But ye who think otherwise, wait until you see its results before you pronounce upon it; wait till you test it by comparison with his character. The end is not yet. Brown's statements, nobly careful not to implicate others, clearly show that we do not know all. Perhaps we never shall. But if you call him deluded because he seemed to fail, be consistent, and call Moses, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Jesus, Paul, so too; for they all had the same delusion, and all died leaving their work apparently undone. Be this, however, as it may, his character was in keeping with it. He obeyed the voice within, even to death. Do you who condemn obey the voice you hear? He was a man of prayer. He consulted God in his hours of difficulty. His Bible was his close companion. He learned there-so he thought-and fully believed, the old Puritan doctrine of fighting for the right. He despised talking, could see no use in it. 'Talking is a national institution, but it does no good for the slave.' 'He thought it an excuse very well adapted for weak men with tender consciences.' 'Christ once armed Peter,' he said; 'so also, in my case, I think he put a sword in my hand, and there continued it so long as he saw best, and then kindly took it from me.' In his camp he would allow no profanity. 'No man of loose morals was suffered to remain there-unless, indeed, as prisoners of war.' ' I would rather have small pox, yellow fever and cholera all together in my camp, than a man without principle,' 'Give me men of good principles-God-fearing men-men who respect themselves.' Morning and evening prayers were offered in his camp, and no food was eaten till God's blessing had been sought. A man of justice so rare and humanity so tender, that once, when he had arrested a horse-thief and taken him to jail, and the man was afterwards convicted and imprisoned, he furnished the man's family with provision end clothing while he was in prison. And was it not his humanity which occasioned the failure of his plans? As himself says-and Brown never lies-'I should have gone away, but I had thirty odd prisoners, whose wives and daughters were in tears for their safety, and I felt for them. Besides, I wanted to allay the fears of those who believed we came here to burn and kill.' How serene, how thoughtful, how courageous he was in the midst of his foes! Strong in his convictions of right, he, despising word, spoke words that were half battles. Mr. Mason he told to his face, 'I think, my friend, you are guilty of a great wrong to God and humanity-I say it without wishing to be offensive-and it would be perfectly right for any one to interfere with you, so far as to free those you willfully and wickedly hold in bondage.' Asked if he called his movement a religious one, he answered, 'It is, in my opinion, the greatest service a man can render to God.' When trial was pushed with cruel haste, though weak and haggard, he refused the mockery of justice. 'I beg for no mockery of a trial-no insult; nothing but that which conscience gives or cowardice drives you to practice.' No plea of insanity would he allow. His writing he acknowledged, 'ready,' he said, to 'face the music' And when the foregone conclusion had been reached, and he was declared guilty of treason and murder, how dignified his bearing, how noble his speech! 'Had I interfered in this manner... in behalf of the rich, the powerful, the so-called great, or in behalf of any of their friends, either father, mother, brother, sister wife or children, or any of that class, and suffered and sacrificed what I have in this enterprise, it would have been all right. Everyman in this court would have deemed it an act worthy of reward rather than punishment.' And how thoughtful, in that moment, of others who had made erroneous statements about him! 'I hear that it has
<c03>
been stated by some of them, that I have induced them to join me, but the contrary is true. I do not say this to injure them, but as regarding their weakness.' Every thing about him displayed a great and serene soul-a soul that knew no fear save the fear of wrong-doing. And since the trial closed, each new fact has deepened the interest and charm of this extraordinary man. He has shown no weakness, no passion, no unworthy self-consciousness, no striving after effect. A grand simplicity, superiority to all personal or private ends, a single consecration to the great work of his life, such as belong only to the highest order of men, shone more and more brightly to the last. His greatness grew with every growing hour-his closing hour his greatest. And he died at last, his manhood unsullied by a stain; greatly, severely, consistently good; of that poetic virtue which-bloomed in the noblest days of Roman excellence, but was supposed impossible in our money-making land. He died surrounded by cruel and yet admiring enemies; with his spirit's eye beholding the coming multitudes of sympathizing and revering friends. His country shall yet cherish his memory as one of her most heroic sons. She shall name him with pride as her redeemer from the disgrace of a long line of degenerate children. She shall yet point to him as a creation of her ideas, and a true embodiment of her spirit. Into what pigmies dwindle by his side some whom it is the fashion to call great! Yea, how small we all become!
I wonder that any can refuse to call him great. Have they lost their heart, that their vision of excellence is so darkened? If to be great in virtue, in courage, in simplicity; in thought, in word, in act; in justice, in humanity, in piety; in consistency, in self-devotion, in faith; in purity, in strength, in power-if this make not greatness, what, in Heaven's name, is it? True, his greatness is of a type America has seldom had and does not hold in honor. Our fathers fought for liberty, and kept their brethren in slavery. Brown fought for liberty, but for those whom his fellow-countrymen oppressed. Can any honest mind doubt which is the greater? Of him we may truly say-
'A man he was, take him for all in all,
we ne'er shall look upon his like again.'
Were farther attestation needed, we might refer to the closing hours of his life. What a tribute his enemies unwittingly paid his greatness! They built his scaffold high in view of the whole nation. The very rope with which they were about to hang him, of Carolina cotton-how significant the symbol!-was exhibited to thousands. His noble wife permitted only a brief visit, and then guarded by files of soldiers, her lone womanhood too mighty to be allowed unwatched admission. Three thousand-some say five thousand-men in battle array, to watch his execution. Well might he be pardoned a flush of joy and triumph at such an acknowledgment of his power and the wisdom of his schemes. Not to common criminals, not to fools or madmen, give we such attendance. It was a retinue becoming the death of a king or a conqueror.
And this man, whom our country has had the honor to produce, she has had the wickedness to put to a felon's death. And she covers her crime by calling him madman-for she dare not call him wicked; as if that did not add to her guilt the baseness of cruelty. As another has nobly said: 'It is the madness of Arnold of Winckelried, gathering into his bosom the sheaf of spears; the madness of the three hundred who went to die at Thermopylae; of the six hundred who rode into the Jaws of Hell, to perish in vain, because it was their duty to do and die. It is a kind of insanity of which a few specimens are scattered along the course of the human race, and whenever they are found, they make the glory of human nature, and give us more faith in God and man.'
II. So much for our great martyr. The next question is, What shall we think of his object?
There are not wanting those who denounce it as foolish and wicked. Yet how few know what his object was! Surely it were well to find out before calling it such hard names. What was it? Let him who best knew answer: 'To free the slaves, and only that.' Was that foolish and wicked? 'I intended certainly to have made a clean thing of that matter, as I did last winter, when I went into Missouri, and there took slaves without the snapping of a gun on either side, moving them through the country, and finally leaving them in Canada. I desired to have done the same thing again on a larger scale. That was all I intended.' Was that foolish and wicked? If it were, the Underground Railroad, in which we take so much satisfaction, must be an abominable institution, our sentiments of justice, humanity and pity must be very foolish and wrong, nay, our religion itself the consummation of folly and sin. He is charged with plotting and exciting the slaves to insurrection. But this he utterly denies. 'I never did intend murder, or treason, or the destruction of property, or to excite or incite slaves to rebellion, or to waken insurrection.' John Brown never lies. Why then have arms? The reason appears from his own showing and the nature of the case. It was a dangerous business, and needed arms, for self defence. Ye who believe in fighting, was that foolish and wicked?
But, you say, his scheme was a crazy one. Do you know what it was, that you pronounce so decidedly upon it? I have found no one yet who knew, and I would at least wait until I knew before judging. We who know nothing about the case, may well trust somewhat to his experience; especially as that is backed up by two or three important facts. He knew so well what he was about in Kansas, that he probably did more than any one else to secure to Kansas what freedom she has. He probably had no slight influence in opening Missouri's eyes to the insecurity of slave property. Successful there, he may well have thought he could be still more so nearer the heart of slavery. This looks rather like profound and humane wisdom than like folly and wickedness. But the best way to find out is to ask those who know best. Ask the slaveholders, and mark their answer. Three States beside themselves with terror, a trial hurried through with indecent and cruel haste to a decision illegal and unjust, three thousand troops under arms, yes, the very scaffold of the martyr surrounded with triple ranks and guarded with extraordinary precaution. Does that look like a foolish scheme? A scheme ill-adapted to its end? I am willing to suppose that they knew best who were immediately concerned. This is within the limits of their apprehension.
Some blame Brown less for his object than for having failed to reach it. Let me again ask you to suspend your judgment until it is plain whether he has failed. Did Curtius fail when he leaped fall armed into the yawning chasm? Did Arnold of Winckelried, when he gathered into his bosom a sheaf of the enemy's spears? Did Leonidas and his three hundred when they fell at Thermopylae? Did Jesus when he gave up the ghost upon the cross? Or his followers, when, one after another, they died for their faith? It is true he failed to free a parcel of slaves. That is all that we can certainly say. Has he done nothing else? Had he succeeded in that, it might have been only to die in some bloody foray, or alone among the mountains of Virginia. He would not have been known, or known-so corrupt and perverted are our notions of right and wrong-mainly as a daring and dreaded disturber of the 'rights of property.' How much success would that have been, compared with what God has already wrought through him? But what has God wrought through him? A success greater and higher than Brown ever dreamed of. He has presented a man so unmistakably grand and heroic, that the eyes of the whole nation-slaves as well as freemen-and presently of the world, are fixed on him by an irresistible fasci-
<c04>
nation. His very enemies bear involuntary tribute to his greatness. And this man is an Abolitionist-will be known by no other than that hated name-lifted up thus, made thus great, because of his fidelity to liberty, and his unconquerable hatred to slavery. Liberty again justified of her child. His name is in every mouth, his honor in every unperverted heart. What a preacher he is-this man who despised the power of words! And to what an audience he preaches! In his prison, he has preached abolitionism to Senator and Governor, to the so-called elite of Southern society, the very men whom you say we ought to preach to. Yes! more than that, he has preached to the four dusky millions new and strange doctrine. He has told them, through his hanged body and shed blood, that in the white heart, there beats sympathy for the black; that the Abolitionist is the slave's friend, ready to live and to die for him. He has quickened dangerous hopes in those oppressed bosoms. He has breathed a sweet comfort and assurance from on high into them; and, as if by a divine power, he has pressed his bitterest enemies into his service. The Slave Power, by its terror, its admiration, its gallows-tree, its formidable military array, is spreading his influence throughout its borders. Its newspapers are now so many abolition documents; its orators so many teachers of insurrection. It is laying itself the train for its own destruction. If it would extinguish its firebrands, it must hang its 250,000 slaveholders. No need of Garrison there-they are greater firebrands than he. And besides all this, Brown has preached such lessons of Resolution, Justice and Freedom to all the North, as all the pulpits in the free States together have not taught these fifty years. Can he be fairly said to have failed, who in a brief seven weeks has preached such doctrine to such an audience? Were there no other success, this, unspeakably greater than he had planned, were enough to satisfy a soaring ambition, worth a life laid down. But there is other success. No true word falls fruitless. Some centurion in the Southern band will be converted. The vile institution has been shaken to its foundations-the vail of its temple of Satan rent from top to bottom; and the nation has before its eyes a new idea, in a new man, slain for its giant sin.
In view of all these facts, it seems to me hardly wise or right to call his object foolish or wicked. If I do not greatly mistake, posterity will call him blessed, his object divine.
III. But suppose his object was as men think it, insurrectionary-what shall we say?
If we believe in fighting, if we believe in the right of armed revolution, if we believe that 'resistance to tyrants is obedience to God,' I see not how we can consistently or justly deny the slaves' right to insurrection. Virginia herself teaches as much. Her State seal represents Liberty armed cap-a-pie, her foot on a tyrant's neck whose head she has cut off, saying, 'Sic semper tyrannis'-'Thus always to tyrants.' Where, is the tyranny so grinding as slavery? If we justify Washington and the rest of our fathers in fighting against British oppression, Victor Emanuel and his Italians; Kossuth and his Hungarians, Tell and his Swiss against Austrian, Kosciusko and his Poles, Schamyl and his Circassians against Russian, Cromwell and the Puritans and the Scottish Covenanters against Royalist, Orange and his Dutchmen against Spanish, Spartacus and his fellow-bondmen against Roman, Leonidas and his Spartans against Persian-and if ever fighting was justifiable, it was in these cases-the slave is more than justified. The right of insurrection involves the right of stirring it up and aiding its progress. If you deny this, unlearn the praises which you heap on the orators of your Revolution, and strip from Lafayette's honored brow the laurels with which you have crowned him. The only question, then, is a question of expediency. And this no forethought can wholly settle. It can be decided at last only by trial. To-day's failure ensures to-morrow's success. If, then, Brown's object were insurrection, you who believe in fighting are inconsistent and unjust in denouncing him. You may blame him for imprudence, but not for aiding slave insurrection. He, insane in your eyes, is the only consistent man among you-the only one true to your principles.
But other grounds justify him still farther. Washington and these others fought for their own freedom; Brown for those whom his fellow-countrymen oppressed. They fought because they would not be trampled down; he, from reverence to God and love to man. Besides, slavery is an outlaw. It is a violation of all law, human and divine. Any one may destroy it, so that his means be not wrong. It is the sum of all villanies, the extreme of tyranny. It is insurrection against God and man. Insurrection against it is insurrection against Satan; an attempt, rude and harsh indeed, but still an attempt, to restore the kingdom of heaven. Is it not cruel, you ask? Yes, but less cruel than slavery. Its cruelty is only the recoil of slavery's abominable teaching upon it­self; showing in double wise the wickedness of the abominable sin. Its cruelty touches only the body-slavery's attempts the soul. What is the destruction of a thousand bodies to the crippling of one immortal soul? And beyond all these, insurrection is inevitable. The responsibility of it lies not on its opponents, but on slavery itself involved in the very existence of foul crime. If Brown do not kindle it, Smith will; and if Smith do not, the nation will some day rise in mighty rage, and sweep the monster from the earth. There are but two ways of preventing it-an impossible and a possible. The impossible, the suppression of every thing good; the possible, the casting out of slavery itself. If your house is full of gun­powder, the most harmless spark from your fire will blow it to splinters.
If, however, we do not believe in fighting, if we consider the resort to arms in no case justifiable, our answer must be different. We can then approve of no resort to arms. We cannot recommend armed insurrection, but victory by moral force. This, I own, is my position. I admit its difficulties. I do not see my way through them. But something within me tells me it is the true position. In Jesus I see its glory, its power, its victory. I am prepared to carry out the principle logically, and to say that I think Washington, Victor Emanuel, Tell, Kosciusko, Schamyl, Cromwell, &c., would have achieved a nobler victory and a holier honor, had they conquered as the early Christians, by shedding their own, but no brother's blood. So, with all reverence, would I say of him before us now. This is all my condemnation. I honor his courage, his humanity, his unfaltering trust in God, his terrible and lonely fidelity to duty. He was true to his light. God give me grace to be true to mine!
But let no man hypocritically or from cowardice place himself on this platform. It needs more bravery than fighting does. Let not them whose peaceful vote could tomorrow break every chain, and yet will not give it, but suffer blood to come through their remissness or cowardly selfishness. Least of all, them whose bread and butter are saturated with the tears and sweat and blood of the slave.
IV. So much for Brown and his object. I ask you now to observe a few facts which his attempt brings into strong light.
The first is, the cowardice, weakness, ferocity and barbarity of slavery. The Southern white man is not by nature less brave and humane than the Northern; nay, claims to be more so. How came he then to do what Humanity sickens, and even Shame is abashed, to behold? How came he to do by a helpless and magnanimous foe what the long horrors of a bloody siege would scarcely palliate, and is hardly outdone by Nana Sahib himself? Through the corrupting, emasculating and barbarizing influence of the infernal institution. Nay, more. The fear which could change a harmless cow into a prowling enemy, and by the burning of a few barns be called
<c05>
to arms, sets at rest the stale falsehood that the salves are happy and content, and suggests the question whether the supposed ignorance for the sinfulness of slavery be not more imaginary than real. Nothing now is plainer than the insecurity of slavery, and the case with which it can be overthrown. Would the North but keep hands off, it would soon take care of itself.
This show, secondly, that we at the North are mainly responsible for slavery-that on us lies the burden, therefore, of putting it, with all its disturbances and crimes, away forever.
Again, what we are become plain-and the sight is not very flattering. People say, 'Oh, I am as anti-slavery as you are. Show us how to get rid of slavery.' Garrison gives us one-oh! he's impracticable. Burritt a second, corresponding to our own expressed notions-nobody heeds him. Brown a third-so practicable that it instantly paralyzes slavery with mortal fear-him we head, and hang him. We raise our hands in holy horror at the thought of insurrection among slaves, and honor our fathers for the very same thing-we worship Lafayette, and give a felon's doom to a greater than he. And how eager we are to condemn this grand old man! unconsciously uttering our own condemnation! How measured our admiration of certainly the most chivalrous virtue our time has produced! How cruel and savage the diatribes which some have hurled at him! And who would have believed that, in a country with such ancestry and such privileges as ours, it has been possible to so minutely re-enact the drama of the cross as to hang as a criminal almost the 
noblest man the country has produced, for a deed holier than our fathers attempted? With what shame and grief must they look down from their seats above on their degenerate children! But a small spark of their fire had rendered this huge crime impossible. Can degradation go much farther? Verily, we must ere long stop, if not by our own free will, by the blotting our hand of God.
Lastly, we can now see where is the root of healing. This marvelous virtue is trained in the school of Liberty. The air of politics was too rank rotten to nourish it-the religion of the land too weak to feed its burly strength. The life of Liberty alone could nurture it. And what a growth it is! Here is the second conspicuously great, among many less prominent, trained in that healthful school-Garrison the first. In some respects they are alike; in others, very different. He is Garrison's exalted heroism translated into a dialect that all believers in force and bloodshed can understand. He is second only to Garrison. Garrison made him possible-prepared the public mind to do him flitting honor. The spirits which, in Garrison, on his lofty height of non-resistance, brave enough to dare be called a coward-brave enough to dare stand side by side with Jesus there, to die for his cause, but not to slay for it-Garrison too far ahead of his time to be appreciated or understood-deliverer of his country in a nobler sense than even our immortal Washington-is incarnated Moral Power, is in Brown incarnated as Physical. The spirit is the same, the from different; in both cases how sublime!
V. This brings me to my last point-the Results of the tragedy just acted.
What these shall be, it is of course impossible to tell. None may appear for a little while. But when an extraordinary man is sacrificed on the altar of extraordinary crime, and has the world for spectators, and the sympathy even of his foes, yes, makes them his missionaries, it is plain that results not small may be looked for.
It makes slavery more than ever dangerous. From that old man's scaffold the word of sympathy and deliverance has gone forth to the four dark millions, borne by his terror-stricken enemies, to fan the flame of discontent. They learn afresh the weakness of the power that oppresses them, and a teaching of help that they never heard before. Though dead, he yet speaketh words that shall deepen the indignation of Slavery's enemies, convert cold indifference into active opposition, arouse many to think who never thought before, and in the very slave State make converts to a new and better life.
Weakness, when divorced form trusts are courage, invites aggression. Slavery has exposed its utter weakness-and when quite comes, will despise itself for its display of cowardice. It will assail itself. It will be assailed by others. A blow has been struck under which Slavery reels. That blow has crowned its striker with immortal honor. The spell that made Slavery's a charmed life is broken. Think you that the glory that surrounds that noble head, now sleeping in the dust, will fail to charm other adventurous minds-yes, to charm them way from crime, where now, alas! satisfaction is largely sought-into a path of
such dignity and honor as this of giving liberty to the slave? You may depend that other Browns will arise-men less scrupulous and childlike, but not less daring than he. A tree of life so vigorous as his, cut down, shoots up a forest of saplings.
This, friends, it the teaching of history. It prophesies, if we repent not, the coming of 'a dark and dreadful day of the Lord,' and Brown-a man evidently sent of God-is the sign of its coming-a sign at once dreadful and beautiful-showing that it may not yet be too late to repent. You know the story of the Sybilline books-that they were offered to the Roman ruler at a price-that he refused, thinking it too great-that one was burnt, and the same price demanded for the rest-that, still refusing, he saw another burnt, and the same price still demanded-that, contumacious still, he beheld another perish, and paid at last for a remnant the full price of the whole. It is a most impressive story. Would to God that we heeded its lesson! God's word came, a word of peace and deliverance, through Garrison. We turned a deaf ear. It comes again in a more terrible form in Brown, breathing of deliverance still, through peace, if we will, for God's forbearance is not exhausted; but if not, deliverance, though at cost of blood. A new era in the struggle has begun. The strictly moral has done its work; the physical has been inaugurated. Slavery foretold it by assault in the Senate of the nation. I know what terrible evils these words imply. I dread, I deplore, would to God I could prevent them. Freedom is not responsible for them. It is the corrupt tree brings forth evil fruit. Silvery, its aiders and abettors among those calling themselves, but not willing to make others, free, and the selfish principles, on which most of us act, are responsible. They will come, nay, worse would come, were the giant iniquity let alone. Freedom is our only hope of prevention or cure. This is no time for political intrigue. 'Union-saving' now is recreancy to liberty. To attempt to stay the rising tide of Freedom is to try to turn back the inevitable. That stream whose puny tide carried
away every opposing dam, fast growing to a torrent, now, by help of all good men, and all that is good in all men,' twere surely 'folly,' 'fanaticism,' is 'insanity' or wickedness to resist. No-Repentance is the present need. Repent! Then to the foul monster say, not as Canute to the resistless wave, 'Thus far and no farther,' but as Jesus, with authority divine, to the fiend: 'Hold thy peace-come out, thou unclean spirit!' He will tear, but he will be gone. How he shook and foamed and gnashed his teeth at John Brown's touch! How quickly would he vanish even at our slightest word!
How suddenly this has all come and gone! Truly as a thief in the night! Only seven weeks ago it began. Within that brief period, a Light has been kindly which cannot go out. A Life has been manifested which cannot die. A Grave has been dug in which sleeps what could sleep of a hero, saint, martyr. A Power has gone forth stronger than Death. Let us heed and take courage. Let us be faithful as Brown, and the fruit of righteousness will be sown in peace so us making peace.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative'?
'We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.' St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE!
given universal satisfaction, whenever it has be a used. It can be used with perfect safety, 
and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.'
Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.' N.Y. Evangalist.
'All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer.' N. Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.'
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S.'
Buffalo Christian Advocate
'Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like colo and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs. S. A. ALLENS'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calenlated to facilitate that natural growth of hair.'
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.'
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effect ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the 'World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLENS'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrated that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
'From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.' St. Louis Ledges.
'Mrs. S.A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER-As we were traveling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribunes.
'Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit 'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER'. It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various disease incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.'
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
'This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearances almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest lines. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury, Philadelphia.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be.' Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the princips wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.
DEPOT, 355 BROOME STREET, N.Y.
Where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell article instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine is signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Bev are of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars.
SOLD EVERRE, YWHE
