THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, RO
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L. RRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 9.BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1865.WHOLE No. 1778.
The liberator
<c01>
THE THIRTY-FIRST.
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The Managers of the Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversaries, which now in various forms have reached the thirty-first of their series, congratulate themselves and their associates every where that the Anti Slavery work has at length ceased to be an arduous and painful work, every where spoken against; that argument and exhortation are no longer necessary to convince the nation of the wrong of slavery. They congratulate the long-tried, faithful, unyielding anti-slavery workers of the land, wherever they may be living, North, East, West, or South, upon the accomplishment of the great desire of their hearts,— the downfall of American slavery. They congratulate one another, and every friend of freedom and of justice, every friend of man and of God, in our own land and throughout the world, that this Babylon of power and cruelty, which so long exalted itself above God and above the nation, and which triumphed in its uncurbed power over its multitude of victims, soul and body, HAS FALLEN. The ban of the Nation, which once and so lately bowed down before it and which, in the language of Daniel Webster, ”gave it solemn guarantees,” is now AGAINST IT! The eyes of the blind (willingly so) are opened, the ears of the deaf are unstopped, the hands which hung down, self-bound, are unloosed, and the people, the true democracy of the land, educated by the thirty years’ labors of the Anti-Slavery Societies, and by the equally needful and equally effective labors of individual abolitionists in uncounted places, ways and methods, have decreed the destruction of Slavery and its prohibition forever. Solemnly, humbly, wonderingly, we thank God, whose mighty hand and whose outstretched arm have gotten us this victory! And we congratulate our country, always dear to us, —never so dear as when rising in the might of justice and in the might of her millions of liberty-loving hearts to redeem the long past of shame and sin,— that Slavery is cast out of our fair inheritance forever,—that no longer shall it sit in the temple of God claiming the homage and service due to him alone, ? that no longer shall it reign paramount in the halls of our national counsel and legislation, and there make mockery of republican principles and professions, ? that no longer shall it be a scandal and reproach to us in other lands; but that, by the decree of the American people, expressed in the majestic votes of their Senate and House of Representatives, sanctioned by the official recommendation of their President, and with the undoubted concurrence of their Supreme Court, Slavery is constitutionally abolished and prohibited throughout the land. Again, with full and grateful hearts, with a retrospect of the past in which all labor, suffering and sacrifice seem joyous, with anticipations of a future in which we discern every opportunity that could be desired for a just and complete development of the principles of the Declaration of Independence, we reverently bless the great name of God, and ascribe to him, and to the wonder-working power of His righteous law, all the praise and the dominion evermore.
But we may be thought too sanguine. We speak, however, as led by the same light and moved by the same convictions which have guided us through the past. We know that the great act of National repudiation and prohibition of Slavery yet awaits the ratification of the States. But what unbelieving heart questions that ratification? Within three weeks after the passage of the Amendment by Congress, fifteen States had given it almost impatient welcome and full sanction, ?and among them were the old slaveholding States of Maryland, Missouri, and West Virginia. Shall we so distrust man and Providence as to imagine that this great work is here to stop? And when that ratification is given, Slavery,—not all its direful effects and consequences, certainly, but Slavery will be at an end in our land. And with the death and end of Slavery, the Anti-Slavery work, properly so called, must naturally and necessarily close. Then the work of those who, from principle and conviction, have been Abolitionists in regard to an existing system of oppression and iniquity, will, in the passing away of that system, assume new shape and form, and require for its most effective performance new methods and new channels .
We cannot see the once powerful despotism of slavery passing away from our country, and its eulogists and defenders in State and in Church, once so influential and powerful, humbled, hushed, set aside on every hand, or happy converted at length to the wiser and happier way, without calling to mind those brave souls who early espoused the cause of the oppressed, but whose earthly lives closed before seeing the end of their hopes and labors. How many generous and noble spirits have bled in unison with the sufferings of the enslaved, and for the wickedness and dishonor of the country! What wealth of thought and talent, what gifts of imagination and of speech have been freely brought and consecrated to this great, holy cause! Neither the boundary lines of nations, nor the waters of the sea, nor the limits of race, party, or sect could keep asunder those to whom the call came to help this great work of humanity.” Kings of intellect” were among them, and, better still, heralds of mercy, truth, and justice to the world. And they died, yet in faith, not having the promises, but seeing them afar off, and persuaded of them, and embracing them. What are we, that we should be permitted to see the sight, denied, to them, of a country free forever from the rule and curse of slavery? What joy would have been theirs, what thanksgivings would have burst from their hearts and lips, could they have seen, as we see, the NATIONAL ABOLITION OF SLAVERY! 
“How blessed are our eyes,
That see this heavenly light;
Prophets and kings desired it long,
But died without the sight 
How blessed are our ears,
That hear this joyful sound,
Which kings and prophets waited for, 
And sought, but never found” 
The new work which now opens so broadly before us, to establish the emancipated slaves in all the rights
<c02>
of manhood, of citizenship, of brotherhood, as equal children of One Creator and Father, is if one which will not be likely to appeal in vain to any abolitionist. But even they will find it in some respects a new work; if not new in its essential principles, yet certainly so in respect of the greater numbers with whom they will find themselves working, the special objects had in view, and the more abundant resources for attaining those objects. The tone of feeling and thought in I the community is so greatly changed Chat die effort to repair the wrongs of slavery, to beat the wounds it inflicted on body and spirit, is to be by no means so difficult or circumscribed as was the effort to abolish slavery itself. For this new work, indeed, no other preparation could be so good, no discipline so thorough and appropriate, as that obtained in the school of Anti-Slavery effort for the last thirty years. On all sides we see, and rejoice to see, springing into active operation, the associated power which goes to the freed people, and teaches them the duties, the obligations, and the rights of manhood, and to their children the lessons of wisdom and truth; thus opening before them all a future of such hope and opportunity as not even the wildest dreamer would have dared, ten years ago, to anticipate for them. In such associations, or in others as the necessity of the times may indicate and demand, will the members of the old Anti-Slavery societies find scope to carry forward and complete, so far as completeness belongs to anything human, the work to which their earlier labors were so long devoted. Nor should the Anti-Slavery Societies be dissolved, as we are confident they will not, until by the action of the several States the constitutional abolition of slavery is fully certified.
The Anniversary Subscription Meeting, held at the Music Hall in Boston on the evening of January 25th last, was a very pleasant and quite satisfactory one. It was not indeed agreeable to us to have any of our old and faithful allies absent themselves from the meeting, or come to it simply as spectators, because the Anti-Slavery Standard and the Liberator in the performance of their duty to the Anti-Slavery cause had during the past year, sustained the great Anti-Slavery measures of the National Administration, and in view of them and of the President's recognized anti-slavery policy for the future, had given the weight of their moral judgment in favor of Mr. Lincoln’s reelection in November last. Their withdrawal from active interest in the occasion undoubtedly caused a diminution of the contributions to the Anti-Slavery Society; and it was alike a surprise and a grief that they should favor a policy of division in our ranks, at an hour especially when the great triumph of Anti-Slavery principles and efforts seems visibly approaching.
The brilliantly-lighted Hall, the moving throng of company upon the floor, from which the seats had been removed, the old anti-slavery banners floating from the balconies, the pealing organ, the groups of old and new friends animated by cheerful bones of the onward march of Justice and Liberty in our land, and the various incidents of the evening, all conspired to make the meeting in the best sense satisfactory and pleasant. Early in the evening, the following telegraphic message was received from our good and thoughtful friend, THEODORE TILTON, of New York:” I have news that the Illinois Senate has abolished the black laws by four majority, and that the House will concur.” The audience testified their delight by loud cheers, and warm congratulations at this striking evidence of the decay of old and cruel prejudice in the great state of Illinois. Two girls and a boy, of very light complexion and interesting appearance, were presented to the audience by Mr. D. S. King. They were from nine to fourteen years of age, bad been slaves in Louisiana, but rescued from that condition and placed in the New Orleans schools established by Major General Banks. They sang together and recited some exercises, deeply interesting all who heard. Brief addresses were made by Rev. ROBERT C. WATERSTON and GEORGE THOMSON, Esq., eagerly listened to by a large company. During the evening, the recently! organized military company, known as the” Shaw Guards,” composed of colored men of Boston, under the command of Capt. Lewis Gaul, marched into the Hall, and were duly announced as a part of the military arm of the old Bay State, and, being dismissed, became a part of the meeting during the remainder of the evening. Mr. May referred to the generous donation (five hundred dollars) which had again been made to the Society by Hon. SAMUEL GALE of Montreal, and I moved that the cordial thanks of the assembly be tendered to Judge Gale for his liberal gifts, both of this and past years. The motion was sustained, and was adopted by the meeting by a unanimous vote. Among the newest objects of interest present were Johnston’s crayon likeness of Mr. Garrison done with fine spirit, and Miss Edmonia Lewis's very beautiful bust of the late Col. Shaw, of the Massachusetts 54th Regiment.
The subscription-tables were faithfully attended by ladies of the Committee, and the contributions, made in aid of the AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY, amounted to the sum of THREE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED dollars.
From the numerous letters received by the Committee, the following selections and extracts are made, as fell as circumstances permit.
And, first, we give the first response received, being from a well-known and highly respected citizen of Rhode Island.
WOONSOCKET, R. I., Sunday, Dec. 11, 1864.
TO LYDIA MARIA CHILD, MARY MAY, LOUISA LORING, and other ladies, so worthily engaged, and I may say successfully engaged, in the cause of Human Rights:
HONORED And MOST RESPECTED LADIES: —I have this day read and re-read in the Liberator, your well written appeal to the public, for funds to help carry forward the good work in which you have so long been engaged; and permit me to say, no higher object can claim the attention, countenance, and support of a well-wisher to Human kind. When I say, females govern the world, I only sty what every reflecting mind will assent to. In our infancy our mothers mould, shape, and in a great measure impress on our minds, whether for good or otherwise, that which must greatly influence our conduct in future life. I might go on to tell of the influence of young ladies, but I think I have the case already, and will only say,
<c03>
Go on ladies, you have a great work still to do. You have my good wishes, and, at an earnest, I enclose my check on American Bank, Providence. 
And remain your friend,
EDWARD HARRIS.
Next from an early, constant and vigilant Abolitionist, also of Rhode Island:
NEWPORT, Jan. 22, 1865. 
To the Ladies of the Anti-Slavery Society:
DEAR FRIENDS,—Accept the enclosed with my best wishes that your Festival may be all it ought to be under present auspices. I regret that, having been so long one of you, I cannot be one with you, on the happy evening when you mingle your thanksgivings and congratulations, that the glorious cause goes on” conquering and to conquer.” But when the consummation has fully come, we shall have another meeting for the CROWNING of the Liberator, the chosen of God to lead his people out of bondage. To that meeting, if alive, I hope to come, to swell with my feeble voice your triumphant Hallelujahs that the” Lord God omnipotent reigneth.” 
Yours for the Truth,
SOPHIA L. LITTLE.
Next, from one of like faith and good works in Connecticut:
PLAINFIELD, Conn., January 23, 1865.
DEAR FRIENDS:—I enclose twenty-five dollars, to be used as the friends of the slaves see best.
I am thankful to see this day, and to be a contributor to the work which is not yet done.
MARTHA SMITH.
From the letter of another devoted lady in Connecticut we make the following extract:
BROOKLYN, Jan. 12th, 1865.
My DEAR MRS. MAY:—In response to your annual call, I gladly forward the enclosed, as my husband's and my own contribution to the cause we have loved so long and so well, the cause of Freedom and Humanity. May it indeed prove, as we confidently trust,” the last time” that effort in that direction to break the yoke of slavery will be needed; and then will we labor to make strong in knowledge and virtue those whom long years of oppression and degradation have made weak. M. E. WH1TCOMB.
Could we fail to be cheered and helped by such words as these from Central New York?
SYRACUSE, Jan. 20, 1865. 
RESPECTED AND DEAR FRIENDS:
I have received your invitation to the thirty-first Subscription Anniversary, and I long to accept it. But if I should do so, I could afford to contribute only a much smaller sum than I wish, to the funds of the American Anti-Slavery Society, which we all mean to sustain until the giant evil which it opposes shall have been extirpated from our country. Knowing, therefore, as I do, that my money, though not a large sum, will be more acceptable to you, Ladies, than my company, I send you enclosed a check for twenty-five dollars, being a little more than a journey, from my house to Music Hall and back, would cost me.
Ever since I lived in this, though a very pleasant place, I have sympathized not a little with those Jews of old, whom necessity compelled, or enterprise enticed, to live far away from Mount Zion; and have very often felt what a privilege it would be to have my home within a” Sabbath day's journey” of Boston. There, or in its immediate vicinity, my Fathers, and ”my kindred according to the flesh,” have dwelt for many generations. And there, still a larger number of my brothers and sisters in spirit— the friends and helpers of my soul—have lived and still abide. Boston is the birth-place of most of the moral and religious reforms that have already blessed, and will in due time regenerate our beloved country. In several of them I have, from the beginning, been more interested than in the history of past ages, or the poetry of the classics. And to the leaders and confessors of those reforms I owe, it seems to me, more than to any beings excepting only my God, and his Dearly Beloved Son.
Especially do I account, as the most auspicious event of my life, my early acquaintance with William Lloyd Garrison, and, by the quickening influence of his spirit, my prompt espousal of the Anti-Slavery cause. It brought me into a blessed company of true-hearted, single-minded, morally-courageous, self-sacrificing men and women, with whom my communion was not only always sweet, but reviving, strengthening, confirming every good purpose of my soul. In the chambers of my memory are hung up vivid pictures, never to be dimmed while the light of memory shall last—pictures of many who have gone up into the more conscious presences of the God of the oppressed, to receive his gracious commendation; and pictures of many others, who still remain on earth, toiling in the good cause of universal and perfect liberty—who will, I hope, be allowed to stay until they shall have partaken of the joy that will crown the consummation of their work—the utter abolition of slavery, and the enfranchisement of the millions, to whom hitherto all the distinctive rights of man had been denied.
As I cannot be with you in person, dear Ladies, on the 25th, and with the goodly company that I trust will then crowd Music Hall, I shall gather as many of you, and of the dear departed ones, as possible, within sight of my mind's eye, and, with tender recollections of the past, and joyous anticipations of the near as well as distant future, will sing to myself, if not to my family, some of the songs of our Anti-Slavery Zion.
I wish I could make yon realize how truly, how gratefully, how affectionately I am
Yours, SAMUEL J. MAY.
Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, Mary May, Louisa Loring, Henrietta Sargent, Helen E. Garrison, and others.
From a younger but not less devoted servant of Liberty, is the same great State, come these hopeful and inspiriting words:
NEW YORK, Jan. 22nd, 1865.
MRS. L. M. CHILD:
MY FRIEND,—In sending a token of remembrance to the Anti-Slavery Festival, let me say that, in a recent journey of four thousand miles over the breadth of the land, I witnessed everywhere with glad eyes a holy
<c04>
anger of the people against slavery. Although in Congress the Prohibitory Amendment still remains an invisible hand-writing of milk, yet our fiery war must soon scorch it into legibility, and reveal it the perpetual law of the land. This Amendment will then abolish, not only Slavery, but the Anti-Slavery Society. Nor am I to fond of anti-slavery societies or of abolitionists, but that I hope soon to live in a happy country that has neither! Already the next great question opens: not,” What of the slave?“ but” What of the freedom?” This question ought to be solved in advance. Plant your seed now, if you expect fruit in the future. In this country, the key to every man's rights is the ballot. Give the ballot to the negro on the same terms as to the white man. Why not? Is Justice blind, as poets say? Then let her see no distinction of color. I am opposed to negro suffrage; I am opposed to white suffrage; I am in favor of simple suffrage; without labeling it white or black. My theory is, grant the ballot to the white man not on account of his whiteness, nor forbid it to the negro on account of his blackness; but deny it impartially to whites and blacks who cannot read, and grant it impartially to whites and blacks who can. Slave-auctions abolished, poetic justice would cut the bills of sale into ballots, and give the negroes a chance to vote against their ancient auctioneers! I would toss up my hat at the spectacle!
Yours for Liberty and Equality,
THEODORE TILTON.
Another gentleman from New York, never weary of helping the Anti Slavery cause, writes as follows:
NEW YORK, January 12th, 1865.
DEAR FRIENDS:
The National Anti Slavery Subscription Anniversary returns, and brings with it your annual appeal. I have intended to answer it, but to-day we have the announcement of Freedom for Missouri, and thankfulness prompts me to do so now. while enclosing to you my contribution.” The Missouri Question” is at last settled without compromise, in the Providence of God; and the wall put before Kansas for the enlargement and defence of slavery becomes the area of Freedom, and her companion and shield in supporting the rights of man. In how many ways throughout this war has the Monster seen verified those prophetic words:” In the net which he spread is his own foot taken I” It is a year to be much remembered, even if it should not prove to be the year of Jubilee.
Very sincerely your friend and fellow-citizen,
EDGAR KETCHUM.
To the Ladies of the Committee.
And still another New York letter shows how truly one German-born may accept, and how heartily aid, all that is best in America.
NEW YORK, January 23d, 1865.
WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq.
Please find enclosed five dollars, which I hope will buy at least one large nail to be used for the coffin in which the hideous monster of American Slavery shall be buried forever.
Respectfully, S. LASAR.
The following we read as if written at Nantucket, so long the home of the writer, the scene of so much anti-slavery effort and hospitality:
YONKERS, N. Y., 1 mo. 23, 1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND L. M. CHILD:
It gives me pleasure again to address thee. Please accept the $30 enclosed, from myself and wife, for the Anniversary Treasury.
I was deeply admonished of some of the laborers in the great work to which your best energies have been directed, as I selected from my correspondence of other years sundry files of letters, preparatory to a removal hither. As my eye rested upon these, how my thoughts were carried back to the early sacrifices of thyself and others; and, as I surveyed these mementoes, the beloved writers passed before me in grateful review. I will not enumerate the score or two of those who still survive; and I may only give a part of those who have passed away. Prominent among them, are Isaac T. Hopper, Charles Marriott, Margaret Hyatt, Horace Mann, John Mott, Lydia B. Capron, Phebe P. Willis, Daniel Neall, and James Cannings Fuller. What a blessed memory these have left!
The impulse to preserve such a record of the past was irresistible, and I could but rejoice, as I looked over the manuscripts, that so large a proportion of the writers still remain to join in the congratulations of the day.
The Society of Friends has many representatives in this ’collection; and how applicable to some of these who have gone, and others who yet remain, is the significant testimony of Charles Lamb, when, in reference to a devoted pioneer of more than a century ago, he said —” Whoever would love the Quakers, roust be familiar with the labors and writings of John Woolman.”
And my own dear Nantucket may claim a share of this beautiful tribute, in the remembrance of Elihu Coleman, Lucretia Mott, and Sarah H. Earle. The former was far in advance of the society of which he was a member. I have the original manuscript of a searching testimony from his pen, written in 1729-30, in opposition to slavery and the slave trade, which was first published in 1733. And with reference to the latter, I was so impressed with her defence of W. L. Garrison and the Liberator, when that paper was attacked by an enemy, perhaps twenty years ago, that its remembrance is at vivid as if it were an event of yesterday. That defence was so powerful, and withal so dignified, that its results were most salutary to the large gathering, whose opposition she was so well calculated to overcome.
Neither of the two can ever unite with us here, in die song of joy and thanks giving which shall follow the total overthrow, in our beloved country, of .the” Barbarism of Slavery.”
Years have rolled on since that memorable interview, and a brighter and better day has dawned. The Liberator and its Editor have passed the fiery ordeal, and” they still live,” Surely, while the world moves onward, them will continue to be held in grateful remembrance.
Cordially, thy assured friend,
NATHANIEL BARNEY.
<c05>
The letter from New Hampshire which next follows was perhaps not designed for publication; but we hope the honored friend who wrote it will excuse its appearance in this connexion. Her patience, cheerfulness, and continued interest in the anti-slavery work during her long-protracted trial by ill-health, admonish and instruct us, and cannot but be instructive to others. We look gratefully and reverently upon every word traced by her enfeebled hand, and with her impaired sight:
PETERBORO’, (N. H.) Jan. 16, 1865.
DEAR LADIES—I offer you my kind regards, and many thanks for the invitation to visit you at Boston, on the approaching anti slavery anniversaries, but am compelled to decline this mental and moral treat so temptingly proffered—continued ill health confining me not only to my home  but to my bed. Nearly four years have elapsed since I have thus been a prisoner. I am quite resigned to God’s will, and rejoice that my reason has been preserved through all this physical trial. I enclose eight dollars as my subscription for the present year—would it were a larger sum, and that I could send you many more dollars— but the numerous claims on my small property pot it out of my power to consult my feelings in these highly approved donations.
Please accept my best wishes for your success in the noble cause you have so long and perseveringly espoused (often under the most disheartening circumstances)—but God’s presence is manifestly with us now to cheer and comfort. Justice, though long delayed, will at last be meted out to all.
Please accept, dear ladies, my respectful and affectionate regards.
MARY P. PAYSON.
From a true and clear-sighted reformer of our own State:
SPRINGFIELD, Jan. 22, I865.
To the Managers of the Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary: 
LADIES—Prominent and potent among the instrumentalities that have brought about the mighty revolution, which has already freed a host of our enslaved countrymen, and which ere long will free them all, is the American Anti-Slavery Society; and no portion of its members have been more persevering, earnest and efficient than its women, conspicuous among the foremost of whom are to be reckoned those who from year to year have given so much of their time and well-directed energies to procure the means of prosecuting the great moral warfare.
In view of the great strides that emancipation has made daring the put year, I am not without hope that at the next anniversary you will have occasion to change somewhat the object of your labors, and thenceforward be known as elevators rather than emancipators.
The destruction of chattel slavery will be a great achievement, and worth the cost of a whole generation of toil and suffering, including the terrible sacrifices of the war which is still upon us; but the work will be incomplete, and the public safety, prosperity and general well-being not fully assured, so long as social, civil and political rights are predicated upon or I limited by considerations so manifestly unjust and absurd as sex or complexion.
I hope that the subscriptions, in their aggregate, will more than meet the most sanguine hopes of the worthy women who have the matter in charge.
Enclosed I send you five dollars.
E. W. TWING.
We have much pleasure in publishing the following, from a clergyman of this city, addressed to Mrs. Child:
DEAR MRS. CHILD:—I thank you for the invitation given to Mrs. Worcester and myself, by yourself and other ladies of the American Anti Slavery Society. I regret to say, that it will not be convenient for as to attend your meeting this evening.
Allow me to avail myself of this opportunity again to express my gratitude to you for delivering me from the bondage of false opinions with regard to slavery. It I had not five or six years ago read your tract on the effects of emancipation, I do not see but that I should have been on the wrong side through all this war. But instead of suffering the misery of that situation, I have enjoyed the pleasure of being on the right side—on the side of justice and on the side of my country. I have not had a doubt that the war is a necessary work. I have not for a moment felt any regret that it was begun, or any desire that it should come to a premature end. I have not for a moment had a desire to go back into the condition which we were in before the war, nor have I had a doubt that the war was permitted as a necessary means for the welfare of our country.
Yours very truly,
THOMAS WORCESTER.
January 25th, 1865.
From a Massachusetts man, now a surgeon in the army of the United States, colored troops, and stationed in Virginia, we received this:
CITY POINT, Va. Jan. 8, 1865.
Allow me to congratulate you and other long-tried friends upon the gloriously sure and certain hope before us, the triumph of freedom and the downfall of the monster that was devouring and destroying the nation, defying God and threatening humanity. If any doubted before, the events of the past few weeks mast dissipate all doubt that God means to save us. This Red Sea of carnage, and this long wilderness of delay, perplexity, and loss bring home our early lessons of the just and wise God, who punished the transgressions of the people whom He baa resolved to saw. The nation had grows rich and impiously proud on the blood of the slave. The riches have come to naught, the pride is humbled, and the nation is so far purified that God now lets the smiles and the sure tokens of His saving purpose toward as be seen. Lous Deo! Non aobis-non nobes.
Yours to the last, DANIEL MANN,
A. A. Surgeon U. S. A.
It only remains that we now acknowledge the several contributions to the Subscription Anniversary, with our warm and heartfelt thanks to all the givers, and to all who contributed to the interest of the occasion.
<c06>
SUBSCRIPTION LIST
Of the Thirty-first National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, January 25th, 1865.
Mary May, $100 00
Mrs. Ellis Gray Loring, 20 00
Henrietta Sargent, 2 00
Sarah Shaw Russell, 100 00
Sarah Russell May, 20 00
Lydia D. Parker. 20 00
Caroline C. Thayer, 3 00
Caroline R. Putnam, 25 00
Sarah H. Southwick. 3 00
M. A. Georgina Otis, 5 00
Katherine E. Farnham, 3 00
Sarah H. Cowing, 2 00
Mary Willey, 2 00
David L. and L. Maria Child, 20 00
W. L. and Helen E. Garrison. 10 00
George Thompson, 25 00
Mrs. Lucinda Smith Otis, 20 00
Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Atkinson, 10 00
Hon. Gerrit Smith. Peterbero’, N.Y., 50 00
Rev. Samuel J. May, Syracuse, N.Y., 25 00
Hon. Samuel Gale, Montreal, 500 00
Anne W. Weston, Weymouth, 15 00
Edmund Quincy, Dedham, 25 00
Thomas Garrett, Wilmington, Del., 10 00
Nath. Barney and wife, Yonkers, N. Y. 30 00
David and C. A. Joy, Glen Haven, N.Y., 25 00
Hon. John G. Palfrey, 5 00
Mrs. Mary M. Brooks. Concord. 10 00
Misses R. A. and M. Goddard, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. R. W. Emerson, 10 00
Mr. and Mrs. Otto Dresel, 10 00
Miss Sarah Butman, Worcester, 10 00
Rev. Dr F. H. Hedge. Brookline, 5 00
Mrs. C. T. Jackson, 2 00
Edward L. Pierce.3 00
Mrs. S. E. B. Channing, 3 00
Mr. and Mrs. S. E. Sewall, 25 00
Miss H. Robie, 15 00
Rev. R. C. Waterston, 10 00
Mrs. R. C. Waterston, 10 00
Samuel May, Esq., 100 00
Edw’d Harris, Esq., Woonsocket, R. I, 100 00
Cornelius Bramhall, Esq., New York, 20 00
Lauren Wetmore, Esq., Wolcottville, 60 00
Edgar Ketchum, Esq., New York, 30 00
E D. and Anna T. Draper, Hopedale, 100 00
George and H. B. Draper, 100 00
Misses Newman, Boston. 50 00
P. W. and R. H. Morrill, Grantville, 5 00
P. Fisk, U. S. Navy, 20 00
Henry C. Wright.2 00
James N Buffum, Lynn, 20 00
William I Bowditch, Brookline, 50 00
Theodore Tilton, New York, 20 00
Rev. F. Frothingham, Brattleboro’ Vt., 30 00
Alvah A. Barrage, Esq., Boston, 25 00
Samuel May, Jr., 40 00
W. L. (Jr.) and Ellen W. Garrison, 6 00
Wendell P. Garrison, 5 00
George F. Woodman, Esq., 10 75
Amos Cummings, Esq., Boston, 10 00
John H. Stephenson, Esq., 10 00
Misses M. S. and Sophia s. McFarland, 40 00
Miss Sallie Holley, 1 00
Miss M. P. Payson, Peterboro’, N. H, 8 00
Mrs. M. P. Osborne, Dover, 5 00
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. May, Dorchester, 20 00
F. W. G. and Martha R. May, 10 00
Eleanor Goddard May, 1 00
A. W. May, 5 00
William Dall, Esq., 5 00
A Friend in Winchester, 5 00
A. Warren Goddard, Esq., Brookline, 6 00
Eliza M. Thayer, Boston, 2 00
Adeline May, Leicester, 5 00
Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Whitcomb, Brooklyn,
Ct., 5 00
Mrs. Martha Smith, Plainfield, Ct., 25 00
James A. Austin, Esq., New Haven, Ct, 10 00
Philip Scarborough, Brooklyn, 1 00
Mr. and Mrs. E. Scarborough, Brooklyn, 5 00
Perley King, So. Danvers, 25 00
Stephen Barker, Esq., Methuen, 3 00
Rev. W. J. Potter. New Bedford, 10 00
Henry G. Denny, Esq., 10 00
Rev. James Thurston, 2 00
John R. Manley, Boston, 5 00
Helen Mary Manley, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. Ednah Cheney, Boston 2 00
H. W. Wellington, Boston 10 00
Martha S. S. Wellington, Boston 5 00
C. H. Brainerd, Boston 1 00
Mrs. Otis, 1 00
C. K. & E. C. Whipple, Boston, 10 00
James Tolman, Boston 10 00
Mrs. L. A. Reed, Boston 10 00
F. A. Green. Boston 10 00
Dr. David Thayer, Boston 10 00
Mrs. Dora Brigham, Boston 20 00
Edward A. Taft, Boston 5 00
Mr. & Mrs. R. Marston, Boston 5 00
Mrs Lucinda O. Jameson, Boston 1 00
Miss Annie E. Jameson, Boston 1 00
Mr. & Mrs. Dan’l Thaxter Boston 5 00
Miss P. E. Scarboro, Boston 3 00
E. Willey, Esq., Boston 1 00
T. B. Rice, Boston 2 00
Mr. & Mrs. F. S. Cabot, Boston 5 00
Cornelius Wellington, Boston 10 00
Caroline Wellington, Lexington, 3 00
Eliza Wellington, Lexington 3 00
H. F. Garrison, Roxbury. 5 00
Annie E. Anthony, Brooklyn, N. Y., 5 00
Ada Whiton, Hingham, 5 00
Maria Page, Danversport, 1 00
M. O. Barrett, S. Danvers, 1 00
Mr. & Mrs. Josiah Hayward, Salem, 2 00
Elisabeth P. Perkins, Salem 3 00
John B. Pierce, Lynn, 5 00
S. N. Breed, Lynn 5 00
Anna Alley, Lynn 5 00
Mrs. Dr. Abel, 1 00
J. S. $l 00, X. $2 00, 3 00
Mr. & Mrs. D Mack, Belmont, 2 00
J. S. Draper. Wayland, 3 00
Mr. & Mrs. D. B. Morey, Malden, 20 00
H. E. Morey, 1 00
Miss E. J. Leonard, Medford, 2 00
Duke Hall, Winchester, 2 00
Mr. & Mrs. Elias Richards, Weymouth. 10 00
Mrs. Augustus Clapp, Weymouth 5 00
Mrs. David Hunt, Weymouth 5 00
Mrs. Chas. E. Hunt, Weymouth 1 00
Mr. & Mrs. T. B. Drew, Plymouth, 5 00
Elbridge Sprague, Abington, 5 00
Hervey Dyer, Pembroke 2 00
H. H. Brigham, S. Abington, 5 00
J. H. Brigham, 1 00
Lydia S. Adams, Fall River, 1 00
Mr. & Mrs. Geo. W. Greene, Milton, 5 00
Mrs. Mary Clap, Dorchester, 10 00
Mr. & Mrs. W. B. Trask, Dorchester, 5 00
Mr. & Mrs. Stephen Clapp, Dorchester 5 00
Mrs. Frederick Weiss Dorchester 5 00
Alden Sampson, Charlestown, 3 00
Dr. Jarvia Lewis, Waltham, 5 00
Helen Lewis, 5 00
David Howland. 5 00
Edwin Thompson, E. Walpole, 5 00
John Mitchell, 5 00
Mrs.L. F. Hilton1 00
A Friend, 1 00
Lewis McLauthlin, 100
C. C. McLauthlin, 2 00
Robert R. Crosby, 3 00
Silvanus Smith, 2 00
H. A. Potter, 2 00
Chutes Fits, 3 00
Mary L. Richmond, 1 00
Mrs. Joseph Merrill, 2 00
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States because the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Mrs. Williams Ives, Salem, 6 00
Misses Ireson, Lynn, 6 00
J. Buffum & Wife, 5 00
Miss H.H. Graupaer, 3 00
Henrietta C. Nash 2 00
Ira Gray, Reading 2 00
Mary Shannon, Newton, 3 00
Nath’l T. Allen, Newton, 5 00
James T. Allen Newton, 3 00
Samuel Barrett, Concord 10 00
Mrs. James A. Waite, Springfield, 5 00
Isasc Oagood, Charlestown, 2 00
A.L. Haskell, Boston, 10 00
Richard W. Henshaw, Boston, 10 00
Fref. H. Henshaw 5 00
Philander Shaw, 10 00
Charles Wright, 1 00
M. M. Rogers 2 00
Lewis Ford, 1 00
Simeon P. Adams, Boston, 10 00
Alexander Wilson, Boston, 3 00
Charles Richardson Boston, 5 00
Charles W. Slack, Boston, 5 00
J. R. Andrews, Boston, 1 00
Simpson H. Lewis, Boston, 1 00
LaRoy Sunderland, Bosotn, 1 00
John West, 5 00
Ezekiel and Alice Thatcher, Yarmouthport, 5 00
Alvan and Nancy Howes, Barnstable, 5 00
M. J. Jenkins, 2 00
Misses Andrews, Newburyport, 3 00
Richard and Mary Plumper, Newburyport, 6 00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 5 00
Mrs. Wm. Symingon Brown, Greenwood 3 00
Mrs. Frances E. W. Harper, 1 00
Esther Ford, Dedham, 1 00
J.H. Putnam, Brookline, 5 00
W. C. Tyler, Longwood, 5 00
Wm. O. Haskell, Chelsea, 5 00
Wm. A. Wilson and wife, Chelsea, 2 00
Mrs. H. Jenkins, Chelsea, 5 00
Jacob Leonard, Dorchester, Chelsea, 2 00
Charles E. Hodges, Dorchester.2 00
Rev. Mr. Calthrop, Boston, 2 00
Mrs. Swan, Boston, 5 00
Charles F. Fitz, Boston,.2 00
Rev. L.A. Grimes, Boston, 1 00
John S. Rogers, Boston, 5 00
George M. Rogers, Boston, 5 00
Uriah Ritchie, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. P. Hall, Boston, 1 00
M. E. Freeman, Boston, 2 00
Howard Williams, Boston, 2 00
Mrs. Thayer, Boston, 5 00
A Friend, Boston, 3 00
Mrs. Silloway, Boston, 1 00
Miss A. Silloway, Boston, 1 00
Miss M. F. Littlehale, Boston, 5 00
Dr. H. I. Bowditch, Boston, 5 00
Mrs. H. M. Castell, Boston, 5 00
Adams Twitchell, Boston, 3 00
Edward Twitchell, Boston, 2 00
Jos. Twitchell, Boston, 1 00
Katy C., Boston, Boston, 1 00
Margraet Herrick, Boston, 1 00
J. L. Whiting Boston, 2 00
George C. Leach, Boston, 1 00
Capt. Lewis Gaul, Boston, 1 00
Miss Halliburton Roxbury, 2 00
Mrs. Charles Bradford, Roxbury, 1 00
Edward Winslow, Esq., Roxbury, 2 00
Mrs. E. Winslow Roxbury, 1 00
Mrs. That Comical Brown, Roxbury, 3 00
Mrs. Caroline A. Mason, Fitchburg, 2 00
M. W. Stetson, S. Hanover, 2 00
Julia M. Friend, Gloucester, 3 00
Sarah Whitney, Watertown, 5 00
T.G. Elliott, Georgetown, 2 00
E.W. Twing Springfield, 5 00
Josiah Henshaw, W. Brookfield 5 00
Mrs. F.C.M. Henshaw, Brookfield, 5 00
Rev. E. J. Galvin, Brookfield, 2 00
A. A. Bent, So. Gardner, 3 00
A. Ward, Ashburnham, 2 00
George W. Stacy, Milford, 3 00
Mrs. Lydia L. Walker, Leominster, 4 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Wilder, Leominster, 1 00
Mrs. L.D. Bertody, Leicester, 2 00
J. M. Baxter 1 00
M.A. Hale, 1 00
Mrs. B. Pitman 5 00
J. Mortimer Hall, West Killingly, Ct., 5 00
Mrs. Rebekah N. Buffum, Portland Me., 5 00
Miss E.H. Day, Lewiston, Me., 5 00
Miss Climena Philbrick, Seabrook, N.H 3 00
Amos Chase, Auburn, N. H. 1 00
Benjamin Chase, Auburn, N.H. 1 00
Mrs. Elizabeth Preston, N. Ipswich N.H. 5 00
B.F. Hutchinson, Milford, N.H. 2 00
Geo. O. Paul. S. Newmarket, N. H., 5 00
Mrs. E. A. Morrill, Concord N. H., 5 00
Leonard Johnson, Peacham, Vt., 1 50
Enoch Hebard, W. Randolph, Vt., 1 50
Sophia L. Little, Newport, R.I 5 00
Elizabeth B. Chace, Valley Falls, R.I 00
George J. Adams, Providence, R.I 10 00
E.M. Aldrich, Providence, R.I 10 00
Anna E. Adrich Providence, R.I., 10 00
E.D. and Martha Hudson, New York 10 00
A. Friend, New York, 10 00
Wm. D. Waterman,New York, 5 00
William H. Burr, Esq., 10 00
Oliver Johnson, New York, 5 00
S. Lasar, Esq. New York, 5 00
Ch. Godfrey Patterson, New York, 2 00
Mrs. D.W. Stetson, Brooklyn, N.Y. 4 00
Pliny Sexton, Palmyra, N.Y., 10 00
James A. Burr, Ludlowville, N. Y., 10 00
David Baker, So. Easton, N. Y., 20 00
George F. Baker, Granville, N.Y., 5 00
Sarah D. Fish, Rochester, N.Y., 2 00
George T. Fish Rochester, N. Y., 2 00
Cath. A. F. Stebbins, Rochester, N.Y 3 00
Mary B.F. Curtis, N. Y., 5 00
Margaret J. Burleigh, Germantown, Pa. 5 00
Mary Grew, Germantown, Pa., 5 00
Isaac Ivins, Bucks County, Pa.2 00
Mrs. J. S. Hollinshead, Bucks, co., 1 00
Mrs. James Densmore, Meadville, co., 10 00
Mrs. Priscilla Densmore, Blooming Valley, Pa. 15 00
W.E. Doggett, Chicago, Illinois, 5 00
R.H. Ober, Newbury, Ohio 6 00
Miss L.A. McKee, Delavan, Wis. 1 00
Anson M. Clement, Newton, Iowa, 5 00
Daniel Mann U.S. Surgeon, City
Point, Virginia, 10 00
Richard W. Gould, 0 75
Mrs. Alexander, 0 25
Miss Dunbar, 1 00
John Wright, 0 50
Mrs. A.M. Wright, 0 50
Mrs. Catharine Humphreys, 1 00
Peter Byers, 1 00
-Scott 0 50
Mrs. Coleman, 0 50
J.C.S 1 00
N. Jackson 0 15
J.H. Taylor, 0 25
Mr. Bannister, Boston 1 00
M. A. Sawin, 0 50
Miss Robinson, 1 00
Mrs. Coffin, 1 00
Mrs. Clara Ann Flint, 0 50
Mrs. J. Thompson, 0 50
Miss E. Turpin, 0 50
Mrs. Lucy Garrison, 0 25
Miss Weston, Boston, 0 25
“Friends,” in different sums 21 75 
EUROPEAN SUBSCRIPTIONS
Maria W. Palmer, WATERFORD, Ireland, 5 00
Richard D. Webb, DUBLIN, Ireland, 6 00
Alfred Webb, DUBLIN Ireland, 1 00
BELFAST (Ireland,) by Miss Mary Ireland, 4 00
Any omissions or errors which may be found in the foregoing lists will be corrected, upon notification sent to the Anti-Slavery office in Boston, 221, Washington street.

A NEW SOCIETY PROPOSED.
WILLAM LLOYD GARRISON: 
DEAR SIR –In a late number of the Liberator, it was said (in substance) that ”the Anti-Slavery society would die when emancipation was accomplished.” Yes, let it die, like the great and good, when its mission is fulfilled; but let another living society rise from its ashes, a society with a yet higher aim, because it involves two great principles –honesty and benevolence: I mean a society to promote the religious. Moral, educational, and personal good of the Indians. ”Our offence” against them ”is rank –it smells to heaven.” Only read attentively James Russell Lowell’s article in a late number of the North American Revise, and you will never lose the impression it will give you of the injustice, the cruelty, the dishonesty, with which they have been treated.
Let the true-hearted band together to do battle in their cause, not with swords and guns, but with such holy weapons as the religion of the blessed Jesus furnishes, and which are ”mighty to the pulling down of strongholds” –the strongholds of oppression and injustice.
Respectfully
AN OLD ABOLITIONIST
<c02>
THE PRESIDENT AND HIS ORITIOS.
That the President knew exactly what Mr. Blair wished to say to Jefferson Davis—that be is at the bottom of all the movements for peace—that he will flinch and falter when it comes to the point—are assertions made and emphasized by some ardent friends of the Union. The one person they are not sure of is the President. The one thing they doubt is his fidelity, or if not that, then his sagacity. They fill the air with grumblings and growlings, and the newspapers with insinuations; and when they have done all they can to depress and discourage the popular heart, they sigh and groan with renewed vigor at the want of persistence which the public displays.
If these gentlemen had but a little of the President’s unswerving faith and cheerful good sense—if they had but their own moderate share of the steady earnest new of the people, they would spare themselves much dismal croaking, and their friends an incessant indignation. What was probably true upon a consistent view of the President’s whole course is now proved by his own word. In his message upon the conference, he says distinctly that he did not know what Mr. Blair wished to say to the rebels. His word disposes of that assertion. The correspondence be transmits shows exactly how much he flinched or was disposed to falter, and effectually annihilates the idle slander that he will betray the national honor in the least decree.
Indeed, nothing but the foolish assumption of four years ago, that Mr. Lincoln was unfit for his office, can excuse such aspersions and reflections upon his honesty and capacity as are implied in the kind of twaddle of which we are speaking. Those who cling to that assumption reveal their incapacity to judge of public men and affairs. If there is any man in the country who comprehends the scope of the war more fully than the President, who is he? If any man in the country has shown greater skill and sagacity in dealing with the rebellion, where is he? If there is any public man now living in the United States whom the gossips of which we speak would place in Mr. Lincoln’s chair, what is his name? We venture to say that there is no man in our history who has shown a more felicitous combination of temperament, conviction, and ability to grapple with a complication like that in which this country is involved, than Abraham Lincoln.
When the war began, there were impatient people who cried,” Oh, for an hour of Jackson!” But does any man who truly comprehends the character and antecedents of this great struggle, and the infinite patience and wisdom which the settlement of its various questions demands, really think that Andrew Jackson’s qualities were those which the situation requires? Is the great fact of no significance that the vast and threatening opposition to the policy of the Administration has crumbled away before the steady development of that policy, and crumbled without the least yielding of the Administration? Is it an incident of no meaning that, in the week of the passage of the emancipation amendment by Congress S. S. Cox, a representative of a kind of ”war Democracy,” moves the thanks of Congress to the President, and in the same week the notorious Fernando Wood, the most unscrupulous demagogue and ”peace” apostle in the country, declares for strenuous war? Is it nothing that the shrewdest journals of the Opposition, which, from the first shot of the war, cried out with Horatio Seymour that to touch slavery was to destroy the Constitution, now complacently announce that the Constitutional amendment was always a ”Democratic” measure, and that the Democratic party was always an anti-slavery party? Does any body mean seriously to assert that the active head of an Administration which, in a country like this, frenzied with party-spirit like ours, torn for four years with a vast sectional war, and incessantly menaced with foreign interference, has directed public affairs until the army and navy are everywhere victorious, and the most malignant opponents of the war now openly advocate it, and thank the President, who has carried steadily forward a policy which they have steadily denounced—does any one mean gravely to assert that such a head is a shiftless, undecided man, ready to sacrifice any principle, forever mousing round for peace, and anxious to buy it at any price?
There is no man of us all, probably, who wishes for peace more earnestly than the President. There is certainly no man who is so little likely to surrender any essential point to secure it. The purpose in the war, which he understands the people to cherish, he has plainly iterated and reiterated. The conditions on which peace is possible, and without which it is impossible, he has often repeated. Peace cannot be made upon the sly or in a corner. Shall we not say plainly, what every loyal citizen sees with pain, that it is the Tribune, which has so long and nobly fought the good fight against the subversion of the Government by the slave-power, that now speaks of peace in a strain of cringing obsequiousness to the slave lords in rebellion, which inevitably suggests that it would be willing to make peace upon terms of concession to those lords which the President and all faithful citizens would reject with scorn?—Harper’s Weekly.

PEACE FEELING AMONG THE NORTH CAROLINA REBELS.
The Raleigh (N. C.) Progress of the 3d instant has an outspoken article on the subject of a convention of the States in favor of peace, which, it says, the people insist on having, and it the instruments of terror which the rebel government put in requisition at the last August election are only removed, the people will go for a convention by a vast majority. We quote a few passages from the article in question:
“We are glad to be able to say to the friends of peace in Georgia, that there it an immense pressure in North Carolina fur a convention; and if the present Legislature shall refuse to call one, but few of them will ever get back here. But for the discordant Vance faction in the body, the Legislature would have no difficulty in passing a convention bill; and, as it is, there is some probability of their doing it, for that functionary is rapidly losing the influence he had over the body at the beginning of the session.
The ‘patriots and property holders,’ the political advisers and supporters of Governor Vance and President Davis, and all others who are urging an indefinite protraction of this destructive war, will find before July whether the people of North Carolina are in favor of a convention or not.
There are a set of bomb-proof politicians and government organs that endeavor to hold out the impression that the private soldiers are for fighting until, in the euphonious and classic language of His Excellency, ‘h—1 freezes over;’ but every man, woman and child who has had an opportunity of seeing and conversing with the battle-scarred veterans know their assertions to be untrue. Of all the people in the South, there is no class who so much desire peace as the soldiers, for the reason that no class of persons are called on to make such sacrifices and endure such hardships. We see many soldiers and receive many letters from soldiers, and we find them ail for peace. We received a letter from the army yesterday, from a private soldier, in which he says:
‘I can truthfully say that quite a majority of the command to which I belong have been greatly revived by the tone of your paper. Peace is all that we desire. Of course, we would be glad to have it on the best terms possible; but if we cannot have all that we wish, we are willing to, and had much rather have half than struggle on until we are completely exhausted, and lose everything. Why; continue the war under such circumstances? We do earnestly hope that you may continue to plead for the earnest desire of not only the soldiers, but the wives, mothers and sisters at home. We hope that the authorities will soon see that your noble appeals are exactly in accordance with those who have been incessantly engaged in all the privations and hardships connected with a soldier’s life. Why is it that our authorities do not take some steps before it is too late? Why will they suffer the country to be brought to destruction when they could so easily, avoid it? Surely they cannot be guided by the dictates of reason, or they would come, on some conditions, to alleviate the unpleasant sensations of many a poor distressed soldier. When all are in favor of peace, why not have it? Must the whole mast of the people be deprived of peace because a few say continue the war? Why not let the majority rule? If there are not some suggestions in regard to peace made by those in authority, there will in my opinion, be something done by the soldiers.
Such is the tone and character of the letters that are reaching us constantly from the battle-scarred veterans of four years, and we only state what is true when we say that the voice of the army is almost unanimous for peace.”
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
He Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A THAN AGO, THAT WHILE I REMIAN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSONS WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, ON BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REEN-SLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Extracts from an article in Fraser’s Magazine for January, 1865, entitled ”President Lincoln. By an American Abolitionist”—(M. D. Conway.)
In reference to Mr. Lincoln’s nomination to the Presidency, it is said:
“Had the abolitionists and radical Republicans united in demanding a better man, following the old law of reformers and standing by their principles wipe-out fear of results, he (Lincoln) must have yielded, or retired to Illinois with the double disgrace of having failed in the war, and been the means of leaving his cause in the hands of its enemies, who, by such a division, would have come into power. At this point, the standard-bearer of the abolition phalanx faltered and fainted. A great-hearted man, and adequate to great service when he was in a minority, he had tasted the sweets of partial success just enough to be lured from his height at a reformer. He lowered the standard for political success. By this tad failure the anti-slavery ranks were hopelessly divided and demoralized, so that not even the heroism and eloquence of Wendell Phillips, and the few who remained true, could recover their position. Thus to the pioneer of freedom in America must be ascribed that division and weakness of the noble band that had followed him, which became the strength of the Lincoln-Seward dynasty. It must be borne in mind that, during this political canvass, no radical republican or abolitionist expressed any enthusiasm for hit candidate—if one or two sentences written by ‘ the lost leader’ alluded to be excepted,” etc p. 17.
“There are circumstances under which one must have a long spoon at supper. The abolitionists did not, perhaps, remember this when they undertook to sup with the cotton lords of the North, with Wall street and State street; and so comes the singular fact that the pioneer of ‘immediate and unconditional emancipation ‘is found to-day supporting the candidate of compromise, the President who has returned more fugitives to slavery than any of his predecessors, and even loudly applauding Gen. Banks of the ‘White Men Beware!’ Platform above referred to.” p.19
One would think that Mr. Conway had made himself sufficiently ridiculous by his Common wealth distribes against Mr. Lincoln and others, to gratify even his craving for notoriety, without going into the pages of Fraser’s Magazine to exhibit himself in this foolish manner. If he believes what he asserts, that either we, or ”the abolitionists and radical Republicans,” by any combination or device, could have supplanted Abraham Lincoln by John C. Fremont or any other man, then we can only say that his credulity is illimitable. Before the nomination of Mr. Lincoln was made at Baltimore, it had been officially determined upon, with entire unanimity, by every loyal State in the Union. If ever a candidate had an irresistible hold upon the popular feeling and approval, it was Abraham Lincoln; and in view of the mighty work he has accomplished for the oppressed and the country, he must be an incorrigible croaker, and wholly given over to a spirit of detraction, who thinks at this late day of assailing him successfully.
As for what Mr. Conway says of us—of our” faltering and fainting”—of our being” lured from the height of a reformer” by” tasting the sweets of partial success”—&c., we pass it by as the idle wind. His course in England has been too factious and untruthful to render him competent to sit in judgment upon our course.

A JOYFUL OELEBRATION.
Wednesday of last week, 22d ‘ultimo—Washington’s Birthday—was certainly one of the most gratifying days of our earthly pilgrimage. In accordance with a cordial invitation, signed by a considerable number of the most prominent citizens, we joined with heart and voice in a public commemoration of the adoption of the Anti-Slavery Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, at the City Hall in Newburyport, our cherished birth-place. Not since the autumn of 1830 have we attempted to lecture in that city on the subject of slavery, for reasons which it is not necessary here to specify; nor have we been willing to break the silence till now, though repeatedly urged to do so by the kindest invitations from that quarter. On Wednesday evening, the spacious City Hall was densely packed by as intelligent and respectable an assembly as the most exacting could desire to look upon—animated by one spirit, the spirit of universal freedom, and evidently desirous of showing their appreciation not only of the Constitutional Amendment, but of our long protracted labors in the cause of the oppressed, whose year of jubilee has come so unexpectedly, yet most opportunely for them and for the nation at large. There were many president whom we had not seen since we were reckoned among the young men of the country; and the changes wrought by time in personal appearance were, of course, a matter of mutual curiosity. The congratulations of the citizens generally, on the final overthrow of that hideous system out of which has sprung this bloody rebellion, were hearty and fervent —all feeling that a great deliverance had been wrought out by the hand of God.
We never had more attentive and appreciative listeners in the delivery of an address than on that interesting occasion—the silence being broken only by their spontaneous outbursts of approval. How could this altered state of feeling be otherwise than deeply gratifying to us, not on personal grounds so much as with reference to the triumph of justice and freedom?
The only drawback upon the perfect enjoyment of the occasion was the absence of our early coadjutor and the world-admired poet, JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER. His pretence had been confidently expected, and great was the general disappointment not to be able to give him an enthusiastic personal welcome.

GEN. BANKS AND THE FREEDMEN.
We trust that every one of our readers gave the very lucid and satisfactory statement made by Major General Banks in our last number, in explanation and defence of his constructive policy in Louisiana, a close perusal; and we doubt not they were convinced by it that he has been, if not designedly, at least most unjustly misrepresented and aspersed.
In this week’s Liberator we publish, with great pleasure, a letter just received from the Rev. E. M. WHERLOCK, a radical, ”John Brown abolitionist,” whose interest in the rights of the colored freedmen of Louisiana none who know him will question, in which he vindicates General Banks from the imputations, cast upon him, and shows him to have acted with consummate judgment and good tense, and great kindness and humanity, in his free labor and educational efforts. We are no partisans of the General; but we desire to do him full justice, and we shall be slow to believe that he has been actuated by any other than the most laudable motives.
RE CONSTRUCTION OF LOUISIANA. Notwithstanding the denunciations of Gen. Banks’s official conduct in re-organizing Louisiana, by Mr. H. W. Davis in the House that body has refused, by three test votes, to set aside the work so well performed. The Senate has also before it a resolution from its Judiciary Committee recognizing the re-constructed State, and there are good reasons for believing that, before the close of session Louisiana will again be in the enjoyment of full relations with the Federal Government, with Senators and Representatives in Congress. General Banks, at the request of the President, has remained here to aid in the accomplishment of this good work.—Washington Corr, Boston Journal.
<c04>
GEN. BANKS VINDICATED BY A” JOHN BROWH” ABOLITIONIST.
LETTER FROM REV. E. M. WHEELOCK.
NEW ORLEANS, Feb.8, 1866.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON,—YOU will, doubtless, remember me as a contributor to the Liberator, prior to the war, and while I was settled in Dover, N. H., as minister of the Unitarian Society of that town.
In the winter of 1862, I accompanied the ”Banks’ Expedition” to Louisiana, acting as Chaplain to a New Hampshire Regiment. Being an abolitionist in every globule of my blood, my sympathies became deeply stirred by the sufferings of the colored people here. They were in a forlorn condition. They were feeling all the ills that inevitably attend the violent disruption of a settled social condition, without tasting the corresponding good. The Emancipation Proclamation of the President bad, in express terms, exempted these people from its scope, and the Military Commander of the Department was left will out the power to declare them free. At the same tine, the mere pretence of the army had strangled the internal force of slavery, and arrested the action of its black code. The old system was in its death-throes, and the new now not yet born. The rod of Slavery was broken, but the reign of Liberty not began. On; scores of plantations, labor was wholly suspended; and the laborers in hundreds, with their wives and little ones, bad gathered around the forts and soldiers camps. There they earned a precarious living by such uncertain and intermittent employment as they might find; the men as servants, hostlers, camp followers, and hangers on—their wives as cooks, washerwomen, &c Hunger, cold, fever and small pox were carrying off the children at a fearful rate of mortality. The morals of the men were being undermined; by idleness and evil example, and the modesty of the women debauched by contact with alt that is debasing in military life. From month to month their numbers visibly decreased; and it really seemed as though the Southern Negro, like the Indian, the Caffre, the Carib, and the Australian, would become extinct before the rude shock of the war, and the corrosive venom of our vices.
The slave in Louisiana had become free, de facto, and in a qualified sense; but, alas! his freedom only meant the power to because idle, to became immoral, to sicken and to die.
Major General Banks decided to deal with this immense evil. He sought to ascertain and carry out the Friedman’s own wishes for himself and his little ones. After much consultation and thought, he decreed a new order of things, entitled the Free Labor System. This was a contract between the planter and the government, the latter representing the interests of the negro. It was a temporary arrangement, renew-able from year to year, and intended to bridge over this chaotic period of transition, which threatened to absorb the colored race like a quicksand. By its terms the Planter, in whore hands centred the entire agricultural wealth of the State, obtained a single concession,—the labor needed to carry on his plantation, pay his taxes, and secure his crop. In all things else he was shorn of his ancient masterful privileges, and onerous duties laid upon him instead. He was required to furnish to the able-bodied laborer a house to live in for himself and all the members of his household, an acre of land to cultivate on his own private account, together with food, clothing, fuel, medical attendance, and eight dollars a month in money. The use of the whip, and all cruel and unusual punishments, were forbidden; his seigneurial rights were entirely swept away, and his absolute authority reduced to a degree corresponding with that of an employer over his hired workmen.
The magisterial and punishing power was vested exclusively in the Provost Marshal, who, as the representative of the government in each parish or county, decided all questions between employer and employed. The laborer was permitted to choose his employer; but the choice once made, he was required to work faithfully for one year under the protection of the government Free instruction was promised for his children; and the quiet possession of his Sunday as a day of rest (a boon unknown to slavery) was guaranteed. Idleness, insolence and vagrancy were to be suppressed by forfeiture of pay, and such punishments as are provided for similar offences in army regulations.
Bad faith on the employer’s part was to be punished by fine, imprisonment, and loss of estate.
Such were the main features of the famous Free Labor System, which, it was hoped, would supersede the lingering remnants of chattel slavery on the one hand, and on the other the idleness, misery and vice with which the Department was filled.
Now, coming as I did fresh from a long discipleship under your faithful ministry of humanity and righteousness, I could easily see that this system fell short of ideal justice to the negro. He it was whose unpaid toil had cleared and drained, from forest and swamp, those mile-long cane fields of more than Egyptian fertility. He it was, who, beyond all questioning, stood forth as the eminently and absolutely loyal man.
Up and down the river stretched vast plantations, whose owners had become rebel Majors and Brigadiers. To have divided them into hundred acre farms —to each black household a farm in fee simple—this would have been but requital. They had earned it by the patient toil of one hundred and eighty years, and as the meed of being faithful found among the faithless.
But this could not be. The times were unripe. Neither Congress, the army, or the nation were then equal to so grand a justice.
A statesman’s duty is measured by his power. When he finds it not possible to do the best thing, he must do the best thing possible. To succeed, he must move with events, not outran them.
At that time, under those circumstances, the Labor System was the best thing possible. It was timely. Its scope was equal to the exigencies of the occasion, and in its features was happily blended philanthropic purpose with those steps of gradation, that slow labor of years, and mediation of time, which are the conditions of its practical embodiment
With these views, I accepted the following appointment:—
“Chaplain E. M. WHEELOCK is hereby detailed at one of the Superintendents of Negro Education and Labor in this Department.
He will visit plantations and jails, and correct and report upon all irregularities and ahuses of the Labor System coming under his notice. From time to time, he will report to the General Commanding. He will be obeyed and respected accordingly.
N. P. BANKS.
M. G. C.”
In company with Rev. G. H. HEPWORTH, of your city, then an army chaplain, I began at once my work. From the forts near the river’s mouth to Baton Rouge, a distance of nearly 260 miles, we visited nearly alt the important plantations on each side of the river.
By personal and minute inspection, continuing over a period of many months, I made myself acquainted with the workings of the Labor System, the needs of the negro, and the varying attitudes and moods of the planteer and overseer.
At first there was much disorder. The system found no advocates outside of the friends of the Government. Many of the planters, especially of French and Spanish extraction, were wedded to the past, and did not comprehend the Revolution. Although accepting, per force, the conditions of the Free Labor System, they wished for its failure, and hated its humane restraints. They issued to their laborers scanty rations, treated them with churlish unkindness, paid |their wages irregularly, and made unjust deductions, there from; and employed overseers notorious in the old times for their cruelty, who had forgotten nothing and who had learned nothing, and whose single expedient in every difficulty was a resort to the ancient methods of discipline,—the whip, the chain, and the1stocks.
In some districts we found the jails filled with negroes maliciously imprisoned and against whom no.
<c05>
charge whatever could be found on the prison books. In other places, the Provost Marshals had been bought or bribed, and, from being the protector of the Negro, had become his tyrant and terror.
These disorders and abuse were speedily reported in the Commanding General, and as swiftly remedied. The prisoners unjustly held were released; the sinning overseer dismissed from any employment or imprisoned; the Marshal who had disgraced his uniform was removed; and the offending planter heavily fined, or even deprived of his plantation.
Said the General to me, ”If any planter, after due warning, persists in mutiny against these just restraints, I will remove his laborers, and strip his plantation as bare as the palm of my hand.” This was done in more than one instance, and with the best moral effect. The Negroes themselves, wearied with herding together in discomfort idleness starvation, everywhere accepting with gratitude the new order of things, returned to their homes, ready to render faithful service for wages. For, by a sort of divine Instinct, these poor creatures comprehended that, in this matter, the military power was their savior and friend.
Order was gradually brought out of chaos, the abandoned soil was re-tilled, and new capital and new proprietorship took the place of the old. The most intelligent and honorable of the planters, many of whom had long questioned both the wisdom and economy of slave labor, accepted frankly the new idea, kept in good faith its conditions and found that just treatment and prompt pay furnished all the incentives needed by their workmen, in order to raise and gather their crops.
At the end of the year 1863, I was enabled to report that the law of God was still in force, and that the system, which in the midst of war, and in the heart of a slaveholding community proposed to substitute paid labor for unpaid, and justice for violence, was a success on the delta of Louisiana. I am not an enthusiast, bit I thanked God that I was able to say so much.
The new year of 1864 smiled upon our labors. The experience of the last twelve months had served to correct errors, and to strengthen Liberty and Progress in every weak point. The machinery of the system had become well adjusted, and in working order.
A Bureau of Free Labor was established. Here complaints were heard, wrongs righted, fair-dealing enforced, and a complete registry of all the Freedman made.
Meanwhile a great moral change was passing over the State. A sense of permanence, unknown before, was attaching itself to the Federal arms and authority here, and daily many souls were born again. Old things were passing away, and all things becoming new. The incorrigible portion of the planting interest had been disposed of; the great majority had learned to gracefully accept the inevitable; while the brains of the State had been with us from the first.
In 1863 this community throbbing with the volcanic passions of Slavery and Faction, were against us in this grand test of the applicability of Free Labor; a twelve-month later, and this same community, cooled repentant, wearied of the war and its burdens and sinking under the loss of their sons, their fortunes, and their hopes, were with us; and in morals as in battle, success marches with the heaviest battalions.
Now, too, the benignant promise of free schools for the colored people began to be fulfilled and Education followed in the footsteps of Liberty. In the latter part of March 1864, General Order 38 was issued constituting a Board of Education, whereof Major B. RUSH PLUMLY was chairman, ”empowered to employ teachers, ad establish and conduct common schools for the rudimental instruction of the Freedmen of this Department.
The success of Major Plumly has been a wonder even to the most hopeful of his friends. In the face of every obstacle the good work has gone on until ninety-eight schools, amply supplied with school furniture, and the best text-books of the North, have been established; with an attendance of upwards of eleven thousand pupils, and with night schools and Sunday schools and Sunday schools dispensing instruction to twenty-two hundred laboring adults.
At the end of another twelve months there will be more white men than black men in Louisiana, unable to read and write!
Where else in the bloody passage of this war can such benign results be shown? Was there ever so much gained in so short a time? The anti-slavery need sown by your hand, in apostolic faith, through so many weary, waiting years, has grown to a golden harvest here, and has become the bread of life to our free and toiling thousands.
In January, 1863, these people were congregated in herds within our lines and around our military posts; the old the young and the women living together in little huts, in unhealthy localities, with nothing to do, and no comforts when ill, contracting the most vicious habits, and dying in frightful numbers. They produced nothing, they were a contamination to the troops, and a heavy expense to the Government. The conservative pointed to them as a proof that the ”Negro was fitted only to be a slave;”—while many true men said, with a sigh, ”It is perhaps necessary that this generation should perish amid the throes and pangs of the Revolution, and only their children reap the distant promised good.”
Now these people are quiet and thrifty laborers, doing better as to wages than farm hands at the North. They are no longer branded, torn by the whip, mutilated and sold. The dark days are past. They have redress for their grievances, pay for their services, and schools for their children. They know that they are no longer chattels. They have their homes where they earn their daily bread. They have their families about them, whom no man can divide or tell. They stand as equals of any before the law; they are enrolled into the militia with the whites, and their testimony is received in courts of justice. From ”things counted at so much per head.” they have grown into the likeness of men, who know and dare maintain their rights. They are rapidly rising in the social scale, and learning their own power and worth. They are moving, and that not tardily, on the straight line to the goal of all their rights.
Already in our State Legislature a vigorous effort to being made to extend the franchise to those of the colored race who pay taxes, who have fought for their country, or who shall be qualified by educational fitness to vote. This measure will pass the Legislature, and become a law; then each minor question cam well take care of itself.
In speaking that of the results of the Labor System of General Banks, I have said nothing but what I know. I have had every opportunity of judging of its merits, and have presented the facts which my long and varied experience has enabled me to gather.
Some one has said that it required more genius and capacity; to govern the single commonwealth of England, in the time of Cromwell, than would be needed to control all Europe now. So I think that, in all oar tend, there has been no such trying and difficult field for the statesman to regulate and the soldier to rule as this. I think the policy of General Banks, with respect the Southern negro, has been dictated be profound wisdom.
Considering the peculiar population here, the mixture of elements, the pro slavery tone of much of our army, and the hesitating policy of the central Government in 1882. a better system could not have been devised. INTO TWO HEROIC YEARS HAS BEEN COMPRESSED THE WORK OF AN AGE. The present generation is too near the successive waves of this great movement to give to each its true grandeur and prominence. But history will do both e vents and actors justice.
We have been waging a tremendous war for the Freedmen here—a war in which the bullet, the pen, the mind, the heart, the spelling-book, and the Bible have all been engaged. By the grace of God, we have gained the day. The tide of Freedom nears its flood. The Freedman in Louisiana has won or is fast winning all his rights. He already shares our civili-
<c06>
zation; he will soon share our political equality and the franchise of a citizen 
With sincerest regard,
E.M.WHEELOCK,
Secretary of Board of Education
For Freedom, Department, of the Gulf.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK NO. XXVIII.
NEW YORDK, Feb. 23 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
There is one theme –the taking Charleston –which, like Aaron’s serpent, swallows every other of the past fortnight, this it was which excited such a jubilant feeling in this city on Tuesday as I have not witnessed in a twelvemonth; which brought out every tatter of bunting, and caused the flag to wave of rejoicing. Trinity set the fashion at once for wall street and Broadway. Out of doors there were only smiling faces to encounter wherever you went. Not an acquaintance did I meet on the street whose nod seemed so much to express –“How are you, da Pays?” as, ”How are you, Charleston?” Neither ice of the evacuating forces had brought a terrible calamity upon the surrendered town and populace. There was even a sense of relief that God had made the rebels themselves the instruments of retribution, which, powerful and just as might have been our vindictiveness, we should never have inflicted. Many, it is true were inclined to blame our officers for their immediate efforts to extinguish the incendiary flames; and I believe if the doomed city had is inquired, in words which issued with her blood-
“Non hai tu spirto di pietade alcuno?” 
-not a loyal man among us would have owned to a bowel of compassion, or have ceased to pull at the accursed root of all our woes. Some one who accepted the fitness of things as an accomplished fact, remarked to me that Butler was to be sent to Charleston: and if the chivalry who had promised to make of it a last ditch had remained there, the consummation were devoutly to be wished. As it is, the General is in too great disfavor with the authorities at Washington to expect a re call from Lowell; especially since he committed the blunder of denouncing Stanton and enactment of the will of the colored of Savannah He fatally anticipated the publication of that report which I was privileged to see, as telegraphed by the Secretary of War to Mr. Beecher, and read by the latter to his congregation in one of the most radically republican discourses I ever listened to –a defence of manhood suffrage. But this by the way. General Butler might, under other circumstances, have called a ”Charleston Convention” quite different from that which he last attended; black delegates in place of white; how to establish liberty, instead of how to preserve slavery, the question for discussion; for bitter hatred of New England, abrogation of the law imprisoning colored seamen from the North , and apology to Massachusetts for the expulsion of Samuel Hoar and the assault on Senator Summer; instead of resolutions against abolition fanatics and breeders of insurrections, decrees of monuments to Denmark Vesey and John Brown. Yet, perhaps, poetical justice has been satisfied already. Charleston is deserted, not taken by siege; its lot more miserable from the diabolism of its defenders than from the worst intentions of its conquerors; its aristocratic precincts held by such base coin as Schimmelpfennig (“d-d Dutch” for ”mouldy penny,”) and the ”nigger troops” of the Old Bay State. How have the mighty fallen!
Never was there a more national or more hearty celebration of Washington’s birthday than on its anniversary yesterday. The weather was like Spring soft, open and glorious. The Stars-and-Stripes that still floated for recovered Sumter were reinforced by banners evoked for the occasion. And as if to insure good feeling, the news came seasonably of the capture of Fort Anderson and the probable fall of Wilmington. What a singular turn the war has taken! We used to dream of forcing back the rebel line from the Ohio to the Gulf, into which the conspirators were to be swept, unless they escaped beyond the del Norte. But Sherman and Grant have not chosen to push these criminals towards the only door that afforded them outlet: they are slowly concentrating the armed strength of the Confederacy between an upper and a nether millstone, and those who would not be ground to powder must go overboard into the Atlantic. The sea-coast has been pierced, and nothing can outlook the Federal navy. At last we discern the line on which the Lieutenant-General meant to fight it out, if it took from summer to summer: it is the line between the Blue Ridge and the ocean –the thread on which were strung, like so many beads, Savannah, Charleston, Wilmington, Richmond. Cut it at any point, and the beads drop off. Half a dozen relent less shears, from the James to the Ogeechee, are severing the thread, and the consequence are plain. The rebels have made a Moscow of Charleston, but no Russian winter enables them to complete the parallel which Davis prophesied, when Sherman began his ”retreat” from Atlanta. The arch traitor, as he learns, while his telegraphs yet serve him, the fate of the sea-board, and feels his fictitious dominion crumbling under his feet, might exclaim, with the jealous Leontes-
“I have a tremor cordis on me;-my heart dances;
But not for joy –not joy.”
Would Mr. Everett have remembered, had be survived yesterday, that Washington died and abolitionist? I ended my glorification of a famous memory by hearing Mr. Phillips last evening, at the Academy of Music, Brooklyn,. The audience quite equaled the comfortable capacity of the hall, and was of remarkably fine composition. The orator ingeniously presented, in the fore part of his speech, the significance of the day and the week, and narrated the only camp story of Washington, in his recollection, which exhibited that stately leader in familiar relation with is soldiers. Wearily waiting for certain tidings in the test of Col. Pickering, he gave way at length to his craving for repose, and was assigned by the Colonel’s colored servant to the solitary robe which answered for a couch. After an hour’s nap, the General awoke to the consciousness that he was keeping the negro from his own accustomed resting place. Not enduring the sight of this man as he sat shivering on a camp-stool, he called out: ”Aleck, come here! This skin is large enough for two;” and they slept out the remainder of the night under one cover. ”At last,” said Mr. Phillips, ”we behold the day when the flag of the nation shelters black and white alike!” From this he proceeded to point out the dangers of the victory which seems so near –the increased representation of the South when it may count its former chattels as <w> fifths instead of three, while they are still distranchised –the impotency of the Supreme Court before the sovereignty of the restored States –the Confederate debt to barter for further concessions to justice –the degradation of labor beyond the competition of Northern industry, et., etc. The remedy is to abandon the aristocratic notion that one-class can or may take care of another, and substitute the democratic idea of individual self-protection –the ballot in every <illegible> hand, and education from the cradle up.
M. DU. PAYS.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. The New Evening Post thus speaks of the Democrats (1) i.e., the New York Legislature, who voted against the Anti-Slavery Amendment: The members of the New York Senate belonging to the democratic party have disgraced themselves by voting against the ratification Amendment. When the vote shall be taken in the House of Assembly, the members will also vote against it, having bound themselves to that course in a previous consultation with their associates. As they make their bed, so they must lie. They are willing, it seems, to be pointed at for the rest of their lives as the men who, when the people of the land had risen up and demanded the entire abrogation of the property in man, the <illegible> market, the iron collar and the lash, gave their voices in favor of retaining these abominations.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
NEW ENGLAND HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
A public meeting in behalf of this most excellent and important charitable institution was held at the Melodeon last Sunday evening. Mr. John H. Stephenson, one of the Vice Presidents, Presided, and gave some details in regard to the origin, establishment and sphere of operations of the Hospital, and then introduced to the audience Rev. Robert C. Waterston, who had lately visited that institution, and could testify in regard to its usefulness and necessity. 
Mr. Waterston introduced his remarks by repeating a witticism of Sydney Smith about the particular method of benevolence of the English people. John Bull, he said, is a man of facts and figures. He likes to know the name, the place, the day of the month, and a multitude of such particulars; and when assured, by a business-like examination of these things, that the matter is authentic and correct, he blubbers, and subscribes. Americans, Mr. Waterston said, are much like Englishmen in this respect. They like to be assured that a cause is good, and under judicious management, and then they are willing to give liberally to it. The urgent need, in a city like this, of a Hospital specially devoted to treatment of the diseases of women and children, was declared by gentlemen of acknowledged eminence in the medical profession, Drs. Storer, Channing, Putnam, Bowditch and Cabot, whose printed testimony was there on the table, ready for distribution to all who wished to examine it. The Report of last year’s operations, also there for distribution showed that the Society was doing much, very much, for the relief of sickness and suffering; and whoever would visit the Hospital, at 14 Warren St., might see that this help is rendered in the most judicious and effective manner. Mr. Waterston then made a fervent appeal for aid to enable the Association to extend and perfect its operations
Dr. Marie E. Zakrezewska, the Attending Physician of the Hospital, being then introduced to the audience, gave some highly interesting and instructive details in regard to the ideas, purposes and practical working of the institution. One of its great objects was the relief of sickness which was complicated with poverty and distress. She would manage the institution only on the condition of perfect freedom to take any case of sickness or suffering coming within the range of its plan. Necessity was, for them, a certificate of admission. Yet the Hospital was by no means for the poor and wretched only. The present inmates chanced to be all New England women. Not the forlorn class only, but the educated and refined classes seek the aid of female physicians and find their necessities best supplied by that arrangement. 
Another great object of the institution is the competent instruction of female students of medicine. It accomplished much not only in the care of the sick, but in the education of women. How are female physicians to be raised in number sufficient to supply the growing wants of this immense country! Their qualifications should be such as at once to honor the profession and elevate the community. Where are the means for this instruction to be found? Two of the ladies who had been pupils at the opening of this institution had since been at London and Paris for further instruction, and had honorably, distinguished themselves there. Miss Helen Morton, having taken several prizes for distinguished proficiency, in the studies pursued in the “Maternity” Hospital in Paris, had now the station of Chief Aid to the presiding officer of that institution. Dr. Lucy E. Sewall, having completed her studies in Europe, is now ably performing the duties of Resident Physician of this Hospital. But travels and studies like these are expensive, entirely out of the reach of the majority of American pupils. There should be means for their medical education on this side the water. 
During the six years for which the New England Hospital for the diseases of Women and Children has been in operation, it has received and treated 6,000 cases, of which 2,224 came under the care of the physicians during the last year. Yet great numbers who prize and need the peculiar benefits of this institution are unable to enter it for absolute want of room. There should be accommodation for thrice and four times the number. The supply of this need is a duty which the community owes to itself. Dr. Zakrzewska made an earnest and moving plea that this duty be promptly and liberally discharged. 
Rev. James Freeman Clarke next addressed the audience. He said he had noticed that even people who in health had small faith in doctors and drugs, when they became seriously ill were very glad to see a physician. They like to talk to him; to get his opinion; to throw upon him the responsibility, which grows more and more burdensome to them, of deciding what remedial measures should be taken. Everybody feels this necessity, and women are even more subject to it than men. What an immense relief it must be to women weakened by sickness and suffering (especially when these are complicated with poverty and privation) to have at hand medical advisers of their own sex, to whom they feel willing to speak freely, and in whose opinion they can repose full and well-grounded confidence! The supply of this need alone is a sufficient reason for the generous support of such an institution. But besides this, the necessities of sick children, especially when orphaned, or otherwise destitute, demand it. 
Then, for the sake of society itself, women should have full advantages for medical study and training. The welfare of men depends on that of women. The two sexes should share and cooperate in all the departments of practical life. We need them not only as physicians, but on the school committee, on the jury, and at the polls, for the sake of Christian civilization. No better use could be found either for money, or thought, or zealous labor, than the liberal endowment of this institution. 
Judge Russell was the last speaker, and spoke briefly, in consideration of the lateness of the hour. The prosperity which we enjoy, in spite of the war, imposes upon us, he said, the duty of liberality. The most skilled and intelligent physicians tell us of the urgent need of just such a hospital as this. The feeling which women have in regard to reposing entire confidence in their medical adviser, is a feeling which affects their health, and retards or accelerates their recovery. The influence of judicious arrangements in this respect, relieving and soothing the mind as well as the body, must greatly favor the recovery of health. Judge Russell closed by a reference to the victories which we are of late so frequently called on to celebrate, and said that the best way to show our gratitude for them was by beneficence to the needy and suffering. 
The meeting was interesting and impressive. It is to be hoped that the ten thousand dollars now needed by this admirable institution may be raised without delay. Subscriptions may be sent either to the Hospital, 14 Warren street, or to the Treasurer, F. W. G. May, Esq., 1 Broad street. –C. K. W.

EXPLANATORY.
CONCORD, (N. H.)Feb. 26, 1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON–The illness of a brother in the country called me from Boston at the close of the late Anti-Slavery meeting; and his subsequent death and burial kept me from reading its proceedings till told that the report of my few remarks there did great injustice to Gen. Saxton. This I deeply regret; for, while speaking, I did not recollect, and do not now recollect, that his name had been used by the speaker preceding me. My remarks were intended to be only general, in their character and application, as to the treatment of the colored people. 
As to Gen. Saxton, I had never heard but one opinion relative to the part he has borne towards not only the colored soldiery, but that whole people, throughout his Department; and that was one preeminently to his praise. My own never differed from that, so far as formed; and I can conceive of no motive or reason I should have had for assailing him. 
Hastily but most truly yours,
PARKER PILLSBURY. 
<c02>
MRS.FRANCES E. W. HARPER ON RECONSTRUCTION.
On the evening of Wednesday, Feb. 1st, this talented lady spoke before a large audience, in the Roger Williams Church, Providence. She was introduced by the Rev. G. S. Day, who gave a brief but interesting sketch of her life.
Mrs. Harper commenced by referring to the early struggle of the colonies. The birth of the republic was heralded by the Declaration, and its cradle was rocked amid the tempests of the revolution.
She paid a tribute to the signers of the Declaration, who knew not what the future would bring forth, success or failure, defeat or victory, but who felt that their quarrel was just. She said that men might be crushed. but that principle would live always; that trampled in the dust, it would rise again, having eternity for its race and the life-time of God for its existence. The speaker alluded to the great mistake of the early founders of the Republic, in permitting slavery to infuse its leprous distilment into the veins of the young nation. She spoke of the fatal permission which was given to the African slave trade, and the passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill. And though the reign of these things was now over, yet there was a great deal more to be done, so that the oppressed might have not only bare freedom, but be clothed with all the rights that are necessary to a complete citizenship. She drew a contrast between the old Union of '76 and the new republic of ‘65. In the former, slavery was the dominant power of the land; in the latter, slavery is at our feet, its death-groans in our ears, and words of triumph are on our lips.
In speaking of reconstruction, she said that no skilful mariner would be apt to be wrecked twice on the same rock; and the rock on which the nation had it been wrecked was injustice to the colored man. The nation in reconstructing should build, not upon the shifting sands of policy and expediency, but upon the granite of eternal justice.
When the colored man drops the bullet, he must have placed in his hands the ballot. She spoke of the injustice done to the colored man, now under military government, for want of the elective franchise. And suppose peace should ensue; would it not be greater under the rule of the returned rebels? Would not the colored man, powerless to remove the despot under whose withering malignity he would be quivering, sink into the lowest depths of despair? What would his freedom be worth, if his feet and hands were tied, and none helped him! Which would make the more effective people to help the general government—a class crushed by a sort of serfdom, or a class educated up to the highest civilization?
In conclusion, she said that the May-Flower, like India's sacred tree, sheltered the principles of justice, peace, and security, while the Dutch Slaver, like the poisonous tree of the eastern isles, protected injustice, oppression and fraud.
We should destroy the deadly Upas of slavery, and in its stead plant the banyan of freedom, beneath whose branches may gather the exile and outcast, and be lifted up to a higher, better civilization.
M. R. L.
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON—Had I supposed that thou wouldst have published my letter in relation to the Liberator, I should have been more guarded and explicit in my language. I find myself placed in a wrong position, which seems to call for some explanation. I have no doubt that thou published it from the kindest motives. I only regret that it may have made a wrong impression upon some of my friends. Others, knowing that I own a homestead, might at tribute a mean motive to the act.
Permit me to explain. Some six or seven years ago, my health being such that I could give but little personal attention to my business, I gave it up entirely, and retired with what I then thought would be sufficient to convey me through the short remnant of my days. But almost constant sickness in my family, increase of taxes, and the greatly enhanced price of all the necessaries of life, have compelled me to retrench and economise in every possible way. I supposed that the subscriptions for the paper expired with the year, but I had been in the practice of paying for mine at the time of the N. E. Convention. Had I been silent upon the subject, I have no doubt the paper would have been sent as usual, with the expectation, of course, that it would be paid for; and it would have been, however inconvenient it might have been for me to have done so, for I never would have consented to receive it without paying for it. To my unknown friends who have so kindly and generously remembered me, I would present my sincere thanks. 
Thy assured friend,
JOHN BAILEY.
Lynn, 2nd mo, 27th, 1865.
AID FOR THE SOLDIERS AND FREEDMEN. We have just had a Town Fair held in aid of the Soldiers and Freedmen. It was held on the 21st and 22d. The whole town united in it with great zeal and heartiness, and it was a most agreeable occasion, many visitors coming from Worcester, &c. It was hoped in the outset to raise six or eight hundred dollars, and the more sanguine ventured to fix the sum likely to be obtained at One Thousand Dollars. On collecting the receipts, the sum total was found to be Two Thousand Six Hundred Dollars. We are greatly gratified at this, —not more because of the handsome sum contributed to great and humane causes, which it is our duty to aid, than for the evidence it affords of a generous, kindly, and cooperative spirit n the good old town of Leicester. Very many former residents of the town sent 
handsome contributions. S. M., Jr.
Leicester Feb. 24, 1865.
THE AMERICAN UNION SPEAKER; containing Standard and Recent Selections in Prose and Poetry, for Recitation and Declamation in Schools, Academies and Colleges. With Introductory Remarks on Education, and Explanatory Notes. By John D. Phil brick, Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston. Boston: Taggard & Thompson. 1865.
The publishers of this handsomely printed volume justly say, that “the deservedly high reputation of its compiler, as an American Educator—foremost among the practical working members of his profession—is a sufficient guarantee of its excellence and usefulness. No one has had better opportunities to judge what was needed in this department, and no one could bring to the task of the preparation of the proper book a wider experience, a better judgment, or a more correct taste.” A single glance at the volume shows bow great is the change which has been wrought in public opinion—particularly in Boston— on the subject of slavery Of its three hundred and eighty-four selections, a considerable number of them are imbued with anti slavery sentiments; being the eloquent utterances of Charles Sumner, Henry Wilson, Carl Shurz, Wendell Phillips, George Thompson, and other advocates of emancipation. As to the rebellion, ”Sumner exposes its origin and mainspring, Douglas strips off its pretext, Everett paints its crime, Boutwell boldly proclaims its remedy in emancipation, and Banks pronounces a benediction on the first act of reconstruction on the solid basis of freedom to all.” This work will have a wide sale.
The Atlantic for March has been received from the publishers. The following is the list of contributors:—The Story of a Year, by Henry James, Jr.; The Frozen Harbor, by J. T. Trowbridge; At Andersonville; Doctor Johns, by Donald G. Mitchell; Ancient Mining on the Shores of Lake Superior, by Albert D. Hager; To a Poet on his Birthday; Needle and Garden, III.; Memories of Authors, Miss Landon, by Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall; Our Oldest Friend, by Oliver Wendell Holmes; Edward Everett, by E.E E. Hale; Notes of a Pianist, II., by Louis M. Gottschalk; The Chimney Corner, III., by Harriet Beecher Stowe; The Popular Lecturer, by J. G. Holland; The Hour of Victory; The Causes of Foreign Enmity to the United States, by E. P. Whipple; Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields.
<c03>
CELEBRATION IN NEWBURYPORT.
The emancipation jubilee and reception of William Lloyd Garrison. at the City Hall, on Wednesday evening, was one of the most successful meetings ever held in this city. The Hall was full to overflowing; there did not appear to be a place where another person, large or small, could have been put. The music, in which there was some slight change from the programme, on account of the presence of the Savory Harmonics, who sang two songs, was all very fine. The address was what we expected from Mr. Garrison, evidencing taste, skill, ability and genius. The subject is one to which he has given his life, and into which his soul's strongest love enters; and the occasion-a return to his home after so many years of what might be termed absence, and after such an absence of a whole generation, upon the invitation of his townsmen tendering him this great reception, could not fail to bring out the best qualities of the heart and the intellect. He seemed, as any man in like circumstances would have felt, perfectly happy.
The length of Mr. Garrison's oration precludes the possibility of our publishing it, and any report would fail to give the impression it conveyed. He gave a sketch of his life up to the time when he commenced as a Liberator. Then he came to Newburyport to deliver a course of lectures which were twice announced but not delivered on account of the opposition developed. After that he went to Boston, established his paper, pursued that course of life which is known to us all, but returned no more to his native town to speak upon slavery till now, when he was invited back, after the full adoption of his policy by the country. This meeting was, therefore, a personal triumph to him.
There has been a great change of opinion in Newburyport, as there has been in the whole country; but the change here has come from the intense loyalty of the people. Before the rebellion, the fulfilment of every obligation written or implied was the fervent desire of the majority. They would live the Southerners every right that the Constitution guaranteed them in the matter of slavery; not because they loved slavery, for we have never seen a dozen persons who seriously approved it, but because they would abide by all the obligations upon us. They hated slavery, but loved their country; and they would maintain the Union if it required them, as Webster said, to conquer their prejudices in doing it. After this rebellion commenced, the interest of the Government demanded the overthrow of slavery, since slavery set itself up against the Union; and hence loyalty to the government—for which the town has ever been noted—required opposition to the slave system, and that opposition pervades the community—strong, intense. It is not that our people care for this man or that man—from the President down to the lowest slave; but they do care for their country-their whole country, desiring it to be united, free and prosperous. Therefore it is that the parties, each moved by circumstances they could not control, have been brought to the same action for the government and for the existing administration.
But however all this may be, the final adoption of Mr. Garrison's policy: viz. universal, immediate and uncompensated emancipation, which has now been carried, will forever associate him with the great reformation, as its head and chief actor. Forever Garrison will be known as the “Liberator.”
We subjoin the list of the officers of the meeting on Wednesday evening: 
President, George J. L. Colby. 
Vice Presidents:-R. Plumer, Dr. Enoch Cross, Wm. Thurston, John Porter, Josiah Little, Jacob Horton, Eben Wheelright, Wm. Ashby, Eben Sumner, Jacob Stone, Charles H. Coffin, Atkinson Stanwood, Daniel P. Pike, Albert W. Stevens, Thomas C. Goodwin, Edmund Smith, H. W. Moulton, Enoch G. Currier, Dr. S. M. Gale, Nathaniel Little, Deacon Joseph Morss.
Secretaries:-John H. Smith, Joseph W. Butler.
The music which delighted the audience was by C. P. Morrison, organist; Warren Currier, John Brookings, Jacob Johnson, Geo. Stevens, Martha Stover, Harriet Robinson, Miss Richmond, Mrs. Rufus Adams, of this city, and the Savery Brothers—Harmonics— from Bradford.
At the close of the exercises, on motion of the venerable John Porter, Esq., three rousing cheers were given for Gen. Sherman, and three for William Lloyd Garrison. -Newburyport Herald.
The following felicitous and stirring poems were written for the occasion:-
HYMN.
BY JOHN G.WHITTIER.
[Music composed by C. P. Morrison.]
Not unto us who did but seek 
The word that burned within to speak,
Not onto as this day belong 
The triumph and exulting song.
Upon us fell in early youth 
The burden of unwelcome truth, 
And left us, weak and frail and few, 
The censor's painful work to do.
Thenceforth our life a fight became, 
The air we breathed was hot with blame; 
For not with gauged and softened tone 
We made the bondman's cause our own.
We bore, as Freedom's hope forlorn,
The private hate the public scorn;
Yet held through all the paths we trod 
Our faith in man and trust in God.
We prayed and hoped; but still, with awe, 
The coming of the sword we saw; 
We heard the nearing steps of doom, 
And saw the shade of things to come.
We hoped for peace: our eyes survey 
The blood-red dawn of Freedom's day; 
We prayed for love to loose the chain: 
‘Tis shorn by battle's axe in twain!
Not skill nor strength nor zeal of ours 
Has mined and heaved the hostile towers; 
Not by our hands is turned the key 
That sets the sighing captives free.
A redder sea than Egypt's wave 
Is piled and parted for the slave; 
A darker cloud moves on in light, 
A fiercer fire is guide by night!
The praise, 0 Lord! be Thine alone, 
In thy own way thy work be done! 
Our poor gifts at Thy feet we east, 
To whom be glory, first and last!

THE JUBILEE HYMN OF THE RUPUBLIC.
BY AUSTIN DODGE.
Lo! a swarthy nation rises
With the wale-stripes on their backs, 
With their ankles scarred with fetters,
And the red blood in their tracks! 
Lo! a host of coming columns, 
Like the drops of driven rain, 
Like the dusky leaves of autumn,
Like the thick mists on the main. 
Chorus. Lo! Jehovah's trumpet sounding, 
Sweeps the blast from sea to sea! 
Hallelujah in the highest! 
God hath set his people free!
Hark! the tramp of dark battalions,
Of a race four millions strong, 
Keeping time to God's own music,
Grandly chanting Freedom's song! 
Coming up from years of bondage,
From a night of misery, 
To the Nation's Resurrection,
From the Hell of Slavery. 
Chorus. Lo! Jehovah's trumpet sounding, 
Sweeps the olast from sea to sea! 
Hallelujah In the highest! 
God hath sat his people free!
Out from under heel-of iron,
From the brutal auction-block, 
Out from under teeth of blood-hound,
Freed Prometheus spurns the rock! 
Thrown the Etna off the Giant,
See a Nation stands up free! 
From the ravening beak of vulture
Springs the Slave to liberty!
Chorus. Lo! Jehovah's trumpet sounding, 
Sweeps the blast from sea to sea! 
Hallelujah in the highest! 
God hath set his people free!
On the hills let lighted beacons
Blase the news with tongues of fire! 
Let the heavy church-bell, swinging,
Rock and jar the granite spire! 
Speak, ye silver tongues of trumpets,
Like the storm-wind on the sea! 
Shout, ye iron lips of cannon,
Boom out thunder-bursts of glee! 
Chorus. Lo! Jehovah's trumpet sounding,
Sweeps the blast from sea to sea!
Hallelujah in the highest! 
God hath set his people free!
Praise God for Emancipation!
He hath bared His own right arm; 
Let the thanks of all the nation 
Swell in thunder like a psalm! 
Fill the welkin fall of banners,
Let them clap their hands on high. 
Till high Heaven shouts wild hosannas,
Sanding down its glad reply! 
Chorus. Lo! Jehovah’s trumpet sounding, 
Sweeps the blast from sea to sea! 
Hallelujah in the highest!
God hath set his people free!
<c04>
THE LATE JUBILEE. I would add a few words to the very interesting account of the doings at City Hall on the evening of Wednesday, in the Herald of Friday.
Mr. Garrison was introduced by G. J L. Colby, Esq. in a brief but highly unsatisfactory speech, and it was much regretted that time did not permit him to protract his remarks. They well-deserved a report, and added much to the pleasure and profit of the evening.
The music was admirable-Misses Richmond, Stover, Robinson and Mrs. Adams did ample justice to the sweet lines of Whittler, while the Messrs. Currier, Stevens, Johnson and Brookings, and the Harmonics from Bradford, entranced the audience; and the promising composer, Mr. Morrison, presided with admirable skill and effect at the full-toned organ. We have listened to some of the finest music in the world, but never with more pleasure than to the vocal performances of the gentlemen and ladies we have mentioned. We could have wished the company had been enlarged by other ladies, whose musical talents are among the ornaments of our city; but as it was, the performers sang as did the Syrens on the promintory of Sicily, and warbled their sweet harmonies over a spell-bound audience.
You have said so much of the orator, that we add but little. Mr. Garrison had his hour of triumph, but he demeaned himself with manliness and modesty. His vein of humor was fine, and the whole performance was marked by good sense, good taste, and a very well poised judgment.
The poem by Mr. Austin Dodge was such as any poet might be proud of. Much did we regret there was no time to sing it. For one, I would have waited till the midnight hour, could I thereby have listened to the soul stirring words, as they would have been sung by those accomplished vocalists.
We say to Mr. Dodge, he is a poet, and no critic in creation who has read this ode dares say the contrary. The march of its splendid diction is grand and stately, and we place it among the grandest productions of the American muse. We herald the fine performance as the harbinger of other effusions from the same intelligent and gifted mind.
The occasion was one of the greatest which has ever called our citizens together, because it so well illustrated the progress of truth and righteousness, the victory of reason over prejudice, and the triumph of right over wrong. The exercises, we may add, were every way worthy of the occasion. E. W.—Newburyport Herald.

AN OLD SLAVE CASE DECIDED. 
The St. Louis Democrat says:
“As slavery is forever abolished in Missouri, it can do no harm to refer to a case which has occupied the attention of our courts for about twenty-five years. In the brief space of an hour, the Convention has given liberty to many thousands of slaves, but it required a quarter of a century for the lawyers to obtain the freedom of a single woman held as a slave.
The case we refer to is that of ‘Charlotte against Chouteau,’ the plaintiff being a colored woman, and the defendant Mr. Gabriel Chouteau, one of our wealthy citizens. The case was in court so long that it outlived the plaintiff, and it was continued for some time on account of the costs which had accrued. The costs amounted to seven or eight hundred dollars, and were finally assessed, a few days ago, against the defendant.
The suit was commenced in 1843. The mother of Charlotte was a negro woman named Rose, who was held as a slave in Montreal, Canada, by one Joseph Berlinguette. In 1791 he sold her (Rose) to a man named Stock, who took her to Mackinaw, He died there. Rose was then sold to a man named Todd, who, in 1794, took her by way of Prairie du Chien to St. Louis, and in 1795 sold her to Mr. Didier, who sold her in 1798, to Colonel August Chouteau, the father of the defendant in this suit.
The case was reached for trial on the 9th of March, 1859. When it was called, the defendant, Chouteau, moved the Court to hear the testimony relative to the legal existence of slavery in Canada at the time Rose was born. On this point a number of witnesses were examined, and depositions read. Some of these witnesses who had lived in Canada knew nothing of the existence of slavery there. Colonel Menard, of Kaskaskia, who had left Canada in 1786, testified that up to that time he was familiar with the fact of negro slavery there. Charles William Grant, Baron de Longueville, of Montreal, testified that he was born in Quebec in 1782, and that his family had three slaves as late as 1794, two of them negroes and one an Indian; and that slavery was universally recognized in Canada at that time.
The court decided that slavery did exist in Canada from 1760 to 1793, and that Rose was legally held there as a slave. This decision was reversed by the Supreme Court, and the case was sent back to the Circuit Court, where it was finally disposed of a few days ago.”

CONVENTION OF COLORED PEOPLE.
Harrisburg, Feb. 9, 1865.
The State Convention of colored people is now in session here, under the auspices of the State Equal Rights League. The presiding officer is the Rev. John Peck, of Pittsburg, and among the vice presidents are Elisha Weaver, O. V. Catto, and H. Redman Faucett, of Philadelphia. Speeches were made by Morrow B. Lowry, of the Pennsylvania Senate, and a number of colored orators. A series of resolutions were submitted and adopted, in substance as follows:
1st, It is the duty of every colored citizen to obtain a repeal of the law which disfranchises him on the soil on which he was born. 2d, Colored people should adopt the motto that self-reliance is the sure road to independence. 3d, No people have beer, more patient, law-abiding, or enduring, or have suffered more injustice, and received less consideration than colored people. 4th, In manual labor and commercial enterprise, the history of the colored man begins with that of the State itself, since when, at Red Bank, he has been true to Pennsylvania's interests. 5th, As the nation has cast off slavery, let them destroy restrictions which prevent colored people from entering libraries, colleges, lecture rooms, military academies, jury boxes, churches, theatres, street cars, and from voting. 6th, It is the duty of Pennsylvania to do justice to her colored men in the field. 7th, Colored men at home should secure indemnity for the past, compensation for the present, and security for the future. 8th, We ask of the people a patient hearing and admission to our common brotherhood, the human race. 9th, We recommend that colored schools be-taught by colored teachers.
The Convention is in session this evening, and numbers of Pennsylvania Senators and members are present.
STATE CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS OF MICHIGAN. Delegates to the number of 48 assembled at the Second Baptist Church in this city on Wednesday, chosen to represent the interests of the colored men of the State. This is the first convention of the kind that was ever held in this State, and was intended as an auxiliary to the national movement started at Syracuse, N. Y., several months ago. The delegates without exception showed themselves to be well posted in the proposed revolution of public sentiment, and discussed with ability the questions incident to the past, present and future condition of the colored men of the country. The speeches, of which there were many made, were logical, and could not fail to impress upon all who heard them that a black man, properly educated, is capable of understanding the English language correctly.-Detroit Advertiser,26th ult.

A TEACHER GONE.
By the death of William B. Fowle, at Medfield, last week, one of the foremost friends of education in our Commonwealth has passed away. He was the pioneer of the monitorial system, and taught one of first schools in Boston for about forty years. As a conductor of Teachers' Institutes, editor of the Common School Journal, and the author of a large number of school books, he has done good service in the cause of education. He gave himself to the work of promulgating what he regarded as advanced ideas of education, with an indomitable will and the fervent seal of a reformer. A generation of scholars owe to him the training they received, and today rise up and call him blessed.
Few men as they pass away can point to a more useful life than his. It was crowded with active efforts to benefit his fellow-men. He thought more of this than of enriching himself. His last days were spent in the quiet and beautiful town of Medfield, and after a painful illness he died is the fulness of Christian hope. He trusted with unfaltering confidence in the free, infinite, unpurchased grace of God, and the religious truth he taught to others was a strength and joy to his own soul.-Boston Christian Register.
The Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery was ratified by the State of Louisiana on the 17th inst., by both branches of the Legislature. Mr. Hills has introduced in the Louisiana, Legislature a memorial, signed by about 5000 colored men, asking for the right of suffrage. The memorial was read, and referred to a select committee.
FREEDMEN IN LOUISIANA. The annual report of Thomas W. Conway, superintendent of the Bureau of Free Labor in New Orleans, shows the following result: The number of freedmen now under Mr. Conway’s charge, supported by the government, is fourteen thousand; expense to government for the year, $118,500. Number of freedmen on plantations on the department, managed by the bureau, 50,000; on the plantations under culture by military order, 15,000. Amount of property transferred to treasury, $1,000,240.
<c05>
CHARLESTON AN EMPTY SHELL
It is not Charleston city, but the empty and ruined shell of a city, that the enemy have found lying with its door open, and entered without opposition. The Yankee nation is not particular about its title to boast and vaunt, else it would say very little about its reduction of Charleston. After three years of immense and superhuman effort to take that place by regular siege; after burning more powder and throwing more weight of iron ball and shell than ever was expended in any siege since the world began, and all in vain; at length, finding the back door of the place purposely left open, they slip in; and straightway the whole Northern people sing Te Drama and Io Triumphs on the reduction of the hot-bed of secession.
They find there a few Jews, some telegraph operators, (who are Yankees,) and a wilderness of shattered and tenantless stone and lime; not Charleston, but the abandoned hull of Charleston. The soul and spirit of that heroic city lives still; but not in those ruins; it is in the field with Gen Lee and Gen. Beau-regard, where the “ hot-bed of secession” yet blooms with vigorous branches, and gives promise of blood-red fruit.
But our enemies anxiously try to persuade themselves that they have subdued the famous city; and even that they have conquered South Carolina. How triumphantly they will display their felon flag upon the glorious ruins of Sumter!
How majestically their Provost Marshal will tread the deserted regions of King street and Meeting street, and predominate like a three-tailed pasha over the few Dutchmen and old women left to be awed by that mighty Yankee power! But as to the real, living Charleston, and immortal Palmetto State, the Yankee nation will find that it has still to reckon with them.
When the sons of South Carolina, now in the army, shall read of the desolating passage of a hated me over the fields and cities of their native State, trampling down and ravaging their well-beloved homes, surely they will swear a deep oath to see those homes no more until they have met those blue rascals of Sherman's face to face, and settled accounts with them once for all. Perhaps the day of reckoning may be nearer than they think on either side.-Richmond Examiner, Feb. 11.
Several hundred rebel deserters were concealed in the houses in Charleston, and when our troops entered they surrendered, declaring that they were tired of the rebellion, and would no longer fight for it. They were received as prisoners.
Crowds of negroes met our troops, and made many demonstrations of joy. There were men, women, and children. They wanted food; many of them said they would be glad to work; some proposed to take up arms against their masters.
The population of Charleston consisted entirely of the poorer classes, who were unable to get away; the rich had for several days been removing. The persons who remained were in want; they had nothing to eat, and no means of obtaining anything. Their situation is described as much worse than that of the inhabitants of Savannah after the capture of that city.
The lower part of the city within reach of our guns was in effect a ruin, and was almost uninhabited. Comparatively few persons dared to remain there. Some of the houses were knocked down; bricks and timbers were lying everywhere, and the streets in particular were strewn with the fragments, in many places entirely obstructing travel. Shells were lying among the ruins. The appearance of the city—the lower part uninhabitable and the upper part in flames-is described as dreary and desolate in the extreme.
There is information that the evacuation of Charleston began nearly three weeks ago. A rebel officer, who deserted and was examined at Port Royal, gave some of the details; but they were not then believed. Since that time, the rebels have been at work removing stores; though all the heavy supplies were left.
So at last this guilty city is in our hands. There is a moral in the issue that should not be lost. No city in the land is so stained with the crime of treason, or has so much to answer for the blood shed in this war. South Carolina led the way in secession, which the other States of the South did but follow. It was her statesman Calhoun, who taught the pestilent heresy of State rights to the whole brood of Southern politicians. That State was the first to carry his doctrine into practice. It was in this very city of Charleston that the ordinance of secession was passed on the 20th of December, 1860. Here the first gun was fired against Fort Sumter, on the memorable 12th of April, 1861. This was the act which at once “fired the Southern heart,” and plunged a whole people into a frenzy of madness, of folly, and of crime; and at the same time stirred the manhood of the North, and roused it to a defence of the country which has made immortal this period of our history.
And now, behold. South Carolina reaps in blood and tears the consequences of her guilt! Her chief city, where treason was nursed, where the black act of secession was passed, is again in loyal hands. And not only Charleston, but Columbia also, the capital of the State, the very center and seat of the slaveholding aristocracy, is under the feet of the hated men of the North; and over that very State House where Southern conspirators plotted disunion, now floats the flag of Union and Liberty—Liberty for all, even for that despised race, on whose perpetual bondage they founded their new empire! Truly, it seems like a, judgment of the Almighty on those who would oppress their fellow-men! So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord; but let them that love thee be as the sun when be goeth forth in his might!-N. Y. Evangelist. 
THE OLD FLAG OVER CHARLESTON. A considerable part of the notorious “Last Ditch” fell into our hands last Tuesday; and to the surprise of our soldiers, and of the world in general, neither Beauregard, nor Pickens the Brave, nor Barnwell Rhett, nor the writers of the Charleston Mercury, nor in fact a single one of the hundreds of Charleston “bloods,” who vowed to die in the. ”Last Ditch,” performed according to promise. The season of the year, or the moistness of the ditch, or something in the air prevented them—for we mere vulgar Yankees, would not presume to hint that these chivalrous persons were only bragging, and never meant to make “demnition bodies“ of themselves at all, to use Mantalini's phrase.
The rebels have run away in the night from many places—from Bowling Green, from Port Donelson, from Nashville, from Columbus, from Memphis, from Corinth, from New Orleans, from Gettysburg, from Atlanta, from Savannah. They have tried to run away from some others, as Vicksburg and Port Hudson. But they always solemnly vowed not to leave Charleston; never! never! never! Nor would they have left. in all likelihood, had it not become dangerous to stay there. They may plead with some reason that, when they selected Charleston as their favorite dying place, their chosen part of the last ditch, they did not know that Sherman was coming in that direction.-New York Post.

THE CAPTURE OF WILMINGTON.
Our troops entered Wilmington on the morning of the 22d inst After the evacuation of Fort Anderson, Gen. Schofield directed Gen. Cox to follow its garrison to Wilmington while Gen. Terry followed Hoke on the east side of the river. The latter took up a new line 4 miles from Wilmington, but was so closely pressed by Gen. Terry that he could send no troops to the west side. On that side the rebels made a stand behind Town creek, but on the 20th Cox crossed his troops below them on a flat boat, attacked them In the rear and routed them, taking two guns and 300 prisoners.
On the 21st, Cox pushed to the Brunswick river, opposite Wilmington, where the bridges were on fire. On his arrival, the rebels began burning the cotton and resin in the city, and left it that night.
Our captures, including Fort Anderson, amount to about 700 prisoners and 30 guns.
Citizens state that the rebels burned 1000 bales of cotton and 15,000 barrels of resin.
THE LAST VOICES for slavery in the Congress of the United States were raised by Benjamin and Fernando Wood. A writer in commenting upon the passage of the anti-slavery amendment to the Constitution thus alludes to the fact:
“It seemed a fitting thing that, in this last struggle for its life, slavery should have no loyal men to wage battle for it, and of all its supporters it was eminently appropriate that Fernando Wood and Benjamin Wood should cast the hut votes in the Untied States Congress, to save the life of the demon which has so nearly destroyed our national existence. When the yeas and nays were taken on that final vote which virtually abolished slavery, these names came last on the list of the opposition, and as their replies came,” No,” “ No, ”the corpse of slavery was lowered to its grave, and the echo of their sullen voices went with it to the tomb.”
EXECUTION OF BEALL, THE PIRATE. John Y. Beall, the rebel pirate and spy, who was hung on Governor’s Island, New York harbor, on Friday, exhibited remarkable self-possession throughout the trying ordeal.
Roger Pryor gained his release from prison through Col. Forney, Clerk of the Senate and editor of the Chronicle, with whom he was an associate editor of the Union newspaper with Forney, some years since.
The querulous article in the last number of Fraser’s Magazine, attacking President Lincoln, was written by M. D. Conway, now a resident of London. Poor business for an American.-Philadelphia Press.
<c06>
THIRD EDITION
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready. 
In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICA CALCULATIONS, it contains:
United States Government, Ministers. &e. Senators and
Representatives of XXXVIIIth Congress.
XXXIXth Congress, so far as chosen.
Laws at the last session of Congress. 
Public Resolutions and Proclamations
Party platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chicago)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, & c.
Slaveholder’s Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events.
Native States of the American-born People.
Election Return, for President, Governors, Congressmen,
&e., in 1864, compared with the Presidential Vote in 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures meet, Time of State Elections. 
Territorial Capitals and Governors. 
Popular vote by States in 1854, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage, &e.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. 
New York.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS 
FOR FEBRUARY.
CONTENTS
Spirits in Prison. By Rev. O. B.FRONTHINGHAM. 
Midnight Watching. (Poe ry) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
New Belief and Old Opinion. By Rev. EDWARD, C. Towns. A Critical Survey of the Beliefs and Opinions of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher. 
Mrs. Eliza Farnham.
Jennie Dunleath. (Poetry) By Alice Cary
An American Church, the Complement to the American State. By. R.T. HALLOCK.
The Bequest of Spiritualism. By T.W.HIGGINSOWN. 
Minor Topics. Our Library, & c.
Singe copies, 20 cents, $2 per year. 
To be procured of all News dealers.
Address 
C.M.PLUMB & CO.,
Feb. 24.
274 Canal St., New York.
NOTICE.-The martyrdom of CRISPUS ATTUCKS (March 5th, 1770,) will be commemorated on TUESDAY EVENING, March 7th, at the Meionson, (Tremont Temple.) The eloquent counsellor and orator, JOHN M. LANGSTON, Esq., of Oberlin, will deliver an address on “The Colored American as a Soldier,” and the distinguished and eloquent poet and speaker, Mrs. FANCES WATERKINS HARPER, of Baltimore, on “The Mission of the War.” Exercises to be accompanied with appropriate music. 
For particulars, see bills of the day. 
Tickets, 25 cents each, to be obtained of R. F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street, and at the door, or of 
WM. C. NELL.
Boston, March 3, 1865.
CORRECTION. The eleventh name in the Subscription list, first page of this paper, should be Farnum, not Faraham..
MARRIED-In Washington, (D.C.) 21st ult., by Rev. W. F. Butler, PETER W. DOWNING, of New York, to BETTIE LAUSIK BAROWN, OF Washington.
DIED -In Henniker, N. H., Mr. MOSES F. PILLSBURY, aged 37 -a most estimable man in all his relations; loving justice and right; full of mercy and good fruits, without hypocrisy. 
At central city, Colorado, Dec. 27, MARY JANE wife of CHARLER STEARNS, of that place, and daughter of Thomas Carter, of Cumberland county, Ky.[An obituary notice in our next.]

Medical Notice-The New Cure.
DR. W. W. BROWN,
DERMAPATHIC AND PRACTICAL PHYSICIAN 
FOR ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
Office 140 Court St., Boston.
[Late 34 Winter St.]
CONSULTATION FREE.
THE DERMAPATHIC REMEDY
Is not a patent medicine, nor is it a pill, a powder, or a syrup, but
A NEW TREATMENT OF DISEASES.
DERMAPATHY –WHAT IS IT? Nature is always striving to throw off diseases, and the Dermapathic treatment steps in to her assistance. Its curative power is without a parallel Its influence is felt over the entire systems. It changes the secretions, purifies the blood, gives strength to the different organs, and is continually aiding in such where medical knowledge remains helpless at the turning point of its art. 
The Feeble, the Languid, the Despairing, the Old! 
SHOULD GIVE THIS NEW DISCOVERY A TRIAL.
Office hours, from 9, A. M., to 4, P.M.
March 3. Tf

“A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY FOREVER.”
AND nothing is so beautiful as A FINE HEAD OF HAIR. All preparation for the hair are injurious. By using Professor Wilson’s process, you can have beautiful, lively, curly hair in four weeks; costs but a few cents. Warranted to give satisfaction. Try it. Enclose 50 cents to Wilson & Co., P.O. Box, 2821, Philadelphia.
March 3.

LOST
ON Wednesday afternoon, 8th inst. In Worcester depot, Boston, a calfskin Wallet, containing about $70 in green backs, and seven or eight wheat receipts, dated Battle Creek, Michigan; also, a bill of sale of wheat, and several other papers; a draft in favor of Anthony Burton. All said papers are of value to me, and cannot be of any value to the finder, who will confer a favor by enclosing said papers to me by mail to Battle Creek, Michigan, and as much of the money as they may wish, after retaining ample pay for their trouble 
H.WILLIS
Battle Creek, Michigan, Feb.18.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease. 
SO wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten. 
We can only assure the public, that its quality is care fully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done. 
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure. 
Those who require an alternative medicine to purify the blood will find Ayer’s Comp. Err. Sarsaparilla the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its values.
Prepared by J.C.AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists. 
Jan 6  2m

MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R.F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher Prices $1.50 per copy. 
It is a portrait which, as a works of art and as a likeness gives great satisfaction.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher 
Boston, Dec 20 1864 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
A PATRIOTIC POEM.
Miss Lizzie Doten delivered an address at Lyceum Hall, Boston, on Sunday evening, Feb 12th, on the recent. Amendment to the Constitution, giving the spirits’ view of the same, at the close of which, after a change of the controlling influence, she gave the following original, noble and patriotic poem, composed in spirit-life, entitled—
THE TRIUMPH OF FREEDOM.
Rejoice, O blood-stained Nation! in darkness wandering long,
For Freedom is triumphant, and Right hath conquered Wrong;
To-day, the glorious birthright the patriot fathers gave,
Makes, through Eternal Justice, a freeman of the slave.
And swift the glorious tidings, rolling majestic on,
Thrills from old Massachusetts to the shores of Oregon:
The grey old mountain-echoes shout it loudly to the sea,
And the wild winds join the chorus in the "anthem of the free."
For this, the God of nations sealed this land as sacred soil,
And thenceforth made it holy with blood, and sweat, and toil;
For this, the lonely May-Flower spread her white wings to the breeze,
And bore the Pilgrim Fathers across the stormy seas.
For this, the blood of patriots baptized old Bunker Hill,
And Lexington and Concord made known the people's will;
For this, both Saratoga’s and Yorktown’s fields were won,
And Fame's unfading laurels wreathed the brow of WASHINGTON.
For this, your glorious CHANNING plead on the "weaker side,"
And PARKER, brave and fearless, sought to stem Oppression’s tide;
For this, the lips of PHILLIPS burned with Athenian fire,
Till every flaming sentence leapt forth in righteous ire.
And GARRISON, the dauntless, declared-"I will be heard!"
O, thou sturdy, war-worn veteran! well hast thou kept thy word!
Thou hast sent the foul Hyena bowling fiercely to his den,
And thy battle-cry was "Freedom!" till the cannon said, "AMEN!"
For this, like royal Caesar, within the Senate Hall,
On the noble head of SUMMER did the blows of Slavery fall;
And for this, that band of heroes, like their Spartan chief, JOHN BROWN,
As a sacrifice to Freedom, their precious lives laid down.
And for this you bore and suffered, "till forbearance ceas-to be 
A virtue," and high Heaven called upon you to be free;
Then, once more, the blood of heroes leapt like fire within each vein,
And the long-slumbering Lion rose, and, wrathful, shook his mane.
O!0! the page of future history shall, with truthful record, tell
How you met the fearful issue, how bravely and how well;
How you gave uncounted treasure from out your toil-won hoard,
And how, as free as water, heroic blood was poured.
How GRANT, with stern persistence, smote the foeman day by day;
How SHERIDAN and SHERMAN urged their victorious way;
How FARRAGUT and PORTER swept triumphant o'er the sea,
And how the gallant WINSLOW won his glorious victory.
And, alas! how noble ELLSWORTH fell in his youthful pride,
And WINTHROP, BAKER, LYON, for freedom bled and died;
And true, brave hearts unnumbered, before the cannon's breath,
On the wild, red sea of slaughter, swept down the tide of death.
And how, said the tumult, in every battle pause,
Was heard the cry of "Justice to the bondman and his cause!"
O! your fathers' slumbering ashes cried "Amen!" from out each grave,
When your grand old Constitution gave freedom to the slave.
And, as the glorious tidings upon the nation fell,
Satan, with all his legions, went howling down to hell;
Of crime and blood no longer could he freely drink <illegible> fill,
For the cursed demon, Slavery, had best performed his will.
Let words of deep thanksgiving blend with the tears you shed
For the hosts of noble martyrs who in Freedom's cause have bled;
Though they fell before the sickle which reaps the battle-plain, 
Yet, to-day, they know in heaven that they perished not in vain.
Your nation's glorious Eagle, with an unfaltering flight,
Hath perched at length in triumph on Freedom's loftiest height;
The stars upon your banner burn with a fairer flame,
And the radiant stripes no longer are emblems of your shame.
The slave, made, like his master, "in the image of his God,"
Shall bare his back no longer to the oppressor's rod;
His night of pain and anguish, of want and woe has past,
And Freedom's radiant morning has dawned on him at last.
O thou, Recording Angel! turn to that page, whereon 
Is traced in undimmed brightness the name of WASHINGTON,
And, with thy name immortal, in characters of flame,
To stand henceforth and ever, write also LINCOLN'S name!
The first hurled back the tyrant in the country's hour of need;
The last, divinely guided, hath made her free indeed!
Let a nation's grateful tribute to each alike be given,
While the kingdom, power and glory are ascribed alone to Heaven.
Ethiopia no longer stretched forth her hands in vain;
On the demon of Rebellion she hath left her servile chain;
Then swell the shout of triumph till the nations hear from afar;
Three cheers—three cheers for Freedom! Huzza! huzza! huzza!
Banner of Light.
A CHIME FOR LIBERTY AND UNION.
[Suggested by reading Norval's "Prophetic Change, rung on the bells of Tennyson," in a late number of the Boston Courier.]
Ring out, free bells, to the free sky,
The joyous tidings East and West—
Freedom survives the fearful test;
Rebellion’s dying—let it die!
Ring out the Curse that spoils and blights,
Ring out the Plague, the Festering Sore;
For Slavery here shall be no more;
Ring in the Reign of Equal Rights!
Ring out the cheat, the wrong, the pain,
The mockery of Liberty;
Ring in an era pure and free,
When Justice, Truth and Peace shall reign.
Ring out a swiftly-dying Cause,
The foulest Wrong upon the earth;
Ring in the Nation's second birth,
Freedom to all, and righteous laws!
Ring out all compromise with sin,
The shame, the blot upon our land;
Ring out the fiendish rebel band,
But ring a hand of Christians in!
Ring out the Sham, ring in the Pure,
Ring out false priest with Slavery's creed;
Oppression, vice, and evil deed;
Ring out the Bane, ring in the Cure!
Ring in the Patriot, pure and free,
That bravely does, and dares to do;
Ring in that Honest Man anew,
Our Chief that is, and is to be! H. G. C.
Norfolk Country Journal.
<c02>
Selections.
TREATMENT OF PRISONERS OF WAR.
SPEECH
OF
HON. CHARLES SUMNER,
In the Senate of the United States, January 29th, 1865, on the resolution of the Committee on Military Affairs, advising retaliation in kind for Rebel cruelties to prisoners.
The following resolution, reported by the Committee on Military Affairs, was called up by Mr. Wade, of Ohio:
JOINT RESOLUTION, advising retaliation for the cruel treatment of prisoners by the insurgents.
Whereas, It has come to the knowledge of Congress that great numbers of our soldiers who have fallen as prisoners of war into the hands of the insurgents, have been subjected to treatment unexampled for cruelty in the history of civilized war, and finding its parallels only in the conduct of savage tribes; a treatment resulting in the death of multitudes by the slow but designed process of starvation, and by mortal diseases occasioned by insufficient and unhealthy food, by wanton exposure of their persons to the inclemency of the weather, and by deliberate assassination of innocent and unoffending men, and the murder in cold blood of prisoners after surrender; and whereas, a continuance of these barbarities, in contempt of the laws of war, and in disregard of the remonstrances of the national authorities, has presented to us the alternative of suffering our brave soldiers thus to be destroyed, or to apply the principle of retaliation for their protection; therefore,
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled: That in the judgment of Congress, it has become justifiable and necessary that the President should, in order to prevent the continuance and recurrence of such barbarities, and to insure the observance by the insurgents of the laws of civilized war, resort at once to measures of retaliation; that in our opinion such retaliation ought to be inflicted upon the insurgent officers now in our hands, or hereafter to fall into our hands as prisoners; that such officers ought to be subjected to like treatment practised towards our officers or soldiers in the hands of the insurgents, in respect to quantity and quality of food, clothing, fuel, medicine, medical attendance, personal exposure, or other mode of dealing with them; that with a view to the same ends, the insurgent prisoners in our hands ought to be placed under the control and in the keeping of officers and men who have themselves been prisoners in the hands of the insurgents, and have thus acquired a knowledge of their mode of treating Union prisoners; that explicit instructions ought to be given to the forces having the charge of such insurgent prisoners, requiring them to carry out strictly and promptly the principles of this resolution in every case, until the President, having received satisfactory information of the abandonment by the insurgents of such barbarous practices, shall revoke or modify said instructions. Congress do not, however, intend by this resolution to limit or restrict the power of the President to the modes or principles of retaliation herein mentioned, but only to advise a resort to them as demanded by the occasion.
Mr. Sumner offered the following resolutions as a substitute for the resolution of the Committee:
Resolved, That retaliation is harsh always, even in the simplest cases, and is permissible only where, in the first place, it may reasonably be expected to effect its object, and where, in the second place, it is consistent with the usages of civilized society; and that, in the absence of these essential conditions, it is a useless barbarism, having no other end than vengeance, which is forbidden alike to nations and to men.
Resolved, That the treatment of our officers and soldiers in rebel prisons is cruel, savage and heart-rending, beyond all precedent; that it is shocking to morals; that it is an offence against human nature itself; that it adds new guilt to the great crime of the rebellion, and constitutes an example from which history will turn with sorrow and disgust.
Resolved, That any attempted imitation of rebel barbarism in the treatment of prisoners would be plainly impracticable, on account of its inconsistency with the prevailing sentiments of humanity among us; that it would be injurious at home, for it would barbarize the whole community; that it would be utterly useless, for it could not affect the cruel authors of the revolting conduct which we seek to overcome; that it would be immoral, inasmuch as it proceeded from vengeance alone; that it could have no other result than to degrade the national character and the national name, and to bring down upon our country the reprobation of history; and that being thus impracticable, useless, immoral, and degrading, it must be rejected as a measure of retaliation, precisely as the barbarism of roasting or eating prisoners is always rejected by civilized Powers.
Resolved, That the United States, filled with grief and sympathy for cherished citizens who, as officers and soldiers, have become the victims of Heaven-defying outrage, hereby declare their solemn determination to put an end to this great iniquity by putting an end to the rebellion of which it is the natural fruit; that to secure this humane and righteous consummation, they pledge anew their best energies and all the resources of the whole people, and they call upon all to bear witness that, in this necessary warfare with barbarism, they renounce all vengeance and every evil example, and plant themselves firmly on the sacred landmarks of Christian civilization, under the protection of that God who is present with every prisoner, and enables heroic souls to suffer for their country.
On introducing his resolutions, Mr. Sumner spoke at some length, chiefly adducing authorities on the law of nations, with regard to the nature and extent of retaliation, and insisting that, although permissible in certain cases, yet it was circumscribed by limits.
The debate continued several days, and various amendments were made in the original resolution, when, on the 29th day of January, Mr. Sumner spoke as follows:
Mr. President—
As I have listened to this debate, and noted the various propositions which have been brought forward, especially as I have observed how the original resolution of the committee has disappeared in the process of amendment, I have been reminded of the story which is told by Byron of Henry S. Fox, the same who was afterwards British minister here, and who now lies in the Congressional burial ground. Mr. Fox said of himself, after an illness in Spain, that he was "so altered that his oldest London creditor would not know him". But no illness could work a change greater than has been wrought in the resolution of the committee. Its oldest supporter could not know it in the form which it now bears. The ancient legend of the ship Argo is revived. That famous ship, after its return with the Golden Fleece, was piously preserved in the arsenal of Athens, where its decaying timbers were renewed, until, in the lapse of time, every part of the original ship had disappeared, and nothing but the name remained. It would be difficult to say that anything more of the original resolution is now before the Senate.
The resolution in its original form, as so earnestly maintained by my friends from Ohio and Michigan, called for retaliation in kind—an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, death for death, starvation for starvation, freezing for freezing, cruelty for cruelty. The President was commanded to imitate rebel barbarism in all respects, point by point. It was this command which I felt it my duty to resist. I said nothing against retaliation, according to the laws and usages of civilized nations, for that I know is one of the terrible incidents of war; but I opposed that retaliation which civilization disowns. The resolutions which I offered as a substitute were intended as a sort of "earthwork" in support of this resistance. Perhaps they have already accomplished their purpose, inasmuch as Senators have evacuated their original position.
The question is solemn enough, and yet, as I think of the original resolution, I am reminded of an incident more comic than serious, which occurred at Paris while it was occupied by the Prussians in 1814. A Prussian soldier was brought before the governor, charged with unmercifully beating a Frenchman, with whom he was billeted, for not supplying a bottle of Berlin Weiss bier, which the Prussian had insisted upon drinking. The general spoke of the unreasonableness of the demand, and declared that he should be obliged to inflict severe punishment, when the Prussian soldier set up the law of retaliation. "When I was a little boy," said he, "a French dragoon beat my father, because he was unable to get a bottle of claret in our whole village; and I then swore that if ever I got to France, I would beat a Frenchman for not getting me a bottle of Weiss bier. Am I not right?" This was a case of retaliation in kind, and retrospective in its operation, like that of the original resolution.
But much as the original resolution has been changed, so that it no longer requires retaliation in kind, I think it might be changed still further. It is not enough on such an occasion, and especially after the avowals which have been made in this
<c03>
Chamber, to say that retaliation shall be according to the principles of public law. Montesquieu, in his Spirit of Laws, (book 1, chap. 3.) has shown us the uncertainty of this language. These are his words:
"Every nation has a law of nations; even the Iroquois, who eat their prisoners. They send and receive ambassadors; they know the laws of war and peace. The evil is that their law of nations is not founded on true principles."
The resolution, therefore, for the sake of certainty, and to give double assurance that humanity shall not suffer, ought to be still further amended, by limiting the retaliation to the usages of civilized society. This amendment becomes the more needful since Senators have argued that, by the principles of public law, the intolerable cruelties of the rebellion might be retaliated.
I desire to repeat my unalterable conviction that these cruelties cannot be retaliated in kind. And here I venture to call attention to the opinions of an illustrious citizen, who was recently removed from the duties of this world. I refer to the late Edward Everett, who, in a speech at Faneuil Hall, only a few days before his lamented death, thus testifies in what may be called his dying words:
"I believe that the best way in which we can retaliate upon the South for the cruel treatment of our prisoners, is for us to continue to treat their prisoners with entire humanity and all reasonable kindness; and not only so, but to seize every opportunity like the present to go beyond this.
Indeed, it is no more than our duty to treat the prisoner well. The law of nations requires it. The Government that refuses or neglects it does not deserve the name of civilized. Even inability is no justification. If you are yourself so exhausted that you cannot supply your prisoner with a sufficient quantity of wholesome food, you are bound, with or without exchange, to set him free. You have no more right to starve than to poison him. It will, however, be borne in mind that while the hard fare of our prisoners is defended by the southern leaders, on the ground that it is as good as that of their own soldiers, at the same time they maintain that their harvests are abundant and their armies well fed. There is no merit in treating a prisoner with common humanity; it is simply infamous and wicked to treat him otherwise."
You will observe, if you please, how positively the opinion is expressed on the limits of retaliation, and its character when carried beyond proper limits. And here it is proper to remark, that Mr. Everett was not only a patriot, who, in the latter trials of the Republic, had devoted himself ably, purely, and successfully to the vindication and advancement of the national cause, but he was a publicist who had studied profoundly the law of nations. Few persons in our history have understood it better. His last labors were devoted to this important subject. At the time of his death he was preparing a course of lectures upon it. Therefore, when, in the name of the law of nations, he speaks against any imitation of rebel barbarism, it is with the voice of authority—an authority now, alas! echoed from the tomb.
From one eminent publicist I pass to another. On a former occasion I took the liberty of introducing a familiar letter on this question from Professor Lieber, once of South Carolina, now of New York. The Senator from Michigan, not content with attempting an answer to the learned professor, proceeded to use language with regard to him which I am sure his careful judgment cannot approve. The friend whose letter I read can need no praise from me as a practical writer and thinker on questions of international law. It was on account of his acknowledged fitness as a master of this science that he was selected as the commissioner to prepare the instructions for the armies of the United States, constituting a most important chapter of international law. Those instructions are the evidence of his ability and judgment. So long as they are followed by our Government, it will be difficult for the Senator, learned as he unquestionably is, to impeach their distinguished author. There is no Senator, not excepting the Senator from Michigan, who might not be proud to point to such a monument of fame. But he is no mere theorist. It was on the field of battle, where as a youthful soldier he was left for dead, that he began his practical acquaintance with those laws of war, which he has done so much to expound.
And now let me read a commentary on the law of retaliation by this authority. I quote from an article which has already appeared in the New York Times:
"No mawkish sentimentality has induced the writer to express his views. He has had dear friends in those Southern pens, which have become the very symbols of revolting barbarity, but he desires, for this very reason, that the subject be weighed without passion, which never counsels well; especially without the passion of mere vengeance. Let us bring down this general call for retaliation to practical and detailed measures. It is supposed, then, that retaliation is resolved upon: what next? The order is given to harass, starve, expose, and torture, say twenty thousand prisoners in our hands, until their bones pierce the skin, and they die idiots in their filth. Why should things be demanded which every one knows the northern man is incapable of doing?
If, however, by retaliation be meant that captured rebels in our hands should be cut off from the pleasant comforts of life which northerners subservient to the South love to extend to them, then, indeed, we fully agree. This treasonable over-kindness ought never to have been permitted. It has had the worst effect on the arrogance of our enemy, but prohibiting it is not and cannot be called retaliation.
Let us not be driven from the position of manly calmness and moral dignity; and let us, on the other hand, be stern, so stern that our severity shall impress the prisoners that they are such. But let us not follow rebel examples. It is too sickening, too vile."
Such is the testimony of Francis Lieber, in entire but unconscious harmony with the testimony of Edward Everett. As authority, nothing further can be desired. And yet the question is still debated, and grave Senators take counsel of their feelings rather than of the law.
The earnestness which has characterized this discussion attests the interest of the question, and the interest here is only a reflection of the interest throughout the country. When you speak of our brave officers and soldiers suffering, languishing, pining, dying in rebel prisons, you touch a cord which vibrates in every patriot bosom. He must be cold, sluggish, and inhuman,-"so cold that ought can warm his blood, sir, but a fever"—who is not moved to every possible effort for their redemption. 
I am happy to see that the Secretary of War has not been insensible to this commanding duty. Here is an extract from a communication which he sent to the House of Representatives, under date of Jan. 21:
"On the 15th of October, the subject of exchanges was placed under the direction of Lieutenant General Grant, with full authority to take any steps he might deem proper to effect the release and exchange of our soldiers, and of loyal persons held as prisoners by the rebel authorities. He was instructed that it was the desire of the President that no efforts consistent with national honor should be spared to effect the prompt release of all soldiers and loyal persons in captivity to the rebels as prisoners of war, on any other grounds, and the subject was committed to him with full authority to act in the premises as he should deem right and proper. Under this authority the subject of exchange has from that time continued in his charge, and such efforts have been made as he deemed proper to obtain the release of our prisoners. An arrangement was made for the supply of our prisoners, the articles to be distributed under the direction of our own officers, paroled for that purpose, and the corresponding privilege was extended to the rebel authorities. In order to afford every facility for relief, special exchanges have been offered whenever desired on behalf of our prisoners. Such exchanges have in a few instances been permitted by the rebel authorities, but in many others they have been denied. A large number of exchanges, including all the sick, has been effected within a recent period. The commissary general of prisoners has been directed to make a detailed report of all the exchanges that have been accomplished since the general exchange ceased. He will furnish it to the House of Representatives as soon as completed. The last communication of General Grant gives reason to believe that a full and complete exchange of all prisoners will speedily be made. It also appears from his statement that weekly supplies are furnished to our prisoners, and distributed by officers of our own selection."
Let these instructions be followed, and it is difficult to see what remains to be done. Exchange, retaliation and every other agency "right and proper," are fully authorized in the discretion of the commanding general. There is nothing in the arsenal of war which he may not employ. What more is needed? But this brings me again to the proposition before the Senate.
The committee, not content with what has been done-distrustful, perhaps, of the commanding general-have proposed that Congress shall instruct the President to enter upon a system of retaliation, where we shall imitate as precisely as possible rebel bar-
<c04>
barism, and make our prisons the same scenes of torment which we denounce. Why, Sir, to state the case is to answer it. The Senator from Michigan, who advocates so eloquently this unprecedented retaliation, attempted a description of the torments of the rebel prisons, but language failed him. After speaking of their "immeasurable criminality," and " the horrors of these scenes," which he said were "absolutely indescribable," beggaring even his affluence of language and of passion, he proceeded to ask that we should do these same things; that we should take the lives of prisoners, even by freezing and starvation, or turn them into living skeletons- by act of Congress.
Sir, the law of retaliation, which he invokes, has its limits, and these are found in the laws of civilized society. Admit the law of retaliation, but you cannot escape from its circumscription. As well undertake to escape from the planet on which we live. What civilization forbids cannot be done. Your enemy may be barbarous and cruel. The rule is clear and unquestionable. Perhaps the true principle of law on this precise question was never better expressed than by one of our masters, William Shakespeare, jurist as well as poet, when he makes Macbeth exclaim-
"I dare do all that may become a man;
Who dares do more is none."
So with us now. We are permitted to do all that may become a man, but nothing more.
But surely nobody will argue that the "barbarities of Anderson ville," and all those torments which we deplore, can become a man. As well might we undertake, by way of retaliation, to revive the boot and thumb-screw of the Inquisition, the fires of Smithfield, "Luke’s iron crown and Damien’s bed of steel," or to repeat that execrable crime which is pictured by Dante, in one of his most admired passages, where Angelino and his children were shut up in a tower, without food or water, and left to die slowly, cruelly, wickedly, by starvation:
"Thou modern Thebes! what? tho’, as fame hath said,
Count Ugolino did thy forts betray-
His sons deserved not punishment so dread."
Thanks to the immortal poet who has blasted forever this sickening enormity, and rendered its imitation impossible. Thanks to that mighty voice which has given new sanction to the mandate of public law. And yet in this terrible case there was retaliation, and the famished victim is revealed as ferociously gnawing the skull of his tormentor. But this was not on earth.
It is when we consider precisely the conduct of the rebels, as it has been represented; when we read the stories of their atrocities; when we call to mind the sufferings of our men in their hands; when we look on the pictures introduced into this discussion, where art has sought to represent the living skeletons; when the whole scene in all its horror is before us, and our souls are filled with unutterable anguish, that we confess how difficult, how abolutely impossible it is for us to follow this savage example. And just in proportion as the treatment of our prisoners transcends the usages of civilized society must the example be rejected. Such is the law which you cannot disobey.
Do not, I pray you, consider me in different to the condition of those unhappy prisoners. I do not yield to the committee or to any Senator in ardor or anxiety for their protection. Whatever can be done, I am ready to do. But, as American citizens, they have an interest that we should do nothing by which our country shall forfeit that great place which belongs to it in the vanguard of the nations. It cannot be best for them that our country should do an unworthy thing. It cannot be best for them that our national destiny should be thus darkened. Duties are in proportion to destinies, and from the very heights of our example I argue again that we cannot allow ourselves, under any passing passion or resentment, to stoop to a policy which history must condemn. There is not a patriot soldier who would not say, "Let me suffer, but save my country."
But even if you make up your minds to do this thing, you cannot. The whole idea is impracticable. The attempt must fail, because human nature is against you. Nemo repente turpissimus. A humane and civilized people cannot suddenly become inhuman and uncivilized. Conscience, heart, soul and body, will rise up against you. From every side will be repeated that generous cry which comes to us from the darkest day of French history, when the brave commander said to the monarch who ordered the massacre of St. Bartholomew, "Sire, I have under me brave soldiers and trusty officers, but not a single executioner;" or that other later cry, when the French Convention, under the lead of Barere, decreed that all English prisoners should be shot- "We will not shoot them," said a stout-hearted sergeant; "if the Convention takes pleasure in killing prisoners, let members kill them and eat them, like savages as they are." But the officers and soldiers of the armies of the United States are not less generous. They too would cry out, "Let members of Congress do this work, if it is to be done; but do not impose it upon a fellow-man,"
Mr. President, it is with pain that, on this occasion, I differ from valued friends whose friendship is among the treasures of my life. But I cannot help it. I cannot do otherwise. It is long since I first raised my voice in this Chamber against the "Barbarism of Slavery," and I have never ceased to denounce it in season and out of season. But the rebellion is nothing but that very barbarism armed for battle. Plainly it is our duty to overcome it, not to imitate it. And here I stand.
THE FEMALE ORATOR.
Our City Hall, on Friday evening last, presented a curious spectacle. It was crowded to its utmost capacity, aisles, platform and ante-rooms full to overflowing, with an audience gathered to hear a young woman discourse on the affairs of the nation. It was the largest audience of the season, probably more than two thousand people being gathered within reach of the speaker’s voice. Among them were eminent citizens and gray-haired politicians, all eagerly listening to the clear cut words of this self-possessed and sarcastic young woman. It was certainly the strongest illustration of woman’s power on the platform—and the power carries with it the right to be there—that we ever witnessed.
Miss Dickinson is young and well favored. She wore on this occasion a rich drab silk, cut high in the neck, and trimmed with black lace. She is of medium height, not graceful in form, with square cut rather than oval face, a low, broad forehead, and abundance of wavy hair, cut short in the neck. She carries herself with aplomb, and moves about the platform with the air of a stage queen.
As a speaker, she may well lay claim to the title of orator. She has a voice of remarkable power and sweetness, never breaking into falsetto in its highest tones. Her enunciation is deliberate and distinct, and she brings out a strong point with effective emphasis. She uses gesture sparingly, but with much effect, the right arm being chiefly employed, while the left is carried behind her. She declaims well, and in pathetic passages has the power to touch the hearts of her hearers. Her faults as a speaker are characteristic of the feminine mind, and of a piece with the disagreeable quality in the writings of Fanny Fern and Gail Hamilton,-a propensity to use the tongue as a lash. Her sarcasm is bitter and biting, delivered with a feminine snappishness of manner, and often an insolence of tone, that lowers her in the eyes of her audience.
As to the matter of her discourse, though not without madness, it had but little method. She illustrated the feminine propensity to run to extremes, and was more radical than the radicals themselves. Her subject was announced as "A Glance at the Future," but she occupied herself very much with the men and things of the present. Her voice was for war, bitter and unrelenting. She went for confiscation, no amnesty for traitors, no pardon for cut-throats and murderers, nothing but the halter for Jeff. Davis and his fellow-conspirators. She eulogized Gen. Butler, as one who, after despising humanity for thirty years of public life, had at last crowned it, and fallen at its feet to worship it. He was the only man to arrange terms of peace with the rebels. She denounced the President as having disgraced himself and the country by going down to treat of peace with rebels and traitors, and sneeringly alluded to his good-nature and lack of dignity. She gave the Washington Chronicle a well-deserved raking broadside for its twaddle about peace, declaring its assertion that slavery is dead to be a lie. She argued that the negroes should have the right of suffrage as a counter balance to the votes of their former masters and the ignorant Irish. She gave a raking shot to both the Republican and Democratic parties, and declared that we are not now fighting for the Old Union, but for a Republi
<c05>
whose motto shall be liberty and justice for all. She said many bitter and some impracticable things, but she also told many truths, not less so because they were disagreeable truths. She said with truth that even if slavery, as a fact, may be said to be dead, it still exists an idea. And it is with this idea we have yet to do terrible battle. Her ideas as to the future of the negro, now distasteful to many, have got to be looked squarely in the face. On this point she is in advance of public sentiment, but public sentiment has got to march up to her position, as from the beginning of this war it has been marching from one advance position to another still further beyond the old bounds of pride and prejudice of race.-Portland Transcript,
THE PROGRESS OF FREEDOM.
The Progress of Freedom is now not only sure but rapid. A despatch from Washington says:
"Distinguished Kentuckians are very anxious for the passage of the Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery, and say that in that event Kentucky will immediately abolish slavery, and take her place in the line of free States, and support the emancipation policy."
Mr. Yeaman of that State, representing a strong slaveholding district in the House of Representatives, and who has hitherto been hanging back upon the Slavery Question, now comes up manfully to the work of emancipation, and in this shows that a change is coming over the dreams of his constituents. He said, on the 9th inst., in a speech in Congress on the resolution for the amendment of the Constitution for the abolition of Slavery throughout the country:
"Alter much hesitation and earnest reflection, I have concluded to vote for the resolution submitting to the people of the States the proposed amendment to the Constitution, which, if successful, will forever settle the vexed and distressing question of slavery. In doing this, I beg to assure gentlemen that I have come to this conclusion, viewing this subject from a national, and even from a Kentucky standpoint, and have derived little or no assistance from those views common to the members of what is termed the radical party of the North. If I wanted to justify it as an anti-slavery measure, it would not be hard to find great authority in my own section. No two names are more worshipped throughout the South than Washington and Jefferson. Washington was a practical emancipationist, and it would not be doing any great injustice to Jefferson to call him an Abolitionist. No name is more loved in Kentucky than that of Henry Clay; and Mr. Clay never omitted a good opportunity to express his convictions of the evils of slavery. And shall a man be told that it is wrong or disgraceful to hold opinions that have been sanctioned by the minds and hearts of such men?
The perpetuity of slavery is not the issue. That issue was made up four years ago, and the case has been decided against the institution, one half the jury being its own friends. Were we to do nothing and say nothing, Mr. Davis and General Lee, Mr. Stephens and Mr. Seddons, Gov. Smith, Porcher Miles and the Richmond Press would soon overturn slavery on their present line of thought and conduct. Indeed, it is notorious they have resolved to put the negro in the fight, and we in Kentucky all know what that means for slavery. When these men turn practical Abolitionists by offering the negro his freedom for his services as a soldier, it is high time for conservative men here to cease halting and doubting on the subject. Shall we debate whether slavery can be preserved, and make a stand and submit to an overthrow for its sake, when the people of the loyal States have pronounced against it, and when the leading spirits of the rebellion have fully made up their minds to abandon it, and even to strangle it in the house of its friends in their frantic efforts to save the one point of secession? Is slavery in Kentucky worth the misery, the blood and the desolation of such a contest as must ensue upon any serious attempt to preserve it? Our children would say, ‘it was worse than a crime, it was a blunder.’ Those in authority and influence with the rebellion have fully made up their minds that they would purchase European alliance, and even accept colonial vassalage under European protection, at the price of an edict of universal emancipation. It is notorious and undisguised that they would be glad to improve their diplomatic and military relations with foreign powers by this movement. We will checkmate them at this game. We will save them the degradation of ‘colonial vassalage,’ by beating them at war, by beating them at foreign diplomacy, and by beating them at emancipation, and treating them justly and kindly the moment they return to their allegiance to the supreme law of the land. And since it is settled that slavery must die, and that this amendment will pass in a few months, if not now, why keep the country in a turmoil, or have any fierce contest over it, contending about that which is practically settled? If it must and will be done, let it be done now, and have done with all suspension, uncertainty and excitement about it.
It must not be ill naturedly said of me that I make no sacrifice of slave property in this matter. I never had much of any kind; and if I had to-day all the money negroes have cost me in different ways, I would be much obliged to them. I owned two. One I found it good to send off for the safety of my children, and the other thought it a good thing to run off just in time to save me the expense of supporting her the balance of her life. I had two hired. One was stolen away by a Northern substitute agent, who wisely preferred a direct personal interview with Joe to a formal correspondence with Gen. Sherman on the subject, and the other went to the army (I hope he is a better soldier than he was farmer), leaving me minus some things which I had formerly supposed were mine, and not his, leaving my place in the weeds and my hire note outstanding and unpaid. And now that they are all gone, I feel so much better that I deem it but polite and neighborly to ask the whole world to try the experiment.
Emancipation is now the true economy in Kentucky. Our lands will increase in value, our roads will multiply; and we will have a great commercial emporium in our own State. will not stop to argue these advantages, but only to point to other States, and younger States, to verify the belief. I repudiate the absurd doctrine that slave labor is the foundation of a higher type of civilization. Commerce, roads, manufactures, agriculture, science, arms, the census, deny it."
MANHOOD SUFFRAGE.
In our opinion, the time is coming when we may need not merely the negro labor, but the negro VOTE.
The negro, when educated and intelligent, will ever think, speak, act, and VOTE on the side of freedom, civilization, republicanism, loyalty, and the Protestant religion. Educate him, and put a vote in his hand, and no truer patriot walks the American soil. On the other hand, there is a contrasted element—the Irish Catholic—that goes by the solid column, perhaps a hundred thousand strong, for slavery, retrogression, drunkenness, mobocracy, and disloyalty. It is a compact instrument in the hands of the priest, and by him handed over for a consideration to the mobocrat. It constitutes the demagogue’s first sure capital in organizing a profligate party. While, however, we speak in terms of scathing indignation of the priest and the mobocrat, let us speak in tenderness of the victimized Celt himself. Alas! how much of all this degradation with which he curses us Protestants is the result of ages of Protestant oppression upon him! He is of a generous, noble stock, as many a cultured and brilliant specimen of Irish genius attests. And when Patrick comes here to build our railroads, dig our canals, and create our material prosperity, let us not with the old Know-nothings proscribe and disfranchise him. Just as little must he proscribe and disfranchise the negro. The negro is a native-born American. He is all we have above described him-loyal, progressive, republican, Protestant. The home-born negro is far better entitled to his vote than the immigrant. He will use it far better than the Romanist immigrant. And, what is more, his vote will more than neutralize the power of the disloyal vote for our country’s ruin. And we may add, by the way, that in moral influence over our political destinies, Methodism would have nothing to lose by an enfranchisement that might double the Methodist vote in the nation.
But can you admit the negro to political rights without accepting him in social life? The man, we reply, who would disfranchise the negro in order to secure the negro’s inferiority not only pays the negro a high compliment, but shows himself already the negro’s inferior. Surely no one can be the inferior of the man who is obliged to maintain his superiority by brute force and oppressive laws over his competitor. But the two things, political rights and social equality, do not belong to the same sphere
<c06>
of thought. Political rights are a matter of public law and constitution; social intercourse belongs to individual taste and choice. Your purple-and-fine-linen democratic leader does not expect his mob material to enter his fashionable soiree. A Fernando Wood may indeed consort with Patrick in the <illegible> or tap-room; but Patrick never expects to see the inside of his mansion. Who supposes that he is obliged to be an associate with a voter even of the same ticket? What more separate than Jew and Gentile? Yet they belong to the same politics. We are a thousand communities in one, divided by a countless variety of principles. Those communities may for ages vote at the same polls and for the same candidates, and yet remain with scarce any other point of contact. The political enfranchisement of the negro involves no social amalgamation. That whole matter, at any rate, can be left to regulate itself.-Methodist Quarterly <illegible>
LINCOLN AND DAVIS CONTRASTED.
When Abraham Lincoln took the chair of the Presidency of the United States, he promised, in his flat-boat lingo, to "run the machine as he found it". Whether he has strictly kept his promise, those may doubt who choose to consider the subject. It is enough for us to know, that whether "running his machine" in the pathway of his predecessors, or not, he has run it with a stern, inflexible purpose, a bold, steady hand, a vigilant, active eye, a fanatic spirit, an eye single to its end-conquest-emancipation. He has called around him, in counsel, the ablest and most earnest men of his country. Where he has lacked in individual ability, learning, experience or statesmanship, he has sought it, and found it in the able men about him, whose assistance he unhesitatingly accepts, and whose powers he applies to the advancement of the cause he has undertaken. In the cabinet and in the field he has consistently and fearlessly pressed on the search for men who could advance his cause, and has as unhesitatingly cut off all those who clogged it with weakness, timidity or imbecility or failure. Force, energy, brains, earnestness, he has collected around him in every department. Blackguard and buffoon as he is, he has pursued his end with an energy as untiring as an Indian, and a singleness of purpose that might almost be called patriotic. If he were not an unscrupulous knave in his end, and a fanatic in his political views, he would undoubtedly command our respect as a ruler, so far as we are concerned. Abroad, and at home, he has exercised alike the same ceaseless energy and circumspection.
We turn our eyes to Richmond, and the contrast is appalling, sickening to the heart. —Charleston Mercury, Jan. 10th.
THE REAL FEELING OF THE SAVANNAH PEOPLE.
A private letter dated at Savannah, January 30 and addressed to a gentleman in this city, gives some facts which shows the real feeling existing in that place. The writer, after deploring the false impressions of the loyalty of Savannah, which have gained ground at the North, continues as follows:
"I do not believe there are twenty respectable whites in the whole city who are really for the Union. If they could, the majority of the people would cut all our throats to-morrow. I saw, to-day, the man who kept the club-house where the first men of the place assembled every night, and he gave me some account of their bitter hatred of the North. Mr. Arnold, who figures so much in the meetings held here, at which patriotic resolutions were passed, was president of this club. These men upheld, as long as they could, the military authorities of the rebellion. When, within two months, a large number of Union prisoners were here, they would not permit the blacks and a few of the middling class of whites to give them food from their scanty stores, and fifty-two of them perished with cold and hunger from Friday night to Sunday morning. 
The ministers here will not pray for the President, except the black clergymen. These pray heartily for him and the Government. The minister of the Presbyterian church, yesterday, I know, prayed thus: "For all Presidents, that their minds might be illuminated to see the right and follow it, and eschew the wrong," which was just as much for Jeff. Davis as for A. Lincoln. The Episcopal ministers omit the prayer for the President entirely. If these people were loyal, they would not stand such prayers, and the ministers know they are pleased with such supplications."
GENERAL SHERMAN AND THE GEORGIA SLAVES.
The following statement appears in the Boston Transcript:—
"I desire to use your columns to correct a statement made yesterday before the Anti-Slavery Convention by Mr. Phillips, in connection with the treatment of the negroes in the State of Georgia by General Sherman. Mr. Phillips is reported to have said that General Sherman established a guard at a bridge over which his army was passing, and gave orders that no negroes should be allowed to cross; after the passing of the army, the bridge was taken up, and the negroes, to the number of some thousands, were left upon the opposite bank, at the mercy of the rebel cavalry, who were following close in the rear of the army. This statement I know to be utterly untrue, so far as connecting General Sherman’s name with it is concerned. The facts, as related above, occurred in the Fourteenth Army corps, commanded by General Jeff. C. Davis.
General Sherman was miles away from the scene of the occurrence, and sincerely deprecated it. It is entirely contrary to the policy he pursued in his treatment of the colored people all through the State and in Savannah, and, Mr. Phillips to the contrary, they all look upon him as their deliverer. Soon after Sherman’s arrival at Savannah a deputation of twelve colored men waited upon him, requesting permission to hold public service. He received them with much kindness, shaking each by the hand, and assured them that they should be treated, in all respects, the same as other inhabitants of the city; that the government, whose servant he was, had declared them free, and that his army should protect them in their freedom.
I might cite other instances similar to the above, showing General Sherman’s views in regard to the negroes, but deem this to be sufficient.
I make this statement that the reputation of a great general and brave man, under whom I am proud to have seen service, should not be damaged by the misstatement of one who, if sincere in his professions of sympathy for the negroes, should be the first to honor a man who by his great military successes has given freedom to half a million of slaves.
D. W. WHITTLE, Capt. 72d Ill. Infantry,
Ass’t Provost-Marshal-General, Staff of Major-General Howard."
DR. GEORGE B. LORING ON RECONSTRUCTION.
Dr. George B. Loring delivered a lecture before the Salem Lyceum on Thursday evening, upon "The New Era of the Country." His views were fully up to the progress of the times. From a sketch of his remarks in the Salem Gazette, we extract the following:-
"Now we are told that the revolted States must be brought back to the Union and the Constitution. And so they must-to just that Union and Constitution which we ourselves enjoy, no more, no less. We have a Constitution now stripped of all implied right of secession. Let them return to that. We have a government now, whose everlasting and un-changeable policy is universal freedom. Let them return to that. We have a Union now, bound together by something stronger than an aster action, a Union of States bearing the relation to the general government which is required by every sentiment of allegiance, a Union of people having a common interest in the solvency of the government, a Union whose nationality is now well understood by all foreign powers. Let them return to that.
We have a government now, capable of carrying its conquests over this whole continent, versed at last in the business of colonial government, experienced in the establishment of military away when civil rule is impossible, with an organized army whose business should not end with the suppression of the rebellion, but may find useful occupation is carrying the Monroe doctrine into practical operation, until the agricultural and mineral resources from the lakes to the isthmus are brought under our republican sway. Let them return to that.
Dr. Loring considered re-construction under the old Constitution impossible. Re-construction under the Constitution which the events of the last four years have prepared for us, he considered natural and easy. Our armies can accomplish that."
