THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT- 
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.	
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS. if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the Land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."--J.Q.ADAMS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 12.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1630.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
LETTER FROM MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
WASHINGTON. D. C., March 2, 1862.
GENTLEMENT: I have the honor to acknowledge your favor of yesterday, inviting me to attend a meeting of the citizens of New York, at the Cooper Institute, on the sixth inst., and requesting my views on the subject of the call. I shall not be able to attend the meeting, nor have I the leisure to write out my views upon the subject with the care demanded by the nature of it, but I will offer some thoughts for your consideration.
I do not concur in the proposition that certain States have been "recntly overturned and wholly subverted as members of the Federal Union," upon which the call is based. This is, in substance, what the Confederates themselves claim, and the fact, that secession is maintained by the authors of this call, for a different purpose, does not make it more constitutional, or prevent them from being actual aiders and abettors of the Confederates.
No one who knows my political career will suspect that my condemnation of this doctrine is influenced by any indisposition to put an end to slavery. I have left no opportunity unimproved to strike at it, and have never been restrained from doing so by personal considerations. But I have never believed that the abolition of slavery, or any other great reform. could or ought to be effected except by lawful and constitutional modes. The people have never sanctioned, and never will sanction, any other; and the friends of a cause will especially avoid all questionable grounds when, as in the present instance, nothing else will long postpone their success.
There are two distinct interests in slavery, the political and property interests, held by distinct classes. The rebellion originated with the political class. The property class, which generally belonged to the Whig organization, had lost no property in the region where the rebellion broke out, and were prosperous. It was the Democratic organization, which did not represent the slaveholders as a class, which hatched the rebellion. Their defeat in the late political struggle, and in the present rebellion, extinguishes at once and forever the political interest of slavery. The election of Mr. Lincoln put an end to the hopes of Jeff Davis, Wise, et id omne genus, for the Presidency of the Union, and hence the rebellion. It extinguished slavery as a power to control the Federal Government, and it was the capacity of slavery to subserve this purpose alone, which has given it vitality, for morally and economically it is indefensible. With the extinction of its political power, there is no motive to induct any politician to uphold it. No man ever defended such an institution except for pay, and nothing short of the power of the Government could provide sufficient gratification to ambition to pay for such service: and therefore Mr. Toombs said, with perfect truth, that the institution could only be maintained in the Union by the possession of the Government. That has been wrested from it, and the pay is on the side of justice and truth. Can any man who respects popular intelligence think it necessary, with such advantages on the side of justice and truth, to violate the great charter of our liberties to insure their triumph? Such an act, in my judgment, so far from advancing the cause in whose name it is performed, would surely be disastrous, and result in bringing our opponents into power in the name of the Constitution. It is not merely a question of Constitutional law or slavery with which we have to deal in "securing permanent peace." * * * The problem before us is the practical one of dealing with the relations of masses of two different races in the same community. The calamities now upon us have been brought about. as I have already said, not by the grievances of the class claiming property in slaves, but by the jealousy of caste, a wakened by the secessionists in the non-slaveholders.
In considering the means of securing the peace of the country hereafter, it is therefore this jealousy of races which is chiefly to be considered. Emancipation alone would not remove it. It was by proclaiming to the laboring whites who fill the armies of rebellion, that the election of Mr. Lincoln involved emancipation, equality of the negroes with them, and consequently amalgamation, that their jealousy was stimulated to the fighting point. Nor is this jealousy the fruit of mere ignorance and bad passion, as some suppose, or confined to the white people of the South. On the contrary, it belongs to all races, and like all popular instincts proceeds from the highest wisdom. It is fact, the instinct of self-preservation which revolts at hybridism.
Nor does this instinct militate against the natural law, that all men are created equal, if another law of nature equally obvious is obeyed. We have but to restore the subject race to the same or to a region similar to that from which it was brought by violence, to make it operative, and such a separation of races is the condition which the immortal author of the Declaration himself declared to be indispensable to give it practical effect. A theorist not living in a community where diverse races are brought in contact in masses may stifle the voice of nature in his own bosom, and from a determination to live up to a mistaken view of the doctrine go so far as to extend social intercourse to individuals of the subject race. But few even of such persons would pursue their theories so far as amalgamation and other legitimate consequences of their logic. Indeed, for the most part, such persons, in our country, like the leading spirits in Exeter Hall, are so far removed, by their circumstances, from any practical equality with working-people of any race, that they have little sympathy for them, and nothing to apprehend for themselves from the theory of equality. Not so with the white working-man in a community where there are many negroes. In such circumstances, the distinction of caste is the only protection of the race from hybridism, and consequent extinction.
That this jealousy of caste is the instinct of the highest wisdom, and is fraught with the greatest good, is abundantly attested by its effects on our own race, in which it is stronger than any other. We conquer and hold our conquests by it.
The difficult question with which we have to deal is, then the question of race, and I do not think it is disposed of, or that our difficulties will be lessened by emancipation by Congress, even if such an act was constitutional It would certainly add to the exasperation of the non-slaveholding whites of the South, and might unite them against the Government, and, if so, they would be unconquerable. As matters stand, we can put down the rebellion, because the people of the natural strongholds of the Southern country are with us. It is chiefly in the low lands accessible from the ocean and navigable rivers and bays, that treason is rampant. The mountain fastnesses, where alone a guerilla war can be sustained, are now held by Union men, and they are more numerous, and more robust, intelligent, and independent than the rebels. It is chiefly the more degraded class of non-slaveholders, who live in the midst of slavery, who are now engaged against the
<c02>
Government. But the non-slaveholders of the mountain and high land regions, while for the Union, are not free from the jealousy of caste, and the policy  I object to would, if adopted. I apprehend, array them against us. Nor would we succeed  in our object if they were finally subdued and exterminated, if we left  the negroes on the soil;  for other whites would take the country, and hold it against the negroes, and reduce them again to slavery, or exterminate them.
I am morally certain, indeed, that  to  free  the slaves of the South, without removing them, would result in the massacre of them.  A general massacre was on the eve of taking place in the State of Tennessee, in 1856, upon a rising of some of them on the Cumberland; and I have been assured by the Hon. Andrew Johnson, who was then Governor of the State, that nothing but his prompt calling out of the militia prevented it.
But this antagonism of race, which has led to our present calamities and might lead to yet greater, if it continues to be ignored, will deliver us from  slavery in the easiest, speediest, and best manner, if we recognize it as it is-the real cause of trouble and invincible, and deal with it rationally.
We have but to propose to let the white race  have the lands intended for them by the Creator, to turn the fierce spirit aroused by the secessionists to destroy the Union to the support of it, and at the same time to break up the slave system by which the most fertile lands of the temperate zone are monopolized and wasted. That is the result which the logic of the census shows is being worked out, and which no political management can prevent being worked out. The essence of the contest is, whether the white race shall have these lands, or whether they shall be held by the black race, in the name of a few whites. The blacks could never hold them as their own, for we have sees how quickly  that race has disappeared when emancipated. Experience proves what might have been inferred from their history, that it has not maintained and cannot  maintain itself in the temperate zone, in contact and in competition with the race to which that region belongs. It is only when dependent that it can exist there. But this servile relation is mischievous, and the community so constituted does not flourish and keep pace with the spirit of the age. It has scarcely the claim to the immense area of land it occupies, which the Aborigines had; for though the Indians occupied larger space, with fewer inhabitants, they did not waste the land as the slave system does. No political management or sentimentalism can prevent the natural resolution of such a system, in the end, any more than such a means; could avail to preserve the Indian possession and dominion.
The rebellion, like the Indian outbreaks, is but a vain attempt to stem the tide of civilization and  progress. The treachery, falsehood and cruelty perpetrated to maintain negro possession, scarcely less than that of the savages, mark the real nature of the contest. Nevertheless, I believe it might have been averted if we had adopted  Mr. Jefferson's counsels, and made provision for the separation of  the races, providing suitable homes for the blacks, as we have for the Indians. It is essential still, in order to abridge the conflict of arms, and to fraternize the people when that is past, to follow Mr. Jefferson's advice.
This most benevolent and sagacious statesman predicted all the evils which it has been our misfortune to witness, unless we should avert them by this, the only means which, after the most anxious thought, he could suggest. No statesman of our day has given the subject so much thought as he did, or possesses the knowledge or ability to treat it so wisely. Let us, then, listen to his counsels. By doing so, we shall establish a fraternity among the working-men of the white race throughout the Union which has never existed, and give real freedom to the black race, which cannot otherwise exist. Nor is it necessary to the restoration of harmony and prosperity to the Union, that this policy should be actually and completely put in force.  It is only necessary that it should be adopted by the Government, and that it be made known to the people that it is adopted, to extinguish hostility in the hearts of the masses of the South toward the people of the North, and secure their co-operation in putting an end to slavery.  No greater mistake was ever made than in supposing that the masses of the people of the   South favor slavery.  I have already stated that they did not take up arms to defend it, and explained the real motives of their action. The fact that they oppose emancipation in their midst is the only foundation for a contrary opinion. But the masses of the North are equally opposed to it, if the four millions of slaves were to be transported to their midst. The prohibitory laws against their coming, existing in all the States subject to such invasion, proves this. On the other hand, the intense hostility which is universally known to be felt by the nonslaveholders of the South towards all negroes expresses presses their real hostility to slavery, and it is the natural form of expression under the circumstances.
It needs, therefore, but the assurance which would be given by providing homes for the blacks elsewhere, that they are to be regarded as sojourners when emancipated, as in point of fact they are, and ever will be, to insure the co-operation of non-slaveholders in their emancipation. Nor would they require immediate, universal, or involuntary transportation, or that any injustice whatever be done to the blacks. The more enterprising would soon emigrate, and multitudes of less energy would follow, if such success attended the pioneers, as the care with which the government should foster so important an object would doubtless insure:  and with such facilities, it would require but few generations to put the temperate regions of America in the exclusive occupation of the white race, and remove the only obstacle to a perpetual Union of the States.
With great respect, I am 
Your obd't servant,  M. BLAIR. 
To the Committee of Invitation, &c. 
RESTORATION OF THE UNION. We have looked confidently to a restoration  of the Union, of the whole Union, and of nothing less than the Union;  but because the sentiments of the  Northern  disorganizers were flatly repudiated by the  sterling patriotism and good sense of the people, and by the Government When the President rebuked Fremont dismissed Cameron; when the Cabinet  and the Congress vowed that the sole object of the war was to maintain the national authority; when the glorious Generals, Burnside, Buell, Halleck  and McClellan, carried out this on the field; when rebellion's crest fell in Missouri and in Kentucky, then the work on civil and military fields seemed to go grandly on. Let honest men renew their purpose to keep faith with each other. On this ground, that of the continued Union of all loyal men on the basis of the Constitution, may we still look confidently to see our great Republic shine in more than pristine glory;  but  the man does not live who will see it come back on the basis of Sumner's central despotism.- Boston Post.
<c03>
Selections.
HOW AN INTELLIGENT ENGLISHMAN REGARDS THE WAR IN AMERICA.
Extract from an able and eloquent speech, delivered in Leicester, (England,) on the evening of the 13th ultimo, "to the Entire Liberal Constituency," by P. A TAYLOR, Esq., M.P.:-
The press of their town was good enough to insert a very intelligent letter be received a fortnight ago from a friend of his in New York, in which he asked him to use his little influence here, as he would do there, in removing the misunderstanding of the people of this country and America. It was to be feared that, though the war had for the present been escaped, yet the bitterness which would be left would in some future time bear its evil fruit. In regard to the English nation, he felt the utmost confidence in asserting, from observation and experience, that its hatred of slavery was as intense as ever. There were times, of course, when particular sides of questions were more talked of than at others, and when long outworn notions were dug up in the form of fossil remains. He thought it was not impossible that in Leicester there might be Tories who still regretted the passing of the Reform Bill, or who still adhered to the fallacies of protection-if not amongst the town, yet amongst the country Tories. He drew this distinction, for he had observed with considerable amusement the striking differences in the tone between the mild Conservatism of the town Tories, and the rabid Toryism of their country cousin. In like manner, there might doubtless be discovered fossilized supporters of slavery; but he believed that before any constituency of any meeting of importance in any part of the country, the response in abhorrence of slavery would be as strong at that moment as when they spent twenty millions to emancipate their slaves in the West Indies. To clear the ground, let him assert emphatically, that the cause of the strife in America was slavery, and nothing else. (Loud cheers.) There was no other cause which by any possibility could have split up the Union as slavery had done. Some people would strive to make them believe that the question of tariffs was the cause, but there was no foundation for the allegation whatever. He did not believe that the South had been opposed to the protective policy of the Northern States, for in many cases the various tariffs had been supported by a majority of the Southern votes. The South was amply strong enough to maintain in Congress its rights and interests. He repeated that it was slavery, and slavery alone, which had inevitably caused the severance of the Union; and in the natural course of events it might have been recognized from the beginning that there was no other alternative than the abolition of slavery or the rupture of the Union, for this reason: there was no other question upon which it was impossible for the South to maintain the rights of the individual States to legislate in regard to their own domestic affairs, without infringing upon the equally sacred rights of the Northern States. The Southern States had, under the Constitution, the right to maintain slavery within their own limits. The Northern had an equal right to render slavery illegal within their boundaries, and they had done so. But it was impossible for the South to maintain their domestic institution without trampling upon the State rights of the North, by compelling them, under thread and pressure, to pass even stronger laws for the rendition of fugitive slaves. They could not maintain slavery within their own boundaries without compelling the citizens of the Northern States to act as their man-hunters. Two things were essential for the existence of slavery in the South-first, the maintenance of those Fugitive Slave Laws to which he had alluded; and, secondly, there was this other condition. Slavery was not more wicked than it was wasteful as an application of labor. Slavery could only exist profitably upon the virgin soils, upon new lands, where the idle scratching of the surface by the slave was sufficient to return an abundant harvest. These soils were speedily exhausted, and it then became essential to find southward and westward new soils for the introduction of the domestic institution. It was essential, therefore, he repeated, for the existence of slavery in the Southern States, that the North should consent to become slave-hunters for the South, and that they should likewise consent to extend the pollution of the institution on to the free soil of new territories. Whatever doubt might exist in this country as to the fact of slavery being the cause and origin of the war, there was no such doubt in America, North or South. Everybody there knew that slavery was the cause of the struggles which had gone on between the North and South ever since, indeed, the founding of the Union, but with ever increasing bitterness and force. Everybody there knew that it was slavery that gave birth to the filibustering propensity under the natural interest of seeking new soils for the institution. Everybody there knew that slavery was the cause of the deep and malignant hatred that had animated the South against English institutions and English travellers. Everybody there knew that it was slavery that had caused bloody civil war in Kansas; and everybody knew that it was for slavery that honest John Brown was hanged at Harper's Ferry three years ago. (Loud cheers.) He believed that had John Brown lived, he was destined to be the Garibaldi of the negro race.
And now, to do the North some justice in relation to its present struggle. The North had been subservient and truckling to the South for year after year. It had submitted to compromise after compromise, degrading to its principles and to its independence. But there came at last a time when Northern statesmen resolved to make a stand against the future encroachments of the South, not so much, it must be allowed, in favor of the negro race, as through the necessity of maintaining the liberties of the white citizens themselves, threatened, as he had shown, by the necessarily aggressive policy of the South. This was manifested a few years ago when the gallant attempt was made to elect Fremont. It was manifested again, and successfully last year, by the election of the President whom they loved to speak of as honest Abraham Lincoln. It must be clearly admitted that the struggle at present was not one for emancipation, but it was one for the maintenance of free soil rights. If the North had not yet risen to a true sense of the greatness of their position, this justice, at any rate, must be done them-that they resolved most manfully to submit no longer to the encroachments of the South-to defend and preserve, at any rate, the Union; and signs were not wanting that his correspondent was justified in saying that "be the actual result of the struggle what it may, slavery, at any rate, has received its death wound." If they were in any doubt in this country as to slavery being the cause of the war, the South understood it clearly enough; or why did they receive the notification of the election of President Lincoln as the understood signal that no alternative was left them but secession and war? If there 
<c04>
could be any question as to the North being against slavery, there could be none as to the South being intensely pro-slavery. They had already, doubtless, all seen the quoted letter of Mr. Yancey, in which he frankly demanded the recognition of the entire equality between the nutmeg and the negro trade. (Cheers.) He (the speaker) would read them an extract from the speech, of Mr. Stephens, Vice President of the Southern Confederacy, delivered in March, 1861:
"Our new Government is founded upon exactly the opposite ideas; its foundations are laid, its corner stone rests, upon the great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man; that slavery subordination to the superior race-is his natural and normal condition. This, our new Government, is the first in the history of the world based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth. It is upon this, as 1 have stated, our social fabric is firmly planted; and I cannot permit myself to doubt the ultimate success of a full recognition of this principle throughout the civilized and enlightened world. It is the first Government ever instituted upon principles in strict conformity to nature and the ordination of Providence."
This was pretty well; but there were outspoken spirits that spoke more boldly still. The Richmond Examiner says:
"Until recently, the defence of slavery has labored under great difficulties because its apologists-for they were mere apologists-took half-way grounds. They confined the defence of slavery to mere negro slavery, thereby giving up the slavery principle, admitting other forms of slavery to be wrong. The line of defence, however, is now changed. The South now maintains that slavery is right, natural and necessary, and does not depend upon difference of complexion. THE LAWS OF THE SLAVE STATES JUSTIFY THE HOLDING OF WHITE MEN IN BONDAGE."
There was a practical bearing in this question; as at any time discussion might come on in Parliament in regard to the recognition of the Southern States. There could be no doubt that when the South had proved beyond all question their power of maintaining their independence, they must be recognized by England-so long at least as they retained their law against the slave trade, however much we might detest their institutions. But, as Mr. Disraeli had well observed, the decision as to the time was not a mere question of law or precedent: it might be termed "an instinct of the heart." There was a difference between the alacrity with which England would recognize the birth of a new free State, and the reluctance she would feel to ante-date by a single day the necessity for the recognition of a State, which, after the extracts he had read, the meeting would feel he was justified in branding as men-stealers, womenbeaters, and child-branders. (Loud cheers.) The present strife might be likened to a fearful storm in which many a bark of domestic happiness would go down, and the labor of unborn millions would be mortgaged; but they might remember that the darkest hour went before the dawn, and that when the bright sky of to-morrow dawned, it would not be felt that that storm had been useless, for the accursed black bark of slavery had gone down below. (Cheers.)
LET THERE BE NO DECEPTION.
Let us deal truly and kindly with ourselves and our foes in the settlement of our difficulties. To deceive either is useless and cruel. What, then, is involved in the reconstruction of the States upon the same basis and with the status as originally constructed? Evidently, it means that we simply put things back two years or more, so that South Carolina and the other Confederates would be again represented in Congress, and her traitors be eligible to the Presidency, as they were two years ago. Of course, her slaves are all to be restored as fugitives, and her slave code go again into full operation. Then what? We begin afresh our political discussions: Shall slavery go into the Territories? Shall new slave States be admitted, and the Fugitive Slave Law be executed? Again the South begins to beat Northern Representatives with their canes. No; that game is ended. That never could be done again. We have now learned to fight, and cannot put off that spirit so easily. They threaten to secede. No; the first word of that kind would bring the reckless offender to the gibbet as a traitor. That could never be tolerated more. What then must the South do? Sit still, and bear what they cannot answer? For clubs and threats are all they have to meet the arguments of freedom with. But if they are thus forced to yield, they might as well now give up slavery, for soon it would be girdled by this course. "No," says the wiseacre, who knows nothing but the Union as it was, "we will not allow the subject of slavery to be touched. That hateful and accursed firebrand must be buried with rebellion." Ay, but that involves some difficulties. Then the South must be allowed to carry their slaves into new territory and all through the free States, and anti-slavery men say nothing to prevent it. But this subjugates the North as much as the other does the South, and we had as well adopt the Jeff. Davis government at once. It involves the necessity of silencing the Abolitionists, or, in other words, it destroys freedom of speech and of the press utterly.
Ah! this is what all the advocates of reconstruction mean. The South are to be allowed to carry their slaves where they please, and the Abolitionists shall not be allowed to say aught on the subject. This was always their cry; it is now the cry of the Herald, and every supporter of the reconstruction doctrine. But this point itself cannot be gained without discussion. And shall we divide the North on this, with angry debate involving the whole question? What should we gain, save to do what Bennett has tried so hard to do, viz., get all the proslavery men of the North to unite with the South, and destroy freedom of speech and the Abolitionists together? Mr. Carlisle, Davis, and other Union Senators from Virginia and Kentucky, say that they regard it just as disloyal and unconstitutional to speak against slavery, or the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, or the reduction of the rebel States to territorial condition, as to speak in favor of the Southern Confederacy. And of the actors in that farce, they say they should be hung. They should be hung in pairs, Abolitionists and Rebels together. In their estimation, it is as wrong to attempt to do constitutionally what the Constitution provides may be done, as to do unconstitutionally what it forbids in any form. Freedom of speech is as vile in these men's' eyes as outright rebellion. Will the free and intelligent North ever become so imbruted as to accept these diabolical sentiments?
But suppose the attempt should be made to suppress the Abolitionists, could it succeed? It could only be accomplished by the murder, as these men propose, of every Abolitionist in the land. The friends of the slave are not such from their personal admiration of the race or the color. They have no respect of persons. It matters not who the oppressed are. Their action is based upon their natural and religious sense of justice, immutable justice, and their duty to God and man. They will never cease to proclaim and defend it, be the cost
<c05>
what it may. This war must turn its armies against them, and exterminate them, if they are to be silenced. Will the North stand by, and see as pure patriots and virtuous men as ever trod American soil, who hare taught its schools, plowed its fields, preached its Gospel, and fought its battles, coolly slaughtered to please the besotted rebels and their heartless coadjutors, who have murdered our sons to acquire power to enslave the sons of Africa? We think, not. Yet all this is involved in reconstruction. Reconstruction can mean nothing else than either the surrender of the rebels and the destruction of slavery, or the surrender of the North and the slaughter of the Abolitionists. Let all who advocate it know that nothing else do they plead for. It is this that nerves the arm of the South. They know well that they or Abolitionists must submit, if they come back. Let honest Americans decide which it shall be; who are the best friends of this country, who will be most easily conquered, rebels, or the lovers of universal liberty. Martyrs are fruitful vines. Let us decide this wisely and at once. Either slavery or Abolitionism must die. They never did, they never can, they never will live in peace together. God forbid they ever should! Our advice, therefore, is, let it be at once declared that slavery having well nigh proved the ruin of this nation, and being utterly incompatible with its safety, we hail with gratitude the fact that the rebellion has destroyed the States it has infected, and slavery with them. Slavery has pulled down the pillar of state, and is itself crushed in the common ruin. On the site we shall build the temple of Liberty.-American Baptist.
"RABID ABOLITIONISM."
The future antiquarian, who shall be driven by his passion for mouldiness to read over the Democratic Journals of the present day, will wonder what complication of crimes was embodied in the ever-recurring words, "Rabid Abolitionism."
In New York Heralds and Boston Posts. in St.Louis Republicans and Detroit Free Presses, he will find ten denunciations of Abolitionism to one earnest censure of Treason, of Theft, or of Murder. He will find fifty columns of anathema piled upon Wendell Phillips, but hardly a word derogatory to the character of Gordon, the pirate, Jeff. Davis, the traitor, or Monroe Edwards, the forger.
Men who live blameless lives, who obey the laws of God and of man, are met with sharper abuse than pimps and cut-throats!
And the antiquary will want to know what is this greatest of crimes? Abolitionism! And who are these greatest of criminals? Abolitionists! He will find that, in Rebeldom, all men born in Free States are Abolitionists. Stephen A. Douglas, Lewis Cass, Millard Fillmore-all these are in the category. As he continues his investigations, he will learn that every man who has ever declared for human freedom, and against human slavery, has at some time had to bear the stigma of Abolitionism-Washington, who hoped the States would one day all be free, and who emancipated his own slaves-Jefferson, who said that all men have an inherent and unalienable right to liberty-and Franklin, who was the first to petition Congress for the emancipation of slaves; and he will find that contemporary abuse was in exact ratio to the earnestness of its object in his love for freedom.
Since the present war broke out, this invective has been more bitter than ever before. Abolitionism, it is constantly urged, is the cause of the war. Hang William Lloyd Garrison, and Jeff. Davis, by some strange logic, becomes the most obedient of law-abiding men! If Ellsworth is stabbed, a picket murdered, or anything peculiarly barbarous done by the rebels, these Democrats howl---" Why, in God's name, is Owen Lovejoy allowed to speak in Congress?"
We pity the antiquarian, and do not know how he can ever solve the riddle.
But here are the articles before us. The New York Express says:-
"Southern secession must be overcome first, and then Northern secession must be taken in hand. Our national difficulties will never cease until rabid Abolition is completely put down by the power of the Government of the United States."
It must be put down! Men who prefer freedom to slavery must be put down, no matter how good citizens they are! They must be put down, because they think it. Massachusetts, an "Abolition "State, which sent the first men to the field, must be put down! Kansas, an Abolition State, although contributing more largely in proportion to her population than any of her sisters, must be put down!
Such is the logic of slavery.
Alas, poor antiquary!-Kansas Conservative.
GERRIT SMITH AT WASHIHGT0N. 
Gerrit Smith delivered a cogent and impressive speech at the Smithsonian Institute, in the city of Washington, on the evening of the 1st inst. Below we give the concluding portion of it:-
Having shown that your war is against the Constitution, the negroes, the country, and freedom, it needs no argument to show that it is against God also. To fight against Freedom is to fight against God, for Freedom is an emanation from His own heart. God is free, and hence all whom He makes in His own image He makes free. In giving them His own nature, He gives them freedom to use it. This is as true of all the races of his children as it is that all of them are equally dear to Him. Hence, to deprive any one of these races of freedom is to rob it of what God gave, and to enter into a controversy with God.
Again, you war against God by refusing to listen to Him. He has words of warning for all people. The never-ceasing and the loudest of them to us are: "Let my people go! Let my people go!" You have fought, and you still fight, against Him by refusing to listen to these words: They have the emphasis of peals of thunder in the present Providential dealings with this nation. Nevertheless, you continue to close your ears, and to harden your hearts against them; and thus do you fight against Him more guiltily than ever before. In these Providential dealings, slavery has been put entirely at the disposal of our Government. Its own infatuated friends-its own blind worshippers-have put it there. Hence there can be no longer constitutional excuses for snaring it. There are now the highest constitutional obligations to abolish it, because there are now in this terrible rebellion the highest constitutional obligations to do whatever can be done to save the country.
I need say no more to show that your war is against many parties, and that because it is so, it is like to prove unsuccessful. Do you ask how the country can be saved? The answer is at hand: Stop all your other fighting and fight but against the rebels. Another answer is also at hand: Stop taking counsel of Kentucky, and take counsel of the nation. I am not prejudiced against Kentucky. I
<c06>
love her. I have gazed with delight upon her surpassingly rich blue grass fields, and the fine breeds of cattle grazing upon them. I have enjoyed her unstinted hospitality. I have conversed with her fascinating Henry Clay, and with others of her great men. I acknowledge the eminent bravery of her people. Nevertheless, I cannot admit that the advice of Kentucky should be taken in this war. It can but lead to destruction. For this is a war which slavery has brought upon us. Hence a slave State-a State which is still under the infatuating power of slavery-is not fit to give advice in it. Anti-Slavery men, and Anti-Slavery men only, are fit to shape your policy against a Pro-Slavery war. Indeed, the very best counsellors we could have at this juncture are such men as Garrison and Phillips, and Bryant and Jay, and Tyng and Cheever, and Frederick Douglass. You need men in your national councils at this time who know all about slavery-men who have made the monster their lifestudy. Drunkards know little of drunkenness. Their very drunkenness disables them from knowing much of it. It is the clear-eyed Temperance men who know all about it. Slaveholders know little of slavery. Their very slaveholding disables them from knowing much of it. They are its blinded victims-scarcely less blinded than their fellow-victims, the slaves. It is the clear-eyed Abolitionists who know all about slavery. Had this been a rebellion of the whiskey-makers and whiskey-drinkers, you would not have gone to distillers and drunkards for counsel how to resist and conquer it. But, as well might you, as to make slaveholders your advisers against this Pro-Slavery rebellion. So far from our needing the advice of Kentucky how to save the nation, most emphatically does she need our advice how to save herself. What is the on thing which has set her people to cutting one another's throats? Slavery! But she does not see it. What is the one thing which would have kept the war without her borders? Just that which has kept it out of the contiguous States of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois-Anti-Slaver! But she does not see it. Had not slavery made them stone-blind, the statesmen of Kentucky would instantly see that, in protecting and cherishing slavery, they are protecting and cherishing the viper which is stinging her to death. Were we involved in any other than a Pro-Slavery war, such able and admired men as Crittenden and Davis, Guthrie and Holt, would be competent to give us valuable counsel. But as a proof how unfit even such a high-minded gentleman as Garrett Davis is to counsel us in this war, he proposes on the floor of the Senate to have some of the best and noblest men in the land put to death, simply because they are opposed to slavery. To say the least, he betrays great weakness in this. AS he is my namesake, and is perhaps partial to me, I will call it nothing worse than weakness. The general principle, which forbids the trusting of Kentucky wisdom in this crisis, is: "Never trust a person in a matter where his interest is against you, and especially if he is manifestly blinded or seduced by that interest." For illustration-should Polygamy get up a rebellion against our Government, do not rely largely on the help of Brigham Young to put it down. He would be like to prove as weak and unwise against a Polygamy rebellion as does Garrett Davis against a Pro-Slavery one.
Nevertheless, I say, God be good to Kentucky! We will save her if she will let us. We will save her if she will not interpose slavery in the way of our saving her. At great cost of Northern life and treasure are we now clearing her of traitors. What could she do in her present distresses without the help of the free States against the slave States? The slave States are her foes. The free States are her friends. A very ungrateful return does she make to the free States in refusing to surrender the guilty and sole cause of the war-a very cruel return in clinging to slavery, and in thus keeping open the way for repetitions of the war, and for repetitions of Northern sacrifices on her account.
But Kentucky and Missouri, Maryland and Delaware say: "Our slavery has constitutional rights." They should not be saving so at this time. Nothing has rights now but our distressed and beloved country. This is no time to be mousing through the Constitution in quest of personal or any other rights. But this is the very time for us all to exclaim, out of the fullness of our hearts: "Our property is nothing, our life is nothing, only as they can be used, constitutionally or unconstitutionally, toward putting down this piratical and diabolical rebellion."
But Kentucky and Missouri, Maryland and Delaware go on to say that if they give up their slaves, they should be paid for them. From early manhood I have steadily and earnestly held that the North, inasmuch as she is, to say the least, an equally guilty partner with the South in the stupendous robbery of slavery, should be willing to share with her in the present or temporary loss of emancipation. This I have held, notwithstanding no one abominates more than I do the idea of property in man. Let the States I have named hasten to abolish slavery, and in this wise to make sure and speedy the defeat of the rebellion, and I am sure that the heart of the North will go out not only in justice, but in wide generosity toward all their loyal slaveholders who have suffered loss by such abolition. Liberally will she expend money toward repairing the loss; and her gratitude and love will go along with her money.
I said, stop taking advice of Kentucky. If our nation is lost, it will be because of the large influence of the border States in her counsels. A simpleton, seeing that the squirrels in attacking corn-fields began upon the border rows, declared he would invent and get a patent for a corn-field without borer rows. I am not so simple as to propose that a nation shall dispense with border States. But I am wise enough to wish that there were no pro-slavery border States. Far more dangerous to our nation are the pro-slavery border States than are the border rows to the corn-field. Far more dangerous are the slaveholders in the one than the squirrels in the other.
I advised taking counsel of the nation instead of Kentucky. All the States north of border States would to-day vote the abolition of slavery. They would do so, not for the sake of abolishing slavery, but for the sake of abolishing the rebellion. They do not claim that the abolition of slavery is the object of the war. That any do, is a gross slander. But they do claim that it is right and obligatory to put down anything and everything which stands in the way of putting down the rebellion.
Had the President of the United States, who is a man not of strong mind only, but of strong intentions to do justice, been bore in New England, instead of Kentucky, the rebellion would have been overcome long ago. With his New England education, he would have let Cameron's anti-slavery have its mighty way, and the proclamation of the intrepid and manly Pathfinder have its mightier way. He would, at the very beginning of the war, have decided that slavery could not be taken care of by the Government, but must be left to take care of itself; or, in other words, that the slaveholder must, as well as the farmer, merchant, and manufacturer, take the chances of war. Nay, with a true New England.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
education, he would, at the very first, have given a death-blow to the rebellion by allowing colored men to be a part of the seventy-five thousand troops be called for. One black regiment would have been sufficient to secure a speedy end to the war, and to save us from the loss of a hundred thousand lives and a thousand million of dollars. For it would have been sufficient to advertise the four millions and a half of enslaved and free blacks which was the side of their friends—which was the side for them to sympathize with and serve. I, of course, assume that had there been such a regiment, other things would have been in harmony. There would then have been no repelling and outraging of the negroes, and no alienation of them from our good cause to help the South win them to her bad one.
Ever since the President modified Fremont's Proclamation, and indicated so strongly that hatred and oppression were still to be the policy of the Government towards the negroes, I have strongly feared that our country was lost. For, believing that the South would be pressed by our victories and by the persuasive counsels and tempting offers of Europe to proclaim Emancipation, I have strongly feared that her negroes, bond and free, would be drawn by the Proclamation, and driven by our hostile attitude toward them, to identify themselves with the cause of the South. The time for the South to take this step with undoubting certainty that it would crown her cause with triumph was when she found herself disappointed in her expectations of both Northern and European aid. But it is probably not yet too late. If taken now, she will hardly fail to gain her independence. Sad result this of our persevering crimes against our dark-skinned brother! And yet, if it be the Divine decree that the innocent slave shall be freed and the guilty nation destroyed, who shall arraign its wisdom? The nation on our South will be an exceedingly base one—for the great mass of its whites will be scarcely less ignorant and servile than the great mass of its blacks. It will, of course, have no other than an intensely despotic government. Our own long and narrow remnant of a nation will soon be broken up into two or three nations. Such will be the end of the grand Republic that loved slavery more than liberty! Strongly do I fear that you stand to-day on the very brink of national ruin. Strongly do I fear that, if Government shall persist a few weeks longer in the insane policy of driving the negroes and Europe along with then) (for Europe will go with the negroes) into a cordial union with the Southern cause, you cannot escape from falling into this ruin.
But nothing of what I have said of Emancipation by the South do you believe will come to pass. I own it will not, if you shall hasten to deal justly and wisely with the negroes. And I own it will not, if you shall anticipate Emancipation by your surrender to the South. Your acceptance from her of anything short of an unconditional surrender will be your base and guilty surrender to her. No Government can come into a compromise with the Rebels against it, without perishing in the compromise. But all that I have said of Emancipation by the South will probably come to pass, if, whilst continuing the war against the Rebels, you shall also continue the war against the negroes.
Why will not the South emancipate? Other people have done so in the straits of war. It has been repeatedly done on this side of the Atlantic, and within the life-time of our aged men. To repel the English invaders of Hayti, the French planters armed and emancipated their slaves. To defeat! Spain, her American colonists did likewise. Will the South, because she loves slavery, refuse to emancipate? It is true that she loves it, but she hates the North more. Will she refuse to emancipate because it was in the interest of slavery that she began the war? The blows which she is exchanging with the North have become her ruling interest, and slavery is comparatively forgotten by her. The original cause of a quarrel is quite apt to sink in importance, if not indeed to be entirely lost sight of. To achieve her independence of the despised Yankees, the South would sacrifice everything else. "All that a man hath will he give for his life." That independence is dearer to the South than life, and to die achieving it would be far more welcome to her than to live without it.
But could the South, even with the earnest help of all her blacks, bond and free, successfully defend herself against the North? Our nation was busied several years, and at the cost of forty millions of dollars and many lives, in conquering the handful of Indians and negroes in Florida. A terrible element in war, especially a guerilla war, would be the millions of Southern negroes, with their intimate knowledge of all retreats in marsh and mountain, with their habits of coarse and scanty fare, and with their powers of well nigh inexhaustible endurance.
But need we study in this connection the capacity of the negroes in war? Would it not be morally impossible to prolong the war with the Rebels, after their resort to emancipation, and their abolition of the cause of the war? Would not the moral sense of the world, including even that of the North itself, forbid it? Emancipation by the South would but too probably be the division of the nation. Not a day, then, should be lost in anticipating, by our justice and benevolence to the negroes, this apprehended measure of the South.
Admitting it to be not certain that the negroes will in any event become our enemies, our armed and deadly enemies—nevertheless, can we afford to incur the risk of their becoming such by persevering in our unrighteous and cruel treatment of them? We cannot, as it respects our war with the rebels; we cannot as it respects our relations with Europe. The impatient and harsh spirit manifested by England in the matter of the Trent, and the purpose of England, France and Spain, to establish a monarchy, and that, too of the Austrian type, in Mexico, are among the indications that Europe's jealousy of Democracy is on the increase, and that at no distant day she will break out in fearful war upon it. Surely, surely, the present is no time for us to be making enemies, and making them so gratuitously, too. But this is our time to be making friends—friends of all men—of black as well as white men. Now is emphatically our time to make our institutions sound and strong, and to eliminate from them every element of weakness and corruption.
I advised you to take counsel of the nation, instead of Kentucky. I close with beseeching you to take counsel of God. Take it of Him, and you will be safe. "The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe." "Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand and high is thy right hand."
Take counsel Him, and you will quickly drop your policy of "Reconstruction" A guiltier policy there is no where under the sun. For what can be guiltier than to repeat the preeminent crime and reestablish the blood-drenched system of our national slaveholding? Nor can there be a madder policy than to put .back the nation into the hands of that matchless Barbarism, that Infernal Power, which has broken it up—and at the cost of so much life and treasure. But, thank God, “Reconstruction" is impossible! You might as well undertake to set back into their former position, shape, and appearance, the tossed and tumbled buildings of the city which an earthquake has plowed up, as undertake to restore slavery after the tossings and tumblings it is getting in this war. Moreover, ere they get through this war, the people of the Free States will have had enough of slavery—quite enough of it to cure them of any remaining disposition to reestablish it. I cannot hope that the Border Slave States will also become so sick of slavery as to be willing to give it up; for I have had too much proof that a people rarely give up slavery until they are obliged to. A community, in which though not more than one in fifty is a slaveholder, will nevertheless be under the sway of slavery. It will be ignorant and poor. The intelligence and wealth in it, and therefore the power, will be concentrated in the handful of slaveholders. How strikingly is this clinging to slavery exemplified in the case of Western Virginia! Northern troops hurried to deliver her out of the hands of traitors. Nevertheless, she is to-day, like Kentucky, a more dangerous enemy to the North and to the Union than is a Gulf State. In going for the Union, she gets the confidence of the friends of the Union. In going at the same time for slavery, and making far more account of it than of the Union, she betrays the friends and vitally stabs the cause of the Union. Even Delaware, although she has but one or two thousand slaves, is still, as may be seen in the course of both her State and national legislators, in the hands of the Slave Power. Nevertheless, I repeat it, that "Reconstruction" is impossible. Slavery has received its mortal wound. The Rebels meant to give it an endless life. But their own hands are bringing it to a speedy death. Devotees of “Reconstruction!” be you in Congress, the Cabinet, or the army, you will very likely kill your country, and kill yourselves, by persevering in your folly. But be assured that you cannot save
<c02>
slavery from being also killed. The question is no longer whether slavery shall die. The sole question now is whether our slavery-bewildered nation shall live. It will live, if the Government resolve unconditionally that it shall. But it will not live, if the Government persist in the purpose that slavery shall also live.

THE POWER OF FREE DISCUSSION.
The Boston Traveller, of Saturday evening, publishes a discourse of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, warmly commendatory of President Lincoln's message to Congress, in the course of which is the following reference to the Anti-Slavery struggle:-
It is a memorable epoch that is marked by this State paper, as illustrating a complete trial and triumph of the power of free discussion and moral influences applied to the removal of national evils. The men are yet alive, and many of them are scarcely old yet, who saw the beginning of that agitation which, having gone through the most remarkable phases, has resulted at last in this substantial change of the public mind and feeling. I remember the first outbreaks. I remember well when William Lloyd Garrison lay in a jail in the South on the charge of using inflammatory language. I remember the great stir that there was in the churches when he came North, and began in unmeasured, and I cannot say to-be-justified language, to denounce the mischiefs of slavery. That man had a heart true for liberty-I shall never cease to revere him for that; he had an invincible will for that which he thought to be right and just-I shall never cease to revere him for that; and he disdained and despised all personal considerations, and laid himself upon the altar of sacrifice for his country's good—I never shall enough praise him for that; but I would to God that it had been permitted him to be one that loved liberty, as well as one that hated slavery. (1) It seems as though it was hatred of slavery, abhorrence of the system, that characterized the earlier movements in behalf of emancipation; and it seems as though this stirred up the worst elements of the system. (2) It would have been bad enough, under any circumstances. You cannot attack slavery without arousing its opposition, any more than you can take a lamb from a lion's jaw without infuriating that savage beast; but it is not necessary to make it worse than the end to be accomplished requires. It was desirable that there should be more Christian love; more Christian temperance; more Christian forbearance. (3) It is proper to say these things now, because Mr. Garrison is becoming popular. I have never said them before. He has always, till of late, been in the minority, and to have made these criticisms would have been to join his enemies; to take sides against him, and in favor of slavery. But now, when men in high places invite Mr. Garrison to lecture, and publish his letters, and accept his ideas as no more inflammatory than any other man's. I take the liberty of saying what I think about him. But I tell you, it is a great day that we have lived to see, when Mr. Garrison is petted, and patted, and invited, and praised by Governors, and judges, and expectants of political preferment.(4) What is the world coming to ? I wish we had more men like him and better.
The men are yet alive who were mobbed for the assertion of those truths that are now uttered by the President of these United States, when he declares that slavery is inconsistent with the safety of this government. I must read that sentence again:
"The Federal Government would find its highest interest in such a measure as one of the most efficient means of self-preservation."
What measure ? The abolition of slavery. The President of these United States is not mobbed for that assertion. Mr. Lewis Tappan was, in his day; and Mr. Arthur Tappan; and Dr. Cox; and Mr. Garrison; and Mr. Phillips; and Mr. Alvan Stewart, of blessed memory. All these men, and many more, a large proportion of whom are yet with the harness on, and working, lost place, lost caste, lost preferment, lost influence with bad men, and only gained it with good, for the declaration of principles not so offensive as that which is made the very axis of the Message of the President of the United States; namely, that this government cannot exist without the abolishment of slavery.
Consider how this change has been brought about. It has been brought about by the simple force of free discussion. The right of free speech was first attacked. You recollect it, and I recollect it. The battles of the Presbyteries of the West were under my notice. Every device was employed to prevent the going forth from those bodies of the declaration that slavery was sinful. In about every Presbytery and ecclesiastical convention or assembly in the North, the determination was that there should not be the utterance of the religious community against slavery. The first great controversy was as to whether they ought to call it an evil. They did not think that they ought to call it anything. They thought they ought to let it alone. They deemed it to be none of their business. But when they were pressed to call it, not only an evil, but a sin to be repented of and renounced, they would call it an evil but they would not call it a sin. When, further, they were pressed, not only to call it a sin, but to discipline and cut off from communion those that indulged in it, they would call it a sin, but they would not make it a matter of discipline. And so, step by step, the controversy went on till it divided those churches that would not let it come in. It has torn asunder church after church; and the rupture has not hurt them, either: it his been the best thing that could happen to them—for to rend a church is like tearing a miser's treasures from him. He hoarded them, and made them instruments of his own selfishness; and when they are scattered and put into circulation, they subserve a far better purpose than they did while stowed away in coffers. How poor men laugh when a miser dies! His money is unlocked then. And when a church is sundered, and the fastenings of its temporal power are broken, the Gospel flows out, and has circulation, and exerts an influence that it could not exert when it was simply ministering to those whose supreme desire was to take care of themselves.
Though men were despised for holding and advocating the doctrines of liberty, yet there was a large calendar that gave themselves willingly to contempt for the sake of justice and truth. They were the instruments that God employed. And what had they? They had their faith in God. They had their love of Christ. They had their unwavering conviction that the right was with them. They had no power in the church, and no power in the State. They had no power anywhere. They had nothing but the invincible power of weakness. They had nothing but the righteousness of their cause. And this inspired them with intense enthusiasm. And continuing on, they have wrought out results the importance of which cannot be estimated. They have been the pioneers in this great revolution. They are men whose shoes' latchets we are not worthy to unloose. I revere them as the prophets of the American people.
And the young should take heed. You recollect a great deal of this battle. You recollect how unpopular these things have been. You have seen, in your time, a complete revolution. You have seen men that were looked upon as the offscouring of the earth come to be honored and revered. Who does not remember the storm that raged about that noble and venerable old patriot, John Quincy Adams, when, in the Congress of the United States, he introduced a petition made by somebody for the abolishment of slavery. It was meant to devour him, but it did not. He was Daniel in a den of lions again; and the Lord held their mouths so that they should not bite him. They did all but that, though. Now look back, and consider how he then stood in the focal point of contempt and abuse; and then consider how his name now stands in the focal point of honor and respect. The last shall be first, and the lowest shall be highest." It is an illustration of what is the majesty and might of principle and truth adhered to."
(1) This strikes us as paradoxical, to say nothing of its invidiousness. It is like regretting that a person does not love holiness, because he hates sin so intensely ; nor God, because be detests all Mammon-worship; nor Christ, because he sedulously resists the devil!
(2)Of course—a necessary and natural result.
(3)This charge calls for no defence, on account of its generalization; but no doubt we have often erred.
(4) This is the latest intelligence received in Boston! We protest that we know nothing of it as an actual fact. Mr. Beecher is too generous and too imaginative! We really believe that "the offence of the cross," in our particular case, has not yet wholly ceased; though we gladly admit that the burden is greatly lessened, and that we are somewhat gaining in reputation. But as far popularity-
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1862.

A WORD OF THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-In the Liberator March 14th, I read with the closest attention your criticisms upon "the President's Message." It simply occurs to me to inquire, whether you ought not to have noticed, and given some credit for the following portion:-
"If however, resistance continues, the war must also continue, and it is impossible to foresee all the incidents which may attend, and all the ruin which may follow it, Such as may seem indispensable, or may obviously promise great efficiency toward ending the struggle, must and will come.
The Proposition now made, though an offer only, I hope it may be esteemed no offence to ask whether the pecuniary consideration tendered would not be of more value to the States and private persons concerned, than are the institution and property in it, in the present aspect of affairs."
I have italicised certain words, to show their point more distinctly. Is it not stated that there is to be no yielding to the rebels? Is it not more than intimated that, if they persist in their rebellion, the most efficient course-Emancipation-may be resorted to?
I know you love to do exact justice, and so I have ventured to call your attention more fully to the paragraphs quoted. Truly yours,
LUCIUS HOLMES.
Charlton, (Mass.,) March 18, 1862.
REMARKS. Our object, in simply criticising the resolution which the President recommends to the adoption of Congress, was specific-to show that it was uncalled for, unreliable, an avoidance of the true issue, and therefore to be rejected. It is of very slight importance, we conceive, that the President intimates that the rebellion must be put down; for, of course, he is pledged to that extent, by virtue of his office. Nor does his enigmatical language about what may possibly follow, in case the Slave States reject the proffered overture, affect the character of the resolution, or indicate it will then be advisable to pursue. His message is wholly destitute of sympathy for the enslaved, of any recognition of the injustice or wrongfulness of slavery, of all moral principle; it is based upon selfish considerations alone; and in proffering pecuniary aid to the rebels in arms as well as to those who are loyal (upon compulsion), it gingerly hopes it will "be esteemed no offence"! Let it be remembered that there are several propositions before Congress for the entire abolition of slavery, under the war power; that multitudes of petitions, in support of that measure, have been sent to that body; and that either Congress or the President has now the constitutional right to decree universal emancipation as a war measure. Under these circumstances, what is the resolution recommended by the President, and since adopted without alteration or addition by the House of Representatives, but offering a stone when is it but "a decoy duck," "a red herring" a cowardly and criminal avoidance of the one great saving issue, namely, the immediate suppression of the slave system? Instead of its being "an entering wedge," is it not far more likely to prove an ignis fatuus which lures but to mislead? When the Government has slavery within its grasp, and may strangle it at any moment, is a proposition on the part of the President to waive the exercise of this power, and to leave that foul system to be disposed of as the traitors themselves shall see fit, to be received with thanksgiving? No-let us rather hold the Government to its solemn responsibilities, and tolerate no delay in the discharge of its imperative duty. Evasion and shuffling now are blood-red crimes. Moreover in proposing "a gradual abolishment of slavery," and in saying, "in my judgment, gradual and not sudden emancipation is better for all." the President strikes at the doctrine, that liberty is the gift of God and mans inalienable birthright, and nullifies all the holy commandments. No dogma more pernicious or more sinful was ever promulgated than that slavery ought not to be immediately abolished; for it is an admission of present rightful or necessary existence of that  "sum of all villanies," and relieves of moral turpitude all who are upholding it. This dogma has always been a subterfuge for the dealers in human flesh, and for all the enemies of the Anti-Slavery movement; against it, as against one of the deadly sins, Abolitionists have strenuously contended form the beginning; and now that it is approved and recommended for approval of Congress, by the President in his official character, it is all the more to be reprobated.
The Government is either acting under the war power, constitutionally entrusted to it, or it is not . If it is , then for it to propose to enter into any pecuniary arrangements with rebel Slave States, in order to quell the rebellion, is a sign of weakness, a lack of self-respect, and an act unwarranted by any of the powers granted to it. If it is not, then Congress has no constitutional right to "resolve that the United States ought to cooperate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State pecuniary aid to be used by such State in its discretion to compensate for the inconveniences, public an private, produced by such change of system." It is an act of impertinence-meddling with what does not concern that body. But, if it were otherwise, then, as no inducement is held out to any State to extinguish its slave system without delay, and no aid is proffered except where a gradual policy shall be initiated,-continuing we know not how long, and terminating only at the pleasure of an all-controlling and mercenary slave oligarchy in each State,-the measure is fraught with mischief, and ought to be rejected by an emphatic vote. Thought it has passed the House, we hope it will be vigorously and successfully resisted in the Senate.
We confess that we shudder at the thought that possibly, through timidity or lack of principle, the present glorious opportunity to put an end to slavery may be allowed to pass unimproved by the Government, and that there may be a renewal or reconstruction of the old "covenant with death and agreement with hell," to the further demoralization  of the nation, the longer supremacy of the Slave Power, and the ultimate outbreak of another civil war, with heavier judgments and under more appalling circumstances. "Wo to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin: that walk to go down into Egypt, and have the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion,"
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington Street, Boston, have just issued the following new pieces for the piano:-
The Forest Rose (Waldroschen). Nocturne, by Theodore Oesten.
The Warrior's Triumphal March. As played by Gilmore's Band. Music by Thos. H Howe.
Gen. Burnside's Victory March.
The Vacant Chair. Words by Henry S. Washburn. Music by Harley Newcomb.
Somebody is Waiting for Me. Song, by S. Janette St. Leger.
Josiah's Courtship. As sung by Mrs. Lottie Hough for 300 consecutive nights at Laura Keene's Theatre, N.Y. composed by S. Markstein.
Ole Massa on his Trabbels Gone. Quartette. Words by J.G. Whittier, from the Atlantic Monthly by permission. Music by S.K. Whiting.
The Sunny Side the Way Song. Words by C.S. Music by J.R, Thomas.
Spindler's Favorites. A collection of pieces for the piano by Fritz Spindler.
<c04>
WENDELL PHILLIPS IN WASHINGTON.
The delivery of a radical Anti-Slavery lecture in the Capital, by Wendell Phillips, to a densely crowded and a warmly applauding audience, is chronicled in these eventful times. For thirty years this has not been permissible, under the brutal away of slavery; and it is so now, only because of the great Northern army near the seat of Government, and the consequent temporary preponderance of Northern sentiment within its limits. Let peace return, and with it the old condition of things, and neither Mr. Phillips nor Dr Cheever could speak in Washington, except at imminent personal peril. But we trust that "old things are passed away." never more to return. To make this certain, slavery must be abolished throughout the land; otherwise, there will be no chance for safe free utterance in the Capital of the nation, except for the wielders of bowie-knives, the scourgers of women, and the traffickers "in slaves and the souls of men." These have always enjoyed unbounded liberty of speech, in every part of the land, and in utter contempt of Northern ideas, feeling, habits and institutions- but no other class of citizens.
The marked respect and high consideration paid to Mr. Phillips, by distinguished members of Congress and others, he has honorably won by a quarter of a century if manly, disinterested, self-sacrificing labors in the cause of justice, freedom and humanity, and for the salvation of our common country. He has laid upon the altar of duty the best culture, the richest promise, the highest accomplishments, and the most persuasive eloquence, in the face of universal proscription, and with the certainty of losing all chance of political success and popular favor. In the patriotic history of the republic, he has no peer, and there is no parallel to his case on the part of any one so gifted. and so capable of self-advancement. His advocacy of the cause of universal liberty, as incarnated in the person of the despised bondman, has not only been characterised by rare vigor of intellect and unrivalled eloquence, but has proved him to be lifted far above "that fear of man which bringeth a snare," and to be "no respecter of persons," All sects and parties have been compelled to admit his absolute personal independence and high moral courage; for his dealings with them have been equally impartial and faithful.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser notices Mr. P's visit as follows;
"Mr. Wendell Phillips has, by his rare oratorical powers, created quite a sensation here. The Vice President left the chair of the Senate to greet him when he was introduced on the floor to the ultra-Republican members of that body, and took a seat by his side on the platform when he lectured. Mr. Speaker Grow entertained him last evening at a dinner-party, and this evening he is to be the leo-major at a 'reception' where certain notables will congregate, as is their custom every Sabbath night."
The Washington National Republican of the 18th inst. says:-
"On Saturday, Mr. Speaker Grow gave one of his elegant dinner parties in honor of Wendell Phillips. Several distinguished guests were present among them, Vice President Hamlin and lady, Mrs. Fremont and Senator Sumner. On Sunday, Mr. Phillips went to Alexandria, upon the invitation of several officers, and addressed the soldiers."
The same paper contains the following notice:-
"WENDELL PHILLIPS TO-NIGHT. This noble patriot and incomparable orator will lecture to-night at the Smithsonian. Those who wish to hear him must go early or it will be impossible to gain admittance. Subject-Touissant L'Ouverture, the Statesman and Patriot of San Domingo."
The Tribune's Washington correspondent says:-
"It was the 14th Massachusetts Regiment to which Wendell Phillips preached the Gospel of emancipation Yesterday. He told the soldiers that if they were not all Abolitionists like himself, they were all Yankees, and would give him a hearing. Later in the day, Mr. Phillips had the temerity to visit General McClellan's headquarters. The General commanding was absent."
The Washington correspondent of the Boston Herald says:-
"Wendell Phillips has delivered a couple of abolition lectures here, but in such a moderate style(!) compared with some of his previous efforts, that he did not come up to public anticipation.(!) He warmly applauded the President's emancipation message, although it meant to the Border Slave States, "Now is your time to sell!" On Sunday Phillips delivered a lecture before the 14th Massachusetts regiment, during which he said that the weapons with which they could wipe out rebellion most effectually were their own mouths. By this he doubtless intimated insurrection."
Doubtless, and certainly, he meant no such thing!
"Perley," the Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal, writes:-
"The matchless oratory of Wendell Phillips has taken the town by storm. His reception has been a triumph, and on the floors of the Houses of Congress, in the lecture room of the Smithsonian, and at the social entertainments given to honor him, he has been the subject of marked attention. Even the "Border State men" who regard him as proclaiming a doctrine which they think will prevent their cherished dream of reconstructing the Union, and the few fossil remains of political hunkerism who clog the wheels of progress, speak of Mr. Phillips with respectful awe. A year ago, I doubt if his friends would have been able to have obtained a hall for him to lecture in, whereas now the portals of the Smithsonian swing invitingly open, and even such politicians as Senator Powell of Kentucky go through a rain-storm to hear him Ca Ira."
TRACTS FOR PRIESTS AND PEOPLE. By Various Writers. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. pp.372.
Last year, a volume was published in England, characterised by remarkable critical ability and theological independence and liberality of opinion, entitled "Essays and Reviews," and written by several scholarly clergymen and laymen, all connected with the Established Church. Its appearance threw the whole bench of Bishops, with all their train of formalists and narrow-minded bigots, into pious convulsions, from which they have not yet recovered, and which, there fore, made a profound sensation throughout the kingdom. The writers were denounced as pestilent heretics and profane infidels,-epithets which constitute the stock-in-trade of priestcraft in every land; and lucky was it for them that the martyr-fires of Smith field could not again be safely kindled! Otherwise, they would have been sent to the stake as their merited doom.
The present volume is composed of a series of Tracts, written also by clergymen and laymen of the Established Church, who are not disposed either wholly to endorse the aforesaid "Essays and Reviews," or to join in the popular denunciation of them, or in appeals to ecclesiastical authorities against them. Hence, the spirit they evince is truly catholic, and their discussion marked by admirable ability.
A new edition of that truly original and admirable book, THE REJECTED STONE, by Rev. Moncure D. Conway, of Cincinnati-himself a native Virginian-is, we are glad to learn, immediately to be published by Ticknor & Fields of this city. The mechanical execution of this edition is to be in every way equal to that of the former one, the retail price of which in cloth was seventy-five cents per copy. This new edition will be sold at not more than fifty cents per copy; and those who know the great value of the book will be pleased to hear that an arrangement has been made by which copies may be obtained for gratuitous distribution as low as twenty cents a copy, in cloth, provided ten or more copies are taken at once. Those who wish the book, for this purpose, should apply, in person or by letter, to HENRY G DENNY, Esq., 42 Court Street, Boston.
We add one brief word to all our readers and friends, exhorting them to aid the widest possible distribution of this book. To say that it is the most remarkable book to which the present contest with the power of slavery has given rise is saying no more, we think, than will be generally admitted true by those best qualified to judge. It is in every sense a live book, a true by those best qualified to judge. It is in every sense a live book, a true book, a wise book; it contains the counsels, the warnings, the truths, which this nation now needs to heed, to save it from destruction, and make it free indeed.-M.
<c05>
THE MODERN JONAH
And it came to pass, in the latter days, that the Lord <illegible> Abraham, whose surname was Lincoln-
(Now this Abraham was of the seed of Jonah, him who aforetime was sent of the Lord to cry against Nineveh; howbeit, he feared, and fled, toward Tarnish.)
And the Lord said unto Abraham, Arise, and make Proclamation against the sin of them of the South, and cry against it: for their wickedness is come up before me. 
They have refused to hear what I said by my servant Isaiah-Loose the bands of wickedness, undo the heavy burdens, let the oppressed go free, break every yoke!
Moreover, they have refused also to hear that which I said by my well-beloved son Jesus, crying against them who lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and who take away from-these laborers the key of knowledge.
Arise therefore, and make Proclamation unto them (hast thou not been called to be ruler over this whole people?)-and say unto them-Turn away, every man of you, from his oppressions! Render unto your servants that which is just and equal! Defraud not the hireling of his wages! Execute judgment IN THE MORNING!
(Now Abraham had aforetime dwelt in Egypt, and his soul clave unto the ways of that land. He sat at meat with the oppressors, and he stopped his ears against the cry of the oppressed.)
So Abraham said within himself-Are not these of the South my kinsfolk, and the kinsfolk of Sarah my wife, and have we not always winked at these oppressions? Lo! this thing is too hard for me! And he refrained, and held his peace, as Jonah his father had done aforetime.
And the oppressions of that land went on, and the sound of them continually came up before the Lord.
And the children of the oppressed died, day by day. Some sank under their heavy burdens, some were cast alive into a burning fiery furnace.
And it came to pass that a son of Abraham, even his son also, died.
And the cry of the oppressed continually went up. saying, How long, O lord, how long? 
And many of the people of the land said unto Abraham, their ruler-How long halt we between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, and make Proclamation, as he hath commanded!
But Abraham refrained still, and held his peace.
Howbeit, after many days, Abraham said unto the elders and councillors, even the grand Sanhedrim- Go to now, speak ye for me unto them of the South, (if it shall seem good in your eyes,) and say unto them-
If it shall seem good in your eyes to do some small part of that which the Lord hath said, (for we would not that ye should be rash enough to do the whole of it,)-if any of you will begin, very slowly and moderately, to do this work, Lo! we will stand by you and help you.
And when Abraham had spoken thus to the Sanhedrim, he took water and washed his hands before them, saying-If they will not hear your voice, and if RUIN follow, I am innocent, See ye to it.
Even thus spake Pilate aforetime, when he left the innocent in the hands of the oppressor.
They eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
Verily, the end is not yet.-C.K.W.

SLAVES-METAYERS-FREEMEN.
MR. GARRISON: Your correspondent C., on the fourth page of last week’s Liberator, recommends a change of the slave system of the South to the old "Metayer" system, The characteristic feature of the later was, that the proprietor of the land furnished the farming laborers with seed, cattle, and instruments of husbandry, the whole stock, in short, necessary for cultivating the farm; and the produce was divided equally between the proprietor and the farming laborers, after setting aside what was necessary for keeping up the stock, which was restored to the proprietor when the laborers either quitted the farm or were turned out of it.
Your correspondent proceeds to say-
"The Metayer culture does not differ essentially from ht custom of taking a farm upon shares in this country. The chief distinction appears to be, that custom governs wholly in the Metayer system, while the joint account system with us is governed by special contract."
It appears to me that the distinction here mentioned is a very important one; and that the difference between having and not having " a special contract" for the security of the laborer against oppression by the proprietor, is a difference by no means trivial, but of very great importance, especially in the peculiar circumstances of our Southern laboring population.
That your correspondent also recognizes a material difference between the Metayer tenure and the condition of freedom for the laborer, appears from the following subsequent paragraph in this article:-
"Obviously, these laborers must work with or upon somebody's capital beside their own, for they have none. To turn them adrift in freedom, with uncertainty of employments, and dependent upon wages, without any organization of capital or labor to provide them; with no self-reliance, and no power of self-seeking or self-assertion, would be, it appears to me, rather cruel than kind. Freedom upon such terms would be a doubtful boon.”
To me, the Metayer system seems unsatisfactory and objectionable for the very reason that recommends it to your correspondent; namely, that it is something different from freedom. Moreover, I wish to protest in the strongest manner against the position taken by "C.," in the paragraph last quoted, that freedom for the slaves would be either dangerous or "doubtful."  He has availed himself of that delusive phrase, invented by the apologists for slavery, which represents the negro as one absolutely needing a master, because incapable of taking care of himself: and which represents the emancipated slave as one turned adrift, in the same position as a ship floating with out a human being on board. To such an extent have this phrase, and the many kindred ones used by slaveholders, misled the Northern mind, that it is necessary constantly to repeat that the slave is  a man and brother; that God has given to him, as really as to us, the powers needed for self-government; and that emancipation, instead of inflicting upon him an injury, (as the expression "turned adrift" implies,) at once restores the right which had always been his due, and confers upon him an inestimable advantage.
I would by no means attribute to "C." any intentional unfairness of statement. Nevertheless, it must be plainly said, that his representation of the entire class of slaves as persons "with no self-reliance. and no power of self-seeking or self-assertion," is a representation absolutely unjust, and absolutely at variance with facts.
Consider what a high degree of the qualities thus sweepingly denied is implied in the fact of successful escape from the slave-region to Canada, or to the Northern States, Fifty thousand of this class have safely accomplished this perilous transit, and probably twice that number have attempted it, without success, in the face of dangers and liabilities suited to appal the stoutest heart. How many of us would attempt the recovery of an infringed right, when success was highly improbable, and when failure would put us completely in the power of our worst enemy, who might, if he pleased, deliberately flog us to death, to deter his other victims from the like attempt? The very attempt at escape from slavery, under the circumstances in which our slaves have lived indicates a high degree of those qualities of which "C." represents the slaves as entirely destitute.
Take another example of their ability to "take care of themselves." In those numerous cases in which individual slaveholders are not so bad as the 
<c06>
slave laws authorize them to be, and where part of the slaves time is allowed him for his own advantage, what diligence does he frequently show in labor, what keenness in bargaining, what thrift in laying up predemption-money! Setting aside the highest types of human excellence under the disabilities of slavery, (the classes represented, respectively, by Nat Turner and by Uncle Tom.) the slave does as well in caring for himself as you can reasonably expect my man to do under like circumstances.
Freedom, then, would by no means be that "doubtful boon" to the slaves which "C." represents it. They know very well how to "take care of themselves." All they need is the opportunity. Let me give it them.
But here another of the misleading phrases propagated by the slaveholders comes up, to frighten and form the course required by justice and humanity. Will you "turn the slaves loose upon the community." ask many of the same people who raise the format objection. Even if they can take care of themselves will they not violate the rights of others in doing see?
To dispose of this objection, it needs only to be remembered that what we ask for the slave is meeting what we insist upon as our own right and advantage. Freedom under Law. Freedom to secure his own happiness and welfare, as far as he can accomplish this without interference with his neighbors similar rights As soon as the emancipated slave interferes with these, the law takes hold of him, just as it does take hold, every day, of white people who never were slaves, and who have not their good excuse for lawlessness. All we ask is that the greed men be placed, like ourselves, under the government and protection of laws made by all and for the good of all, not, like the slave laws, made by a class, for their own benefit. There is then, no such thing proposed or contemplated by any body. as " letting the slaves loose on the community" This phrase is merely a cheat, practised by slave holders and their apologists for the deception of rest of the world. What the abolitionists want is to, stop the slaveholders from being "let loose" on the slaves.
To return to "C." from whom I have for a government wandered-No doubt "uncertainty of employment and dependence upon wages" are evils; admitting them to be such, what I say is, they are evils unspeakably less than slavery. To continue slavery or anything akin to it. for the sake of avoiding <illegible> and dependence, would be extreme folly as well as wickedness.
Abundance of men and women at the North common laborers and others, natives and foreigners, under from uncertainty of employment and insufficiency wages. Would "C." recommend their enslavement as a remedial measure? 
The right thing to be done for all these classes <illegible> most especially for the slaves, on their emancipation, is to assist in providing employment for them, to the extent of our power, both as a nation and as individuals. Of course there will be some deficiency of employment them, There always is among as in Boston. Of course there will be some privative and distress among them. There always is among in Boston. Of course there will be some violation such among us in Boston, every week in the year and every day in the week. Let the remedy be suited for removal of the disease. Do not enslave for theft in Georgia, any more than for theft in Massachusetts. There, as well as here, trust, for the prevention or diminution of theft, to good laws, naturally tending to discourage it, and bearing equally upon all black and white. In the same manner, do what you , can to provide employment, and to encourage industry. by insuring the attainment of all the fruits of industry. But, in God's name, begin by making slave a freeman! We want no Serfs. we want <illegible> Metayers. We want no system in which the <illegible> toms" of wealthy proprietors shall "govern" the laboring class, instead of law, uniform in its operations, over the whole community. Our one thing needful is and women, After that, as much help to the needy as you please; but let freedom, assured, legalized, freedom. equal freedom for all, under law, come first C.K.W.

THE N.Y. OBSERVER ON THE PRESIDENTS MESSAGE.
The options of different portions of the public expecting the President's late Message to Congress are exceedingly various. Its motive, its purport in tendency, its fitness, its moral significance, and the probable amount of its practical interference with slavery. all are differently understood, not only by different classes of men, but by different members of the same class. Some abolitionists like it, and others dislike it. Some pro-slavery people praise, and others condemn it. 
It is natural that the more sagacious of the upholders of slavery should bestow enthusiastic approval upon a document like this, which interposes at plan. for the very gradual abolition of slavery. coupled with a plan for great pecuniary profit to the slaveholders, just at the moment when the existing war promised speedy emancipation, with no bonus to the robbers for relinquishing their system of robbery. Although the Species South Carolina, of the Genus slaveholder, <illegible> to be positively and thoroughly mad. the great majority of the slaveholders have some method in their madness. They know a hawk from a handsaw. They know, moreover, that half a loaf is better than no bread, They know that an excellent bargain is better than an enforced loss. And they know that next to no emancipation at all, the thing which will best answer their purpose is an emancipation cunningly delayed, so that slavery will last through their time know, besides, how to raise the price of their goods when a customer shows himself exceedingly eager to buy. And they know, further, the advantage of <illegible> some of their number vehemently protest against making any bargain at all. while the remainder <illegible> this circumstance to enforce their own protected doubtfulness, and to draw a higher bid form their impatient customer. The Presidents move has now invited the slaveholders to this line of policy, while it opens to Uncle Sam the agreeable prospect of expending, in hush-money to the rebels, a sum equal, and additional, to that which he will have expended it fighting them.
This Message, however, is by no means so bad as it might be. It would be easy to have made it play much more effectively into the hands of the slave holders. And that organ of Presbyterian piety. the New York Observer, pursuing its accustomed evil <illegible> by its accustomed evil means, bringing mendacity as the aid of slavery, in a column of unqualified eulogy of the President, and of his Message, impudently twists the meaning of that document in the directions of its own wishes, and puts its own words in the president's mouth, as follows:-
"The points of special interest and of commanding force in the manifesto are the following:-
1.The exclusive right of the several States to regulate the subject at their own discretion. All power on the part of Congress to meddle with the matter is thus expressly repudiated.
2.In proposing to offer compensation to the State to be used at their discretion, and in showing how very soon the current expenditures of the war would purchase at a fair valuation all the slaves in any <illegible> State, the President recognizes the idea of property, and the consequent obligations, as plainly as the constitution does. 
3. The President says- 'In my judgment gradual and not sudden emancipation is better for all. This is the plan by which New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and other States delivered themselves from the incubus of slavery, and the Louisville Herald last week very truly remarked that some of the border States, now slaveholding, would long ago have abolished slavery had it not been for 'abolitionism'. 
Conservative men, who, for thirty years, have registered the revolutionary and disunion measures of radical abolitionists. hail with profound satisfaction the radical abolitionists hail with profound satisfaction the constitutional statesmanlike, national and patriotic preposition of the President of the United States."
Of the three specifications here represented as ex-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
pressly included in the President's Message, two are absolutely false, and the third (true, because quoted in the very words of the Message) has a stale fiction of the slaveholders tacked to it by the Observer. Any one who reads the President's language can see that it does not repudiate all power on the part of Congress to meddle with slavery; all that it does is to make no claim to such a right in the present case. Any person accustomed to think can see that the proposal to offer compensation to slaveholders does not necessarily recognize the idea of property in man. It would be absurd to say that all who gave ransoms for the release of captives in Tunis and Algiers thereby acknowledged the right of the enslavers to require them. Lastly, every intelligent person knows that the pretence that voluntary emancipation would have taken place in the Border States, but for anti-slavery efforts in the North, is mere cant and humbug. A small minority, in some of those States, proposed and urged such action. There was never the least probability that the majority would adopt it-C. K. W. 
THE PRESIDENTS MESSAGE. 
Translated for THE LIBERATOR from the BOSTON PIONEER of March 12th. 
It is natural to ask: What has induced Mr. Lincoln to make a proposal which appears to be in direct contradiction to his policy hitherto? Neither humanity, nor a horror of slavery, nor a conviction of its ruinous consequences. No, only the accidental circumstances that slavery is a hindrance to the termination of the rebellion, as he regards it, and so a momentary source of embarrassment. He speaks of the "means of self preservation," and immediately after declares, that "a practical reacknowledgment of the National authority would render the war unnecessary, and it would at once cease. "Therefore if to-morrow Jeff. Davis lays down his weapons, Mr. Lincoln is content that the Union should be restored as it was, unconcerned by the fact that the cause of the rebellion, slavery, continues, and will in time give birth to a new one. Mr. Lincoln admits in the motive which he assigns for his proposal to Congress, that slavery is the cause of the rebellion, when the expresses his confidence that the Border States, by initiating the abolition of slavery, will lose the incentive and interest to unite themselves with the rebellious States. He thus identifies slaveholding with rebellion and secession, as every sensible man has long since done. Nevertheless, he is ready to allow slaveholding to continue, provided the rebels now lay down their arms. Yes, he even has the weakness to call his proposition and indispensable means to the restoration of the Union and to self-preservation, or, in other words, to announce that he cannot overcome the rebellion with his army of 600, 000 men without the impression which the abolition of slavery in the Border States is expected to produce; and yet he does not dare to attack slavery, but thinks he can reach it by roundabout methods whose proposal only betrays his weakness to the enemy. 
What! has Mr. Lincoln no simpler, more straightforward means of wresting their "hope" from the leaders of the rebellion, than his indirect abolition scheme? Is not his proposition rather an encouragement to the rebels, since they gather from it that he lacks confidence or the will to destroy their hope with cannon and bayonets? Nay, is there not just here an inducement for the Border States to reject the offer of the President, since, according to his own admission, the maintenance of the Southern hopes depends on them? What is plainer than the calculation, that they have merely passively to oppose the proposition made from sheer despair by Mr. Lincoln, in order to disgust the North, paralyzed by the necessities of finance and the approaching warm season, with the cunning plan of the President, and at last to preserve their own slavery, together with the rebellious State? 
We deem it very doubtful whether the Border States, -insignificant Delaware excepted, -will give heed to a resolution from Congress in the sense of the president's proposition. But were they so to do, nay if to-morrow all the Northern Slave States should profess themselves ready to abolish slavery in a month, still the end of the war would not thereby be decided. It is not the hope of the future addition of the Border States that sustains the rebellion, but the hope of being able to resist the army of Lincoln. If Mr. Lincoln would take pains to destroy the hope that he will be forced to acknowledge the independence of a part of the South, he need give himself very little trouble about the farther hope that the Border States will follow that part. What logic, to wish to annihilate a premise by an attack on its consequences!
Had Mr. Lincoln conducted a genuine war, or would even now conduct it, it would be forever all up with every hope of the rebels. Their hopes are in Mr. Lincoln and his Generals, not in States which, for the moment, are of no value to them, but which they expect again to acquire, if Mr. Lincoln cannot throttle them in their own States. Mr. Seward, in his note on the Trent affair, ascribed the prolongation of the rebellion to the hope of foreign recognition; Mr. Lincoln now finds the cause of this prolongation in the hope of the Border States. The more these gentlemen ought to seek the blame among themselves, the more they exert themselves to find it elsewhere, and the consequence is, that they are all the time endeavoring by half-measures and preposterous expedients to avoid the employment of the only efficacious ones. 
These effective means have been so often discussed as no longer to need any additional confirmation. They consist simply in this, that Mr. Lincoln, -if necessary, on the authorization of Congress, -should make use of the war power, and either abolish slavery entirely in every district gained by the Union troops, or at least, without more ado, emancipate the slaves of the rebels, and guarantee a financial subsidy (no "indemnification") to the loyal slaveholders. The constitution is abolished in the rebellious States. But allowing that Government does not recognize such an abrogation through rebellion as binging, still, in the very intent of carrying out the Constitution, it is compelled to suspend it by the condition of war and the war power. It is therefore absurd in the extreme, in reference to slavery, to lend weight to Constitutional considerations, while, in reference to all other conditions and arrangements, the Constitutional "State Rights" have been adjusted by the sword alone. Mr. Lincoln knows this as well as anybody; but he has not the "honesty" to confess it, nor the courage to proceed on this principle, nor the will to attack slavery in earnest. He still indulges the expensive hope of inducing the rebellion to surrender the game by indirect means; he would even like, in his doubt as to the result of his previous method, to spare himself the necessity of the only efficient course; and after having lavished the blood and treasure of the nation in an unprecedented style, and sacrificed them to her deadly enemies, the slaveholders, he now demands that she buy him off, by fresh magnificent outlays, from the necessity of the single true means of preservation. And such a demand is to be hailed as the message of redemption, the prophecy of preservation!
After the free States have squandered a thousand millions, and brought themselves to the brink of bankruptcy, in order, under the leadership of Lincoln, to protect an enemy who has sworn their destruction, they are now asked to involve also their future indefinitely in debt, for the same disgraceful end. Whence will the North obtain the money to buy off its slaves from the South, according to the Lincoln proposal? If a single Slave State accedes to it, all can at last; for he offers for the crime of slaveholding. He asks, therefore, the North, besides the frightful sacrifices which it has already borne, and must yet bear, in the shape of an enormous taxation, to pay an Extra-Douceur of at least a thousand millions to the slaveholders for their patriotic attempt to rend the Union, to destroy the Republic, and to betray the whole nation to the foreigner! That is to cultivate Christianity to such a degree as to shake religious endurance even in America. 
We must wait, and see if Congress and the people have reached this stage of Christianity, or whether they understand that the rebels have not merely to pay
<c02>
the costs of war, but that the extermination of slavery also at their cost is the only just punishment and the only means of preservation. If, however, they shall not arrive at this understanding of themselves, the rebels will take care to open the eyes of the blindest. After their recent defeats, they are preparing, in the mountainous regions of the South, where they are concentrating their troops, a resistance which, if it is not soon broken with the utmost energy, will allow them to keep alive, beyond the summer season, there hope which Mr. Lincoln has regarded. In this session, the operation of the Northern troops in the chief rebel States will cease, while the frightful expenses of war preparations will go on. Whence to obtain them? If we merely look at the financial question, we must foresee that Mr. Lincoln will soon be obliged to amend his proposition-by which even now he seeks to avoid an earnest, energetic, radical prosecution of the war. The country has had to pay for the instruction which its slow-learning President has received from the "logic of events, " more dearly than ever tuition in history was paid for; and if the bill of school expenses for the new lesson which the scholar of the White House must now expect, is presented, the pocket of Uncle Sam will be pretty thoroughly emptied. 
The only good which, in our judgment, will result from the message of Mr. Lincoln, consists in the this, that by it he is enlisted against slavery, which he has hitherto so zealously protected, and the emancipation question comes up for agitation throughout the country. 
LETTER FROM G. B. STEBBINS. 
Rochester, Oakland Co., Mich., March 10, 1862. 
W L. GARRISON:
My FRIEND-I have been in this State some six weeks, speaking on "The Rebellion-its Cause and Cure, " almost always to good audiences, and meet an earnest response from the best men and women, of whatever party or sect, to the most thorough ground in favor of freedom for all, as the cure of rebellion, the harbinger of peace, the pathway to safety. 
Evidently a marked change is going on. The dire events of this civil war are waking many to the utter folly and wickedness of any effort to make truce with slavery. 
Those who have thought or felt little are aroused to our danger, and thus begin to see that Justice and Peace cannot be separated. Whether this change shall be deep and sure enough to reach up-or down-to those in place, and bring wise action in time for our speedy salvation, is yet to be seen. Be that as it may, it cannot go backward. These new thoughts and sympathies cannot die. All must help to the triumph of freedom. 
The old leaders of the Democratic party are making desperate efforts to keep up pro-slavery prejudice, and play the game of fighting Rebellion and Abolition at the same time. The Free Press in Detroit has its influence in this way, and is most bitter, reckless and unscrupulous. A clique can be found in many places who endorse its prejudiced falsehoods, but its power is on the wane, and therefore its groans the deeper. 
At Ann Arbor, I found the matter of the mob a year ago not wholly died away. Sunday evening, there were some rumors of riot, but all was peaceful, and a fair audience came together. 
At Farmington, Livonia and other places near, I had good meetings. 
Three weeks ago, I went to Grand Rapids, 160 miles from Detroit, on the Milwaukee railroad. It is the largest place, expert Detroit, in the State. Bonfires were blazing and cannon firing in the streets, yet some 150 persons met in a pleasant hall the two evenings I was there, my friend J. T. Elliott generously paying the expenses of both evenings. At a school-house and a town-house, north a few miles, I spoke twice. I have since visited Ionia, Corunna, and Flint, all county seats, and also Lowell, Owasso, Lyons, North Plains, &c. At some of these places I was reminded of the tour of my friend, A. M. Powell, in the same region, years ago. He would now find more ease in travel, less rudeness in pioneer life, and a larger population. The opening of the railroad through the Grand River valley has developed the wealth of a rich region, and the towns are fast increasing in importance. 
At Corunna, I rested in the evening, and had the pleasure of listening to a lecture on Geology-one of a course by WILLIAM DENTON, an eloquent and able man, a master of his noble science, who goes thoroughly on with his subject, spending no time in poor efforts to take care of Moses, lest Genesis and Geology should fall out. He thinks of visiting New England, and therefore I wish him known, as he well deserves to be. 
At Flint, on the afternoon of Sunday the 2d, I spoke to a court-house full of soldiers, from a camp near the town, and had excellent hearing from men little used to such views, Many of them were from the Saginaw lumber regions, and I noticed several Indians among them. This seemed to me a sad mistake; for such is their complexion, that if they go South, and engage in the war, they might be mistaken by the rebels for negroes, and thus the feelings of our "misguided Southern brethren" might be badly hurt!
The active efforts and generous aid of my friend W. W. Hartshorne were of much value as Flint, as has been the case in former visits to that place. 
I came here last week, and have had my feeblest meetings at two points near by. A Congregational church in the village was engaged for Saturday night and Sunday, with a popular demand for the lectures, which promised well; but Saturday night we found the house closed. A revival is in full progress in the Baptist church, and those in control of the house promised to us broke their word without apology or warning, lest the revival might be injured! Doubtless you have heard something about knowing men by their fruits. 
Sunday morning. we obtained a Universalist church, posted notice on the hotels, and it was read by the minister of the Congregational church, with a warning not to go near. 
Amidst a rain-storm, we had some seventy persons, mostly Democrats, Who gave good attentions, and received with much gusto my suggestion that Jeff. Davis would be gratified to hear of the action of the revivalists across the road. One of the trustees was present, and promptly stated that he was ignorant of the whole matter, and did not at all approve it. 
To-morrow I go to Pontiac, and thence by stage to Milford, thence to Farmington, &c. 
I should have mentioned that the Grand Rapids Eagle, a daily paper, gave most hearty notices of my lectures there-not at all troubled at the idea of emancipation. I hope to reach as far west as Colchester and Angola in the coming month. 
MILFORD, (MICH.,) March 14, 1862. 
W. L. GARRISON. -I sent a line from Rochester, and this may reach you in time to follow it on the same page. I meant to have said a word of the temper of the people now and last autumn. 
Then there was a strong wish, an earnest hope, that Congress would take the slavery question in hand, and act boldly. Had it done so, or had any branch of the Government, a hearty support would have followed, in which many opponents would have joined-swept on by a tide which would have submerged their prejudices, and which they had no moral courage to stem. There was high enthusiasm for Fremont, and indignation at his removal-a feeling, shared by many Democrats, that he had done best of all. 
Then was the golden hour for positive and decided action. Now there is a feeling that Government has not been decided and tree, as the crisis demanded; on the part of politicians, a hesitancy of speech, lest opposition divide and weaken; and from that opposition, new efforts to intimidate, made holder, of course, by this timidity. 
The popular feeling is less demonstrative and enthusiastic, but the conviction grows that peace with slavery is impossible; that reconstruction on the old basis is aboard; and that no lasting Union can come without freedom. 
<c03>
Fremont is still the man. Action, decided and bold, would gain support and give strength, now as ever. A man, with faith, insight and decision, who should lead as a living force, instead of dragging as dead weight," is the great want. Without such qualities, year of bitter strife in battles and in politics may be ours, ere the inevitable end of slavery comes. 
A sad element of weakness is apparent "Is it safe to free the slaves?" "What will you do with the negroes?" are the questions. Such weakness and blindness, such want of faith in Divine Laws!
But, slowly, this is passing away. Those who never would hear, can now lend a listening ear. 
The habit of apologizing for being half-way decent is the chronic complaint of politicians and people. 
Who has said, "There is hope for the man who dares to be a rascal"! I think of it when I see those who have been bold defenders of slavery speak bold words for freedom, and shame timid souls who have half-way spoken truth with hesitant fear. 
As the tide of battle turns against the rebels, there is much thoughtless enthusiasm which bodes no good; yet the under-current of unrest comes up in the frequent saying, that conquest of the rebels without ending slavery is a fruitless task. 
Startled and awakened by the revelations of its fell purpose and reckless character, which the Slave Power is making in this bloody war, people, in their transition state, "see men as trees walking". The conquering earnestness of purpose which comes from clearness of vision, and confidence in Justice and Freedom as ruling and lasting laws, is coming. Work and wait. "without haste and without rest". 
I have spoken here twice in a Baptist church to good audiences. What I have said refers to the people in Western New York and Michigan more especially. 
G. B. STEBBINS. 
EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION. 
The Committee on Teachers and on Finance would call the attention of the friends of the Commission to the importance of additional subscription to its funds. 
There are at Port Royal and other places, many thousands of colored persons, lately slaves, who are now under the protection of the U. S. Government. They are a well-disposed people, ready to work, and eager to learn. With a moderated amount of well-directed, systematic labor, they would very soon be able to raise crops more than sufficient for their own support. But they need aid and guidance in their first steps towards the condition of self-supporting, independent laborers. 
It is the object of the Commission to give them this aid, by sending out, as agents, intelligent and benevolent persons, who shall instruct and care for them. These agents are called teachers, but their teaching will by no means be confined to intellectual instruction. It will include all the more important and fundamental lessons of civilization, -voluntary industry, self-reliance, frugality, forethought, honesty and truthfulness, cleanliness and order. With these will be combined intellectual, moral and religious instruction. 
The plan is approved by the U. S. Government and Mr. EDWARD L. PIERCE, the Special Agent of the Treasury Department, is authorized to accept the services of the agents of this Commission, and to provider for them transportation, quarters and subsistence. Their salaries are paid by the Commission. 
More than one hundred and fifty applications have been received by the Committee on Teachers, and thirty-five able and efficient persons have been selected. Twenty-nine of these sailed for Port Royal in the Atlantic, on the 3d instant. Three were already actively employed at that place, and the others are to follow by the next steamer. Some of these are volunteers, who gratuitously devote their time and labor to this cause. Other receive a monthly salary from the Commission.
The funds in the treasury, derived from voluntary and almost unsolicited contributions, are sufficient to support those now in service for two or three months. But the Commission is as yet only on the threshold of its undertaking. It is stated by Mr. Pierce that at least one hundred and fifty teachers could be advantageously employed in the vicinity of Port Royal alone. There are other places where there is now urgent need of their services, and new localities will be added as our armies advance. The present expenditure is from twelve to fifteen hundred dollars a month. 
It must be evident, therefore, that, notwithstanding the liberal subscriptions already received, a large and immediate addition to the funds of the commission is needed, to enable it to meet the increasing demands upon its resources. Since this Commission was organized, an association has been formed in New York, with similar objects, which has sent out more than twenty teachers. Other societies are forming in other cities and towns. 
The Commission at Boston will cordially cooperate with all other associations, and will faithfully apply all contributions from societies or individuals, to the great objects for which they are intended. 
Subscriptions may be sent to Mr. WILLIAM ENDICOTT, JR., Treasurer, No. 33 Summer street, pr to either of the Committee on Finance. 
GEORGE B. EMERSON, 
LE BARON RUSSELL, 
LORING LOTHROP, 
CHARLES F. BARNARD, 
H. F. STEVENSON, 
Committee on Teachers. 
EDWARD ATKINSON, 
MARTIN BRIMMER, 
WILLIAM ENDICOTT, JR., 
JAMES T. FISHER, 
WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH,
Committee on Finance. 
Boston, March 14, 1862. 
KANSAS EMANCIPATION LEAGUE. 
TO THE FRIENDS OF IMPARTIAL FREEDOM. 
Our name indicates the purpose of this organization. The hour has past for elaborate argument in regard to that enormous crime whose results are visible in civil strife. War teaches, in such startling language that non not wilfully blind can fail to read its import-that Union is impossible, and Freedom a myth, while Slavery exists. Liberty deals with Human, and not alone with National life. In it is no geography-no race-no color. Man is more than all. We seek results only: therefore, and primarily, we work to overthrow Slavery, to remove its evil effects from the nation, and especially to elevate its victims into self-respecting men and women. This, then, is our special work. It lies at our door, and waits for our hands. 
Kansas was honored in being the instrument where-by this continental tide of despotism was first stayed. Here we learnt that Slavery must, by its own laws, culminate in force. A territory large as a continent was saved, and a people educated into the conviction that there can be no peace without justice. Out of Kansas came Harper's Ferry-the sacrificial culmination of the century, in whose especial grandeur our common humanity is glorified. It is the glory and triumph of our State that her citizens have met the death of those who die for man. The Nation seen how the key-note-FREEDOM-which our grand prelude struck so gloriously, runs with ever-increasing sublimity through the varying chords of that magnificent symphony of sorrow and gladness, sacrifice and triumph, the centuries have prepared for these hours. This strife is but the drift of the ages. It can only cease when, recognizing the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, the Union shall arise, disenthralled-redeemed-triumphant-embodying in its national life the equal rights of Man.
But honor brings duties. One there is about us now. It was true for Missouri in '54, that, Kansas a Free State, Missouri could not remain Slave. It is now true for Kansas, that, Missouri a Slave State, Kansas cannot remain Free. Events have made our border the beacon-light to the oppressed, and the necessities of the war have brought-seeking liberty, and suppliants for protection-thousands of unfortunates victims from bondage itself. They are among us, with all the personal evils and misfortunes of a system which has imbruted them. They are to be lifted out of the slough, made manly and useful, and through all the opportunities which this revolution bring, valuable
<c04>
to the nation, to the States, and to themselves, Common humanity, if nothing else, would forbid refusing that refuge they seek in Kansas. 
We have thus throw among us nearly four thousand "contrabands". They throng our towns, they are found throughout our border counties. Fortunately for them, they come at a time when our farms and workshops are denuded of labor. Our young men are fighting for the Union. Farmer, mechanic, laborer, and professional man, alike are serving liberty in the armed ranks. Hence it is that this influx of a population, ordinarily no wise desirable, has been productive of benefit to the State. Our next harvest will be larger through their labor. This would have been more generally true had there been, at the outset, an intelligent supervision by an organization such as we propose. 
FRIENDS:-This is the special work we find to do. It is a practical question. We may differ as to means and methods of attacking Slavery; as to measures to be used in preventing evils which some perceive likely to grow from sudden changes in institutions. The vexed question of "What shall we do with the negro!" may be, to some of us, no question at all, while to others it may be of primary importance; we may have been colonizationist or anti-colonizationist; for or against emigration and separation of the races. On these and a score of kindred topics we may differ; but here is a practical question manner, day by day, as events progress. These people are in our midst. Being here, they cannot be removed. Colonization or emigration for them is a myth-for us it is not an issue: it may be here-after. Then it will be met and decided. What we have to do is to endeavor to lift up, elevate, educate this class-to make them a useful element, while they form a constituent part of our population. Democracy rests upon education. It can only flourish among an intelligent people. No State, with safety to itself, can allow any portion of its population to be kept in ignorance. We know the prejudices that exist in relation to this subject, but we ask all to look at it candidly. It is for the benefit of the white man as well as the black, that the latter should be induced to be courageous, temperate moral, prudent and industrious. For many faults attributed to them, the system is responsible. Ask yourselves how many of those in our State are to-day dependent upon either public or private charity. You will be surprised at the answer. The major portion are eager to work, eager to earn, eager to become useful. We propose to encourage these laudable desires by aiding them to maintain their freedom; to obtain employment, to acquire education, and achieve usefulness. Our plans are simple. For the present, we propose to organize branch Leagues throughout the State-to establish at the principal points to which they flock, some reliable person to receive and provide for their temporary wants, and advise them as to their future course. In connection with this, we will establish Labor Exchange and intelligence Offices, where information shall be given and work found for them. This will be our first care. As our sphere enlarges and our means increase, other results will be attained. It may be that avenues for practically aiding the great struggle will open. We will organize schools, encourage prudence, establish saving funds and land associations, and in every way help them to help themselves. The many channels through which we can profitably work will be patent to all. Our object, our work, our plan is before you. We need you aid, your cooperation; organize your county leagues, and communicate with this centre. We ask employers to notify us of the labor wanted. Each community owns to itself to see that every incentive to industry, and opportunities for education, be afforded them. It is an arduous, and, perhaps, unthankful task we undertake, but results will commend it to our fellow-citizens. We need funds as well as sympathy. Day by day, score of half-naked, penniless people arrive. They require aid and counsel. Will you not give them?
FRIENDS IN OTHER STATES:-You have before liberally aided Kansas to bear the burdens this contest has brought upon her. We have never had to appeal to you in vain. You have read our address. Shall we alone have to support this additional burden? At Fortress Monroe, at Port Royal and elsewhere, the Government aids the contraband to subsist; but here he is thrown out minus that aid, and, consequently, what is needed has to come from private sources. Our labor will benefit you as well as us. In making Missouri free, we win blessings from the Future. In aiding her former slaves to become useful citizens, we add wealth in industry and intelligence to the nation. Hence it is we ask your aid. We need money, clothing, provisions, -all things necessary to attain our objects. Clothing will be especially valuable. Friends who wish to correspond with the League can do so by addressing the Resident Corresponding Secretary, at Leavenworth. Contributions should be addressed to Hon. G. W. GARDNER, care of LEWIS OVERTON, Secretary of Executive Committee. 
We trust this stirring appeal from Kansas for aid to the fugitives will be promptly and generously responded to throughout the Free States-Ed. Lib
KANSAS EMANCIPATION LEAGUE-OFFICERS FOR 1862:-
President-D. R. Anthony. 
Vice Presidents-John C. Douglass, John H. Morris, John C. Vaughan. 
Secretaries-Richard J. Hinton, G. G. Walker, W. L. Freeman. 
Executive Committee-G. W. Gardner, Chairman; Lewis Overton, Secretary; J. E. Gould Robert Caldwell. 
General Agent-Asa Reynard. 
Treasurer-R. C. Anderson. 
Superintendent of Contrabands-Wm. D. Matthews. 
WENDELL PHILLIPS AT WASHINGTON. 
A Year ago, Wendell Phillips would have been sacrificed to the Devil of Slavery anywhere on Pennsylvania avenue. To-day he was introduced by Mr. Sumner on the floor of the Senate. The Vice President left his seat, and greeted him with marked respect. The attention of Senators to the apostle of Abolition were of the most flattering character. Marvelous conquest of Prejudices, and marvelous movement of Northern ideas!
Listening to Wendell Phillips's lecture this evening in the Smithsonian Institute, were Senator Powell of Kentucky, and many other Southern men of note, and the Vice President of the United States, and Congressmen of both House thickly sat about the orator on the platform. During his lecture, he was frequently interrupted by applause, which was at no time so hearty as when he spoke of Gen. Fremont, who, on the eve of victory, a thousand miles from the Capitol, at a word from the President, sheathed his sword. "Then," said Mr. Phillips, "America said to Europe, 'I breed heroes; sit down at my feet. 'John Brown, first of all men, deserved the Mountain Department, next Fremont. "Of the President's emancipation message, he said it was a voice from the holy of the holies. It meant just this: Gentleman of the Border States, now is your time to sell. The exigency may arise that will call me to take your slaves, if you refuse to sell now. 
The old negro preacher said that, if there were a text in the Bible bidding him to go through a stone wall, he would jump as it, and trust to the Lord for getting him through. The President had gone at slavery. It was for the nation to get him through. The message was a very little wedge, but it was a wedge when, in 1823, Emancipation was initiated in the West Indies by a suggestion that the Colonial Legislatures should ameliorate the condition of the slave. It was a very little wedge, but it was driven home. The President had not entered Canaan, but he had turned his face toward it, saying, if I can't conquer will cannon, I will with emancipation. 
We must help the President to make this a war of ideas. The South had marched up to the Potomac with neither men, munitions, nor money-an idea. We had men, munitions, money, and Major-Generals, but not yet an idea. Quaker guns on one side, a Quaker General on the other-(an allusion which was received with tumultuous applause)-still, Mr. Phillips said, fight. Every cannon fired by Halleck or heard by McClellan (he never fired one) is a better Anti-Slavery lecturer than a thousand such as I. The end is sure. 
If Abraham Lincoln does not have the negro on his side, Jefferson Davis will have him on his. Two paths lead to the end, one a true path, one a false one, which shall make the acute disease chronic. -Washington Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.
<c05>
PROCLAMATION OF GEN MCCLELLAN TO THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC. 
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, FAIRFAX COURT HOUSE, VS., March 14. 
Soldiers of the Army of the Potomac, -For a long time I have kept you inactive, but not without a purpose. You were to the disciplined, armed and instructed. The formidable artillery you now have, and to be created. Other armies were to move and accomplish certain results. I have held you back that you might give the death-blow to the rebellion that has distracted our once happy country. The patience you have shown and your confidence in your General are worthy of a dozen victories. These preliminary results are now accomplished. I feel that the patient labors of many months have produced their fruit. The army of the Potomac is now a real army, magnificent in material, admirable in discipline and instruction, and excellently equipped and armed. Your commanders are all that I could wish. The moment for action has arrived, and I know that I can trust in you to save our country. 
As I ride through your ranks, I see in your faces the sure prestige of victory. I feel that you will do whatever I ask of you. The period of inaction has passed. I will bring you now face to face with the rebels, and only pray that God may defend the right. In whatever direction you may move, however strange my actions may appear to you, ever bear in mind that my fate is linked with yours, and that all I do is to bring you where I know you wish to be, on the decisive battle-field. It is my business to place you there. I am to watch over you as a parent over his children, and you know that your General loves you from the depths of his heart. It shall be may care, it has ever been, to gain success with the least possible loss; but I know that if it is necessary, you will follow me to your graves for our righteous cause. God smiles upon us. Victory attends us. Yet I would not have you think that our aim is to be obtained without a manly struggle. I will not disguise it from you that you have brave foes to encounter-foemen well worthy of the steel that you will use so well. I shall demand of you great heroic exertions, repaid and long marches, desperate combats and privations perhaps. We will share all these together; and when this sad war is over, we will all return to our homes, and feel that we can ask no higher honor than the proud consciousness that we belonged to the army of the Potomac. 
(signed) GEO. B. MCCLELLAN, 
Major-General Commanding. 
THE NEW ARTICLE OF WAR APPROVED BY THE PRESIDENT. President Lincoln on THURSDAY approved of the additional article of war, which goes into immediate operation, namely:-
"All officers or persons in the military or naval service of the united States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their commands for the purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor who may have escaped from any person of whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be found guilty by a court martial of this article of war, shall be dismissed from the service. "
GREAT VICTORY-CAPTURE OF NEW MADRID. 
CAIRO, Ill., March 14. The rebels evacuated New Madrid last night, leaving a large quantity of guns and stores they were unable to carry away. Some fighting took place yesterday between their gunboats and our siege batteries, in which we lost 20 killed and wounded. A shot from one of their guns dismounted one of our 24-pounders, killing 4 or 5. 
Capt. Carr, of the 10th Illinois regiment, was killed on Wednesday night while placing the pickets. 
The loss of the enemy is nit known, they carrying off their dead and wounded. Their force is supposed to have numbered 6, 000. 
Gen. Pope, in his despach to Gen. Halleck, says our success at New Madrid has been even greater than reported. Twenty-five pieces of rifled heavy artillery, thirty-two batteries of field artillery, thousands of small arms, quantities of fixed ammunition, tents for an army of 12, 000 men, and an immense quantity of other property, of not less value than a million of dollars, have fallen into our hands. The men only escaped, thoroughly demoralized, during a furious thunder storm. Many prisoners have been taken, and the colors of several Arkansas regiments. Hollins was in command of the rebel fleet, and escaped with his gunboats down the river. 
CAPTURE OF NEWBERN, N. C. 
BALTIMORE, March 18.-(Special dispatch to the New York Times.) The enemy's works six miles below Newbern, North Carolina, were attacked on Friday last. They were defended by a force 10,000 strong, and having 21 guns posted behind formidable batteries over two miles long. 
The fight was one of the most desperate of the war. Our troops behaved with the steadiness and courage of veterans, and after nearly four hours hard fighting drove the rebels out of all their positions, capturing three light batteries of field artillery, 46 heavy siege guns, large stores of fixed ammunition, 3000 stand of small arms, and 200 prisoners, including one Colonel, three Captains and four Lieutenants. The enemy left a large number of dead on the field. The enemy escaped by cars to Goldsboro'; burning the bridges over the Trent and Claremont, and firing the city of Newbern. No extensive damage was done to the place. We lost about 100 killed and 400 wounded, mostly of the New England regiments. Rev. O. N. Benton was among the killed. Major Legendoe of the New York 51st was mortally wounded. Lieut. Col. Merritt of the 23d Massachusetts Regiment, and Adjutant F. A. Stearns of the 21st Massachusetts, of Amherst, were killed, and their bodies are on the way home. 
OCCUPATION OF BIRD'S POINT. A correspondent who dates his letter from Camp Hooker, at Budd's Ferry, on the Lower Potomac, on the 12th instant, says that the batteries at Bird's Point were evacuated by the rebels on the previous Sunday, and occupied by the First Massachusetts Regiment on the following day. He says, referring to the appearance of the place: "What a sight! Everything left as if a plague had carried off the occupants. Guns standing, all loaded, just as they were left; the tents intact; the tables spread for the meal there was no time to eat-everything looked as if the evacuators, had been completely panic-stricken. Shot and shell to the value of 300, 000, besides ten heavy guns, all of which have been destroyed but two-one a 125-pound rifled English gun, made in 1858 at the Low Moor works, which will be taken to Washington. The mortality among the Confederates has been truly awful. "
After the battle of Pea Ridge. Gen. Van Dorn of the rebel army sent a request to Gen. Curtis, commanding the Federal troops, that he would permit a burial party to collect and inter the bodies of the Confederates who fell in the engagements on the 7th and 8th instants. Gen Curtis granted the request, concluding his acknowledgment of its receipt as follows:
"The General regrets that we find on the battle-field, contrary to civilized warfare, many of the federal dead who were tomahawked, scalped, and their bodies same-fully mangled, and expresses a hope that this important struggle may not degenerate to a savage warfare."
No rebel flag is now flying Missouri. The work of repairing the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad is progressing rapidly. The whole road will be in complete working order in ten days. 
At Manassas, the secret agent of the Government have succeeded in securing at the late headquarters of Generals Beauregard and Johnson, a number of documents in reference to the numerical forces and condition of the rebel army. 
The body of Col. Cameron has been recovered from the field of Bull Run, and forwarded to Harrisburg. 
Parson Brownlow has arrived at Nashville, Tenn., in ill health, and will proceed north. 
In the battle of Pea Ridge, Arkansas, our loss was about 600 killed, and 800 to 1,000 wounded. The rebels acknowledge a loss of 1,100 killed, and from 2,500 to 3,000 wounded. We took 1,600 prisoners and thirteen pieces of Cannon. 
The steamboat Cambridge, with a regiment of rebel soldiers on board, sunk in White river, Arkansas, on. the 23d ult. A man and his three children, five deck hands and forty-three soldiers were drowned. All the soldiers' equipments were lost, and the boat can never be recovered. 
SEVENTY-FIVE REBEL SOLDIERS DROWNED. A letter from Cairo, Ill., states that the rebel steamer Prince, employed in conveying the soldiers down the Mississippi, after the evacuation of Columbus, was snagged and sunk in the chute four miles above Hickman, Ky. Seventy-five of the rebel soldiers are known to have perished. She had on board on hundred and ninety-six kegs of powder, which were lost. 
An accident occurred on the New Orleans and Jackson Railroad, by the collision of two trains, on the 27th ult, by which twenty-eight rebel soldiers were killed, and twenty-four wounded. They belonged to the 7th Mississippi regiment. 
ARREST AND RETURN OF A EUGITIVE SLAVE. At Springfield, Ill., a few days since, a fugitive slave belonged to Jesse H. Rector, of Pike county, Missouri, was arrested by the U. S. Marshal, he having escaped in November, 1861. He was restored to his master by the U. S. Commissioner, and left for his old home in
Missouri. The Springfield Register expresses the hope that he "will learn to be contented with the lot which Providence has assigned him. " The Register is one of the satanic Democratic journals, which are a disgrace to the country and the opprobrium of modern civilization shame upon Illinois!
<c06>
NOTICE-The Union Progressive Association will give their first exhibition at the Joy street Church, on Monday Evening, March 24. The exercises, consulting of Declarations, select and original presentations, embracing a Colloquy prepared expressly for this occasion by a member, entitled "ways and means of Elevation."
By this appeal to the public, the Association hope to receive a surplus sufficient to create a nucleus for their proposed Library.
Doors open at 7 o'clock; exercises to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Tickets 15 counts each, to be had of
RICHARD T. GREENER,
ALBERT JACKSON,
CHARLES P. TAYLOR,
GEO, W. POTTER,
J. H. SHAW,
Boston, March 21. Committee of Arrangements.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on "What shall be done with the Slaveholders?" in
Fall River, Monday evening, March 24. 
Newport, R. I., Tuesday, evening, March 25. 
Providence, R. I., Wednesday evening March 26. 
AARON M. POWELL, Agent of the AMERICAN A. S. Society, will speak at
Bedford, N. Y., Wednesday, March 26. 
Bedford, N. Y., Thursday, March 27. 
Newcastle, N. Y., Friday, March 28. 
Newcastle, N. Y., Saturday, March 29. 
Croton Lake N. Y., Sunday, March 30. 
Croton Lake N. Y., Monday, March 31. 
West Chapaqua, N. Y., Tuesday, April 1. 
Mamaroneck, N. Y., Thursday, April 3. 
New Rochelle, N. Y., Friday, April 4. 
Boonton, N. J., Tuesday, April 8. 
Boonton, N. J., Wednesday, April 9. 
Milburn, N. J., Friday, April 11. 
Newark, N. J., Sunday, April 13. 
HENRY C. WEIGHT will hold meetings in
West Gloucester, Sunday, March 23. 
Hopedale and Milford, Sunday, March 30. 
Essex, Sunday, March 6. 
CHARLES SPEAR and MRS. SPEAR will deliver address, at the Congregational Church as East Cambridge, on Sunday evening next, 23d inst., at half-past 7 o'clock. Subject-Prisons, North and South. 
CRISPUS ATTUCKS CELEBRATION-There will be a repetition of this celebration at the Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, Boston, on Wednesday evening, April 2, with Tableaux, Vocal and Instrumental Music, &c. &c. 
DIED-At his residence in Philmont, N. Y., on Friday, March 14, of Congestion of the lungs, SOLOMON C. BARTON, in the 71st year of his age. 
Another of our tried and faithful friends, the earnest, conscientious and warm-hearted friend of the slave as of the colored man, the champion of universal justice and of a world-wide humanity, has passed on to the next sphere of life. His life has been for many years a patient, emphatic testimony in favor of impartial freedom, without respect to complexion or sex; also a vigorous and most effective protest against bigotry in though, and its accompanying narrow, sectarian, proscriptive prejudices. He lived largely for his fellow-men. His last labor was that of securing from his fellow-citizens an expression, by petition, for the immediate, unconditional abolition of slavery. He leaves an affectionate family, and a large circle of warmly attached friends, who feel keenly his removal. A. M. P. 
INDUCEMENTS TO SUBSCRIBE. 
To New Subscribers the present year, the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER & ATLANTIC MONTHLY will be furnished for $5. 00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER AND NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW will be furnished for $7. 00 a year; the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, and ATLANTIC MONTHLY, will be furnished for $9. 00 a year. 
Payment in advance to accompany the order in all cases. 
A few subscriptions can be received on the above terms, beginning with THE EXAMINER for January, 1862, the first number of the current volume. March 1, 1862. 
CLV. The Oldest House in Boston. BUILT IN 1656. CLV. 
PRICES REDUCED OF THE FOLLOWING VALUABLE BOOKS:
Echoes of Harper's Ferry. 
THIS volume is a collection of the greatest Speeches, Sermons, Lectures, Letters, Poems, and other Utterances of the leading minds of America and Europe, called forth by John Brown's Invasion of Virginia. They are all given-mostly for the first time-unabridged; and they have all been corrected by their authors for this edition, or re-printed with their permission from duly authorized copies. That this volume is justly entitled to the claim of being the first collection of worthy specimens of American Eloquence, the following brief summary of its contents will show:-It contains Speeches and sermons-by. Wendell Phillips, (two,) Ralph Waldo Emerson, (two,) Edward Everett, Henry D. Thoreau, Dr. Cheever, (two) Hon. Chas. O'Conor, Henry Ward Beecher, Theodore Tilton, Colonel Phillips, Rev. Gilbert Haven, James Freeman Clarke, Fales Henry Newhall, M. D. Conway, (of Cincinnati,) and Edwin M. Wheelock; Letter-by Theodore parker. (two, ) Victor Hugo, (two, ) Mrs. Mason of Virginia and Lydia Maria CHILD; Poems and other Contributions-by William Allinghame, John G. Whittier, William Lloyd Garrison, Judge Tilden, F. B. Sanborn, Hon. A. G. Riddle. Richard Realf, C. K. Whipple, Rev. Mr. Belcher, Rev. Dr. Furness, Rev. Mr. Sears, Edna Dean Proctor, L. M. Alcott, Wm. D. Howells, Elizur Wright, &c. &c. Also, all the Letters sent to John Brown when in prison at Charlestown by Northern men and women, and his own relatives; "one of the most tenderly-pathetic and remarkable collections of letters in all Literature. " Also the Services at Concord, or "Liturgy for a Marty"; composed by Emerson, Thoreau, Alcott, Sanborn, &c.; " unsurpassed in beauty even by the Book of Common Prayer". With an Appendix, consisting the widely-celebrated Essays of Henry C. Carey on the Value of the Union to the North. 
Appended to the various contributions are the Autographs of the authors. 
EDITED BY JAMES REDPATH. 
1 Volume, 514 pages, handsomely bound in muslin. Price 50c. -former price $1. 25. 
THE PUBLIC LIFE OF CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN. 
BY JAMES REDPATH. 
With an Autobiography of his Childhood and Youth:
With a Steel Portrait and Illustrations. PP. 408. 
This volume has been the most successful of the season, having already reached its FORTIETH THOUSAND, and the demand still continues very large. It has also been republished in England, and widely noticed by the British Press. The Autobiography (of which no reprint will be permitted) has been universally pronounced to be one of the most remarkable compositions of the 
kind in the English Language. In addition to being the authentic biography of John Brown, and containing a complete collection of his celebrated prison letter-which can nowhere else be found-this volume has also the only correct and connected history of Kansas, -from its opening for settlement to the close of the struggle for freedom there, -to be found in American literature, Whether periodical or standard. It treats, therefore, of topics which must be largely discussed in political life for many years. A handsome percentage, on every copy sold, is secured by contract to the family of Capt. Brown. Copies mailed to any address, post paid, on the receipt of the retail price. Price 50c. Former Price $1. 00
SOUTHERN NOTES FOR NATIONAL CIRCULATION. 
This is a volume of facts of recent Southern life, as related by the Southern and Metropolitan press. It is not too much to may unanswerable and exhaustive <illegible> of the Slave Power that has hitherto been published. Although treating of different topics, it extends completes, 
and strengthens the argument of the <illegible>. It is a history of the Southern States for six months <illegible> to John Brown's Invasion of Virginia. No one who has read Summer's speech should fail to procure this pamphlet. The diversity of its contents may be judged from the titles of its chapters:-Key Notes, Free Speech South, Freedom, Southern Hospitality, Post-office South, Our Adopted Fellow-Citizens South, <illegible> of Southern Citizens, The Shivering Chivalry, Sports of Heathen Gentlemen, &c. &c. As a manual for Anti-Slavery and Republican orators and editors it is invaluable. 
A handsome pamphlet of 128 Pages. Price 12c. Former Price 25c. 
Copies mailed to any address on receipt of price.
LEE & SHEPARD, 
155, WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
March 21.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Oswego Commercial Times.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
BY MISS A. SPRAGUE.
He speaks beneath his country's flag to-night-
Lover of Freedom, champion of right!
For years he stood outside that country's laws,
Yet struggled bravely in a noble cause;
By now he's seen where'er that banner waves,
Ere long to lose its stain-the blood of slaves.
His heart of fire and tongue of living flame
Have burned the veil from off the nation's shame;
Those scorching words have lit a fire for thee,
A beacon fire, oh Goddess, Liberty!
Beneath them has old Tyranny awoke,
And shook and trembled at the truths he spoke,
Until she rose in wrath, and stands to day
To block the car of Freedom on its way.
It shall not be; true hearts like his stand strong,
And send their shafts to pierce the heart of wrong.
His was the heart unflinching in he storm-
His was the noble, almost godlike form
That walked the streets of Boston in the day
When Freedom's sceptre half had lost its away.
Then "Liberty's proud cradle" rocked her child 
But roughly-Tyranny looked on, and smiled,
From is broad platform, where he sent his word,
Like bursting shells, to hearts till then unstirred.
His was the escort that the great man wins,
Who dares to speak against time-worshipped sins!
The mob by thousands followed in is train,
And, but for law, that fearless form had slain;
Yet calm, erect, with Jove-like front he met
Those waves of men till backward they were set.
Like some firm rock that still defies the sea,
Though years the waves have dashed most angrily,
Above the strife, its proud, defiant form
Stands all the same, alike in calm or storm.
But when our Northern blood had stained the street
Of Baltimore-foul Treason's work complete;
When Massachusetts sprang to avenge the stain,
Then WENDELL PHILLIPS could be heard again!
They pressed to hear-the mob of weeks ago-
Their hearts with patriot fire at last aglow;
At Freedom's shrine they gathering bowed with thee,
Brave heart and strong!-then came thy victory!
We give thee welcome to our midst to-day!
Pour fourth thy words till Freedom bears the sway
O'er all our land; until no slave shall be,
But all shall bear the seal of Liberty!
Launch thy "Phillipics" through the hearts of those
Who dare not meet the cause of all our woes!
Hold up the flag until all hearts shall say
Its stars shall chase old Frror's night away;
Let still the cry be, "Woe, forever woe
To all, until they LET MY PEOPLE GO!"
Oswego, March 6, 1862.

From the Christian Inquirer.
PORT ROYAL
BY O. EVANTS, M.D., SURGEON TWENTIETH IND. VOLS.
On the shores of Carolina,
Where an ancient Evil broods-
Over cities, over hamlets,
Over fields, and over woods-
Came a whisper to the bondmen,
Came a promise from the skies,
Of deliverance from bondage-
From the tyranny of lies!
Came a whisper on the North wind,
Saying; "Ships are drawing near;
Northern ships, with shot and cannon-
Lo! the banner!-they are here!
On the shore then gathered quickly
Dusky sons of other lands-
Slaves no longer-standing "waiting
With, their bundles in their hands"-
Waiting, watching for the shipping
Drawing nearer to the shore,
Whilst their human hearts were beating
As they never beat before.
Then the iron mouths of despots
Hurled their hissing curses fourth-
Hurled their heated iron curses
At those brave ships from the North.
But the brave ships heeded nothing,
Sending back the tyrants' threats;
Sending back from decks and portals
Answers e'er their parapets-
Till the sea and air were shaken;
Till the islands, far and near,
Trembled on their thrones of coral,
Like a sinful king, with fear;
Till the crowned Cotton shuddered;
Till the orange groves were bare;
Till the minions of that Evil
Fled their strong holds in despair.
Then a shout rang out, of triumph,
From those forts beside the sex,
As their barren flag-staffs blossomed
With the banners of the free!
Then the ships sailed on in silence,
Bearing hopes toward that shore-
Hopes deferred, yet ever coming
Hopes, at last, deferred no more.
Shall they wait there, human-hearted,
"With their bundles in their hands"-
Wait there, slaves, until the shipping
Comes from far off, silent lands?
Human-hearted! over-joyed!
Craving, waiting for the hour:
Oh! the brazen-lipped old liar,
Who denied them human dower!
Oh, the Age! Thank God! no longer
Antique sin is sanctified;
Nor is Lust, though hoary-headed,
Shielded by an ancient Pride.
LOVE, outliving all the Ages,
Wedding WISDOM, brings forth USE,
And demands of Justice FREEDOM,
Purified from long abuse.
Let the desert rock be smitten;
Living water shall gush forth,
And God's Providence be written
On the free flag of the North!
Fortress Monroe, Va., 1862.

THE DOOMED CITY.
BY J.C. HAGEN.
O Charleston! thou city so fair,
That sat'st like a queen by the sea;
While Commerce would smilingly bear
The choice of her treasures to thee:
Where now is thy traffic so wide?
Thy haughtiness vainly assumed?
They've stricken thee down in thy pride!
Proud queen, thon art doomed! thou art doomed!
And fearfully dark is that doom!
Nor Sodom's is deeper than thine;
No virtue relieving the gloom,
Through the night that enshrouds thee, shall shine.
O thou who couldst Freedom defy,
And trample her flag in the dust,
And place, without wavering or sigh,
In falsehood and treason thy trust!
The hosts of the traitors by thee
To the contest unholy were led;
And well may the foot of the free
Thy ashes relentlessly tread.
Thy law was the law they would urge,
Who power unrighteous would seek;
Thy arms were the fetter and scourge;
Thy motto, "No hope for the weak!"
The avenger that slumbers not, came;
And who would his sentence recall?
Oh! Pity may sigh for thy shame,
But Justice weeps not at thy fall
<c02>
Resurrection awaits not for thee;
Thy glory forever has field;
And this shall thy epitaph be:
"She sleeps with the unhonored dead!"

The Liberator.
THEN AND NOW.
It is a source of intense gratification to every, lover of impartial liberty that the political year now dosed should present, among so many mighty changes, the rapidly growing perception throughout the North, that slavery is the author of our present woes. Permeating with its pernicious spirit, as this institution has, every fibre of both our social and political fabrics throughout the whole period of our national existence; the cause alike of untold misery and injustice to unoffending millions, and of the deterioration of our national character; it is gratifying indeed to witness the unmistakable contrast between the public opinion, of a year ago, and that of to-day, as touching the system of American slavery.
Then we beheld the conclusion of the miserable era of cowardly and truckling compromise. The North had been beaten into submission by the all-grasping despotism of the South. Hand and glove, this principal in treason, with its associate and tool in the North, by votes, by patronage, by fraud and every species of sophistry, by the degradation of common sense and decency, by unscrupulous and wicked strife for mere power and the spoils of office, had well nigh completed the destruction of the Government.
This is the character of our past political life for a quarter of a century, grounded in slavery, animated by the spirit of the despot and the sneak, till it culminated in its wickedness and expired in its weakness in the ever inglorious attempt at compromise with treason in the capital of the nation, and in the fall of Sumter. Then treason might boast its triumphs in many a great city and in many a quiet valley throughout the North. The slaveholding politician of the South had not only succeeded in corrupting to his tyrannous purposes the masses of his own section, but, by systematic effort, through press and pulpit and rostrum, he had infused his polluting spirit—in measure to subserve his base purposes—into the thinking and reading North. He had threatened to tear down the fair structure of our government, and break the nation in twain; and he had reckoned not without reason, for all necessary co-operation by arms, as formerly by the arts of chicanery. So ripe had become the cause of secession, both in the North and in the South, so completely were the ignorant masses of the South disciplined into its fatal doctrines, and so subservient and bereft of all nobility or courage or manhood, so steeped in attachment to the mighty dollar, so completely had every Northern man his price in this slaveholder's estimation—that it was deemed by him a favorable moment to carry his oft-repeated threats into easy execution. And while in his phrenzy he was to erect slavery and its concomitants, despotism and ignorant masses of white men, upon a footing never to be disturbed, he was to enjoy the high satisfaction of seeing in the North only a second rate power, while the South should present to the world a model of the most exquisite political and social order ever dreamed of in the tide of time—a magnificent triumph of despotic rule over the hallucinations of democracy.
But how mighty a change in one short year! What a glorious leap from the ridiculous to the sublime! How impressive the lesson that, under the surface, as seen through the medium of politics, in a country so grand and among a people so brave, there, in the great heaving breast of the nation, burns calmly and intensely an undying love of this beautiful country, and a determination to preserve it now and forever in all its excellence and wholeness to the remotest generation! What a. lesson to the selfish politician, in all sections of the country, that it is dangerous to presume too much to trifle with the holy instincts of twenty millions of freemen!
To discuss the question, whether slavery is right or wrong, and to propose methods for its extinction— however irritating to those most interested among a people who believe or do not believe in the full toleration of opinion in a young, inquiring, experimenting and progressive people—is one thing. To overturn and crush under foot the great principles of human liberty and good government—and, as in our own case, and in our own estimation, the best government God ever vouchsafed to man—is quite another and a different thing. The most ardent advocates of unconditional emancipation of the slave could well afford to suspend their labors for a season, and unite their noble energies in helping to sustain that government and nation from overthrow, whatever the pretext, or by whomsoever. Great as is the cry of bleeding humanity at the throne of all loyal hearts, greater still is the duty of sacrificing all to save, if it be possible, the Union as it now is, and ought always to exist, under all ills and all applications of remedies in time to come. First destroy, both in letter and spirit, the principle of disunion and secession by first destroying treason, whatever its origin, and then we have a fulcrum on which the lever of public opinion—which the war has created—shall rest to lift slavery and every other abuse into the sea of oblivion. A country unbroken, under one government, issuing from an educated and free people, all good institutions and influences as free as sunlight, with the highways and byways of honorable competition, open to all orders of talent throughout all human interests in all the States, embracing all sections and climes over our broad domain; with laws sufficient and stringent enough to punish all who shall be base enough to abuse privileges so precious. Let this creed be established in every heart, and be written with ineffacable characters on the frontlet of every American citizen, and we have a country deserving our highest efforts to preserve.
This great contest in which we are now engaged hag wrought out these thoughts to us all, and shaped our course in the loyal States into a mighty determination, by force of arms, or, if need be, by the resolution of what are called seceded States, into original territory, and the reinitiation of society, to subjugate and destroy rebellion at any cost This determination is the result of a year of national labor and conflict, of sacrifice and suffering, of skill and energy, never before surpassed, and of observation of the workings of slavery in rebellion, and of increasing appreciation of the untold blessings of free institutions.
Whatever of dulness to perceive the cause of our national distresses in times past, Sumter removed the scales from off every eye. The intensest lovers of "peace" and "no coercion" are now on the side of the country, and believe that slavery—the cause of all our disasters—is doomed to 6peedy extinction.
The next stage in the great abolition movement is now inaugurated by this war. Port Royal, protected by our bayonets, is soon to be the scene of an experiment which will test the great question of free labor, negro capacity, and the productiveness of Southern soil under the application of science. Northern men with noble hearts and full heads are about to take the place of slave-drivers in the seat of despotic ease, secession and injustice. Contiguous to a magnificent harbor, cities and beautiful villages will rise as by magic over numerous islands; Northern capital and enterprise will find here a sure investment; and the world will behold here another gateway to the South, through which Northern art, science and institutions will hereafter flow. Enlivened and sustained by freedom, this great commercial centre shall yet be the pride of the North, to pervade with its free spirit the industrial and social interests of that charming section of our united and happy country. Let the spirit of patience and patriotism animate us to stand by our government, while it wields faithfully its power to suppress this wicked rebellion, and it will soon be evident to us all that in no other way could the; great, question of slavery be logically reached and settled, but through the blood and fire of revolution; and in after years, when posterity shaft look back upon this
<c03>
mighty epoch, there will stand in full relief in. their inevitable relations and necessities, slavery with despotism, and secession with rebellion, crushed and annihilated in the effort of the government and people to save our glorious country to freedom. W.

THE MASSACHUSETTS HOMEOPATHIC MEDICAL SOCIETY.
At a meeting of this Society, recently held in Boston, the following statement and resolution were unanimously adopted:—To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The Massachusetts Homoeopathic Medical Society beg leave to state, that from New England alone petitions for the admission of homoeopathic surgeons into the army and navy have recently been presented to Congress, signed by more than thirty thousand legal voters, embracing a large number of persons in high official position, persons eminent for intelligence, respectability and wealth, and representing all classes and interests of society. Numerously signed petitions of a similar character have been presented from other sections of the loyal States, and also from various regiments now in the service of Government.
This Society would further represent, that homoeopathy is a well-tried and demonstrated system of medical practice, based upon an established law of nature, and has stood the test of rigid and accurate observation in Europe and in this country, in public institutions and in private practice, among the most discriminating and conservative classes, and is now fully established in the confidence of every intelligent community:—That in Europe it has no less than twelve hospitals, and numerous dispensaries, and in this country is practised by more than three thousand five hundred educated physicians, has five legally authorized medical colleges, and supports several hospitals and dispensaries:—That homoeopathy is, by the action of various medical boards, virtually excluded from the army. The Medical Commission of Massachusetts has by vote declared, that it cannot recommend any surgeons believing in it; the Medical Commissions of other States have in a discourteous manner refused to examine homoeopathic surgeons; and the Army Medical Board at Washington has sedulously endeavored to exclude from the army all homoeopathic surgeons, and from the army hospitals all homoeopathic practice.
And as, in many of the regiments now in the service, a large number have been accustomed to, and prefer homoeopathic treatment, therefore, this Society respectfully and earnestly request Congress to make such provision as shall meet the wants of this class, and would recommend the following propositions:—
1st. Whenever any considerable portion of the officers and soldiers of any brigade desire to have a homoeopathic surgeon attached to the brigade, such additional surgeon shall be appointed. 
2d. Whenever a majority in any regiment desire a homoeopathic surgeon and assistant surgeon, such appointments shall be made. 
3d. Wherever army hospitals are established, a fair proportion of them shall be devoted to homoeopathic treatment.
4th. As allopathic surgeons are by their education and position necessarily disqualified for intelligently examining candidates in homoeopathic medicine, an additional Examining Board shall be appointed for this purpose, composed of surgeons skilled in homoeopathic medicine.
As in this emergency of our country the utmost catholicity is very justly and properly allowed in all the religious and political appointments of the army, this Society deem it in the highest degree intolerant to exclude thoroughly educated and competent homoeopathic surgeons, whose appointment would, by exciting emulation, naturally serve to elevate the standard of medical skill, and secure for the soldiers increased care and attention.
Resolved, That a copy of the above statement be sent to Hon. Henry Wilson of the United States Senate, and Hon. B. F. Thomas of the House of Representatives, with the request that it be presented to both Houses of Congress.

THE AMERICAN BOARD.
Memorial Volume of the First Fifty Years of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Boston: 1861.
It is not without a tender reverence that we could wish to turn to the history of half a century of missions,—to a fit record of those hearts of fire and faith which have-lived and died "for the conversion of the world." To nurture upon the simple and sincere conceits of a child's heart, through many years of patient silence, an enthusiastic dream of a dying life on the darkest Afric shore, will make the whole heart forever kind to the true enthusiast of redemption. That meeting of the American Board in which it became a cruel certainty to us, that hardly any even seemed to believe the world's peril from God's wrath, we could not indeed forget, but we hoped to find in this " Memorial" such a history of the fervent few as would amply justify the intense sympathy which we felt impelled to offer. We are utterly disappointed. Rev. Rufus Anderson has produced a cold and calculating official report,—a painful blue-book. The spirit of the official stifles the heart of the historian. We were instantly reminded of the proposal, at a meeting of the Board, to have "a season of prayer," when the discussion of the slavery question seemed tending to a decision perilous to conservative support. Dr. Anderson avoids his subject under the cover of a vigilant effort to be pious. He seems half conscious that a thorough and candid history of the half-century of the-Board and its missions would put in peril a considerable portion of "the funds of the Board." In the first vigor of his effort to edify "the patrons of the Board," in his report of the Jubilee meeting, there is an absurd subjection of the Christian to the official. Speaking of the receipts and the payment of the debt, he says: " This auspicious result was owing to the spirit of uncommon liberality which God was pleased to give to the friends of the enterprise generally, but more especially to a well-planned effort, for the removal of the debt, suggested by a mercantile friend in Boston." That contrast between the suggestions of God's Spirit and those of a mercantile friend in Boston clearly indicates an official expectation of falling back upon the mercantile friend again, whenever the result of the movement of the Holy Ghost upon the friends of the enterprise generally shall be not wholly satisfactory. It is one indication of a fact which we first saw with unaffected horror, that the Board's Holy Ghost is guaranteed by certain rich and blameless Pharisees of benevolence, who like to be hinted at in reports and memorials.
The labored effort to avoid the vital topics of this history is seen in the references to the subject of slavery. This subject has been much discussed in the meetings of the Board, awakening at times an absorbing interest; and in 1846, as Dr. Hopkins's Historical Discourse mentions, "a difference of views in regard to the best method of dealing with slavery" led to the formation of the "American Missionary Association," on a pronounced anti-slavery basis. The reader of the "Memorial" will in vain consult the Index for any record of the matter. Let him look, however, for "votes by yea and nay," and he will find the following specimen of the red tape of the missionary circumlocution office: "The first time in which the Board is known to have decided a disputed question by a call of the call of members, and the formal response of 'Yea' or 'Nay,' was at Brooklyn, N. Y., in the year 1845. It was upon the adoption of a report on the subject of slaveholding in churches under the care of missionaries of the Board, made by a committee appointed the previous year. There have been only two other occasions on which this method was resorted to, and those were in connection with the same subject, at Hartford in 1854, and Philadelphia in 1859. The reader is referred, for the more important proceedings of the Board in relation to this matter, to the minutes of the annual meetings at Brooklyn in 1845, Boston in 1848, Hartford in 1854, Utica in 1855, and Philadelphia in 1859." What is "this matter" here spoken of? Is it "votes by yea and nay"? The grammatical structure of the passage implies
<c04>
this, though a slight examination shows that this structure is a contrivance for biding in four lines of a bare reference the history of the proceedings of the Board in relation to slavery. The meeting in 1848 is mentioned as one in which "this matter" came up. Of the next meeting Dr. Anderson says: "The meeting at Pittsfield, in 1849, is known to have been preceded by an extraordinary amount of prayer, owing to a prevalent anxiety lest alienating discussions should arise; and it will be remembered by those who were present as a season of the most elevated Christian enjoyment." The subject of slavery was kept out by this "extraordinary amount of prayer," and the pious record of the fact is a significant illustration of the way in which the support of conservative piety has been secured. Dr. Anderson mentions, that the meeting at Hartford in 1854, when a vote on the subject of slavery was taken by yea and nay, " was perhaps the largest ever held, save the fiftieth," the Jubilee meeting; but he does not tell us that a desire to put the Board right on the subject of slavery gathered this unusual number of members. He might be excused from informing us whether he was the timid official who proposed "a season of prayer" to avert that vote by yea and nay, interesting as it would be to bear of that brave and eloquent divine who successfully resisted the "extraordinary amount of prayer" policy, and compelled decided action, at the risk of seeming to prefer the convictions of an honest conscience to the suggestions of the Board's Holy Ghost.
A chief reason for the unquestioned ill-success of the Board is in the fact that it does not present evidence that it can make a good use of means, as such a use is estimated, not by sentimental piety, but by sober common sense, wisely judging of the duty which is first. It is an error to say that missions as such are made obligatory by the law of the Gospel and the words of Christ. They were in the time of the Apostles, and we are bound to fulfil the whole spirit of that command. And when a work is within our reach—in India, in Hayti, in Liberia—then we must do it. But to assume that money must be raised, and a mission undertaken at random, or beyond the sphere of clearly-defined good opportunity, simply that we may think that we have done our duty in the matter of missions, is the serious error of many good men. Place a given church in the midst of a heathen community, and it must become, like the early Church, a missionary organization. Not so placed, it cannot as readily undertake the work of missions; and by the law of what it can well do, or do best, it must choose or decline this work. The Board assumes that a certain attempt at missions is in itself a Christian duty, and it thus stands on a false basis in its appeal to the benevolent, to a great degree failing of good work, and almost wholly failing to engage the means and men of the Orthodox churches to an extent at all consistent with their professions of faith and duty.
We will add here but a single remark,—that benevolent organizations like that of the American Board should confine their operations to gathering and administering funds in aid of those enterprises which can support their appeal by clear evidence of a good work already begun, and sure to be done to some extent, even if no aid is rendered. We do not believe in throwing away help on a work that has taken no hold. It may display the benevolent, but it does not help the needy. It would be a noble enterprise to goad this eminently pious Board into a vigorous application of common sense to their operations, though we fear that it will not be undertaken soon enough to save the institution from a forced contraction which will be fatal to its support. Properly done, it would give, for the first time, a genuine vitality to its existence, a life deeper than sentiment. We do not forget that this basis for organized benevolence implies many new modes of Christian labor and enterprise, especially in the initiation of missions; but we think the growing sense of the Christian world will demand, and the course of events under Providence provide these. Although we may seem to deny the duty of seeking the lost, it would appear, upon fuller consideration, that we would rather improve the method of this search,—that we would especially conduct it in the channels really opened by Providence. This may be truly called the Missionary Age upon which we are now entering. The wave of sentiment has rolled by, and its record is before us. The time to apply principle, to direct the forces of civilization to the work of redeeming peoples and lands, is now at hand. The laws and prospects of that work will engage the Christian and the statesman, the scholar and the saint, and prove by their hold upon governments and peoples with how great a joy in all hearts the day of redemption draweth nigh.
[Christian Examiner for April.

LETTER FROM REV. STARR KING.
THE FLOOD IN CALIFORNIA.
SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 20, 1862.
To the Editor of the Boston Transcript:
Let me see if I can find any paper in the house that is not soaked or mildewed. If I can, I will write you once more about our terrible flood, which has become a far more extensive and sad calamity than we supposed it would be when I sent word to you of its first wrath, three weeks ago.
In the interior of the State there has been scarcely any sunshine since the tenth of November; and the rain that has fallen since the first of January I shall hardly dare report, as I may wish, one of these days, to resume in Boston some vestiges of character for veracity. Our average of rain in San Francisco, for the year, is about twenty inches. Already, in a little more than two months, we have had thirty-four inches, and the clouds to-day are dark as ever, while more than two months of the rainy season are still before us—the months, too, in which the freshets usually come. Seventy-one days ago, the rainy season set in, and fifty-five of them have belonged to the Baptist persuasion. The interior, near the base of the mountains, receives much more rain than we do on the coast; but never has anything been known there like the outpouring of the last month. At several points in the foot-hills, where measures have been kept, seventy-two inches of water have fallen since the first week of November. I believe that your supply in Massachusetts is about forty inches in twelve months. You can judge, then, of the freedom of utterance of clouds over the Sierra, and their copious delivery, if they furnish nearly twice the amount in two months which your storms supply in twelve.
And in a State configured as ours is, you can calculate the effect. We have an immense central prairie, between two mountain ranges. The Sacramento flows from the north southward, and the San Joaquin from the south northward, and pour their burden of waters together in the centre of the State, to rush out through the Straits of Casquinez into the Bay of San Francisco, and thence through the Golden Gate into the Pacific. In the spring, when the snows melt on the great mountains, these rivers find as much as they can do to run off the torrents that plunge into them; but this winter the clouds among the Sierra have been "on the rampage," and the State presents a spectacle to-day equally wonderful and pitiful. All the forks and feeders of the two great central streams have filled the gorges of the Sierra with the roar of their fury, and converted the rich plains of the State into an inland sea
You can have no conception in New England of what a flood is. Your ideas of mountain wrath and river ravage have been formed by the freshets of the Saco, the Connecticut, the Merrimac, and now and then the accounts that reach you of the anger of the Mohawk and the Hudson. Those give only little ribbands of disaster. But here one mountain bulwark, from seven to twelve thousand feet high, along a line of five hundred miles, has been hurling cataracts, for six weeks, through the wildest gorges, down towards one river-system, through an immense plain that has no levee upon its banks. The result is an imperial devastation. The two great interests of the State, mining and agriculture, are already frightfully scourged, and as we are only midway in the wet season, we know not when or what the end may be. So far as we get word from the interior, it is a monotonous account of wild spoliation. The branches and sources of the Yuba, the Feather, the American, the Mokelumne, the Stanislaus, the Merced, have risen to incredible heights, and nearly cleaned the chief mining districts of the bridges, sluices, tunnels, dykes, ditches, mills, and implements which represent the toil and capital of years.
Nature has taken the hydraulic washing for this season into her own hands, and given a specimen of her power of moving the hills, gold and all, down into the Sacramento. And with the remorseless torrents have been borne splintered houses, ma-
<c05>
chinery, cattle, the wrecks of gardens and orchards, the supports and ruins of aqueducts, the embankments of skillful roads, and we know not yet how many human bodies, to be whelmed in the turbid tides of the vast trunk rivers below. The rise and fury of some of these streams in the wild ravines cannot be conceived, even when the audacious figures are reported. Sixty and eighty feet may be stated, with a Bible near at hand on which the pen is ready to vouch its veracity. In one canon of the Klamattee river, in the north part of the State, which Mt. Shasta looks down upon, a suspension bridge, ninety feet above the usual current, was swept away, and the water rose fifty feet above that, making a tide a hundred and forty feet above low water-mark. The story looks large—doesn't it? But you can't know what truth is till you visit California; and my pen is as ready to make oath to it, as a secessionist in jail is to swear allegiance to Abraham. Don't send out here, however, to test my veracity. As soon as the sun comes out, the river goes down as fast as the secessionist's loyalty.
Each one of the subordinate streams on the slopes and in the passes of the mountains has wrought as much damage as one of the New England freshets on a whole river. In some counties every bridge is swept away, and the roads are about ruined. But after all the destruction in the gorges and among the hills is summed up, we have the desolation on the plains to take into account. The interior is a lake. A week ago, every street of Sacramento, the capital, was under water, some of them ten to fifteen feet, and from the Coast Range to the Sierra there seemed to be an unbroken sea. The steamboat from Marysville to Sacramento sailed over the stage-road, which is nearly a bee-line between the two cities. It is thought that, in some directions, diagonal lines might have been chosen in which one could have rowed for two hundred miles, sometimes passing over the roofs of houses and the tops of telegraph poles. We have had a conception, 1 assure you, of what the earth looked like in pre-Adamite ages, and no sceptics need hereafter attempt any criticism on the account of the flood in Genesis. Our minister read it in church yesterday, and I noticed that the congregation listened, not only with evident and undoubting faith, but with symptoms of grim joy, that California can beat the "fifteen cubits upward" which the waters are said to have "prevailed." Already we boast that no country can get up a freshet and a desolation on such a mighty scale.
But it is pitiful to think of the ruin. An area probably as large as the whole State of Massachusetts has been, if it is not now, under water. And it is the rich agricultural region of the State. The land should now be ploughed and sown for the harvest, which is due in May and June. But over tens of thousands of acres and fences are wiped off; barns and stacks of grain are annihilated; cattle have been drowned, or chilled, or starved; farming implements are floated away or ruined; houses are soaked if not destroyed; orchards are buried under debris, or killed by the cold tides and sleet; sand is washed upon the fruitful soil, waiting to burst into the green of wheat, or the beauty of vineyards; confidence in the valley as a fit home for human beings is broken down in many of the energetic colonists; and hundreds of them, after they have seen their cattle killed and their homesteads ravaged, have been saved from the upper rooms of their houses, and sometimes from the tops of trees, by boats and little steamers that have cruised on Samaritan errands of rescue, and brought away paupers that two months ago were independent.
I visited Sacramento last week, and sailed in the rain through streets alive with boats, and lined with houses half-buried in the slimy tide. But the aspect of the city, partly drowned as it is, was cheerful, compared with the vast lagoons over which we steamed, that should now be green with the peeping grain. A cold north wind blew the sleety storm over the muddy waste that was relieved only by trees here and there, or the roofs of a few houses, or now and then a mound just swelling above the yellow expanse, on which huddled and starving cattle were shivering in the wet blasts. We overtook one relief steamer, and took from her over a hundred people, some of them children with naked legs and feet, who had been rescued from homes in which they had suffered for days from lack of fire and scanty foal. Most of them had lost everything. The charity of San Francisco and the cities of the interior has been unstinted and glorious. In Sacramento the largest hall in the city is a hospital, under the control of an admirable Benevolent Society, to furnish, beds, clothing and food for all who are homeless. Thirty thousand dollars were contributed from San Francisco in money and supplies to the treasury of that Sacramento organization. A week ago, on Sunday morning, word came to us of the higher rise of the water in Sacramento, and the difficulty of getting any provision there. Collections were taken at once in many of the churches before service; a committee was in session in our great Music Hall; wagons were sent through the city to collect cooked food; bakeries were set at work; the cooking apparatus of halls and hotels put in requisition; and in the afternoon tons of food, ready to be eaten, were sent by steam to the capital, and distributed early Monday morning. Strong men in Sacramento cried like children when they saw the unloaded bounty so speedily and thoughtfully supplied. Now our Music Hall is turned into a Receiving Home for the destitute that come to the city; the steamers bring them down free, and feed them too on the passage; and homes are provided for them by the bounty of our citizens, who open their houses to the sufferers.
But what will the result be to the State? It still storms furiously as I write. The Bay from my window is yellow with soil from the Sierra. Through the Straits of Carquinez the downward rush of water is an enormous tide. It overspreads the Bay with a fresh lake, and pours out. at the Golden Gate at the rate of eleven knots continually. For there is no flood-tide on the surface coming in from the ocean. The downward stream beats it back, and the swell of the sea must come in underneath the fresh water that pours out. I do not know that the State can be injured much more, if the rain and flood continue. But the loss and damage already are fearful. In the mines an immense deal of capital is ruined. In the great agricultural districts the hopes of the next harvest are dim. You suffer from the war; we are ravaged by water almost as badly as Virginia by the rebellion.
It is estimated that a third of our permanent capital, or rather of the taxable property in the State, is cancelled. The effect on business in this city must soon be very severe. More sad is the effect it will have on the progress of the State in educational and moral enterprises and prosperity. The future was never so bright for California as two months ago. But now we must begin anew, over immense areas, to subdue nature. I hope that persons who propose to leave the East, expecting to do better in California, will consider very seriously the question of coming for a few months. Let them wait till the books are posted, after this disaster. Two months will enable us to report what our needs of emigration are, and what our welcome can be.
And yet our people are wondrously cheerful. There is no whining, no despair. They have seen cities spring up anew from charcoal in a year, and they do not mean to let the flood drive them from the State of which they are so proud. Many are calculating already the advantage of the flood in drowning out grophers and squirrels and locusts. Others sympathize with the fanners who have saved stock, and have fellowship in their joy over the good prices that will reward them for the pains of bringing them to market. They insist that cattle were too plenty, and that we needed a flood. Others rejoice-that the land will get a drenching, which was necessary to prevent it from baking, and they foretell a grazing paradise. Others still have visions of diggings such as '49 offered, and insist that the flood is a mercy, since it carries off the "tailings" of years, brings down nuggets, and pays, even at the cost of our bridges and roads. Yet, all this while, we are under water, and are but half through our season of deluge. And it still storms.
But whatever may come, thousands would rather drown here than walk on driest land east of the Alleghanies. They are jubilant, hundreds of them, that Nile inundations and Mississippi freshets are trifles to the sweep of the watery ravage which the Sierra can inflict; and "sink or swim, live or die, survive or perish," they are for California. "Whether or not I go all lengths with this party, I will not now intimate; but I am proud of the spirit with which this people bears misfortune, and the energy that is eager for the opportunity to begin to repair the devastation of the elements. May the hills of Boston and San Francisco ever keep their heads above water! K.
The Free, States are all loyal. All of the Slave States are rebellions, either wholly or in part. If all the States were free, all would be loyal.—Tribune.
<c06>
THE NAVAL IN HAMPTON ROADS.
From One who was on Board the Ericsson "Monitor."
Friday, March 7th, 8 A. M.—We are steaming slowly down the coast, making about five knots an hour, with the wind blowing freshly from the North West. The sea arising quite rapidly, and at <illegible> A. M. makes a clean sweep over our main deck. On account of improper caulking of the engine-room and forward hatches, the water penetrates to the berth-deck and into the fire-room, rendering the posit ions of engineers anything but agreeable. 12 M. The Monitor is making, according to sailor dialect bad weather. The blower-hatches, from defective arrangement of pipes, allowed a good deal of water to penetrate to the engine-room, where coming in contact with the straps which revolve the blowers. on either side of the engine, snapped them asunder and left the furnaces without a draft. In consequences of this, the engine-room soon became filled with <illegible> from the furnaces, which in a short time prostrated Mr. Newton, the senior engineer. He was brought up and placed on the deck of the <illegible> where he remained in an unconscious condition for fifteen minutes. Mr. Stimers, chief engineer, who superintended the construction of the Monitor for the Government, and who was a passenger in her to Fortress Monroe, repaired to the engine-room at the juncture, where he found 2d Assistant-Engineer Campbell and 3d Assistant Hands, with four <illegible> men, in a state of total unconsciousness on the door of the fire-room. They were immediately removed to the turret deck where restoratives, were applied successfully. About 2 P. M., we passed <illegible> Charles Lighthouse, making about five knots, with steady breeze from the North-West, The sea has moderated slightly, and the vessel has as little <illegible> tion as when running down New York harbor At this time Cape Henry Light comes in view. The atmosphere is remarkably clear, and every eye is <illegible> with curious interest to the low line of sandy coast that forms the southern border of <illegible> Bay. We are approaching our destination rapids and, if we have a continuance of our present <illegible> three hours from this time will find us <illegible> safely in Hampton Roads. 5 P. M.—Mr. <illegible> 1st Master, from the tower, reports heavy firing the distance. At first, Capt. Worden attributes the reports to artillery practice at Fort Monroe, but as hour later, the flash of bursting shell is plainly <illegible> We are now certain that an engagements progress, and our interest becomes intense, <illegible> that the Rebel steamer Merrimac may be <illegible> her iron hail on the comparatively defenceless vessel at anchor in the roads. But one desire animates the crew, officers and men, and is plainly visible in their compressed lips and anxious faces, and that is to <illegible> their part in the fray. 6 P. M.—The report heavy artillery is becoming more and more distinct and in range of the bursting shells, in the directions of Fortress Monroe the vivid light of a burning vessel is plainly seen. 8 P.M.—The Monitor has dropped her anchor in the roads, a short <illegible> abeam of the frigate Roanoke, the flag-ship of the squadron at this station. A small steamer has <illegible> hauled along-side, dispatched by the military authorities at the fortress to acquaint Capt. Worden with the particulars of the afternoon's action. The captain of the steamer was greatly excited, and <illegible> hurried and almost incoherent manner related the story of the afternoon's disaster.
After casting anchor, Capt. Worden reported a the flag-ship Roanoke for orders. He returned in short time, being ordered to lay alongside the Minnesota to defend her against the Merrimac. who it was feared, would renew the attack during the night In a short time we were snugly anchored alongside but no boatswain piped " all hands to hammocks” that night. Exciting thoughts of the long wished fight with her proper enemy drove slumber from the eyelids of each hardy "Monitor." But the night passed, and the Merrimac did not come.
Sunday, March 9th.—The sun rose in a clear, unclouded sky, and revealed to the anxious <illegible> on the tower three vessels apparently at anchor Sewall's Point; but the distance was too great to <illegible> observe their outlines. No doubt, however felt but that one of them is the Merrimac, and <illegible> some movements a little later observed, Capt. <illegible> believes she is preparing for an engagement.
The Monitor is to be immediately put in <illegible> trim. The iron hatches are closed, the cover placed over the deadlights, and in fifteen minutes from the time the orders are given, the main <illegible> presents a clear sweep, unbroken except by the <illegible> and pilot-house. 8.20 A. M.—The crew are <illegible> to stations on the berth deck from magazine to <illegible> ladder, and at the guns. Capt. Worden, <illegible> Green, and several of the other officers are standing on the turret deck, looking anxiously at the mysterious movements of the vessels in the distance this moment, the larger of the three, which present the singular appearance of a floating house submerged to the eaves, is seen under way, heading directly for us. The officers are ordered immediately to their stations. Lieut. Green to command the gunners; Chief Engineer Stimers to control the movements of the turret during the action, and witness the behavior of the Monitor, which is to force a part of his report to the Government. Just as we are approaching the turret-batch to retire below, the Merrimac opened the action with a shot that <illegible> the water between the Minnesota and Monitor, and glanced far astern. Capt. Worden immediately <illegible> his position in the pilot-house, where, ably seconded by Mr. Howard, from one of the U. S. steamers who volunteered as Pilot, assisted by Quartermaster Williams, he directed the movements of the Monitor and gave his orders during the entire action. <illegible> hands, officers and crew, are now at stations waiting in breathless suspense for further orders. Capt. placed the Monitor in position, forwarded the <illegible> of the Merrimac to Lieut. Green in the <illegible> and gave the order to fire. The port apron swing aside, the gunners, too, spring to the gun-ropes creaking of pullies for a moment, and then a thundering report broke the death-tike stillness the reigned along the dusty ranks of powder-passers the magazine deck —the Monitor has made his maiden speech. From this time the Merrimac. <illegible> down to attack the Minnesota, turned her <illegible> on the Monitor, and we were the recipients of her compliments thenceforth. She gave us a few <illegible> shots, and then, as if frenzied at her failure to <illegible> us, ran head on at full tilt, as in her <illegible> with the Cumberland; but in this instance with far different result. Capt. W. judged that, <illegible> to run us down, her intention was to board us <illegible> if so, she changed her programme, probably <illegible> pleased with the expression of the grim eye of our <illegible>lumbiad, which at this moment, at a hint from <illegible> Green, shot her iron glance (weight, 170 lbs.) <illegible> through the Merrimac's hull at water line. <illegible> comes the order from Capt. W. to the <illegible> "Reserve your fire; I will lay you alongside Merrimac; then aim deliberately," and do not lose shot." In a few minutes this movement was <illegible> and then from both combatants the <illegible> was very rapidly executed for some time, until Merrimac, not liking her position, retreated longer range. To Mr. Green's occasional inquiry to the effect of our shots, Capt. Worden answered in a cool, deliberate manner, that excited the <illegible> and enthusiasm of all within hearing At one time, while the vessels were lying side by side. <illegible> Green accurately trained his gun on the Merrimac water line, and, after delivering the shot, inquired Capt. Worden the effect. The answer came lost and clear, " Splendid, Sir; you made the iron <illegible> You cannot do better, but fire as rapidly as you can The Merrimac retreated still further in the directions of Sewall's Point. Capt. W., judging the range great for effective firing, directed the Lieutenant  wait for his order before giving her another shot a few minutes passed, and the order came: it was scarcely executed when a percussion shell struck the corner of the pilot-house, and exploding, injured the Captain's eye. A few seconds and another exploded in the same neighborhood, and adding to the previous injury rendered for a time our noble commander completely blind; this occurred at 12 M. and was, I believe, the last shot the Merrimac fired in the engagement. The command now devolved on Lieut. Green, who took the Captain's position in the <illegible> house, and directed the closing movements of the action. The Merrimac, proud and defiant in the beginning of the action, now presented an entirely different spectacle. She bad no doubt received vital injury, and it is the opinion of the fleet that were anxious spectators of the engagement, that she retired in a sinking condition. The Monitor would have vigorously followed up her over whelming advantage bat her orders were to act entirely on the defensive, and not by any-means to leave the immediate vicinity of the fleet in the roads feet sketch must suffice for the present writer; the story will be better told by those whose privilege it was to witness the iron monster foiled, and driven back to his lair. -D. L. C. [N. Y. Tribune.
