THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENCY.
TERMS—Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV.NO. 23 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1865. WHOLE NO.1792.
<c01>
Selections.
CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE AT CHARLESTON. 
The following is the address made to the colored people of Charleston by Chief Justice Chase. As the views of so distinguished a man upon a question of great practical importance, they are eminently worthy of careful consideration. Mr. Chase said:— 
My Friends—I shall comply with the invitation of General Saxton only to address to you a very few words. It is true that I have always been the friend of freedom. I have always desired to see every man, of whatever complexion, protected in the enjoyment of all his natural rights, and to see every man, clothed with every legitimate means for the protection of those rights. No man, probably, in this country, deplored this war more than myself; perhaps no man would have made greater sacrifices to avert it. I did not wish to see even the great good of emancipation effected at such a terrible cost. I believed that it would come some time. I believed that, by a wise and just administration of the, federal government, it might be hastened; but I never desired to see such a terrible struggle as that through which we have passed. I never desired to see those seas of blood, and those vast gulfs in which the treasures of the country have been sunk, even for that highest good, which, as we all hoped, could have been obtained by other and gentler means. But, in the providence of God, war came: and, as a means of carrying that war to a successful termination. I felt it was the duty of the general government to respect its natural allies; and I well knew that the whole colored population of the South was loyal. (Great cheering.) I said and I felt that if we would succeed in this struggle, we must strike the fetters from the bondmen. 
Such was my counsel in the Cabinet; and when that honored man,. whose death this nation mourns: in common with all the lovers of freedom through-out the world, when that honored man made up his mind to say that all men in this land shall be free, none gave it a more hearty sanction or more emphatic amen than myself. Then, when that other question arose, " Shall we put arms into the hands of the black man?" I never doubted the proper answer. If we make them freemen, and the defence of their freedom is the defence of this nation, whose duty is it to bear arms if not theirs? Whose duty is it to take part in the struggle now for freedom, as well as for Union, if not their duty? And how can we expect to succeed if we do not avail ourselves of that natural strength which in this struggle is created for us by the circumstances under which it is waged? When the government, therefore, made up its mind to call the black man to the field, I felt that it had not done it one moment too soon, but a great many days too late. But now the colored man has borne his full, proper share in the great struggle. If anybody has made sacrifices, he has made them. If anybody has suffered extreme ill, he has suffered; and the victory being won, and freedom and Union being secured, who has a better right than he to participate in the fruits of both?
It is simply because I think it just and right that I advocate it. I believe that the safety of the nation, as well as individuals, consists in doing justice. I believe in the truth of that passage of scripture which says that he that walketh uprightly walketh surely. That man or that nation linking his or its action with truth and justice, relying upon the providence of the Almighty, is sure to issue safely and triumphantly. It may be that great struggles have to be gone through, great trials to be made, great martyrdoms to be endured. This war has seen multitudes of martyrs, last and noblest of them all, that great martyrs, our beloved President, struck down by the hand of the assassin. So martyrdoms may yet be needed: but out of all your trials the issue is sure.
I have said the victory is won. The armies of the rebellion are disbanded, peace returns, and peace brings with it its duties. A great race, numbering four millions, is suddenly brought into freedom. All the world is looking to see whether the prophesies of the enemies of that race will be fulfilled or falsified. It rests upon the men of that race to tell. They say that you will be disorderly, shiftless, lazy; that you will starve rather than work; that wages cannot tempt you to work; that you will become thievish vagabonds. So your enemies say; so, too, a great many people that are not your enemies seriously fear. It is for you to show whether it shall be so or not. You need not in the mean time be particularly anxious what people say about you.. Show that you will be honest, temperate, industrious and faithful in your employments; that you are ready to do honest work for honest wages; be economical; lay up a portion of every day's or every month's earnings in some savings bank for yourselves and families for a rainy day. Do everything in your power to increase the products of the country; doing this with all your might, you will save yourselves and reflect credit upon those who have been your friends. God forbid, that before I die I shall be obliged to hang my head and say, I expected a great deal of this people, believed them to be honest, industrious and orderly, and I find I have been mistaken; that they allowed miserable prejudices to grow up among them; that they permitted themselves to be controlled by vindictiveness of feeling; that they were unwilling to labor for their living. For, after all, labor must be the cardinal law of your lives.
I was, myself, a Western boy, and in the log cabins of the West we fared just as roughly as most of you have fared. We had very little capital, nothing to go upon but our own good will, patient hearts and free school education, which, thank God, this country ,gave to all her white children, and is now going to give to all the blacks who will take it. Well, upon such capital we went to work, and we came to something. You can do the same thing if you will go to work in the same way. But if you spend your time in fretting because this or that white man has a better time than you may have had or more advantages, and can take short cuts to what you may think success, you will, in the end, be very sadly disappointed. Take things patiently, and labor faithfully; the result will be glorious, .Let the soldier fight well, let the preacher preach well, let the carpenter shove his plane with all his might, and the planter put in and gather in as much corn or cotton as he can—working for fair wages, and, as he gets able, to hire others, paying them fair wages too. Act thus, and I have no fears for your future. 
Now, as to the elective franchise. Major Delany has said that he heard me say in the hall of the House of Representatives at Washington, that I knew no reason why the hand that laid down the bayonet might not take up the ballot. If he had listened to me twenty years ago, in the city of Cincinnati, he might have heard me say substantially the same thing. But the colored man did not get 
<c02>
the elective franchise because I said it then. Quite possibly he may not now. Certainly, however, events have progressed remarkably in that direction. If everybody in this city saw things exactly as I see them, if they felt as I feel, that it would be desirable, on account of the general interests, that every man should have the same rights before the law, in the elective franchise as in everything else, it would come to you very soon. But there is not that agreement. Having nothing to do with politics, I am not prepared to say what will be the action of the Government. I am no longer in its counsels, and therefore do not know what it is prepared to do. I will only say this: I believe there is not a member of the government who would not be pleased to see universal suffrage. 
But I am not ready to say that the government will now establish universal suffrage. This I do not know. If you are patient, and constantly show by your acts that you merit the right of suffrage, then you can be safely trusted with it. That in your hands it will be on the side of order and liberty and education, reasoning upon general principles, I can safely say you will get the elective franchise in a very short period. I trast it will not find you unprepared. But respect yourselves and respect the rights of all, and do your very best to show that you are, each and all of you, worthy to have it. You cannot get it by threats or misbehavior. You can get it by patience and perseverance in well-doing. Now, if the government of the United States, taking everything into consideration, shall not think it proper to enroll all the colored men as citizens and voters, what is your duty? To fret and worry about it? I think not. If I were in your case, I would go to work, and show that the United States government was mistaken in making the delay. If you show that, the mistake will be corrected. 
I think it is the best plan for all men, white and black, that every man who is honest and of due age shall have the right of suffrage. Having it, he will respect himself the more, will do more productive labor, and will add more wealth to the community. He will receive the respect of his fellow-men, and the society composed of such men is always great. But if the government think differently and circumstances delay its action, I advise you to be patient, calm and industrious. This is about all I have to say to you. When a man has been faithful in the honest performance of his duty, he is thought better off if success attend him in this world. But if it so happens in the providence of God, that these material results do not follow that performance, still he carries in his own mind the consciousness that he has tried to do what is right in the sight of God, rendering to every one his due, contributing all he can to the general happiness and improvement, diffusing as much enjoyment and contentment as he can in the little circle of which he is the centre; with that consciousness he goes through life, "happy as a king, though he may not be the king," ends it in felicity, and goes where there is an end of all these controversies, because there is but one God and one Father, before whom all his children are equal.
GEN. SAXTON'S SPEECH. 
Major-General Saxton followed the Chief Justice, and told the colored men that he wanted them to draft a petition, have it signed and sent to the President of the United States and the Houses of Congress for the right to exercise the elective franchise—the right to vote for those who are to rule over them. He wanted to see one hundred and fifty thousand black men voting in South Carolina. I. want, he said, to see the black man in the future save a nation's honor. I believe measures will shortly be introduced into Congress to pay the rebel debt, a debt contracted to make you slaves. I believe in that way the black man will have an opportunity to save the nation's honor. There is no telling how much virtue there is in this petition. Your petition will have to be sent to President Johnson and to the Congress, and Congress will insure the right of the black man to vote in this country. I cannot see how it can be otherwise. I want you now to elect and choose a committee to draft this petition. Have it clearly, strongly worded, with good reasons why you should vote, and every colored man to sign it. I can get three thousand at Beaufort to sign it. But I want it started here in the city of the rebellion. I want it to lead off in the movement to insure your political equality. 

THE PRESBYTERIAN (N. S.) GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
BROOKLYN, (N. Y.) May 27, 1865. 
The Special Committee on the State of the Country present the following minute for the adoption of the Assembly: 
At the commencement of this Rebellion, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States took its position decidedly and strongly in support of the Government. Regarding the forcible secession of the Southern aristocracy as treason against a most beneficent Government; as treason aggravated by the fact that not a single right of the South had been invaded, and as treason rendered peculiarly malignant and wicked by the fact that it was committed with the avowed purpose of sustaining and perpetuating the system of slavery—a system in direct opposition to the Gospel and the principles of religious liberty-the Assembly condemned it in the name of God, and pledged to the Government a hearty support in the effort to crush it. Each succeeding Assembly reiterated this action. Our churches with entire unanimity responded, by word and deed, to these sentiments. Our record as a Church we commit to the calm judgment of posterity, in the full assurance that there is neither a line nor a word the Christian patriotism of the future will desire to erase; not a single sentiment befitting our relation to this great conflict it will find unexpressed. 
And now, at its triumphant conclusion, this Assembly devoutly recognizes the good hand of God, which has sustained us as a nation through four years of war unparalleled for its magnitude in all the past, and given us victory in such a manner as to illustrate the power and excellence of our free institutions, when sustained by a virtuous and intelligent people, and the deep malignity of that spirit of absolutism which, has sought to overthrow them. We gratefully recognize this Providence in strengthening the patriotism of the people to vindicate the National unity and freedom by the sacrifice of treasure so immense and blood so noble and precious, and in giving us for a leader one so wise, unselfish, patriotic, and reliant on His divine power and purpose in this our time to vindicate the right and crush the wrong in surrounding him with men of an earnest and steady patriotism, wise in counsel and energetic in action, and in raising up skillful Generals and Admirals to lead our brave troops to victory. We rejoice with exceeding joy in that Divine Sovereignty which has given to us, in the midst of war, such material prosperity; which has inspired the benevolence that has poured forth its means to care for the temporal and spiritual wants of our no-
<c03> 
ble soldiers, to endow our institutions of learning, and relieve our churches to so great an extent from the incumbrance of debt, and sustain our Christian enterprises for the conversion of men. " Not unto us, O God—not unto us, but to Thy name be the glory! " Nor would we neglect to thank Him that, in answer to the prayers of Christians throughout the world, He has delivered us from foreign conflicts that might have imperiled or protracted the successful issue of this war.
We wonder at and admire especially the Divine wisdom manifested in educating the nation through the successive stages of defeat and victory; through the unparalleled atrocities perpetrated, and the amazing malignity illustrated by the leaders of this Rebellion, up to the purpose of utterly rooting out and destroying a condition of society so utterly hostile to the elevation of man and the spirit of the Gospel. While we would humbly confess and forsake the sins which have deserved the Divine chastisement, we thank God that through suffering He bath taught us to abhor the sin, at the same time that he hath laid in the hearts of the people the foundation of a truly national trust in Him as our only sovereign, and hath prepared us to spread over all the continent the noblest civilization the world has ever known.
In the sad event which has clothed the nation in mourning, which has stricken down-in the full maturity of his powers, and the height of his usefulness-—one of the noblest of men, to whom it was given of God to accomplish a work for the nation and the cause of humanity unsurpassed in the grandeur of its character and the magnitude of its issues, by that of any of his most illustrious predecessors. We recognize the same wise Providence which, looking far above our feeble visions, permitted the existence of slavery and the rise of this rebellion, and which in this last act of baffled and defeated despotism has illustrated its debased and malignant spirit so as to excite the loathing and known abhorrence of the world. In his life he struck the chains from the trembling limbs of millions, vindicated the rights of humanity, and illustrated the glory of a patriotism made strong and pure by devout confidence in God; in his death he touched the chord of sympathy deep in the heart of universal man, and won over to our holy cause every true lover of his race, every soul in which dwells the hope of human freedom. 
To his bereaved widow and family this body would express our sympathy in this great affliction, common to us all, but resting most heavily upon those so nearly allied to him; assuring them of our prayers, that to them may be granted the consolations of the Comforter, and in them these trials may bring forth the peaceful fruits of righteousness. 
In Andrew Johnson, so unexpectedly called to the chair of our martyred Chief, the Assembly recognize a man distinguished for a long course of earnest effort to elevate the masses, and in a steady, consistent patriotism that neither the power nor the favor of a treasonable oligarchy has been able successfully to assail or seduce. We desire to pledge to him as our Constitutional Chief Magistrate our confidence and support in all his efforts to vindicate the majesty of law, maintain the National Government in its great supremacy, destroy the spirit and counteract the workings of the evil system which created this war, inspire a just appreciation of the crime of treason and a true loyalty to the Government in the breasts of the masses of the white population of the South, and extend to the colored citizens of that section the practical enjoyment of those personal and political rights announced in the Declaration of Independence, but denied to them by a despotic aristocracy. And while this Assembly deem it not their province to counsel our rulers in respect to political measures, we possess both the right and regard it as our duty to state distinctly that, in our opinion, a nation like ours, whose corner-stone is equal rights, cannot permanently prosper, nor be exempt from future convulsions, unless the privileges of civil and religious liberty are fully carried out and duly applied, with only just and healthful limitations, without reference to class or color, to all the people.
For his personal safety, guidance and support, we invoke, the blessing of God, and we exhort our ministers and churches, since God, by this war, hath taught us the necessity and impressed upon us more deeply than ever before the duty of prayer for our rulers, to remember the President and his counsellors in their petitions to the Throne of Heavenly Grace. We exhort them to sustain him in the just exercise of his authority, to judge charitably his measures and acts, and, in the exercise of a magnanimous and Christian patriotism, encourage him in the peculiarly difficult circumstances in which he is called to act in our behalf. 
In the state of this nation consequent on this war, this Assembly recognize not only what God has done, but what he has prepared the way for us to do, as a Church of Christ, in elevating the people. God's just doom has been wreaked on the giant hypocrite who held in one band the Declaration of Independence, and in the other the hammer and manacles of the slave auctioneer. And in doing this He has opened half a continent to a free gospel and free schools. He has imposed on us the responsibility of giving this free thought to these emancipated millions. As our Church-—republican and apostolic in its order and its doctrine-—is, in the main, best fitted to create a free, intelligent, stable, Christian manhood in harmony with our civil institutions and the progressive spirit of the nation, so it is for us to enter the field God has opened for our labors; to establish churches and schools, and thus assist the civil authority in bringing order out of chaos, while we secure for the people the higher influence that saves the soul. If with a self-sacrifice and an energy proportioned to our resources, and the work prepared for us, we address ourselves at once to its performance, we shall make our Church a light to millions, and be crowned as wise and faithful servants of our God. But if we are neglectful of these great interests, we shall incur the grief of unfaithful servants, and God will use other instruments to effect his glorious purposes.
Not only is it true that this war has prepared the way for us to effect great things for the South, it has also imposed on us responsibilities for the correction of wrong here at home. The wrong of class legislation in one part of the Union, the bitter fruit of hostility to our Government, and the degradation of vast multitudes it has borne, has shown us that a bad principle, however concealed for a time, will work mischief both to the State and the Church. The heart of the people has thus begun to beat with a desire to remove all such inconsistencies, wrongs, shams and hypocrisies from our own legislation. If we fight for, or ask justice for the African at the South, we must act justly toward him at the North. Neither the law nor the gospel, when rightly understood, will permit us to exclude from the rights and privileges of freemen those who are citizens like ourselves, many of whom have imperilled their lives in this conflict. It is for us, as Christian patriots, to recognize men as men, both in the Church and in the State. And since, in this high ecclesiastical court, we have given to the nation and the world a 
<c04>
signal illustration of the justice we advocate; since here intelligence and piety are recognized as the only necessary qualifications in him who is chosen to represent the ablest ministers and the noblest churches in the land, we can consistently exhort the members of our churches to apply, to the fullest extent of their influence, the same principles in their relations to the State. Let it not be said that, as a Church, we have nothing to do with civil legislation. The day has gone by when an intelligent Christian will affirm the doctrine, that what is wrong in religion is right in politics. God has taught us, in this war, that the Church must conserve the State by instructing the people in the great principles of justice, and inspiring them to practise the same. Without the teaching and the inspiration of the Church, the patriotism of this nation would never have nerved itself for the permanent and heroic defence of freedom (and this is but another name for justice) which has crushed the treason that sought to assassinate the State. We wish all men to know that the members of our churches are bound to be Christians, in politics as well as in religion. God hath made us responsible, according to our numbers and our intelligence, for the welfare and healthful legislation of the State. To meet this responsibility, our Christian patriots must exert themselves to influence the primary meetings for the nomination of fit men, to secure the election of good, pure men to office, and when nominated themselves to remember the duty of assisting their country, and illustrating both their piety and patriotism by consenting to serve her. 
Nor would we fail to express our sympathy for those truly loyal and Christian people at the South, who, at the cost of great personal trial and suffering, have stood firm for the Union; and also the duty of the Church to care for and sympathize with our wounded soldiers and the widows and orphans whom this war has bereaved. 
Let the Church, which has heretofore been honored as a leader in all good enterprises, now address herself to the good work to which she is called by her Divine Redeemer, both at the South and the North. Let her seek to illustrate the Gospel in all her relations to society, as well as preach it to the multitudes that know not God, and His blessing will be upon her; the heart of the people will beat in sympathy with her; the State, purged of its impurities and inconsistencies, will gradually rise to her level; her boundaries shall be enlarged, her churches be multiplied; the nation, grown wise and strong, shall rejoice in her influence, and myriads of souls, counted and educated for heaven under her living ministry, shall form the jeweled crown of her glory, where the ransomed of God shall come to Zion, and Jesus, our King, shall make the kingdom of this world the kingdom of our God. 
The Rev. Dr. Spear presented a memorial to the President of the United States regarding the colored people. 

LETTER FROM ROBERT TOOMBS. 
A DESPONDENT PROPHECY IN MARCH LAST. 
The following letter from Toombs has a doleful sound:
"WASHINGTON, Ga., March 24, 1865. "DEAR DUDLEY: Mr. C. C. Clay, our late Commissioner to Canada, who has been spending about one month with us, leaves to-morrow for Richmond, and I avail myself of the opportunity of writing to you. Sallie will give you all the local news. She and the children and Julia are in excellent health. She wrote you last night by one of your captains of Cobb's legion. One of your men of the same battalion called this morning, and brought the papers you sent me, which are the latest we have from the North. 
"I have the most painful apprehensions for the future, and they arise solely from my entire conviction of the total incapacity of Mr. Davis, and consequently the utter failure of all his petty schemes. We have given him all the men who would volunteer, allowed him all the men he could catch at first from eighteen to thirty-five, and then up to forty-five, then all from seventeen to fifty. And the army is smaller to-day and less efficient than on the day the first Conscript bill was passed. Now Congress has given him all the negroes, and the result will still be the same, superadded to the most fatal consequences that ever darkened our prospects. The negro, first, is unfitted for a soldier. Secondly, if I am wrong in that, he is unfit for our soldier. If he is capable of making a soldier, he ought to be and will be a Yankee soldier. If two-thirds of the white freemen (as Mr. Davis says) have ingloriously abandoned their flag and run away from a standard to which all the hopes of a true man are centered, and superadded to every indignity inflicted by the Yankees upon their wives, children, friends, homes and property, do we expect that the negro slaves will stand by it? What for? In the name of heaven, what for? Is their liberty involved in our success? Yes; but against them. Are their homes and property, wives and children, and country and all that men hold most dear to be ruined by Yankee success? I think not. Have they a keener sense of honor or more courageous hearts than their masters? If so, they ought to change places. In my opinion, the worst calamity that could befal us would be to gain our independence by the valor of our slaves, instead of our own. If we are conquered by the fortunes of war, we may save our honor and leave the cause to our descendants, who may be wiser and braver than we are, and may avail themselves of the accidents of human affairs, and yet win what we are ignominiously throwing away. The day that the army of Virginia allows a negro regiment to enter their lines as soldiers, they will be degraded, ruined and disgraced. Lee had just as soon have a negro as a white man in his army. So had West Point generally. Their system was to make slaves of freemen. It failed, and the men ran away. Their remedy is to make freemen of slaves. That will not get far enough along to fail; it is a piece of imbecile stupidity, as well as treachery to the cause, well worthy of Davis and Lee, the base traitors from Kentucky and Missouri, &c., who have no constituents to bear, to suffer, or to be disgraced by them. We have a plenty of men in the Southern Confederacy to whip two such revolutions, if Mr. Davis did not keep them out of the bullet department. He has more men on the pay roll not in active field service than he has muskets. And you may throw in the negroes, and not increase the army. But if you put our negroes and white men into the army together, you must and will put them on an equality; they must be under the same code, the same pay, allowances and clothing. There must be promotions for valor, or there will be no morale among them. Therefore it is a surrender of the entire slavery question. 
The government is becoming a standing menace and terror to every interest. Our credits are squandered 
among officials, and nobody, neither army nor people, paid for services or supplies. The tax in kind is doubled, and squandered among post people, and the army half subsisted by pillage and plunder
<c05>
of the industrious classes. All the revenues of all the countries in the world would not support Davis's government one year; it is one wild waste and pilfering by his thousands of officials in the year. We have a post in all the villages. Even here we have John Weems, commandant of the post, six or seven quartermasters, and several hundred soldiers and other employees. The country does not make enough surplus to maintain them all, and there is nothing left to send to the army. We have but one hope in the revolution: that is, in the overthrow of Davis. Let us say to Davis, begone! and make him obey the mandate.
I sold Hatchett for two thousand dollars, and gave the money to Sallie, or rather have it for her order. Corn here is thirty-five dollars per bushel; and if these government rogues remain here, we shall have to remove to the plantation in order to live. A month ago they pressed one hundred and twenty mules and horses in this county, under pretence of carrying food to Lee's army from this to Abbeville, and have not sent the first wagon forward yet, and about this time have eaten up all they were to send. I suppose they will remove to another field of pillage as soon as this is fully exhausted. All of our men at home between seventeen and fifty are in the Confederate service. We have got to get our soldiers inside instead of outside. But they are so close up to Jeff, that he cannot find them. We must fight the fight to the bitter end, and can win it if we can get rid of Jeff.; if not, not.
I am yours truly, R. TOOMBS."

EDWARD EVERETT. 
Extract from an able and eloquent "Address upon the Life and Services of Edward Everett, delivered before the Municipal Authorities and Citizens of Cambridge, Feb. 22, 1865," by Richard H. Dana, Jr.:— 
There was one view of the future of our country which seemed to possess and animate him more than any other. One of the greatest mysteries of our nature is that process by which we make with the tongue vibrations on the air, which, striking upon the ear, convey to others our thought, wish or emotion; or by the cunning of the hand, forms strange black marks on paper, by which souls interchange ideas. Yet it somehow happens—and that is no less a mystery—that by a strange law of their being, men will make different sounds and different marks, totally unintelligible to each other; and so it is that men, charged to the full with thought and emotion, are totally unable to communicate intelligently. Mr. Everett had not only seen in libraries and on monuments these laborious attempts at expression unintelligible to the greater part of the human race, and sometimes to all the living; but in Europe he had found that a river interposed, or a chain of hills, left millions of men, intelligent and cultivated, without the power of intercommunication: orators, statesmen, poets, preachers, charged with the interests of the world, standing deaf and dumb in the presence of each other! He saw how this not only restricted personal communication, but limited the power of the press in permanent as well as current literature, discouraged effort and shut out wisdom. 
He turned toward his own country, and saw a vast empire filling up with a people speaking a common language and possessing a common literature. He presented his statistics to show that the ten millions of that day would become thirty, fifty, an hundred,—and why not, like the Chinese Empire, three hundred millions? He declared then, as, when Secretary of State, he said to Lord John Russell, in 1853, that he saw no necessary limits to our republic but the geographical limits of the continent. His soul swelled at the thought of such a world of human beings, all able to understand one another. What a stimulus to the press in periodical and permanent literature! What fields for the orator of the pulpit, the forum, the senate, and the platform! What inspiration to the poet, the philosopher, the man of science! What a benefit to each one of these receiving millions, from the higher character of the supply so vast a demand would create! 
Was this a baseless vision? We have risen to thirty millions, covering the continent; and there is less of provincialism or dialect in the whole land than within the sound of Bow Bells, or within any one of the counties of England. May this not continue with our increase? There are certain conditions. The language must be anchored to a common alphabet, and a common and substantially unchanging mode of spelling. It is moored to the English Bible, the Book of Common Prayer, Shakspeare, Milton, and John Bunyan, and that company of later writers, in prose and verse, whose language is the vernacular of our race. 
A common national government; a common written constitution, which all must understand; the periodical election of a President, upon principles to be canvassed through the land, with a voter at every hearth-stone; a common legislature, debating in a common tongue, its members chosen from every district; the rapid and general circulation of a daily press; and above all, the instant communication by telegraph to every part of the land of things which it is the interest of all to hear at once; all these keep the pool so troubled as to give no chance for dialects and provincialisms to form upon the surface. What more affecting proof of this, than when Mr. Seward, the other Sunday afternoon, announced in a few hours, in words understood by all, to the millions of the land,—the merchants and the manufacturers of the seaboard, the farmers of the interior, and the miners among the mountains,—the death of Edward Everett! 
A scholar, a Greek professor, so far from lamenting the good old times when a few scholars could alone understand one another over Europe in a dead language, he held up to the admiration of an assembly of scholars the vision of a vernacular for a continent. He boldly attacked the saying of Bacon, that Luther prevailed because he awaked all antiquity, and declared that Luther prevailed because he awaked the native tongue of Germany, because he spoke to the land in the speech of the fireside and the street; and that if be he had battled only in Latin, he would have been answered in better Latin from the Vatican, and the people would have seen in it only a contest between angry priests. 
We can see now why he thought the discovery of this continent by Columbus in the fulness of time, and held back by providence until that time, the greatest event, not supernatural, in the history of man. We see how he valued the settlement of this country by such men as did settle it,—men trained to hardship, self-command, and serious thought. Puritans, persecuted by church and state; churchmen and royalists, banished by the Puritan Commonwealth; Huguenots, persecuted by Catholic France; Cathoolics persecuted by Protestant England; Germans, exiled by the wars of Louis XIV., and Quakers, persecuted by all, settled the various parts of our country. He looked upon our system as the great experiment, on a vast field prepared for it by the providence of God, for the moral and intellectual development of the human race, by the agency of 
<c06>
individual liberty, and popular, responsible systems of self-government.
Those who knew him slightly may have thought that he gave undue prominence to the subjects of his classical studies. Since his death, I have read the greater part of his published writings, and can truly say that I doubt if ever so good a scholar wrote and spoke so much, saying so little of the Greeks and Romans. He always declared that their civilization had one fatal defect, the lack of spiritual vitality. He reminded the scholars of the Phi Beta Kappa, that the hero of Thermopylae would not have hesitated to tear his only child from the bosom of its mother, if it happened to be a sickly babe, and carry it out to be eaten by the wolves of Taygetus; that the heroes of Marathon unchained their slaves from the door-posts of their masters to go out and fight the battles of freedom. Painting the possibility of our failure in this grand trust, and its direful consequences to human nature, he exclaimed, " Greece cries to us by the convulsed lips of her poisoned, dying Demosthenes; Rome pleads with us in the mute persuasion of her mangled Tully." 
He saw the necessity of exciting feelings of pride and respect for our common ancestry,—of elevating the whole work of this nation, past, present, and to come, to the highest plane of dignity. True to his mission, our horizon was lighted up by unwonted fires at Concord, Lexington, Charlestown, and Plymouth. The names and places were not then classical. The actors in the revolution were living, with the familiar, sometimes the disagreeable, even the ludicrous sides of their characters open to view. The road to Lexington was but a dusty highway leading by Whittemore's Tavern, toiled over by country wagons, and herds of sheep and oxen driven to the shambles at Brighton; but to his eye of faith, to his vivid imagination, Lexington and Concord, Plymouth and Bunker Hill, were more truly worthy of consecration than Thermopylae, or Platsea, Marathon or the Eurymedon. With rare rhetorical courage, he encountered the plebeian suruames, and those uncouth Hebrew first names revived to be misapplied and mispronounced after four thousand years. In the height of a dramatic description of the spread of the alarm of the British march to Lexington, he did not fear to name the borrowing.of Deacon Larkin's horse; and captivity among the Indians was no less dignified to him because it was the captivity of Mrs. Jemima Howe and Mr. Pilkial Grout! He had heard a voice saying to him,—What God has cleansed, that call not thon common! What to him were the childish fables that hang over the origin of the Greek and Roman cities, compared with the time when Massachusetts consisted of six huts at Salem, and one hut at Charlestown? The covered wagon marked " To Marietta, Ohio," carrying the first westward emigration from Massachusetts, with its stock of household utensils, was more classic to him than a pantheon of Greek and Roman Lares, Penates, and Termini. Our civilization was not to present the picturesque effects of castles, palaces, and towers, and the imposing material results of great inequalities of condition, but a land dotted over with churches, colleges, school-houses, town-halls, lecture-rooms, museums, observatories, galleries, hospitals, and asylums. "A sterile hill-side in New England, with a well-kept village school at its foot," was not only a promise of more true wealth to a people, but of more in dollars and cents, than the "lucrative desolation of the sugar islands." 

PRESIDENT LINCOLN IN RICHMOND, 
BY C. C. COFFIN. 
Among the memorable events of the week was the visit of President Lincoln to the city of Richmond. He had been tarrying at City Point, holding daily consultations with General Grant, visiting the army and the iron-clads at Aiken's Landing,—thus avoiding the swarm of place-hunters that darkened the doors of the executive mansion. 
On Tuesday noon a tug-boat belonging to the navy was seen steaming up the James, regardless of torpedoes and obstructions. A mile below the city, where the water becomes shoal, President Lincoln, accompanied by Admiral Porter, Captain Adams of the navy, Captain Penrose of the army, and Lieutenant Clemens of the signal Corps, put off from the tug in a launch manned by twelve sailors, whose long, steady oar-strokes quickly carried the party to, the landing-place,—a square above Libby Prison. 
There was no committee of reception, no guard of honor, no grand display of troops, no assembling of an eager multitude to welcome him. 
He entered the city unheralded; six sailors, armed with carbines, stepped upon the shore, followed by the President, who held his little son by the hand, and Admiral Porter; the officers followed, and six more sailors brought up the rear. The writer of this article was there upon the spot, and, joining the party, became an observer of the memorable event. 
There were forty or fifty freedmen; who had been sole possessors of themselves for twenty-fours hours, at work on the bank of the canal, securing some floating timber, under the direction of a Lieutenant. Somehow they obtained the information that the man who was head and shoulders taller than all others around him, with features large and, irregular, with a mild eye and pleasant countenance, was President Lincoln.
"God bless you, Sah!" said one, taking off his cap, and bowing very low. 
"Hurrah! hurrah! President Linkum hab come!" was the shout which rang through the street. 
The Lieutenant found himself without a command. What cared those freedmen, fresh from the house of bondage, for floating timber or military commands? Their deliverer had come,—he who, next to the Lord Jesus, was their best friend! It was not an hurrah that they gave, but a wild, jubilant cry of inexpressible joy. 
They gathered round the President, ran ahead, hovered upon the flanks of the little company, and hung like a dark cloud upon the rear, Men, women and children joined the constantly increasing throng. They came from all the by streets, running in breathless baste, shouting and hallooing and dancing with delight. The men threw up their hats, the women waved their bonnets and handkerchiefs, clapped their hands, and sang, "Glory to God! glory! glory! glory!" rendering all the praise to God, who had heard their wailings in the past, their moanings for wives, husbands, children, and friends sold out of their sight, had given them freedom, and, after long years of waiting, had permitted them thus unexpectedly to behold the face of their great benefactor.
"I thank you, dear Jesus, that I behold President Linkum!" was the exclamation of a woman who stood upon the threshold of her humble home, and with streaming eyes and clasped hands gave thanks aloud to the Savior of men.
Another, more demonstrative in her joy, was jumping, and striking her hands with all her might, crying,—"Bless de Lord! Bless de Lord! Bless de Lord!" as if there could be no end of her thanksgiving.
The air rang with a tumultuous chorus of voices.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDERS OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER TILE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
The street became almost impassable on account of the increasing multitude. Soldiers were summoned to clear the way. How strange the event! The President of the United States he who had been hated, despised, maligned above all other men, living, to whom the vilest epithets had been applied by the people of Richmond-was walking their streets, receiving thanksgivings, blessings, and praises from thousands who hailed him as the ally of the Messiah! How bitter the reflections of that moment to some who beheld him! memory running back, perhaps, to that day in May, 1861, when Jefferson Davis, their President, entered the city—the pageant of that hour, his speech, his promise to smite the smite to drench the fields of Virginia with richer blood than that shed at Buena Vista! How that part of the promise had been kept!—how their sons, brothers, and friends had fallen!—how all else predicted had failed!—how the land had been filled with mourning! how the State had become a desolation!—how their property, their hoarded wealth, had disappeared! They had been invited to a gorgeous 
banquet; the fruit was fair to the eye, of golden hue and beautiful; but it had turned to ashes. They had been promised a place among the nations, a position of commanding influence and fame. Cotton was the king of kings, and England, France, and the whole civilized world bow in humble submission 
to his Majesty. That was the promise; but now their king was dethroned, their government overthrown, their President and his cabinet vagrants, driven from house and home to be wanderers upon the earth. They had been promised affluence, Richmond was to be the metropolis of the Confederacy, and Virginia the all powerful State of the new nation. How terrible the cheat! Their thousand-dollar bonds were not worth a penny. A million dollars would not purchase a dinner. Their money was valueless, their slaves were freemen, the heart on their city was eaten out. They had been cheated in everything. Those whom they had trusted had given them the unkindest cut of all,.—adding arson and robbery to their other crimes. Thus had they fallen from highest anticipation of bliss to deepest actual woe. The language of the Arch-Rebel of the universe, in " Paradise Lost," was most appropriate to them:—
"'Is this the region, this the soil, the dime,' 
Said then the lost Archangel, 'this the seat. 
That we must change for heaven, thu mournful gloom 
Far that celestial light?'"
Abraham Lincoln was walking their streets; and, worst of all, that plain, honest-hearted man was recognizing the "niggers" as human beings by returning their salutations! the walk was long, and the I President halted a moment to rest." May de good Lord bless you. President Linkum!" said an old negro, removing his hat, and bowing with tears of joy rolling down his cheeks. The President removed his own hat, and bowed in silence; but it was a bow which upset the forma, laws, customs, and ceremonies of centuries. It was a death-shock to chivalry, and a mortal wound to caste. Recognize a nigger! Faugh! A woman in an adjoining house beheld it, and turned from the scene in disgust There were men in the crowd who had daggers in their eyes: but the chosen assassin was not there, the hour for the damning work bad not come, and that great-hearted man passed on to the executive mansion of the late Confederacy 
Want of space compels us to pass over other scenes,—the visit of the President to the State louse,—the jubilant shouts of the crowd,—the rush of freedmen into the capitol grounds, where, till the appearance of their deliverer, they had never been permitted to enter.—the ride of the President through the streets,—his visit to Libby Prison,—the distribution of bead to the destitute,—the groups of heart-broken men amid the rains, who beheld naught bat rains,—a ruined city, a ruined State, a rained Confederacy, a rained people,—rained in hopes and expectations,—ruined for the past, the present, and the future,—without power, influence, or means of beginning life anew,—deceived, subjugated, humiliated.—poverty-stricken in everything. All that they had possessed was irretrievably lost, and they had nothing to show for it. All their heroism, valor, courage, hardship, suffering, expenditure of treasure, and sacrifice of blood had availed them nothing. There could be no comfort in their mourning, no alleviation to their sorrow.
Forgetting that Justice is the mightiest power of the universe, that Righteousness is eternal, and that anything snort of it is transitory, they planned a gorgeous edifice with slavery for its corner-stone; but suddenly, and in an hour, their superstructure Mad foundation crumbled. They grasped at dominion, and sank in perdition.—Atlantic Monthly.

CHARLES SUMNER'S EULOGY ON ABRA-HAM LILNCOLN.
Regretting that, in consequence of its great length and our limited space, we shall not be able to print the whole of the very able and eloquent eulogy on Abraham Lincoln, delivered in Music Hall before the Municipal Authorities of the City of Boston, Jane 1,1865, we give with pleasure the concluding portion of it:—
Such, fellow-citizens, is the Life and Character of Abraham Lincoln. You have discerned his simple beginnings:—have watched his early struggles;— have gratefully followed his consecration to those truths which our fathers declared; have hailed him as the twice-elected head of the Republic, through whom it was known in foreign lands; have recognized him at a period of national trial as the representative of the unfulfilled promises of our Fathers, even as Washington was the representative of National Independence; and you have beheld him struck down, at the moment of victory, when rebel Slavery was everywhere succumbing. Reverently we acknowledge the finger of the Almighty, and pray that all our trials may not fail; but that the promises of the Fathers may be fulfilled, so that all awn shall be equal before the law, and government shall stand only on the consent of the governed— two self-evident truths which the Republic announced at its birth 
Traitorous assassination struck him down. But do not be too vindictive in heart towards the poor atom that held the weapon. Reserve your rage for the responsible Power, which not content with assailing the life of the Republic by atrocious Rebellion, has outraged all laws human and divine; has organized Barbarism as a principle of conduct; has taken the lives of faithful Unionists at home; has prepared robbery and murder on the northern borders; has fired hotels, filled with women and children; has plotted to scatter infection and yellow fever; has starved American citizens, held as prisoners , has menaced assassination always; and now at last, true to itself, has assassinated our President: and this responsible Power is none other than Slavery. It is Slavery that has taken the life of oar beloved Chief Magistrate, and here is another triumph of its Barbarism On Slavery let vengeance fall care not what you do with the worms it employs; but do not—I entreat you—yield any indulgence to this murderous wickedness. Ravaillac, who took the life of Henry IV of France, was torn in pieces on the public square in front of the City Hall, by tour powerful horses, each one of them attached to one of his limbs, and tearing in opposite, directions, until at last, after a fearful straggle, nothing of the wretched assassin remained is the hands of the executioner, except hit empty shirt—which was at once handed over to be burned. Such should be oar vengeance; and let Slavery be the victim.
But not only Slavery, which is another name for property in own, but so also that other pretension, which is not less irrational, that Human Rights can depend on color. This is the shirt of the rain; and most be handed over to be burned.
Such a vengeance will be like a kiss of reconciliation; for it will remove every obstacle to peace and harmony. The people where Slavery once ruled will bleat the blow which destroyed it. The people where the kindred tyranny of Caste once ruled will rejoice that this too fell under the same blow. They will yet confess that it was dealt in no harshness to them, in no unkindness, in no desire to humiliate, but simply and solemnly, in the name of the Republic, and of Human Nature; for their good as well as ours; ay, for their good more than ours. 
It is by ideas that we hare conquered, more than by armies. The sword of the Archangel was less mighty than the mission which he bore from the Lord. But if the ideas which have given as the victory are now neglected; if the promises of the Declaration, which the Rebellion openly assailed, are still left unfulfilled, then will our blood and treasure have been lavished in vain. Alas! for the dead who have given themselves so bravely to their country; alas! for the living who have been left to mourn the dead;—if any relic of Slavery is allowed to continue; especially if this bloody impostor, defeated in the pretension of property is man, is allowed to perpetuate an Oligarchy of the skin!
<c02>
And how shall these ideas be saved? At this moment all turns on the colored suffrage in the rebel States. This is now the point of national safety. A mistake on this point is worse than the loss of a battle. And yet here again we encounter the Rebellion is all its odious pretensions, hardly less audacious than when it took up arms. Around its aspiring camp-fires already gather its old supporters with newly-taken oaths of allegiance on the lips, plotting how still to preserve their oligarchical power 
The argument for the colored suffrage is overwhelming. It springs from the necessity of the case, as well as from the rights of man. This suffrage is needed for the security of the colored people; for the stability of the local government; and for the strength of the Union. Without it there ia nothing but insecurity for the colored people, instability for the local government, and weakness for the Union, involving of course the national credit. Without it the Rebellion will break forth under a new alias, unarmed it may be, but with white votes to take possession of the local government and wield it at will, whether at home or in the national councils. If it be said that the colored people are unfit, then do I say that they are more fit than their recent masters' or even than many among the" poor whites." They have been loyal always, and who are you, that, under any pretence, exalt the prejudices of the disloyal above the rights of the loyal! Their suffrage is needed now more even than you ever needed their musquets or sabres. An English statesman, after the acknowledgement of the Spanish Colonies as Independent States, boasted that be had called a new world into existence to redress the balance of the, old. In similar spirit, we too must call a new ballot into existence in order to redress that tyranny which will not learn the duty of justice to the colored race. 
The same National authority that struck down Slavery must sue that this other pretension is not permitted to survive; nor can there be any doubt that the authority which struck down Slavery is competent to this kindred duty. Each is a part of that great policy of justice through which alone can peace be made permanent and immutable. Nor can the Republic shirk this remaining duty without leaving Emancipation unfinished, and the early promises of the Republic unfulfilled. Vain is the gift of Liberty if you surrender the rights of the freedman to be judged by the recent asserters of property in man. Burke, in his day, saw the flagrant inconsistency and denounced it, saying, that whatever such people did on this subject was arrant trifling," and notwithstanding its plausible form, always wanted what be aptly called " the executive principle. "These words of warning have been adopted and repeated by two later statesmen, George Canning and Henry Brougham; but they are so plain as not to need the support of names the infant most not be handed over to be suckled by the wolf, but carefully nursed by its parent; and since the Republic is the parent of Emancipation, the Republic must nurse the immortal infant into maturity and strength. It is the Republic that at the beginning took up this great work. The Republic must finish what it began; and it cannot on this occasion, if, in anxious care, it hold nothing done so long as anything remains undone. It is the Republic, which, with matchless energy, hurled forward it armies until it conquered. The Republic must exact that "security for the future," without which this unparalleled war will have been, waged in vain. It is the Republic which to-day, with one consenting voice, commemorates the murdered dead. The same Republic, prompt to honor him, must require that his promises to an oppressed race be maintained in all their integrity and completeness in letter and in spirit, so that the great cause for which be became a sacrifice may not fail. His martyrdom was a new pledge beyond any even in life. 
There can be no question here whether a State is in the Union or out of it. This is but a phrase on which discussion is useless. Look at the actual fact. Here all will agree. The old governments are vacated, and this is enough. Until the whole body of loyal people have set up a government, all is under the National authority, acting by the Executive or by Congress; and, since the Constitution, even without the injunction of the Declaration of Independence, knows nothing of color, it is the obvious duty of the national authority to protect the whole body of loyal people against any denial of rights on this pretension. Already it has undertaken to say that certain persons shall not vote. Surely the same authority which may limit the electoral law of Slavery may enlarge it. If the National authority can do anything about elections; if it can order an election; it can regulate an election; if it can exclude a traitor who is still at large, it can admit a loyalist, whose only incapacity is his skin. 
The colored suffrage is now a necessity. But beyond this, in making it an essential condition of the restoration of rebel States to the Union, we follow, first, the law of reason and nature, and secondly, the Constitution, not only in its text, but as interpreted by the Declaration. By reason and nature there can be no denial of rights on account of color; and we can do nothing which is thus irrational and unnatural. By the Constitution it is stipulated that the "United States shall guarantee to every State a republican form of government;" but the meaning of this guaranty must be found in the birth-day Declaration of the Republic, which is the controlling preamble of the Constitution. Beyond all question the United States, when called to enforce this guaranty, must insist on the Equality of all men before the late, and the consent of the governed. Such is the true idea of a Republican government according to American institutions. 
The slave-masters, driven from their first intrenchments, already occupy their inner defences. Property in man is abandoned; but they now insist that colored persons shall not enjoy equal political rights. Liberty has been won. The battle for equal rights is still pending. And now a new compromise is proposed, by which colored persons are to be sacrificed in the name of State flights. It is sad that it should be so. But I do not despair. The cause may be delayed; but it cannot be lost; and all who set themselves against it will be overborne; for it is the cause of Humanity. Not the rich and proud, but the poor and lowly, will be the favorites of an enfranchised Republic. The words of the prophet will be fulfilled; "and I will punish the people for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity, and I will cause the arrogance of the proud to cease, and I will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. I WILL MAKE A MAN MORE PRECIOUS THAN FINE GOLD, EVEN A MAN THAN THE GOLDEN WEDGE OF OPHIR."I catch these sublime promises and echo them back as the assurance of triumph. Then will the Republic be all that heart can desire or imagination can paint,—Supremely lovely and serenely great, Majestic mother of a free, happy and united people, with Slavery and all its tyranny beaten down under foot, so that no man shall call another master, and all shall be equal before the law. 
Fellow-citizens, your task is before you. Mourn not the dead, but rejoice in his life and example. Rejoice as you point to this child of the people who was lifted so high, that Republican Institutions became manifest in him. Rejoice that through him Emancipation was proclaimed. Above all see to it that his constant vow is performed, and that the promises of the Fathers are maintained, so that no person in the upright form of man can be shut out from their protection. Do this, and the Unity of the Republic will be fixed on a foundation that cannot fail the corner-stone of National Independence is already in its place, and on it is inscribed the name of George Washington. There is another stone which must have its place at the corner also. This is the great birth-day Declaration of the Republic, once a promise only, at last a reality. On this stone we will gratefully inscribe the name of ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
A SOUTHERN EXPRESSION. The assassination of Mr. Lincoln found a hearty and sympathetic echo in the Chattanooga Rebel, published at Selma, Ala., which thus announced the atrocious crime on the 20th ult:
"William H. Seward, the cold-blooded and heartless political miscreant, who guided the infernal policy which plunged as into this bloody and desolating war, has been arrested by an angry God in the midst of his iniquities, and has paid he penalty of his crimes at the hands of an unknown assassin 
Abe Lincoln, too, the political mountebank and professional joker, whom nature intended for the ring of a circus, but whom a strange streak of popular delusion elevated to the Presidency—he, also, has fallen. His career was as it was bloody and infamous. He has gone to answer before the bar of God for the innocent blood which be has permitted to be shed, and his efforts to enslave a free people "
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 9, 1865
The Editor of the Liberator is in Pennsylvania, attending the meetings of Progressive Friends at Longwood. He is to give an address, by request, at Newtown, Bucks, county, Pa., on Tuesday afternoon, June 13th.

SUMENER'S EULOGY ON ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
This admirable discourse, a small portion of which appears in preceding columns, of course attracted an audience to the full capacity of the Music Hal, leaving outside, of necessity, six times that number who would gladly have heard it. It spoke well, and honorably, and truly, and with great praise, and with just discrimination, of its illustrious subject. We now know more of Mr. Lincoln than we ever did before, though new facts in his life will yet be brought out by the labors of the historian But some things which before were obscure are now made plain; and some things which seemed discreditable to him now show, in the better light which time has cant upon them, as not only blameless, but honorable 
Among the good things said by Mr. Lincoln, which Mr. Sumner's discourse will bring to the memory of many, and the knowledge of more, were his emphatic utterances in his famous debate with Stephen A. Douglas, in regard to the Declaration or Independence. He first maintained in general the truths of its Preamble, saying—If this doctrine be not true, let us tear it out of the Declaration! Cries of no! being raised—"Let us stick to it then! Let us stand firmly by it then!"
When Mr. Douglas followed this speech with the objection that adherence to this doctrine by our fathers would have "conferred political rights and privileges on the negro, and elevated him to an equality with the white man," Mr. Lincoln said, in reply—" I adhere to the Declaration. If Judge Douglas and his friends are not willing to stand by it, let them come up and amend it. Let them make it read that all men are created equal except negroes" 
Words like these, Mr. Sumner well says, must be gratefully remembered.—C. K. W.

NEW ENGLAND A. S. CONVENTION.
At 10 o'clock, on Wednesday, May 31st, EDMUND QUINCY, Esq., called the meeting to order with the following remarks:— 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: In compliance with established custom, as President of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, I have the honor to initiate the organization of this Convention by calling it to order. The duty of calling the New England. A. S. Convention has always been entrusted to the Board of Managers of that Society, as well as that of making the necessary arrangements for it. When the question of issuing the call for this Convention came before that Board, I opposed and voted against the measure. Slavery being actually abolished everywhere excepting in Kentucky and Delaware, and virtually abolished there, and the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment by the requisite proportion of States being as certain as the continued existence of the Nation, it seemed to me that the holding of an Anti-Slavery Convention could be of no possible practical advantage, while its proceedings might be but too likely, judging from recent experiences, to reflect little credit on the glorious cause now swallowed up in victory. The Board of Managers, however, by a majority of one, voted to bold the meeting. The Society it represents, though it function is ended by the accomplishment of its object, having yet technical existence until its business affairs can be wound up, as its President I am here to perform the formal duty which has always attached to that office. That duty performed, my business here is at an end, as I do not propone being a member of the Convention. It is now for the Convention to take such measures as it sees fit to effect its organization.
This was the opening speech of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention. When the official report of it was ready for the printer, I brought it first, as a matter of course, to the Liberator, hoping that slips o it might be sent to the Standard, as heretofore, in time to appear there the present week. But, the Editor o the Liberator being absent, and having left no direction in regard to this report, and the outside of the paper being preoccupied with other matter, I sent the manuscript sheets at once to the Standard, requesting its Editor to send slips to Boston as soon as they could be prepared. These, for some reason, hare failed to come, and therefore no report, except of Mr Quincy's speech, kindly furnished by himself, can appear this week.—C. K. W.

EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
A friend from out of the city who attended the New England Anti-Slavery Convention writes as follows.
"The other day, at the Anti-Slavery meeting, I gave $1.to the cause, all I had to spare then, but 1 shall not be willing to let that go for all my subscription, so I add $4., trusting that you will see that it is put into the right hands The meetings were exceedingly interesting, and justified themselves. I felt the miss of Mr. Garrison's dear face and benignant presence, and it seems as if he must give his aid and hear to the work as ever. Certainly he will in some way But I had been much distressed at the signs of the times of late, and I must say I felt immense relief to hear the things said openly which politicians here and there [Washington] hardly dare to whisper. It is not for me to decide between two great powers of usefulness, and the secrets of the heart are sacred; but 1 feel as if the Society must go on working in a body call it by what name we please."

NEW ENGLAND FREEDMAN'S SOCIETY
Few more encouraging or better meetings have ever been held in this city, than the special meeting of this Society which was held on Thursday evening June 1st, in the Music Hall. Thronged in every part of the Hall, presided over by Judge Thomas Russel of this city, and addressed by Judge Bond of Baltimore, Judge Keller of Philadelphia, Rev. Andrew L Stone of Park Street Church, Brig. Gen. Fiske of Missouri, and Hon. Henry Wilson, all things seemed to conspire to make it an effective and successful meeting, and we think it may safely be said to have been so. 
Judge RESSELL, whose indefatigable labors in the Freedman's cause entitle him to the heartiest thanks of all anti-slavery men, delivered the opening address, fall of vigor and freshness a if he had been passing a day of rest, instead of giving a eulogy at Bridge water on President Lincoln. He presented the just claims of the freedman with great force, urging the weightiest reasons why no time should be lost in securing to him every right of a man and a citizen. 
Dr. STONE'S speech was in his usual warm and eloquent strain. He too presented the freedman's claim as a fellow-man, a fellow citizen, a fellow-patriot, and a fellow-Christian. He too entreated and admonished that we should recognize the colored man of the South in all these relations, and see to it that no right was with hidden from him, which pertains to any of these relations. Dr. Stone said that, when at Newbern, N. C, (some two years since,) he had charge of a school of six hundred black children, and there was not a single dull scholar among the whole 
Judge BOND, of Baltimore, who had made his first visit to Boston for the purpose of attending this meeting, and who was greeted with three hearty cheers from the whole assembly, took very high ground. He said he desired to disabuse the minds of the people of Boston, and of all Northern people, of the idea that
<c04>
slavery is dead, as some have affirmed. He declared with great emphasis that the virus of slavery still lurks in the entire social body of the Southern States, and that only vigorous measures can check, or expel it He urged, in the most unqualified terms, that die right of suffrage should be extended to the freedmen of the whole South. Judge Bond, if not exactly an eloquent, is a forcible speaker. His sturdy reasoning and his telling facts produced a marked impression on his audience; and we wish be would come and make himself heard in every county in New England His recent decision, in his own State of Maryland, by which over 180,000 colored children are taken from the custody of the " Orphan's Court," (so called, said Judge B., from its facility of making virtual orphans,) and restored to the care and charge of their parents,—thus overturning an old law, revived for the purpose of nullifying to far as possible the results of emancipation—entitles him to the character of a true philanthropist not less than of a wise and upright Judge. 
Mr. EDWARD KINSLEY sang with impressive clearness Mrs. Howe's beautiful lines, beginning—
"Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord,"—
Brig. Gen. FISKE of Missouri (formerly, we understood, a minister in the Methodist Episcopal Church) detailed many experiences during the war with the slaves of the South-western States. He had been deceived by them in only a solitary instance, (and that man, he said, was half-white,) while in multitudes of cases they had rendered him assistance, brought him information, and furnished guidance to his troops, of the most valuable and important nature. He bore very strong testimony to their capacity of learning, to their excellent disposition towards the people of the North, and to their reliability in whatever was needed of them in support of the cause of the Union. The idea of excluding them from the ballot-box, while admitting repentant rebels to use it, he scouted with the utmost scorn. If any are to be excluded, be said, keep out those white rebels who have fought the North so long, and whose oaths, taken at the last moment, may prove only a snare and a lie; but never think of excluding our real and best friends, the black men, whose attachment to the Union has never wavered, whose loyalty has stood the roost terrible tests, and whose bitter experience of the ills of slavery makes them the best defenders of the Union cause against the craft and iniquity of the defeated slaveholders. It is satisfactory to learn that Gen. Fiske has received the appointment of Commissioner of Freedmen in Kentucky and Tennessee, from Major Gen. Howard, Chief of the Freedmen's Bureau. 
Brig. Gen. WILD of Massachusetts, well-known as an early and devoted friend of the colored troops and of the emancipated slaves, was introduced to the audience and warmly received. He spoke but briefly. 
Hon. HENRY WILSON reiterated the assurances he has so often given of standing firmly for the equal rights of the colored men of the South. He replied briefly but forcibly to some sneering remarks concerning himself of the Springfield Republican, a paper always ready to imagine wrong of an abolitionist, am! To put obstructions in the way of equal and exact justice Mr. Wilson announced that he was preparing a Personal Liberty Bill, designed to protect in the fullest manner the rights and liberties of every citizen, of every race and color, throughout the country,—which he should offer at the earliest possible opportunity after the meeting of the next Congress. 
The meeting was deficient, it seemed to us, in one respect. It should have taken some action in regard to President Johnson's plan of reconstruction in North Carolina,—a plan which met with the general disapproval of all the speakers. A respectful but unqualified remonstrance to the President on the subject would undoubtedly have received a unanimous vote —which, coming from that vast and intelligent meeting, could not fail to do good. In omitting it, it seems to us a great opportunity was lost.—S.M., JR.
BOSTON, June 2, 1865 
DEAR MR. GARRISON—One of the best meetings ever held was the one last night at Music Hall. I was very sorry you were not in town. I missed you and Mr. Phillips from the platform. 
Four States were represented by noble men—Judge Bond, of Maryland, Gen. Fisk,of Missouri. Judge Kelley, of Penn., Rev. Mr. Stone, with Senator Wilson, Judge Russell, (the President,) and others of your own State; and all were in favor of the fullest equality not only for the Freedmen but for all in every State allied to them by complexion and condition .They demanded that the Bible, the Bayonet and the Ballot be put in their hands. They protested against suffrage for disloyal whites while it is denied to loyal blacks; and Gen. Fiske, who has conducted campaigns in several States, told us he never met but one treacherous negro. One speaker wanted the rebels put on probation for eight or ten years before they should be restored to full citizenship. Full equality before the law was demanded for the freedmen; and it was resolved that Freedmen's Aid Societies should work for free suffrage, and, therefore, deal out justice instead of charity. 
There was one earnest solemn protest in the meeting against reconstruction on any other basis but by the whole people. The most radical and comprehensive demands were made, and cheered and responded to enthusiastically by the great audience filling floor and galleries. 
The expression was as thoroughly in favor of complete justice, and was as full of sympathy, as that of the Anti-Slavery Society the day before yesterday and went far to justify your opinion that public sentiment has overtaken us. But I remember this is the enlightened and patriotic city of Boston, and we expect much of her. Yet a noble and intellectual colored woman told me yesterday, that colored people are excluded from restaurants and other places even here. We must all work, (as said the speakers) with energy, and make negro suffrage the constant aim, and see how much can be accomplished before December. 
Senator Wilson pledged himself never to sanction President Johnson's plan of reconstruction. 
Could George Thompson have taken part in the exercises on this national day, it would have been very gratifying to me.
Yours, 
CATHARINE A. F. STEBBINS.

CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The annual meeting of the American Church Anti-Slavery Society was held in this city, as by appointment, Wednesday evening the 31st, at the Summer Street Chapel. A letter was presented, tendering his resignation as President from Rev J. Webster, late of Hopkinton, now removed to Wheaton College, Ill. The resignation was not accepted, and the old board of officers was reflected, with the substitution of two new names from this city on the executive committee. The following Resolutions, submitted by the Secretary, Rev. Henry T. Cheever, were discussed and adopted. 
Resolved, I, That at this the seventh annual meeting, of a Society designed to be the exponent of the Christian Church in regard to the sin of American slavery and the care of its victims, we naturally turn to its origin with a Convention of Christian Brethren in the city of Worcester, united in a deep conviction of the inherent sinfulness of slaveholding, and that the Churches of Christ in our laud, of every denomination, should be arrayed against it as the organic and lowering iniquity of the nation, in order that the ' Word of the Lord may have free coarse and be glorified '; and in order that the nation itself perish, not by the terrible cancer has already made such an inroad upon its constitution." 
II. That we humbly bow to the sovereignty of the Supreme Ruler, who has not chosen the peaceful agency of His people, but the scourge of a wasteful civil war, to bring an end to a system of enormities,
<c05>
which bade defiance to every regulation which ingenuity could devise or power effect, but a TOTAL EXTINCTION. 
III. That white We deem the foul system of American slavery as virtually ended, our duty as a Society by no means done, nor its mission ended, until the word white is erased from all State Constitutions and Statutes of legislation, nor until the loyal negro, everywhere, is intrusted with the ballot as the acknowledged right of American citizenship, and his own special protection against the rancorous hate and intolerance of his late disloyal oppressors. 
IV. That among the events which have crowded the year calling for devout gratitude on the part of Christian abolitionists, none is more significant than the admission to the bar of the U. S. Supreme Court at Washington of a representative of the race, in regard to which history was infamously suborned to testify hi that very Court but a few years ago, that they had no rights which white mea were bound to respect. 
V. That in the person of the colored advocate, John .S. Rock, of Massachusetts, before the U. S. Supreme Court, Chief Justice Taney's impious decision that negroes could not be held as citizens of the United Stales has been virtually reveked. And the judicial crime of such a decision having now been expiated in he baptism of blood through which the nation has since passed, it may now be hoped that Divine Justice will be satisfied; and that the first Representative of the colored race before the National Tribunal of Justice will prove a ROCK not of offence but of defence to the freedom of his race, the liberties of his country, and the rights of manhood. 
VI. Resolved finally, That we stand in solemn and adoring awe of Almighty God, who has suffered the late expiring act of slavery, (while patting a nation to grief for the honored dead,) to reveal to the world its own inherent baseness as well as that of the malignant rebellion naturally born of it, and its just desert of the felon's doom. And we do now but express the plain requisition of Christianity, as well as the only safe policy for the nation, in requiring from Our National Government the exaction of the right of suffrage for the entire body of loyal freedmen, in all the States lately in rebellion; so that there may be secured to the people of those States a Republican form of government, and THE EQUALITY OF ALL MEN BEFORE THE LAW.

ANTI-TOBACCO SOCIETY
The American Anti-Tobacco Society held its annual meeting on Monday evening, Mar 29tn, in the Meionaon, in this city. Rev. Dr. Beckwith offered prayer, Rev. Mr. Trask presented the Annual Report, which, in twenty specifications or more, showed a decided progress in this Reform. Short and spirited speeches were made by Hon. Amasa Walker, Rev. Messrs. Davis, Hay ward, Terry, Stone, and Angler, also by Dr. Cornell, and by two or three gentlemen of the editorial corps. The meeting was a decided success. The following letter from Mr. Garrison was loudly applauded:—
BOSTON, May 27, 1865. 
DEAR MR. TRASK—Though my engagements are such as will prevent my being at your Anti-Tobacco meeting next week, yet I beg you to be assured that, from the time you commenced your labors to drive the use of that noxious weed and injurious narcotic from society till now, you have had my hearty sympathy and best wishes. I have admired your perseverance, tact, fidelity, moral courage, good sense, and manifest disinterestedness; and am as sure that you have not labored in vain as I am that
"Though seed lie buried long in dost, 
It shan't deceive the hope." 
not withstanding the results, as yet, not appear very encouraging. "Whether they will hear or whether they will forbear," yea, even though it is certain that they will not hear," yet " thou shall speak all my words unto them," is the message from Heaven to every reformer, and every witness in the cause of purity and righteousness. That message you have faithfully heeded, neither intimidated by the ridicule of scoffers, nor disheartened by the indifference of those who ought to have given you the cheering word and the helping hand. 
I have read your handsomely printed and skilfully prepared tracts with great interest and satisfaction, and wish they might be put into the hands of every one addicted to the use of tobacco in any form. Yet, so inveterate is the habit when established, but few of this class, whether snuffers, chewers or smokers, can probably be reclaimed; and, therefore, it is even more important that your testimonies, facts and appeals, of this subject, should be read and pondered by those who have not yet defiled themselves, but are liable to be led astray by an all-prevailing vicious custom.
It is a constant source of surprise and regret to me to find many, who claim to be in the ranks of reform and progress, and who are really doing good service in their special field of labor, completely enslaved to the hurtful and disgusting use of tobacco; to that all appeals to them on the score of consistency, virtue and exemplary conduct are utterly in vain. This is to be palpably deficient in symmetry of character, and certainly impairs their moral influence while professing to be anxious for the redemption of a groaning world. They are the least excusable of all who give themselves up to the control of so reprehensible a habit 
Desiring to be put down in the catalogue of those who regard the common use of tobacco as offensive to purity and an intolerable nuisance, I remain, 
Yours, to "taste not, touch not, handle not" the unclean thing, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON
Rev. GEORGE TRASK.

FROM SOUTH CAROLINA.
Extract of a letter from an officer of the 55th Regiment Massachusetts Colored Vols., dated ORANGEBURG, S. C. May 30t:—
"Every effort is now being made by the military authorities here to induce the freedmen to remain upon the plantations, and contracts are now being made between them and their former masters, the latter promising to pay them with a portion of the crop raised, and to clothe and feed them the planters have so many, and this is the best they can do. They are very anxious that the freedom shall be induced to remain upon their plantations, and seem willing in all cases that I have heard of to enter into contracts with them. So far the system has worked very well and planters are coming in from twenty to thirty miles round, begging Gen. Hartwell to send officers to their various localities to make contracts between them and the freedmen, and to induce the latter to remain. The fact is, that if the freedmen are not induced to remain generally in the plantations, starvation is likely to ensue to both them and the planters, and this both parties are beginning to understand. I have not heard of any guerillas being about is this region since I have been here. Officers of this regiment have been already twenty and thirty miles away from camp into the country, and in no eases have they been molested or threatened. We have one regiment stationed at Columbia, the 25th Ohio. The rebellion is completely played outs, and no where more so than in South Carolina. All the disturbances that I have beard of have been between returned rebel soldiers and citizens who have stayed at borne, and dodged going to the war. The feeling between these parties is represented as being very bitter. A fight took place between a party of them some days ago, not far from here, in which ten or twelve were killed, I am told. The paroled rebel soldiers have not met with a very hospitable reception from the people they have for four years been fighting for. Society here to not in a very enviable state just now."
There is said to be no truth In the reports, either that Secretary Stanton will resign, or that there is an alienation of feeling between him and President Johnson.
<c06>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO XXXV.
NEW YORK, June 1, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Perhaps we shall never see the time when the autocratic strength of our Government will be as palpably exerted as it is now, beneath the vigorous hand of our new President. Four year, of desperate straining at first for life and afterward for mastery, have taught the Administration the resources of a free democracy and its own capacity to employ them effectively in the most critical case that ever a nation survived. Military operations have suddenly ceased, but peace awaits the punishment of the conspirators, and all that splendid machinery which has saved the Republic to itself and the world still runs at the 
Capital, not only without derangement because the engineer has been changed, but (with respect to the great departed, be it said) more powerfully than before.
True, that in a time of comparative quiet When our armies are disbanding and civil order begins to dawn, the ponderous levers which, when the good
ship labored heavily in the through of the sea, seemed scarcely sufficient to preserve her headway, now appear of startling magnitude and extraordinary energy. Yet this impression might not have been so vivid had Mr. Lincoln lived. It is plain that Mr. Johnson is a much more positive character than this predecessor, has his conclusions already formed, does not try the public sense before pronouncing his own, does not repel advice, but does not court it, and acts with remarkable celerity in whatever he undertakes. He has made the past for night memorable in our political history by several bold procedures upon which few persons will care to pass judgment in gross. 
All loyal men approve of the measures being taken to bring the chiefs of the rebellion to justice, and especially that miserable felon whose dungeon thoughts at Fortress Monroe, so near the scene of his temporary elevation among the magnates of the earth, were punishment enough for his blood guilty-soul, if he alone were the object of punishment. The popular desire will be satisfied, whether Jefferson Davis be hung for treason or assassination: he may depart this life by the door or the window, so he quit it finally and forever. But for example's sake he cannot be allowed to grace the same scaffold with Payne and At zerodt ,—perhaps I ought to say disgrace it, remembering that the principal in a crime is wickeder than a tool, and that the murder of one man or half-dozen is a venial offence compared with the contrivance of a rebellion which was the mother of this and infinitely greater atrocities. Davis must be tried for treason, therefore, and what a cloud of witnesses will rise against him! Trial of such a man can only be a mockery: the charge cannot be doubted or denied, no mitigation can be pleaded, and the path from cell to gibbet is as straight as it is broad. You may start a thousand times from Jefferson Davis and you will invariably arrive at a rope's end.
The Amnesty of the 29th of May,1865, is better for them than that of Dec.8th 1863, thanks, certainly, to John Wilkes Booth. The peril of the original proclamation lay pre-eminently in the omission of any date when it is terms should cease to be available, and it would have been difficult, if not impossible for Mr. Lincoln to have withdrawn a pledge which he had volunteered without limitation in time. His successor unquestionably has the power to revoke the former offer, wherever it has not been accepted, or, having been accepted, has not been met in good faith upon the prescribed conditions. It would be unreasonable to insist that he should be hambered with a legacy which is repugnant to him, nor does the memory of the martyr require this sacrifice. The welfare of the nation is the paramount consideration. Judged in this light, the Amnesty of President Johnson is highly satisfactory. Wide as are its exclusions, they might still be extended without wrong, through possibly neither policy nor necessity would urge this extension. Where Mr. Lincoln was firm, Mr. Johnson is equally so-upon the question of abolition; where the former was weak, the latter is stanch-—upon the question of confiscation. Mr. Johnson's experience as a poor white was of great value in acquainting him, with the bulwark of aristocratic dominion at the South. He strikes at the vast estates of the slaveholders, knowing that, stripped of negroes and lands, these despots
are as powerless as the Pope's Encyclical; and he has rightly proportioned the penalty of treason to wealth the and rank of its abettors. 
As for reconstruction in Virginia and North Carolina, I wish I could commend the President's course without reservation. He appears to be affiliated with
a haste which is too common, to restore the subjugated States to their integrity in the Union. For one ,I do not feel over-anxious that they should return today when I am sure they would be better prepared to next week, and better still next month or next year. The motive is, I doubt not, to settle the disturbed and anarchic affairs of each state for the immediate relief of the inhabitants. Unless I err, however, the result will not correspond with the intention, in as much we have first to create (or at least distinguish) the 
elements of reconstruction, before we can hope to use them to the advantage of any population or class .Mr. Johnson adopts what has been styled the territorial
theory, in so for as he declares the people in the several seceded States far to have been deprived by the rebellion of all civil government, and appoints provisional Governors for them. But these functionaries are civil instead of military, and cannot direct, but simply call upon, the forces of the United States to assist them in the maintenance of order-—an arrangement which is likely to destroy the efficiency of each regime, even if it should not bring them in to conflict, ,as has so frequently been observed daring the during the war. If we can trust reports, the recent election in Virginia has swept into power the disloyal portion of the community, who will remove, if possible, all restrictions upon the franchise of rebels, impose every burden upon the freedom, and perhaps assert the claims of the Confederate Dept. Better returns may be looked for in North Carolina, though there the citizenship of the blacks is equally ignored. The new President has committed the error of the old in ascribing to the Constitution of a State an immortality which no revolution the most profound can affect. He forgets that only under such Constitutions and laws as have existed at the South could the rebellions rebellion have been suggested, planned or executed; and, admitting the territorial reduction of each state, his duty was encourage the people to form for them selves was to encourage the people to form for themselves new charters as if the old had new never been. Then there had been no to need to refer to the latter in order to determine the qualifications of voters, for the United States Government having described and excluded would have been an imposer from the polls the disloyal, the question of color would have been an impertinence for those who remained. The Executive correctly assumes it his duty to guarantee each State a republican form of government. The trouble is, that his notion of this form is imperfect, and that he is not shocked by the most monstrous class-legislation, provided this be the sovereign pleasure of any member of the Union. He goes part way in the definition by announcing the incompatibility of slavery, but there he stops, and with him the progress of the nation toward the repose of justice. The refusal of negro suffrage does not seem to proceed from the President, fear of public opinion for it is difficult to point to a single newspaper of any influence any which attempts to controvert or oppose the right of the colored man to vote. The fallacy consists, I think, in the idea that a state may determine citizenship for itself, albeit in contravention of the plainest principles of the Republic at large. This is merely the State Rights doctrine in a not very novel garb, and it is too bad that it should pass current at That the White House when the Herald, the World and the Observer confess the impossibility of disfranchising the blacks on any just ground, and when from all quarters of the land an earnest voice is raised against this iniquity—notably, too, from the religious bodies, like the General Assembly of New School Presbyterians, whose session has just closed in Brooklyn.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
There is excellent stuff in Gen. Sherman for a coup d' etat, but, favorite as he is both of army and of people, there is none of them, neither one man nor eight millions, as he himself has proved, can lightly overturn the structure of our government. When a General therefore boasts in a personal quarrel between himself and the Secretary of War, that he can protect his own honor, and that, with a hundred thousand admiring and invincible soldiers at his command, he will not be insulted or trifled with, he is only to be laughed at. He blunders in accusing the War, Department of suppressing his reports, when it was Gen, Grant who had considerately withheld them for, Sherman's sober second thought. They now are published, but they fail to vindicate the convention with Johnston. The General does not see the unanimity of the press against him was not inspired by the personal enmity of Mr. Stanton, but betokened the national disapproval of his own unwarranted intermeddling with the business of Government. As for the publicity of which he complains so bitterly, he himself is to blame. The Government had determined to keep his action a secret, and to reverse it as secretly, when le! the General informs his troops without reserve that he has concluded peace from Maine to the Rio Grande. Of course, the Government was obliged to show its own position, and the reasons for assuming it. The people said amen, and that is what posterity will echo. M. DU PAYS.
P. S. In my last letter, I wrote, "the inevitable Nemesis," but your types changed it into a "miserable" avenger!

UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE IN CALCUTTA.
70 WARREN AVENUE, BOSTON, June 2, 1865.
MY DEAR MR.  GARRISON-You are among those who know how great was the surprise with which, upon the publication of "Woman's Right to Labor," at the beginning of 1860, I received the stream of letters, full of welcome and congratulation, from all parts of the world, which flowed in upon me. The first edition of the book was immediately exhausted; and I, who had published the chapter upon " Death or Dishonor" against the persuasions of every friend I had, who had been rebuffed by clergymen, rebuked by literati, and who found myself compelled to secure a proper audience of indisputable dignity and weight of character for that particular lecture by personal appeal, found myself mysteriously popular. So far from the statement being true, that the book was before the age, I found it actually behind it; and there was not a correspondent who did not wonder why I had not pursued the subject into more of its legitimate channels. I was too much exhausted by the previous struggle, by the intense feeling of loneliness in which I had given birth to my thoughts, to be cheered by this unexpected sympathy. But as time has worn on, I have been surprised to find that the interest in the work does not diminish, and that, after five years from the date of publication, I continue to have letters almost monthly, from entire strangers, who show in substantial ways that their interest is real.
During the past winter, I have received from Bengal handsome subscriptions to my publishing fund from the Rajah of Burden and the widowed princess Surnomoye. I confess, I was half tempted to send these heathenish royal letters, with their pendant seals from two of the most conspicuous idolaters in the world, for you to print; but if I had done so, I must have written a volume of biography before your readers would have understood their significance. Last week, however, my husband enclosed to me a letter and a subscription from an entirely different source, and mingled motives lead me to ask its publication in your columns. The lady who writes it is a sister of a gentleman very lately, if not still, the Christian of the Calcutta Board of Trade. Any feeling of delicacy toward her is restrained by the fact, that she will never see your paper, and by her acknowledged willingness to do me any service in her power.
As to what is personal to myself in the letter, I feel as unconscious of it as if it were written about some one else. "I am nothing, Douglas is nothing, but the truth is everything," said our late beloved Chief Magistrate. As to the vessel in which the previous waters are held, it matters little whether it be a goblet of chased silver or an earthen pipkin. Its duty is merely to keep itself sound and clean, asking no questions.
You will perceive that Miss Knight objects to the titles of my books. She cannot object to them more than I do. I late the sound of the words," Woman's Eights"; but I had no choice except to use those words, or be guilty of the basest cowardice. Before I had ever pleaded in this cause, many persons, educated and uneducated, from Wendell Phillips to Abby Folsom, had pleaded for the same substantial rights. They had endured for its sake obloquy and dishonor. The steadfastness with which it was urged had already begun to make it respected, when I summed up in my books the results of seventy years of labor. The very first time I ever spoke in public, Abby Kelly Foster said to me," You will walk in satin slippers, where we have gone with bleeding feet"-and I knew that this was partly true. If my feet bled, they would at least be hidden from the public view, nor would they leave a crimson track upon the freshly fallen snow for boys to hoot at. It was for me to share the ignominy of the banner, which her enemies had unfurled, and do what I could to bring victory to the flag; nor do I think much would be gained by yielding to prejudice too strong to look beneath an obnoxious name.
I am not one to seek circumlocution in any way, else you might print this letter as if it were your own wish; but, with the simple directness that becomes me, I ask you to print it, that it may bear unconscious witness for me. If any one reads it, and does not know why I have printed it, I shall be happier than I think. If any one reads it, and conjectures my motive, I shall be more than justified in his eyes. Meanwhile, I am, Yours, faithfully,
CAROLINE H. DALL.
CALCUTTA, April 6, 1865.
DEAR MRS. DALL-You are accustomed I do not doubt, to receive letters from strangers in all parts of the world; so you will not be surprised, and I hope not displeased, at having another from Calcutta.
Mr. Dall has perhaps mentioned to you that a little family, named Knight, have recently taken part in his morning meetings. My brother, Mr. Knight has long known and admired Mr. Dall; but it is only within the last ten months that Mrs. Knight and I have enjoyed his personal acquaintance, which none can prize more than we do. Among other benefits conferred upon us by Mr. Dall, he has introduced us to your books, which have much interested us; and, when I expressed to him the pleasure I had derived from the perusal of them, he was kind enough to say that it would gratify you, if I would write and tell you myself how fully I appreciate the effort you are making to raise our sex in their own estimation and that of others, and to urge the full recognition and employment of the powers with which our Maker has so abundantly blessed us.
I am not surprised at the opposition that Mr. Dall tells us you have met with, in the expression of your views, as it appears to be a generally received opinion that men are superior to women. I have met eyes with some foolish girls so impressed with it, as to wish that they were men; and some persons, I know, have a notion that there will be no difference of sex in heaven, but that in that state of perfection all will be men! You are doing a real service to mankind in trying to remove this idea from the minds of women especially; and so leading them to value and use faithfully the talents entrusted to them. Will you allow me to suggest a slight modification in the titles of your books? One is "Woman's Right to labor," and another is "Woman's Rights under the law.” Now, those who hold similar opinions to your own, will willingly read and have their opinions strengthened and increased; but we would like others to read them, who do not recognize woman's rights, and these may be and are deterred by titles.
<c02>
One friend, who was greatly pleased with your lecture on "Sunshine," refused the loan of the others; for, he said, "I do not believe in Woman's rights." It sometimes seems necessary to beguile people from old stereotyped modes of thought, while an antagonistic title may deter them from reading anything at variance with their views.
We sympathies both with you and Mr. Dall in your compelled separation, and hope, for your sakes, that the time may not be far distant when Mr. Dall may be able to join you in America. But his absence would be felt very much here, not only in his own school, in which he takes so much trouble and interest, but by many who have known his thoughtful kindness in following the example of Him who went about doing good. We were much interested in your lecture on "Sunshine." It is one of the blessings so much neglected in this country, partly on account of its abundance; as the injurious effect of our undue exposure to its rays makes people afraid of it and, not content with a proper amount of caution they go to the extreme of excluding even the light from their dwellings.
To this, among other imprudent measures, may be-attributed much of what is called the unhealthiness of this climate. Such a lecture, simplified and adapted to the capacities of the natives, might do good-for they live in most wretched hovels, where there can be no free access either for air or sunshine; and any one who could convince them of the benefit a free use of these would confer upon the health of both mind and body, would fulfil a very important mission.
One or two other points my sister and I would like to have remarked upon, but I will reserve them for a future opportunity, as I do not wish to encroach further on the room Mr. Dall has kindly offered me in his envelope.
With kind regards from my sister, brother and myself, I remain,
Yours, sincerely, 
MARGARET E. KNIGHT.

EXPRESSION OF SYMPATHY.
5 GRAY STREET, EDINBURGH, April 28,1865.
MY DEAR FRIEND-
I cannot let the first mail go without sending a few lines to express our very affectionate sympathy with you all in the terrible blow that has befallen you, and our indignation at the dastardly deed that has picked off the man who seemed so very important to the well-being of your country at the present time, just as we were full of rejoicing and hope in the prospect of Peace accompanied by Freedom, justice and magnanimity, and were thankful for the mind displayed by the President on this matter, he is suddenly and violently taken away in a cruel and cowardly manner which calls for the reprobation of the whole nation and the whole world. The sensation produced here when the news was first telegraphed was as if a thunderbolt had fallen upon us; the whole nation was roused to horror and indignation, and suddenly all who had spoken disparagingly of your worthy, honest, faithful President had their eyes opened to see his excellence, and to praise him. I hope you will have many expressions of our national feelings. We are all intensely anxious for the next news; there are so many points of danger he conspiracy seems so wide-spread that we know not who may be marked or who may fall-and then the negotiations are at a stand, and what may take place to frustrate the issues we were hoping for? And then poor President Johnson, we are so sorry for the exhibition he made at his inauguration as Vice President; some of us believe he had taken drugged wine, but why take wine at all? I hope he will avoid it now, in the solemn circumstances in which he is called to act. We were glad to see he had made a favorable impression on assuming the Presidency. His anti-slavery speeches had always interested us while he was Governor of Tennessee, and give us hope of him. I think he may be enabled to fill his position creditably and well; at all events, my dear friend, we know that " the Most High ruleth in the kingdoms of men," and we know that He who raised up and educated Abraham Lincoln for the work he had to do, can raise up another instrument, or can by His own right arm work out his own purposes unaided by human instrumentalities. Thy faith has never failed thee, and it will not fail thee now. He to whom thou hast given praise in the progress gained hitherto will sustain thee and all thy co-workers now in these very trying and terrible dispensations, and will yet bring forth judgment unto victory.
We heard a rumor, a short time since, that thou wast likely to visit England this summer. Surely, I need not tell thee how very pleasant it would be to see once more thy face in the flesh. My mother sends her dear love; she hopes thou will make our house thy home, as in times past. Although there is a great change here, I think we know of no change of interest in the good cause, or its faithful upholders. Dear Elizabeth Pease Nichol, too, will be glad to welcome thee to Edinburgh. We had looked to this with much brightness, but now there is a sadness over all from this new distress that has fallen upon you. My mother sends her dear love and sympathy, and unites with me in anxious longing for your deliverance.
With very affectionate remembrance I remain
Thine very sincerely,
ELIZA WIGHAM.
We have most reluctantly abandoned the purpose we have cherished of visiting our beloved English friends and co-workers the present summer, but trust we may enjoy that privilege sometime during the next year-[Ed. Lib.

LETTER OF CONGRATULATION.
BRUNSWICK, (Me.) May, 8 1865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON-I have not cumbered the columns of the Liberator for a long time, feeling no necessary call thereto; neither now is it necessary to take up your valuable time or occupy the columns of your well-filled paper with my communications. But, in this hour of chastened joy-this day of sad and solemn rejoicing-it is hard to repress the expression of sympathy in the glorious result of your long, and patient, and faithful, and untiring labors.
Ever since the first time I met with you, and made your acquaintance at Waterville, Me., in 1832, I have been an outspoken anti-slavery man, whether in slave-holding Virginia and Kentucky, or in half slaveholding New Jersey-my native State-or in the servile States called Free because they held no chattel slaves within their borders; and ever since the year 1842, I have been a straight-out, radical, Garrisonian abolitionist, not ashamed to advocate the equal rights of human beings, regardless of country, clime, complexion or condition.
O, how I envy you and your companions at Charleston the glorious privilege of being able to stand on the soil of that once insolent but now prostrate oligarchy, and look upon the sable thousands of the redeemed, shouting hallelujahs!
It was with the profoundest emotion that I read the address made to you by the freedman Dickerson, and your response; and I said to myself, lo! such are the men that the white savages of the South have held in that accursed bondage, now, we hope, forever broken!
But, much as I rejoice with you, and much as I would have rejoiced to have been permitted, not merely to read of, but to see the vision which was vouchsafed to you; much as I rejoice that you could speak all your hatred of slavery and all your love of freedom in South Carolina, with Henry Wilson uttering his manly sayings by your side-yet it is not in the free utterances of Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips, or of Henry Wilson and Charles Sumner, that we perceive the deepest significance; but in the speeches of such men as Judge Kelley and Hon. Joseph Holt, claiming citizenship for the black race as the only security and safety for liberty in the future, that we perceive with most distinctness the signs of
<c03>
the times. Surely, those who have labored during the seed-time and the summer shall reap the harvest of their hopes.
The sadness and gloom which have fallen on the nation in the death of our Chief Magistrate is of the deepest significance. It was a fitting culmination of the malignity of the Slave Power, and the natural expression of baffled revenge. 
Dying a natural death, Abraham Lincoln's demise, though felt as a national affliction, would have created but little more sensation than the decease of Harrison and Taylor; but what stirs the blood of the whole people is,
"The deep damnation of his taking off."
It has taught us what, otherwise, we could not so well have known, that every man and woman in the nation that is not a rebel loved Abraham Lincoln.
Abraham Lincoln was a most fortunate man-in his death as in his life. Called to lead the nation through the red sea and the wilderness of this rebellion -successful even when seeming the reverse-he passed through all the vicissitudes and difficulties of his high position until he laid his hand upon success. In the hour of victorious strength, in the very culmination of his triumph, before he had time to commit an error, he was called away; and in a manner that could not possibly fail to fire the heart of the nation with renewed determination that when the work yet remaining is finished-it shall be finished! 
D. S. GRANDIN.

TO THE MEMBERS OF THE WESTERN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
DEAR FRIENDS:-As the Western Anti-Slavery Society has in fact ceased to exist, in consequence of its failure for four years past to hold its accustomed annual meetings, it is due to you that the Executive Committee to whom you intrusted its affairs at the last Annual meeting, held in Salem, September 22d, 1860, should report to you the state of its affairs and the disposition made by them of the property of the Society. At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held in Salem on the 16th of April last, the undersigned were appointed a committee to make such a statement, and also make such disposition of any unappropriated funds remaining in the Treasury as should be deemed most conducive to the object for which the Society existed and has labored.
It is fitting that we sorrowfully preface our statement by reference to the fact, that since the last meeting of the Society we have been called to mourn the loss by death of three members of the committee appointed on that occasion; Benjamin S. Jones, J. Smith Baird and James Barnaby; and to this catalogue of bereavements we add the name of Benjamin Bown, for a time president of the Society, and for many years, though not at his death, a member of the Executive Committee, always active and reliable. These were men whose laborious, self-denying, faithful service in behalf of liberty you knew and now thankfully remember as their crown of glory. Especially was the Society indebted to Benj. S. Jones for his years of arduous labor, devoted to the slave, as a public lecturer and as editor of its paper, the Anti-Slavery Bugle.
For several months immediately after the last annual meeting of the Society Mrs. A. K. Foster remained in Ohio and gave herself with her marvelous devotion and energy to the promotion of the work of the Society, especially to an effort to place the Anti-Slavery Bugle on a substantial and living basis. In this she had the cooperation of the Executive Committee. The effort was unsuccessful. Its failure produced the conviction in the minds of a part of the committee that with the small number of subscribers remaining to the paper, and our inability materially to increase the number, its continued publication was not the wisest and best method for the expenditure of the money and labors of the Society. Thus matters continued till the slaveholders commenced the war and the nation girded itself for the conflict of arms. Then the committee became united in the opinion that in this hurricane of human passions it was impossible with any means at their disposal, to sustain the paper or to prosecute ordinary anti-slavery work. A devoted friend did, indeed, liberally proffer to make good all deficiencies in the expense of publication for six months, but the committee, believing there was no prospect of sustaining the paper after that period, except by similar individual liberality, and in view of the small number of subscribers and its consequent limited influence in connection with the popular excitement, and the changed state of affairs in the nation, voted to discontinue the paper and to transfer the subscription list to the Anti Slavery Standard, with the condition that the Standard should be furnished to the prepaid subscribers to the Buyle to the amount of the Society's indebtedness to them. This measure was faithfully carried out as we believe to the satisfaction of all interested. The paper was accordingly discontinued. Its last number was issued on the 4th of May, after near sixteen years of publication.
The press and type were subsequently sold at a fair price; and the tent owned by the Society, and under which so many grand Conventions had assembled and deliberated, now too much worn to be valuable for its former uses, was cut up, and the material sold. From the sale we realized one hundred dollars, exclusive of twenty dollars' worth of the canvass, which was sent to the Freedmen in Mississippi, where it was most welcome and useful.
The Treasurer's books show, that at the time of the last annual report, September, 1860, there was a balance of cash on hand of $225 64. Since then, he has received from all sources, subscriptions to Bugle, donations, collections, and sale of tent and printing materials, $1603 98, making the total of $1829 62. He has paid out during that period $1796 30, leaving a balance in his hands of $33 32.
This balance has been appropriated, and will be immediately paid over to the Western Branch of the Freedmen's Union, which is now making special efforts to secure the franchise for the Freedmen as well as otherwise to aid them in their social and moral improvement.
The payments by the Treasurer, mostly in payment of debts of the Society, to the printer, editor and publishing agent of the Bugle, though some expenditures were made to aid the late movement for the Constitutional Amendment, prohibiting slavery, and for travelling expenses of delegates to meetings of American A. S. Society.
All the money received has thus been appropriated. There are, however, claims held by the Society against individuals, amounting to $260 45, a part of which can probably be collected. The Executive Committee have instructed the undersigned, if possible, to make these collections, and, as soon as made, appropriate them in such method as they shall think best calculated to aid the freedmen, or help to strike the chain from any slaves left in the land. 
Thus, though the work of emancipation is not technically and wholly accomplished, yet our Society, without formality or even intention, but by the combination of events, has really passed away; but not till the over throw of slavery, the object of its labors, is so far effected, and public sentiment so far regenerated, that the old Abolitionists can, if they judge best, without sacrifice of principle, join with the Government and newly organized associations of the people for the completion of their work. Or if they can still most efficiently work with the old American Society, its "Standard" is still alert, and waves them on.
The Abolitionists have the satisfaction of seeing millions of men and women for whom they labored made free. They know and the world acknowledges that they made fitting and necessary contributions to this end. This is true, though emancipation came not as they desired and sought, under the auspices, of truth and peace and love; but came in a manner they sought, by every expedient to avert, with the clang of arms, the horrid desolations of war and its rivers of human blood. From their first organized effort in Ohio in 1833 to the present time, Abolitionists here have stood the uncompromising, unsubjugated 
<co4>
and unyielding friends of the slave. Their warnings, rebukes and entreaties fell upon the ear of a nation deaf as an adder, and besotted in its purpose to continue in crime. But their words were not in vain, though the world so believed, and mocked that they continued to utter them. By their indomitable perseverance they contributed their allotted part towards the national education, thus making salvation possible, if not by moral means as they proposed, yet by the convulsions of war. What in our earnestness of will but feebleness of means we sought to do, this miracle of war hath wrought, and the work is now being made perfect.
Still our work is needed. The voice of freedom and justice yet is, "Speak to the children of Israel that they go forward " until human chattelism is legally extinct and impossible everywhere in the land; till the work of emancipation is perfected by the equal citizenship of all.
JOEL MCMILLAN,
JOHN GORDON, Committee,
M. R. ROBINSON,
Salem, Ohio, May 22, 1865.

THE DEATH OF MR. LINCOLN.
FRIEND GARRISON-I have been a citizen of the United States almost sixty years, and the first and only vote I ever cast was for Abraham Lincoln, last 8th November. I loved the man and I cannot but mourn his death; and yet I rejoice-rejoice much. The Slave Power has "struck once again," and required of us a still further "atonement of blood." It was meant for evil, but God meant it for good; and praised be his name! This is our second "Fort Sumter." The first united the North and prepared us for a war which must come. This was necessary to fit us for and unite as in a wise and safe "reconstruction." We thank God for the gift of his Son as a Savior from sin. May we not thank him for all our martyred national Saviors, our John Brown, and now our Lincoln? Mr. Lincoln did much in his life I think, like Samson, his death-the manner of it-will do as much. The nation had come to its last and really most dangerous crisis, and the majority was not prepared to pass it safely, wisely, and justly to the cause of freedom. I am told, by one who knows, that at the time Mr. Lincoln met the commissioners at Fortress Monroe, the Powers over us were ready to pay the slaveholders some hundred millions for their slaves. That had passed, as they would not then return on those conditions of compromise. But, one week ago, it looked more than probable that the rebel leaders would be entirely forgiven, and so in a condition to return to the Congress at Washington. This would have worked terrible evil. I think the danger of it is passed. I think the people and our rulers will now unite on a more thorough remedy; and Europe will justify and approve.
Too much mercy towards such savages will never do. Mr. Lincoln's heart was too large to deal with such men. Even Mr. Greeley was urging him on to extreme mercy. As to the question of any extreme penalties on the Southern leaders, I cannot say what is wise; but less than to disfranchise them will not do. Their large landed estates must, in some way, be divided-the negro must be on a level it the white man as to voting-the States must not be hurried back into the Union, nor till we are sure they will be just to their former slaves. These four points must be regarded in the "reconstruction." Less will leave a political fever sore, which twenty years will not heal if it ever should heal. I have great hopes that this last terrible affair will open our eyes more clearly. Mr. Johnson is a Southern loyalist, and I hope he will see the necessities of the case. We shall see-I am encouraged.
Yours,
AUSTIN KENT.
East Stockholm, N. Y.

EXCURSION TO CHARLESTON.
NEW HARTFORD, (N. Y.) May 9, 2865.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON-I have read with the greatest satisfaction the newspaper accounts of the excursion to Charleston and its many interesting incidents. But nothing interested me so much, or affected me so deeply, as your own connection with the affair. I thought that no conqueror-no, not even Grant-could enjoy so high, so soul-satisfying a triumph as yourself, while, as you ought, you give to God all the honor and all the praise.
When I saw you and heard you at the grave of Calhoun, how vividly did my memory recall the record of thirty five years during which I have watched with intense interest your combat (often-times almost alone) with the Apollyon of Slavery!
God be praised that now you, even in your life-time are vindicated; that thousands who once thought they were doing God-service in opposing you, are now, like Saul of Tarsus, sincerely favoring the gospel they once sought to overthrow. Perhaps it does not matter much how long you may enjoy this triumph here; nevertheless, it is natural to wish it might be many years. Perhaps your work is not yet nearly done. There is much rubbish to be removed before the temple of Freedom can be reared in all its beauty and glory, where slavery's foul rites were to recently performed.
Hence I differ with you in respect to the dissolution of the American Anti-Slavery Society. True, slavery is overthrown, but its natural fruits remain. It is not enough that the gardener removes the old stalk of a burdock; he must watch for and exterminate the germinating seed of the old enemy. The full fruit of the great struggle cannot be secured till full citizenship is accorded to the black man. Here is a great work.
But I will not occupy more of your time.
You know my friend T. D. Weld. He is now living near you. If you see him, remember me.
Truly, your friend, SAMUEL WEBB.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.

PLACES WANTED.
CAMP NELSON, May 16, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY DEAR SIR-I address you in behalf of the colored women and children in Kentucky. No one ever appealed to you in vain for the poor and down-trodden. As Superintendent of Freedmen in this camp, I have more than two thousand colored women and children under my charge. Kentucky madly thrusts them out, and the question forces itself upon us, where shall they go? At present they are supported by the government; but, of course, this must be temporary. Can you devise any plans for securing homes for any of them in Massachusetts? Good house servants, cooks, chambermaids-or help of almost any class-can be had. If an agent would come here, I will furnish him with as many as he might want of those who are anxious and willing to go. As a Massachusetts man, I have told them of this refuge for the poor bondman. Let me hear from you.
Yours for humanity, T. E. HALL,
Supt. of Freedmen, Camp Nelson, Kentucky,

THE FREEDMEN AND THEIR LANDS. The following circular has just been issued by General Howard, Chief of the Freedmen's Bureau, and approved by the Secretary of War, who orders all military authorities to sustain and aid the several State commissioners in the execution of its provisons:-
"Whereas, a large amount of land in the State of Virginia, and in other States that have been in insurrection, has been abandoned by disloyal owners, and is now being cultivated by freedmen; "and whereas, the owners of such lands are attempting to obtain possession of them and thus deprive the freedmen of the fruits of their industry; it is ordered that all the abandoned lands in the State, now under cultivation by the freedmen, be retained in their possession until the crops now growing shall be secured for their benefit, unless full compensation be made for their labor and its products and for expenditures. 
The above order will not be construed so as to relieve disloyal persons from the consequences of their disloyalty, and the application for the restoration of their land by this class of persons will in no case be entertained by any military authority."
<c05>
GENERAL GRANTS CONGRATULATORY ADDRESS TO THE ARMIES.
WASHINGTON, June 4th. Gen. Grant has issued the following Congratulatory, Address, to the Armies:
WAR DEPARTMENTY, ADJT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,}
WASHINGTON, June 2, 1865.}
GENERAL ORDERS NO. 108:
Soldiers of the Armies of the United States-By your patriotic devotion to your country in the hour of danger and alarm, your magnificent fighting, bravery and endurance, you have maintained the supremacy of the Union and the Constitution, overthrown all armed opposition to the enforcement of the laws and of the proclamations forever abolishing slavery, the cause and pretext of the rebellion, and opened the way to the rightful authorities to restore order and inaugurate peace on a permanent and enduring basis on every foot of American soil.
Your marches, sieges and battles, in distance, duration, resolution and brilliancy of result dim the lustre of the world's past military achievements, and will be the patriot's, precedent in defence of liberty and right in all time to come.
In obedience to your country's call you left your homes and families and volunteered in its defence. Victory has crowned your valor and secured the purpose of your patriotic hearts, and with the gratitude of your countrymen and the highest honors a great and free nation can accord, you will soon be permitted to return to your homes and families, conscious of having discharged the highest duty of American citizens. 
To achieve the glorious triumphs and to secure to yourselves, your fellow-countrymen and posterity the blessings of free institutions, tens of thousands of your gallant comrades have fallen and sealed the priceless legacy with their lives. The graves of these a grateful nation bedews with tears, honors their memories, and will ever cherish and suppor	t their stricken families. 
(Signed) U. S. GRANT, Lient-General.

FROM NORTH CAROLINA. Newbern (N. C.) advices of the 31st ult, state that the result of the judicial investigation at Toronto, showing that the yellow fever there last summer, which carried off some 2000 citizens, was introduced by the infamous Dr. Blackburn, caused a natural horror.
The people of the State are fast becoming reconciled to the free labor system, and like the change, There is a strong attachment between masters and slaves, and they seek each other, making satisfactory terms for labor.
Newbern (N. C.) dates of the 2d inst. say the universal suffrage question excites great interest, the people being divided only as to the time when the negro should vote.
The removal of the trade restrictions causes much rejoicing, and new life has been given to business. Newbern promises to be very healthy this summer.

FROM SOUTH CAROLINA-ARREST OF GOV. MC-GRATH. New York 4th. The Herald's Charleston correspondent reports the arrest of Gov. McGrath at Columbia on the 27th ult., for high treason. He was taken to Hilton Head, and would soon be sent North for trial, He surrendered himself quickly to Lieut Beck, who was sent to him. Wade Hampton escaped, and his whereabouts is unknown.
The Charleston Courier published a circular from Gen. Hatch advising planters to make contracts with freedmen, and saying that infirm negroes must be supported in their respective districts.
The Courier says Governor Magrath was arrested by a Lieut, and two soldiers, and taken to Charleston.

THE CHICAGO SANITARY FAIR. On Tuesday last the great Fair at Chicago, for which preparations have been in progress for several months past, was opened with imposing ceremonies. The day was fine and there was an immense, turn out of citizens and visitors from the surrounding districts. A grand military and civic procession ushered in the ceremonies of the day. The Fair is held in Union Hall, a building constructed for the purpose, four hundred feet long, and which was designed and decorated so as to produce the most picturesque and gorgeous effect. The hall was opened at five o'clock, and after prayer by the Rev. Dr. Woodbridge of Massachusetts, T. Buchanan Read recited an inaugural ode; and the choir sang an original hymn, composed for the occasion by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Governor Oglesby delivered the address. The wife of Gen. Sherman has a stall in the fair.

DISCOVERY OF A SUSPICIOUS LETTER. Washington, 3d. The Star says that a paper in cipher, found floating at Morehead City, N. C., on the 21 of May, has been turned over to the Government officials. It has been literally translated and is as follows:
WASHINGTON, April 15, 1865.
DEAR JOHN: I am happy to inform you that Pet has done his work well. He is safe, and Old Abe is in hell now. Sir, all eyes are on you; you must bring Sherman. Grant is in the hands of Old Gary. Red Sheers showed a lack of nerve in Seward's case, but he fell back in good order. Johnson must come; Old Crook has him in charge. Mind well that brother's oath, and you will have no difficulty. All will be safe and enjoy the fruits of our labor.
(Signed) O. B.
VICTOR HUGO TO AMERICA, The following eloquent passage occurs in Victor Hugo's letter to the American minister at London:-
"The thunder-bolt which has broken on Washington has shattered the world. Darknesses of this kind occur in history. After the dawn the night. But the American people is a colossus of bronze. Traitors can scratch it, but they know not how to destroy it. If liberty should fall in America, there would be a shipwreck in humanity.”
ARREST OF A SUPPOSED CONSPIRATOR. A man who registered his name as W. D. Beers has been arrested at a hotel in Buffalo, on suspicion of being an accomplice of Booth, on account of a card with the following writing thereon being found near the door of his room. The handwriting was that of Beers:
"'E. C. Delhi: As Booth is dead and Davis caught, there is but little hope for the Circle. God must have prevented our plans from being executed. If Surratt had not failed our plans would have been carried out, Virginia regained, and our cause saved. All is lost.
P. S. You failed. If I live I will expose you. Surratt should die. I wish to live; but I think we are all surrounded and will be caught.' "

COLORED PERSONS IN MASSACHUSETTS. The late Massachusetts Legislature passed an act "forbidding unjust discrimination on account of color or race," as follows:
Sec. 1. No distinction, discrimination, or restriction on account of color or race, shall be lawful in any licensed inn, in any public place of amusement, public conveyance, or public meeting in this Commonwealth.
Sec. 2. Any person offending against the provisions of the act shall be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty dollars.
The General Assembly of the New School branch of the Presbyterian Church, now in session in Brooklyn, voted unanimously on Saturday morning to recommend granting the right of suffrage to the negroes of the South. The discussion was spirited, and, after the announcement of the vote, the assembly arose and united in singing "My country, ‘tis of thee." The scene was very impressive.
A resolution was introduced in both branches of the Kentucky Legislature on Wednesday to reconsider that rejecting the Constitutional Amendment abolishing Slavery, but was refused permission to be entered. The vote, however, showed a large accessesion of strength to the ranks of its friends.
NEW YORK, June 7. The Herald's Columbia (S. C.) correspondent says the chivalry of that State are rapidly accommodating themselves to the altered condition of affairs, and acknowledging the power of the national government to maintain its authority.
Gen. Halleck has issued an order directing clergymen and magistrates to encourage marriages between negroes, and to prevent, as far as possible, the commerce of that class as man and wife where the matrimonial rites have not been solemnized.
Quite an interesting negro school celebration took place in Richmond on Monday last. The exercises consisted of singing, prayer, addresses by several Boston teachers present, and an examination of the pupils, who were in high spirits.
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN. In a Convocation of the University of Cambridge, England, held recently, it was resolved that a letter, under the University seal, should be despatched to the United States Minister, expressive of sympathy and condolence at this event.
A Pelham man was ridden on a rail at Enfield a few days ago for insulting a contraband because he had joined a military company. He finally got down on his knees and asked the negro's forgiveness.
John Mitchel is said to be editor of the New York Daily News. The record of John Mitchel is that he was a rebel in Ireland, and a supporter of rebellion in America.
The National Fast, on the 1st, was very well observed throughout the country. In this city the ceremonies were very effective, and due regard was paid to the solemn occasion. Mr. Sumner's Eulogy on President Lincoln is one of his noblest efforts.
Miss Delia Webster, the well-known anti-slavery advocate, was burnt out on her farm in Trimble County, Ky., May 28.
<c06>
DEATH OF MRS. LUCRETIA FLAGGE MAY. The tidings yesterday of the departure of this estimable woman, wife of Rev. Samuel J. May, came with a weight of sadness to many sorrowing hearts. For twenty years, the term of her residence in our city, her life has been like a blessing to all with whom she came in contact in her daily walks among us. Endowed with the highest order of natural gifts, joined to culture which the best education could impart, she was fitted to adorn the most refused circles in social life. Yet she was retiring and sensitive, almost to a fault, and always seeking for opportunities to do good to others. She was truly, a "mother in Israel." The poor who came to her dwelling went out from it laden with blessings. The young men and the young women who came within the circle of her influence will remember her as the wise counsellor, the genial sharer in their youthful hopes and joys, the tender sympathizer in all their sorrows.
Few possessed such power to charm in conversation. Her mind was like a well stored library of richest thoughts, and young and old hung with delight around her in the social circle. It was in the domestic and quiet walks of life that she revealed the wealth of her mental power, and the loveliness of her character. There she reigned supreme,
“A perfect WOMAN, nobly plann'd
To warn, to comfort, and command,
And yet a Spirit still and bright,
With something of an Angel's light."
For some few years past Mrs. May has suffered from sickness which to enfeebled her bodily powers, that she has seldom mingled in society. Those who have visited her at her home, have still been delighted with her genial conversation. Her presence was like a sunshine. Her death, although not entirely unexpected, was sudden, and will be felt severely by her family and sorrowing friends. We cannot in our brief notice attempt to do justice to a character as lovely as that possessed by Mrs. May. That task, should be left to some one of the many, who have known her long and well. For truly of her may be said,
“None knew her, but to love her,"
“None named her, but to praise.”
-Syracuse Standard.

THE DEATH OF MRS. MAY. Our citizens will hear with infinite regret of the sudden death of the wife of the Rev. Samuel J. May. For a long period an all most permanent state of ill-health had compelled her to forego, in a great measure, the enjoyment of society, but in the earlier years of her residence in this city her kindness of heart and affable manners endeared her to a large circle of friends. On the first of June, had she lived to that day, she would have completed the fortieth year of her married life. To her husband, whose lofty philanthropy and noble efforts in the cause of humanity have gained him a high fame not only in this country but abroad, the sympathies of his fellow-citizens of Syracuse will be generously extended.-Syracuse Journal.

THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published in New York, July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First. The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Second. A more careful, accurate and moderate discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical, and constitutional questions, than is possible in the daily press.
Third. Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
Fourth. The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the colored race at the south, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them, and the rest of the population, and the bestowal on them, as far as education, security and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fifth. The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they constitute, as at present, a large, ignorant, and degraded class.
Sixth. The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.

MARRIED-In this city, June 6, by Rev. J. M. Manning, EZRA H. HEYWOOD, of Princeton, to ANGELA F. TILTON, of Worcester.
Same day, at Florence Street Church, by the Rev. Dr. Randall, LORENZO D. NEWELL, of New York, to ANNA M. TILTON, of Boston.

DIED-In Millbury, 3d of March, ABIJAH ALLEN, a true friend of universal freedom. In the darkest days of the Anti-Slavery struggle he espoused the cause of the down-trodden slave and oppressed colored race in our midst. He became an early subscriber to the Liberator, and continued through all its fiery ordeal a firm and unflinching friend to the great principles he found therein enunciated. Through an honest purpose to follow the true light, wherever it led, he won the respect of all his acquaintance.

THEODORE PARKER'S
"LIFE THOUGHTS,"
HIS MOST POPULAR WORK!
"Lessons from the World of Matter and the World of Man."
BY THEODORE PARKER.
Selected from Notes of Unpublished Sermons, by RUFUS LEIGHTON.
Just published-420 pages, tinted paper and illustrated title, with portrait-an ELEGANT OCTAVO VOLUME.
PRICE $2 50.
Copies sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price.
CHARLES W. SLACK,
Publisher, No. 8 Bromfield St., Boston.
May 19. 3t.

DR. Ayer's Cathartic Pills
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and excel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering follow-man.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our Americans Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:-
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO , Lowell, Mass, and sold by all druggists.
June 2 2m

WANTED,
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady. Good references can be given. Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass.
June 9.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
DE PROFUNDIS.
Stricken to earth, a stunned and sorrowing nation,
We lift our eyes, O Father, to thy throne;
Dashed from our pinnacle of exaltation, 
In this dark hour we turn to Thee alone.
Vain is the help of man; our strong staff broken,
Our trusted leader's lofty head laid low,
Earth's last and saddest words above him spoken,
Whither but unto Thee, Lord, can we go?
Our chosen guide, to whom all eyes were turning,
Ordained of God to set his people free,
Whose priceless worth each day our souls were learning,
Fallen in the very hour of victory.
Fallen on the borders of the Land of Promise,
Our Moses, suffered not to enter in;
Our best-beloved, our chieftain, taken from us
In stern requital of our people's sin.
Alas! on many a field of expiation,
Thousands of precious lives have been laid down 
In costly sacrifice; a weeping nation,
For four long years we have worn sorrow's crown.
And thou hast strengthened us; thou, Lord, hast given
Power to do and to endure for thee;
But now from heart and arm all might seems riven;—
Was there no victim would suffice but he?
Upon the altar by thine own hand builded
Must this last precious offering be laid?
No treasure from the mine, no tribute gilded,
But as with our own hearts' best life-blood made?
Look on our grief! Thou at a stroke hast taken
Our leader from us—while our sky was bright
With triumph's sunny hue, thy hand has shaken
Out of the firmament our orb of light.
And we—we sit in darkness—true hearts clinging
About him as they never clung before,
Are crushed, and silenced now the glad prayer winging
Daily to thee, "God bless him evermore!"
Yet, ‘mid our tears, we own that thou hast blessed him,
Taking him where no grief can e'er invade,
Far from the many cares that have oppressed him;—
With him ‘tis well, but we are sore afraid.
Cast us not off! We know thy hand sustaineth,
And thy eye pitieth all who trust in thee,
And "the Lord God omnipotent still reigneth"—
Unto the shelter of thy love we flee R. A. R.
DEATH AT THE SUMMIT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN,"MORTUUS PRO PATRIAM," APRIL 14, 1865.
To every man Horatius said—
Death cometh soon or falleth late;
But only he the blow should dread
Who begs, not dares, his fate.
To every man some post is given,
Where honors point, or duties call;
And if his doom is writ of heaven,
'Tis there that he should fall.
No matter if the battle-shout
Drowns the last lingering sob of breath,
Or woman's feeble wail moans out
Round some hushed bed of death.
No matter if the strong hand hold
That moment grasp of duty's helm,
Or of soft joys the limbs enfold,
Or midnight slumber whelm.
No matter—so the path is clear;
No matter—so the will is strong;
No matter if the doom is near,
Or waits and tarries long.
To die in God's time is gain,
Whether He takes, in loving peace—
Or murderous stroke of hand and brain
Makes quick and sad surcease.
But, oh! to die with labors done—
That labor what the whole world willed,
Or with the goal so nearly won,
All hold the task fulfilled—
To have gained a victor's glorious wreath,
Then crowned it with a sapphire star
Of a great mercy's trust and faith,
Brightening the worlds afar—
To know the midnight gone at last,
To see the day break clear and calm,
To know that o'er the black vales past
The morning breathes its balm—
To stand upon the mountain's top,
Such toil just closed at such an hour,
And cloudward, whence God's blessings drop,
Hear man's sweep up with power—
And then and there to die! To rest!
Marbled in fame-embalmed in good!
The past (once doubted) praised and blest,
The future understood—
No heat and burden of to-day
Stretching its vista on before—
Th' immortals seizing mortal clay,
As Moses once they bore—
Death at the summit this! Not death—
A happy apotheosis
That men might seek with praying breath
A thousand years, and miss!
And when ye hunt his murderers down—
Men who his mantle humbly bear—
And blast them with the nation's frown,
And limb from carcass tear—
Do it because the nation's pride
And God's quick justice this demand—
That never more the regicide
May lift his trembling hand.
But do it not in hot revenge
For one unsuffering by the blow,
Who at the summit found a change
That only God can know.
And when ye shroud your halls in gloom,
And raise the prayer and drop the tear,
And bear him to his Western tomb,
A nation round his bier,
Weep for the country, if ye must—
For manhood, murder-stained and dim;
But dwarf not judgment, truth and trust,
By shedding tears for him. HENRY MORFORD.
PRO PATRIA MORI.
While, flushing every gladdened street,
The sudden flower of Victory blew,
And answering drums with jubilant beat
Throbbed out a Nation's joy anew:
Along the land a fiery breath
Ran, blackening all our bannered bloom, 
And, smitten by the blast of Death,
Our paeans sank in wailing gloom.
What word may suit the treacherous blow
That struck, through Man's, at Freedom's life?
The hand that wrought our common woe
Held, for his Country's heart, the knife;
But sun and moon and stars shall fail,
And darken from the glittering sky,
Before a traitor's touch shall pale
Our glorious gem of Liberty!
O, dwell not on the funeral shroud
Of him whose loss we mourn to-day?
Think, rather, that a passing cloud
Has wrapt him from our sight away.
As fleeting mists a moment dim
The splendors of the heavenly spheres,
Between our longing gaze and him
There falls a rain of sudden tears.
Too great, too good for death to claim,
He liveth to the Nation yet;
With Washington's, his honored name
In Freedom's starry flag is set.
Our dear and martyred President!
Earth's proudest epitaph shall be
Engraven one thy monument:-
He crushed the curse of slavery! KATE PUTNAM
<c02>
The Liberator.
SABBATISM IN SCOTLAND.
In some numbers of the Glasgow Herald (April 12th and days following) is contained the record of one of those ecclesiastical movements for the enforcement of Sabbatical observance upon the community, which come up from time to time alike in England, Scotland and this country. 
In the present case, the "Free Synod of Glasgow and Ayr" was the aggressive body. Its first business was hearing the report of a previously appointed Committee "On Sabbath Observance." The Committee had confined their attention to "only a few of the more grievous encroachments on the Sabbath," namely, the Sunday shop-traffic of Glasgow, (estimated to amount to 3,000 cases,) the running of Sunday omnibuses in Glasgow, and between that city and Paisley, the Sunday trips of a single steamboat on the Clyde, and the running of Sunday trains by the North British Railway Company. These things showed, in the judgment of the Committee, first, "a bold and systematic attempt to set at defiance the opinion of the majority," and next, "a reckless disregard of those Bible principles by which," &c., &c. The report suggested the following remedial measures:—First, a remonstrance from the Synod to the Directors of the North British Railway; second, a remonstrating deputation to the Magistrates of Glasgow; third, a recommendation that Presbyteries within the bounds of the Synod hold conferences and take action on the subject; and fourth, a remonstrance to the House of Commons against "the opening of the Royal Botanical Gardens of Edinburgh after the hours of divine service on Sabbath."
The report was actively debated, chiefly by Rev. Drs. Gibson and Buchanan. The former heartily approved the suggestions made, but would have wished other offences included, namely, Sunday labor in the Post Office and in newspaper offices, and also "the assaults made upon faithful ministers doing their duty in reference to the Fourth Commandment." The latter thought it "a very unhappy thing that Church Courts, in dealing with this subject, should be held up as if they were really imposing some oppressive yoke and burden upon the community." He declared the central and vital question to be this- "Is there a Sabbath or no?" He proceeded to make the astonishing assertion, in direct conflict with both the Old and the New Testaments, that—"there is no Sabbath outside of the Christian Church; there never was, and there never was, and there never will be a Sabbath outside of the Christian Church"; and then (assuming that there is a divinely appointed Christian Sabbath) he went on to say-" If God has made Christian ministers the conservators of that Sabbath, candid men must admit that that is a question which those who bear rule in the Church must deal with." 
A certain moderate and limited dissent from the spirit of these proceedings appeared in the debate. Statements were made in vindication of the necessities and rights of newspaper offices, and it appeared that among the clergy themselves there was a difference of opinion about the needful kind, or degree, of Sabbatical observance. Dr. Gibson was sorry to say that "there are ministers of the Gospel in this city (hear, hear) who come forward, and boldly exhort and encourage the people to walk on the Sabbath." (Hear, hear.) Mr. Somerville said that "what weighed most heavily on his heart was that persons clothed with the office of the ministry had come forward in this city, and made statements that he feared it would take a great deal to efface." Nevertheless, the Synod unanimously adopted the report, and proceeded to put in train the several measures recommended in it. 
Comments upon these debates and proceedings were made in subsequent numbers of the Glasgow Herald, first, by a reporter, in a light and easy style, and with a free use of the argumentum ad hominem, really very much as Burns might have written on the same subject, and afterwards in two serious editorial articles, vindicating the press, gently touching upon marks of weakness or ignorance in the speeches of the advocates of Sabbatism, quoting Calvin and Luther in opposition to them, and pointing out the very extensive interference with the industries and habits of civilized society (including the habits of the families of the Reverend gentlemen themselves) which a consistent carrying out of their line of proceedings would involve.
Both these methods of treating the matter in question are legitimate, and to a certain extent effective. But they both make the great mistake (in my judgment) of leaving the enemy's citadel untouched. A mistake the more unfortunate, since that citadel is wholly incapable of defence, maintains its appearance of strength only through the impudent false pretences of its garrison, and can be carried, by the resolute assault of intelligent men, at any moment. Nay, the Editor makes a still worse mistake, in admitting these impudent false pretences to be true and just. To Dr. Buchanan's test question—" Is there a Sabbath or no?" he mistakenly answers-"Of course nobody replies in the negative." But to reply in the negative is precisely what he ought to have done; what everybody ought to do who is approached, in the nineteenth certury of the Christian era, with the assumption that God requires of Christians any Sabbatical observance, especially any observance of the Fourth Commandment Sabbath of the Hebrew decalogue.
The question proposed by Dr. Buchanan is in fact the proper, the central, the vital question, upon the answer to which this whole matter turns "Is there a Sabbath or no?" Of course, the Doctor means to ask—Is there a day appointed by God to be observed by Christians, by Gentiles, by all men, as a Sabbath? The proper answer to this question is—No! There is not a particle of evidence showing that God has appointed such a day. And as to the Bible, not only does it contain no such command, or recommendation, or specification, but the very contrary is made manifest by those portions both of the Old and New Testaments which speak of a Sabbath.
A very few words will give the key by which any one who chooses to turn to the Bible for evidence may assure himself of the truth of the above assertions. 
While the children of Israel were making their long journey through the wilderness, Moses appointed a certain day (the seventh day of the week, now called Saturday,) to be observed as a Sabbath, literaly a rest-day, by them, the sole duty of which consisted in refraining from travel and bodily labor. This, he told them, was a command of Jehovah, their God, and their faithful observance of it was to be "a sign between Him and them," serving, like the Hebrew circumcision, to mark and perpetuate the distinction between them and other nations. Shortly after, when they had arrived at Mount Sinai, the same command, involving the same duty and no other, (and imposing it upon the same people and no other,) was solemnly incorporated with the portion of the Hebrew law called the Ten Commandments. And the Hebrews, in obedience to that law, still observe Saturday as a Sabbath by refraining from bodily labor and travel.
This was (and is) a Jewish law. By all means let the Jews obey it until they consent to receive a better. But what says the Christian law, recorded in the New Testament, in regard to this matter of a Sabbath?
It says that for Christian converts from Judaism the Jewish law (including the law of Sabbath observance, not only in general, but by specification,) is abrogated. Gentiles, of course, never having been under the Jewish law, had never had a Sabbath required of them. And the Christian law, which became, alike to converts from Judaism and paganism, the supreme code contained no requisition whatever for the observance of any Sabbath whatever.
Here is the whole matter in a nutshell The. Jews observe Saturday as a Sabbath, being required to do so by their Mosaic, law. Let them do so while they remain Jews. The members of various churches observe Sunday as a Sabbath, being required to do so by
<c03>
their church laws. Let them do so while they think it well to remain members of such churches. But God has never required anybody to observe Sunday as a Sabbath, and whoever represents Him as doing so should be required to prove his assertion by Scripture evidence, and in failure of that to retract his claim. He cannot prove it, because Jesus and Paul teach the opposite doctrine both by words and deeds. If on debating the matter with this evidence before him he will not retract the claim, he should be treated as an impostor, speaking falsely in the name of God, and impudently trying to impose a yoke of bondage upon God's children.
As the misrepresentations of the clergy of various churches have grievously misled the people in regard to the doctrine of a Sabbath, it may be well to point out some of the treatises which have made this matter clear and plain, by the testimony of Scripture, reason and history.
Our Scotch friends have within their reach (I presume) the most thorough and exhaustive work ever written upon this subject, namely, an octavo volume written by Robert Cox, and published at Edinburgh in 1853 by Maclachlan and Stewart, entitled—" Sabbath Laws and Sabbath Duties, considered in relation to their natural and Scriptural grounds, and to the principles of Religious Liberty."
Two works in this country, in shorter space, give a thorough demonstration on the same point. One is a tract of twenty-three pages, called "The Sabbath," by the late Rev. Henry Grew of Philadelphia; the other is a duodecimo volume, published also in Philadelphia, in 1853, by A. Hart, and written by William B. Taylor, called— "The Obligation of the Sabbath." 
Each of these works makes the truth plain beyond controversy that the Old Testament requires no Sabbatical observance of anybody but Jews, and that the New Testament requires no Sabbatical observance whatever.
The Christian rule is plain, as any one may see by studying the Christian records in the New Testament. Certain churches choose to require of their members, in addition to the Christian rule, an observance of Sunday as a Sabbath. Very well, let those members follow their own sectarian rules as strictly as they please; but when they attempt to impose those rules upon others, not members, and above all, when they represent those rules as proceeding from God, and having binding force over all men, let them be plainly told that they are practising a cheat, a gross imposition upon the community.—c. K. W.
SPARE THE MALEFACTORS! 
There is no need of taking the life of any man for anything done during this rebellion, nor now at its close; there is no argument for such a course, but every argument is directly opposed to it. The rebellion has failed, its cause has been blotted out, and those two facts effectually take care of all requirements. Had the war of the Revolution failed, though Britain probably would have hung Washington, every American now sees that it would have been a stain on Albion forever; and what Britain might not have done seventy-five years ago, much more America may not do now. The Southern doctrine of "State rights," religiously held since’98, the delusion of the sacred right of revolution, and the fact of attempted secession throughout nearly half of the Union, we may well accept in bar of claims to the infliction of punishment. We can decree the disqualification of those who precipitated, and those who have led, the rebellion, ever to hold civil office, and, if need be, confiscate their lands for the benefit of the freedmen; but let all else be done with the view of winning back our brethren with whom we have been at strife. Not for such inhuman treatment of our poor prisoners, nor such cold-blooded massacre of our colored troops, let us assume to punish any; for the world and history will yet avenge us, and do justice to the truth. The North has always been a party to the "peculiar institution" along with the South, and may magnanimously accept the consequences of the slavery she has herself helped to foster, satisfied that such a system never could expire without in its death-throes upheaving all things. The North has all this for her punishment; the South all that for hers—and now let both be quits. Henceforth, for both, publish universal amnesty and eternal reconciliation! 
And the conspirators now on trial for the murder of the dear President, let them live. Their deed was in the interest of the rebellion, and was part of it—let it share the same fate. Booth’s well dead; let these others, if found guilty, be confined as dangerous men, but harm not the life of one of them. Harm them not, in honor of that glorious Martyr whom the nation has already honored almost as a God, transporting his remains across a continent in one universal procession of mourners, his funeral pageant a triumphant march such as history never knew, cities and States his pallbearers, and his precious dust gazed on through the tearful eyes of literal millions—whom Canada and her sister Provinces, from Halifax and Quebec to Detroit honored with every demonstration of grief and regard, and with a sentiment of tenderness almost as deep and universal as our own—and whom all Europe honored with a homage such as never was paid to mortal man before! Honor them not for a testimony against a deed which has already evoked such condemnation as never deed did on earth, which thrilled the whole land with detestation and abhorrence, even to forcing uttermost treason in the South to join in making the horror universal—which compelled the rebels in Canada to disclaim, and Mason and Slidell in Europe to protest, and the whole sympathizing Press abroad, from the London Times down, to denunciation—and which at last rocked the two hemisphere as no event ever did the world before. And harm them not for such matchless abuse of the dead President's mercy, that very mercy which, as he lay there dying, could he for one moment have been conscious, would still have prompted him to pray, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do"—that very mercy which, could he yet speak from the grave, would now lead him to say, "I forgive them, forgive ye them also"—that very mercy for which, now, all men most of all praise him, and in which he is still an example to us, none the less that the mercy has been once abused, but all the more by so much more as there is need, and the mercy can never wear out, but is literally equal to all things.
At least, Jefferson Davis, harm not him. Already he is the worst punished man in history. All Europe will explode in one prodigious guffaw, to hear of the Southern Confederacy, in the person of its official head, sneaking away in the disguise of a woman, and captured in crinoline and petticoats! With the news, all who have upheld the rebellion will sneak away too, and the redoubtable British "Thunderer" will be most intensely oblivious of having ever recognized the Confederacy. Confederate bonds will no be worth the white paper they have wasted, and the whole boasted but burst bubble of a Southern Republic based on Slaves will be, first a laughing-stock and by-word, as the most contemptible failure on record, next a villany, beneath the dignity even of that contempt, and finally, a universal stench and hissing forever! Jefferson Davis is already worse than dead. Lay him away to be forgotten! Make not in his case Virginia's mistake in that of John Brown, of giving him a crown of martyrdom!
Change the name of Fort Lafayette to Fort Hell, devote a whole regiment to perpetual guard, and the murderers of the President, with Davis at their head, shut up in Hell in testimony of both your justice and magnanimity forever! Justice requires but the righting of wrong, but never has wrong been so righted before. The whole world has avenged the death of Abraham Lincoln, been convulsed with horror at his murder, passed sentence of condemnation on his murderers!
But America can never afford to forego this great example of magnanimity. The world that has helped avenge her wrong, now must learn the lesson of her clemency. Crowned heads dare not show mercy to those who strike at them, but the Republic must teach
<co4>
that it can still stand and spare those who strike at its head. America must give proof to the world of her better institutions. She must manifest to the world her better spirit. Now that the eyes of the world have been drawn on her, now that the gaze of all men has been arrested by this murder of her First Citizen, now that every glance is strained to see how she will bear herself towards those who did the deed, she must set the long-needed, all-potent example of a great forgiveness! It will be a stain on her magnanimity through all time to let the opportunity pass. She can never remove from her honor the tarnish and blot of unneeded blood. A million of dollars would I bestow, had I the money, to see her give this great example to mankind. Blessings, forever, on America as she does the deed!
O. President and Cabinet, lead the way in this true path to the world's great progress! It is for you as final umpires, by clemency to Conspirators and amnesty to Rebels, to commend liberty to all nations and humanity to all governments, and to inaugurate an influence in favor of republican institutions only to increase with the on-rolling ages, till every despotism shall give way to our example, and the whole earth shall become one great Sisterhood of the Free! Seize the golden opportunity. Shed luster on yourselves and the country you place in the world's van. Decree this, which in being mercy is also justice.
O Nation, grief-stricken and tempest-tossed, angered at the loss of thy head, and provoked to deadly retribution, follow not in the wake of the Old World's kings! There is for thee something higher and nobler and better. Put back thy sword into its scabbard, forgive thy enemies, call all men to peace within thy own borders, and all nations from war by thy example, and thus enter on thy career of glory! Lift thy long bruised and peeled to citizenship, make good thy boast to universal and equal liberty, let thy light shine for the oppressed and down trodden of all countries, and pioneer the world's grand march to freedom! Be the beacon of all lands, a name and a praise throughout the earth, and Humanity's blessing forevermore!
Hushed be every voice that comes from the Past! Take counsel only of the glorious ages before! In that illustrious world that is to be, when Peace, Justice and Liberty shall be universal, we shall have become illustrious! We will do now what they will praise then! So we forget all injuries, bind up all wounds, heal all griefs, convert all to friendship and love, and melt away into glory forevermore!
JOSEPH TREAT. Blairstown, Iowa, May 24, 1865.
N. B. Please, Editors of papers, copy the above, and let there be universal discussion. J. T 
A WORD FOR JEFF. DAVIS.
When we consider of how great an amount of human misery this wicked man has been the author, that he was the very spirit and genius of the rebellion and the supposed instigator of the death of President Lincoln, a high and vain-glorious boaster, one who would, had the power fallen into his hands, have executed the utmost severity of punishment upon the friends of the Union, it requires the greatest effort of Christian forbearance to offer a word in behalf of his life. But if we are to accept the doctrine of Jesus Christ, we must also extend to this chief malefactor that pity and forgiveness which the Saviour so beautifully exemplified in his last words, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." But we need not go even so far as this to refrain from extreme punishment—we can afford to be merciful, and to show to our enemies, and to the civilized world, how calmly we can bear our success. It is true, we have had to deal with a merciless foe; but let us not imitate his unrelenting spirit—let us rather show our superior civilization—the difference between a people educated under free institutions and one educated under those of slavery. Furthermore, with what justice should Lee and the other chiefs in this wicked rebellion be suffered to go free, and Davis receive the punishment of death? I would advocate no policy that would ever allow them again to trouble us; and we have that short of the death penalty, in perpetual banishment and confiscation. Let every leader in this bloody rebellion, even should it prove to be a thousand in number, be banished forever from this land. Leave them to the retribution which a just God will undoubtedly inflict upon them—let them be regarded by every virtuous mind with scorn—until, if such a thing be possible, they shall have repented in sackcloth and ashes for their wickedness. D. R.
THE QUESTION OF LABOR.
OFFICE BOSTON LABOR REFORM ASSOCIATION, 121 Washington Street, May 31.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—My object, in writing this article for the Liberator, is to secure, if possible, the influence and advantage of your sympathy and approval of a movement recently organized in Boston for the purpose of reducing the hours of labor for the working classes generally. Of course, you would not wish to become responsible for the apparent practicable objections which may be urged against this movement, or for the means which may be used to accomplish the reduction of hours; for this would, perhaps, require an amount of time which you cannot now devote to any thing outside of your specialty. I ask your "Yes" or "No" in the sense in which you asked Louis Kossuth's fifteen years ago. You did not ask him to stop, and prove that cotton could be grown by free labor, or that the right way was the safe way. You asked for the single word which he most dreaded to speak. He said to himself, "If I denounce American oppression America will not denounce Hungarian oppression," and he was silent. Was that silence criminal? Has a man a moral right to be silent upon any question affecting, at once, the health, morals, intelligence, wealth and happiness of the race? Is not this the first difficulty which usually presents itself in all new movements—the disposition to stand neutral on the part of those who are too good to condemn, and too timid to approve?
The claim of those who are making this question a speciality is this: That, aside from the question of reconstruction, there is no American question which presents stronger claims for immediate attention and adjustment than that of the claims of Labor: That the claims of Labor can be met to the best advantage by first reducing the hours of labor, and thereby affording time and opportunity for Labor to think and counsel for itself; and more especially, since there is no evil in America which affects so directly and generally the health, morals, intelligence, wealth and happiness of the masses, as that of excessive toil: And further, that there is no moral or social reform claiming our attention that is not interested—directly or indirectly—in reducing the hours of labor; since the success of all popular efforts in America depends largely upon reaching the eyes and the ears of the people.
The question for all to ask and answer is, whether the so-called ten-hour system leaves time enough for mental and social advantages. That which we call the ten hour system really means thirteen hours a day, when spoken with reference to our mental and social requirements. Our labor is supposed to commence at seven o'clock in the morning; but an hour or more of preparation is necessary to put ourselves physically in a condition to commence the day's labor;—a hasty toilet and breakfast, nameless and nameable etc., the journey to the scene of labor—all mean work. The same may be said of the hour for dinner, and the hour for supper, with the added fact, that we are now worn out by the day's exertion.
There are, in the six days' devotion to labor, one hundred and forty-four hours. Allowing the usual time for sleep to adults, which is eight hours a day, or forty-eight a week, there are ninety-six hours remaining, to be divided between the necessities of the body and the requirements of the mind. Eighteen hours are allowed for the mind in these six days, and SEVENTY.
<c05>
EIGHT for the body; or less than one fourth for the mind. This movement proposes sixty-six for the body, and thirty for the mind, or the eight hour system in place of the ten. Is this asking too much?
We prove to our own satisfaction that more can and will be produced in eight than in ten hours a day— that wages will never be permanently increased until the hours of labor are reduced—that more will be consumed, and that more will be employed in productive labor—that no disturbance to Capital will result—that the true relation of Capital to Labor will be better understood by both parties-that idleness, crime, ignorance and folly will be vastly diminished— and that the motives for enterprise and invention will be multiplied.
We claim that reducing the hours of labor to ten in 1850 saved us a war of English intervention in 1862; and that if the eight hour system were to-day adopted all over the United States by those who EMPLOY labor, our National Debt would be paid from five to ten years sooner than is possible by ordinary taxation.
The masses cannot exercise much power over their circumstances until they have more knowledge. Buckle says, "Without leisure there can be no knowledge." A little wealth first made a little leisure possible: from that leisure came a little knowledge: that knowledge enabled men to produce wealth faster, which gave more leisure again. Leisure follows Wealth, Knowledge follows Leisure, and Wealth follows Knowledge again. Wealth, Leisure and Knowledge are to succeed each other until, in all probability, the production of wealth will reach the point of enough physical exercise merely, to keep the body in excellent condition. John Stuart Mill says: 
"If the bulk of the human race are always to remain as at present, slaves to toil in which they have no interest, and therefore feel no interest—drudging from early morning till late at night for bare necessaries, and with all the intellectual and moral deficiencies which that implies—without resources either in mind or feelings—untaught, for they cannot be better taught than fed; selfish, for all their thoughts are required for themselves; without interests or sentiments as citizens and members of society, and with a sense of injustice rankling in their minds, equally for what they have not, and for what others have; I know not what there is which should make a person, with any capacity of reason, concern himself about the destinies of the human race."
"Hitherto, it is questionable if all the mechanical inventious yet made have lightened the day's toil of any human being. They have enabled a greater population to live the same life of drudgery and imprisonment and an increased number of manufacturers and others to make fortunes. They have increased the comforts of the middle classes. But they have not yet begun to effect those great changes in human destiny which it is in their nature and in their futurity to accomplish.
I confess, I am not charmed with the ideal of life held out by those who think that the normal state of human beings is that of struggling to get on; that the trampling, crushing, elbowing, and treading on each other's heels, which form the existing type of social life, are the most desirable lot of human kind, or any thing but the disagreeable symptoms of one of the phases of human progress. That the energies of mankind should be kept in employment by the struggle for riches, as they were formerly by the struggle of war, until better minds succeed in educating the others into better things, is undoubtedly more desirable than that they should rest and stagnate. While minds are coarse, they require coarse stimuli, and let them have them. 
In the meantime, those who do not accept the present very early stage of human improvement as its ultimate type may be excused for being comparatively indifferent to the kind of economical progress which excites the congratulations of ordinary politicians; the mere increase of production and accumulation.
The desirable medium is one which mankind have not often known how to hit; when they do labor, to do it with all their might, and especially with all their mind; but to devote to labor for mere pecuniary gain fewer hours in the day, fewer days in the year, and fewer years of life."
As working-men, we have nothing whatever to hope from the Daily Press of America. A joint committee of ten of the Legislature of Massachusetts had a hearing upon the Labor question at the last session, and their unanimous decision was, that the hours of labor ought to be reduced. But this was not noticed by the Daily Press; a neglect of as much significance to us, to-day, as the silence of the Church upon Slavery, thirty years ago, was to you. The Press will never hear of our movement until we force an issue.
We claim that this is a moral lesson which no man has a moral right to ignore; that the measures which men are willing to adopt for the success of any movement affecting the health, morals, intelligence, wealth and happiness of mankind, they cannot consistently withhold from this—whether they be moral, social, political, or religious. Among our supporters, may we not quote the name of WM. LLOYD GARRISON? Yours, for more leisure for men and women,
IRA STEWARD. 
We heartily approve of the sentiments and object expressed by our correspondent, and accept his conclusions as sound.—Ed. Lib.
THE CAPTURED TRAITOR.
Disguised in the petticoats of a woman, seeking the lairs of wild beast for protection, and brandishing the favorite weapon of the Southern desperado, Jefferson Davis has been captured by the troops of the nation whose honor he has outraged, and whose existence he has threatened. All men sink or rise to their final level at last, and this notorious individual has now found his proper place in human society. Slaveholder, repudiator, traitor, rebel, he now lacks only the formalities of a trial to become a mere felon—such a one as we may see in any of our great prisons with gives on his hands and manacles on his feet—such a one as we sometimes see standing, with bandaged eyes and trembling lips, upon a scaffold beneath the rope which is to rid the world of his unwelcome presence. Yesterday he was the pretended chief magistrate of a broad confederacy; to-day he is a criminal to whom the law will soon mete out the justice which his great crimes have deserved. Yesterday he directed the movement of vast armies; to-day he cannot defend himself against a single hostile regiment, and is dragged off into captivity by a few scores of Union soldiers. Yesterday he was an earthly Lucifer, boldly leading his attendant hosts against a beneficent and invincible government, while a world watched the awful contest with eager eyes; to-day he is fallen so low that only a single hand is raised in his defence, and that hand his own—so low that only a single weapon is lifted at his command, and that weapon his own bowie-knife. Yesterday he sat in his mansion at Richmond, dictating dispatches to emperors and kings; to-day he is on his way to the cells of a prison. Surely if there ever was a chance to moralize on the vicissitudes of human life and the revolutions of human destiny, that chance is now afforded by the melancholy story of Jefferson Davis, whose deeds of infamy have been followed by so swift and bitter a retribution. 
What shall be his doom? What punishment can equal the magnitude and multitude of his crimes? We hang a person if he but murder a single man; but here is a criminal who has murdered them by the hundred thousand. We condemn a person to a life-time imprisonment if he but burn a single house; but here is a criminal who has burned a thousand towns and villages. We trust that the judges, before whom his trial shall take place, will consider well before they pronounce his final sentence. This is due alike to justice, which demands expiation for the past, and to humanity, which demands guarantees for the future. It is due to this mighty nation, which Jefferson Davis so nearly destroyed. It is due to human liberty, which Jefferson Davis endeavored to banish from this Continent. It is due to the memory of those thousands of brave men,—our fathers, our sons, our brothers,—whom Jefferson Davis allowed to die of starvation in the midst of plenty. Every grave in the South, every widow and orphan in the North pleads against Jefferson Davis. The skeletons which lie buried at Andersonville and Columbia plead against him. Every denizen of a rebel prison, every victim of rebel cruelty, every heart wrung by rebel actions pleads against him. Every despoiled town and every mourning household in the revolted States plead against him. Who shall dare to plead for him—Syracuse Journal.
<c06>
DESCRIPTION OF THE ASSASSINS.
First on the right of the line David C. Harold, who fled with Booth through Maryland, and was trapped with him in the barn at Garrett's. Harold is a small fellow, of diminutive features, and a decidedly mean and contemptible cast of countenance. Judging from his appearance, one wonders not that be cried for quarter when the cavalrymen surrounded his biding place, but that he had courage to join the desperate fortunes of the assassin at all. His expression gives no sign of mental or moral force, and he has every appearance of abject cowardice. He has thick black hair, straight black eyebrows, sharp black eyes, and a weak, irregular growth of beard on his chin and upper lip. He is seemingly about 21 years old. His complexion is very dingy and sallow, and has a general uncleanly appearance.
A very different sort of person is the next in the row of prisoners. A tall, very athletic figure, of splendid muscular development, a massive neck, fully exposed by the open blue shirt, and a most noteworthy face make up the personal presence of the most extraordinary ruffian who made the horrible attack on Secretary Seward and his family. It is a physiognomy which one would select for a second look in any crowd simply on account of the great animal strength of the head and utter brutality of the expression of the face. A broad, heavy jaw, unshaded by any appearance of beard, thick, protruding lips, rather a small nose with large nostrils, clear, unflinching, yet restless eyes, either black or a very dark blue-black, lowering brows, a rather low forehead almost entirely covered by a heavy shock of unkempt black hair falling down nearly to his eyes, a dark and clear complexion, and head slanting down from the back like a house roof, make up the rest of the picture. His posture is exceedingly erect, even his head being constantly leaned back against the wall. There is nothing of cowardice in the look of this assassin, but rather an expression of defiact and unconquerable ugliness. He stares fiercely in turn at every person in the court-room, and never seems to wish to close his eyes even to the extent of a wink. His hands, which have been much spoken of, are not small, but very smooth and white, as if unaccustomed to labor, and his age one would fix at about twenty-five. This man Payne is decidedly the lion of the prisoners' dock. Every new comer is startled at first by his giant figure and impudent stare, and then gives a long look as he learns that this is the only one of the conspirators who had the pluck to carry out the bloody task assigned him. All are surprised to find the fellow so different from the many printed descriptions of him, and reflect with amazement that such a man attempted to pass for a Baptist preacher, and that one of his confederates engaged rooms for him as an invalid too delicate to frequent the general dinner-table.
After passing these two, I do not think there is one in the infamous row who has any very remarkable characteristics of appearance,—who would be singled out of a crowd for any special developments of feature or eccentricity of expression. Atzerott is an admirable type of the lower class of Germans,- short in stature, yellow complexion and hair, meagerly supplied with beard, having light blue eyes, high cheek bones, and neck so short and eyebrows so light that both are hardly perceptible. He has in his present plight rather a hang-dog look, is shabbily dressed, and has the general appearance of having spent much of the thirty years of his life in indoor mechanical pursuits.
Michael O'Laughlin, who is accused of having "lain in wait" for Gen. Grant, but against whom, so far, the testimony is very slight, only proving that he has been intimate with Booth, is next in the line. He has a pallid complexion, not unlike that of Booth himself, and is on the whole far from being an ill-looking man. He has very black, waving hair, uneasy eyes, a heavy moustache and scanty imperial, and is about thirty years old. He has a general air of being greatly worn down by confinement and the anxiety inseparable from his position. 
Spangler, the carpenter of the theatre, is another on whom the testimony has not borne very heavily thus far. Nevertheless, he is the most despondent in appearance of the seven, and has an expression of being frightened nearly out of his wits at the prospect before him. He is a middle-aged man, of light complexion, features coarsened by long, hard drinking, and about a week's growth of brown beard.
Dr. Mudd looks decidedly out of place and in uncongenial company. A mild and inoffensive man in appearance, with a high bald forehead, thin, yellow hair, small blue eyes, red moustache and full beard, and a sort of faded out florid complexion, with a general air of retirement and timidity, his countenance would go far towards acquitting him of a very deep participation in the conspiracy.
Sam Arnold, who thought he had retired from the scheme in time to save his neck, has the advantage of a seat next the window. He is an exceedingly ordinary-looking young man, with a frank, open, and not unprepossessing countenance.
We have reached the end of the line.—but there is still one more of the conspirators arraigned in the charges. The sex which was no bar to her earnest participation in the darkest crime which stains the page of history, entitles her to a place more comfortable than that accorded to her fellow criminals. In an arm-chair just outside the dock, with no sentry to inconvenience her, sits Mrs. Mary Surratt, the bereaved widow, the mother of a youthful family, the Catholic devotee, the prosaic boarding house keeper, whom the evidence already brands as one of the most devoted and one of the most guilty of the wretched band of murderers. She is dressed in deep black, even to wearing black mittens. She is in street costume, and a thick veil covers her face, which she still more strives to hide by holding persistently before it her hand and hand kerchief. In spite of these obstacles, we can still see that she is a well-preserved woman of fifty, with regular and rather elegant features, and a flush still lingering on her cheek. She is not, as has been represented, as unusually large woman, but is rather graceful in figure and movement. Her hands are at liberty, but her feet, like those of the other prisoners, are fastened together by a short chain about the ankles.
—Cor. Boston Advertiser.
THE DIFFERENCE. Just as we are extinguishing the fires of our rebellion, the news comes from St. Domingo that the rebellion there has triumphed and the Spanish forces are withdrawn. Thus, while a young republic is able to suppress an insurrection against its authority, one of the oldest monarchies of Europe, and always a military power, is obliged to succumb to a body of insurgents of far less proportional strength than those who have tried our power. Why is this? Simply because the people of St. Domingo of the colored race, too—were animated by the love of liberty against despotism, while the leaders of our rebellion revolted against free institutions for the sake only of strengthening and extending slavery. Owing to this difference, the American insurgents grew weaker from the start, while the Dominicans, commanding the sympathies of the world, held out till they discouraged and drove off their oppressors. The two lessons will go down to posterity as fitting complements of each other —Boston Journal.
THE QUAKERS IN THE SOUTH. During the war the Society of Friends in East Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina numbered thirty-seven congregations, including about 3500 persons. The discipline of the Society, prohibiting the owning or hiring of slaves, not only remained inviolate, but the members bore an open and firm testimony against slavery and war, and were loyal to the United States Government. This subjected them to some persecution, but the Society, nevertheless, received an accession of over 500 members. Immediately after the surrender of Johnston's army, their brethren of the North and West raised over $20,000 to replace their losses by the war, and to assist them in re-establishing schools.
SONS OF TEMPERANCE. The Grand Division of the Sons of Temperance, of New Hampshire, met and held their semi-annual session at Newmarket, N. H., last Wednesday. The reports showed the order to be in a flourishing condition. Four new divisions have been chartered and the members are now about 2000. Resolutions of respect to the memory of President Lincoln were unanimously passed.
The Southbridge Journal says that four large logs of wood, weighing over 100 pounds, were found in the centre of a bale of cotton opened at the Sturbridge Cotton Mills the other day.
IMPORTANT DECISION IN MARYLAND. Judge Bond of the Criminal Court of Maryland has decided that the Orphans' Courts have no right to apprentice negro children, on the ground that "apprenticeship" is nothing but slavery, which the Constitution has abolished.
PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S FAMILY. The family of President Johnson consists of his wife and four children-two sons and two daughters. His son—Roberts is 29, and Andrew Johnson, Jr. is 12 years of age. His daughters—Mrs. Col. Stover and Mrs. Judge Patterson—reside, with their families, in Nashville.

