THE LIBERATOR.
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, is advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 32. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 9, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1598.
<c01>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
AT THE
CELEBRATION OF W. I. EMANCIPATION,
At Abington, Mass., Aug. 1st, 1861. Phonographic Report by JAB. M. W. YERRINTON.
MR. PRESIDENT,-I suppose the day dictates the subject. The great interest of this day is as the anniversary of British Emancipation. That was the greatest blessing, the highest privilege, history shows us was ever given to a people-the power to emancipate, peacefully, nearly a million of chattel slaves. By moral agitation, us the result merely of thought and purpose, like an ordinary change of law, a great people swept out of existence an infamous institution, rooted in old habit, immense wealth, great social power. As far as I know, it is the only instance in history, ancient or modern. Slavery has been every where; has been abolished in various ways; but the English people may boast, as a thoughtful, Christian community, that they have set in history an example of the power of simple principle to change momentous social institutions. I am not about to examine whether it was unalloyed, disinterested religious principle, or whether there mingled with it the self-interest of the commercial classes and the dread of future trouble in national affairs. I only know that, peacefully, by an edict, not by cannon, by an act of Parliament, as the ordinary laws are changed, the whole social condition of the West India Islands was remodelled. What has been the result? There has never been an hour of war in those islands. There has not been one instance of resistance to civil process. The forms of law are guarded, not by bayonets in the hands of white men, but by bayonets in the hands of emancipated slaves. (Applause.) The only complaint is, that the negro will not work for the white man; he finds better employment at home. The only complaint is, that the former slave population is so shrewd, so thrifty, with so much forethought, that, as in our Western States, Iowa and Wisconsin, you cannot find men to hire. Men have the brains to work for themselves: and the English planter cries out to the government, as the farmers of the Western States cry out to the civilized world, "We have wealth, acres; but our neighbors are so fore-handed and independent, we cannot hire any body to work our land. Give us laborers!" That fact, which proves the advancing, essential prosperity of the Western States, proves, in the same way, the well-grounded prosperity of the laboring classes of the West Indies. The real complaint never has been that the black man would not work. The complaint has been, "He can work for himself to so much better advantage, that we cannot get any body to work at a shilling a day."
Again: England exports to these islands, I may safely say, double-perhaps I might say, four times-the amount of manufactured articles that she did in the days of slavery. England never sells without getting her pay for it. No man can pay without work; and if those emancipated slaves buy two or four dollars' worth now, where they bought one before, either they had laid up an immense capital during the slave time, or else they have worked well for it since. (Applause.)
Such is the lesson of to-day. What are the great elements of national prosperity? They are, law contentedly obeyed, hands intelligently, successfully industrious. No British ministry has ever, for twenty old years, looked into the face of rebellion in the British West Indies. There has been no time when there was not a greater demand for laborers than there was supply. There has been no moment when two looms in England were not kept active to supply the demands of the West Indies for one before. And if to that you add the moral element of the question, marriage, education, religious institutions, have been quadrupled, at the expense and by the care of the former slaves.
That is the picture which has been held up to our country for twenty-five years. What is the use of recurring to it? It is no longer within our reach. We omitted to seize the opportunity-it is gone! Thirty years ago, in England, when Lord Brougham was advocating the emancipation of the slaves, I remember he used with great effect the trite classical story of the sybil who came to the Roman king with, nine books for sale, represented as indispensable to the safety of Rome. She named her price;-the proud king waved it aside. The sybil left, burned three of the books, and returned, offering six at the same cost. The confident king waved her a second time aside. She went and returned again with three, still for the same price. And then Rome bought the sacred pledge of her safety, diminished to one third, at the same sacrifice. Twenty years ago, God set us the example of Peaceful, moral emancipation, by ordinary force of law. We dashed it aside. He offers us now, at the same cost, emancipation at the mouth of the cannon-nothing else. The lesson of to-day is not for us; we must seek it further. Far off, beyond those islands, rests the Queen of the Antilles, St. Domingo. Her emancipation was different. The races had rushed to arms. Blood flowed in torrents. England was about to invade the island. Government, pushed to the extremity, at midnight, the sovereignty of the realm slipping from its grasp, in despair, as a means of keeping hold of its territory, proclaimed emancipation. It was won in blood and fire. Half the cities were burned; almost every valley floated with blood; the slave wrote the guaranty of his emancipation in the blood of seventy thousand Frenchmen, sent to subdue him. This is the only lesson left for us to-day,-this, how far short of St. Domingo can the government stop? What is the policy that may save us from that last extremity of bloody emancipation? The British model is gone. The only question for us is, how far short an we stop of St. Domingo?
There are two or three methods before us. The first is-and this most men flatter themselves to be possible-we an conquer the South; we can keep the Union as it was. I deem that a dream. (Applause.) I hold it just this side of lunacy-nothing more. The old Union of'87 is gone beyond recovery. (Cheers.) No million of men in arms can bring it back again. I do not know that I was ever found depreciating the
<c02>
courage of the South. I have held that, in the nineteenth century, the age of money, it would be impossible for a Southern empire, from political and economical reasons, to survive-they would be starved out. I hold that opinion still. But I believe I never have doubted the personal courage and intense earnestness of the Southern States. I stand to-day exactly where I have stood. I know nothing of the future but by the past. Poland, trodden under the heel of an empire whose resources are boundless, is still Poland, in arms. Hungary, crushed by the weight of half Europe on her head, is still Hungary, determined to be free. And Italy, with six centuries of demoralization, has still strangled the purpose of the French Emperor with one hand, and Austria and Russia with the other, and is Italy, united and free. (Loud cheers.) I believe that the five or six millions of Englishmen residing south of Mason and Dixon's line have hearts as hold and wills as determined as Italy, Hungary or Poland; and this nation, in the mere fight of white men and white men, will write her history a copy of the Russian history as to Poland, the Austrian history as to Hungary, and the Italian history, if she goes on to fight as she does to-day. The past proves it; and it seems to me that every thoughtful man must see it. At any rate, such will be the picture of the next ten years. I am well aware that the South has not yet dared to meet the North face to face in open field and fair fight, or at least whenever she has done so, she has been beaten. Witness Kansas and Western Virginia. But for all this, I hold the South deeply in earnest, and able in open fight or by guerilla to drag on the war many years.
But that is not the only question. Foreign countries watch us. England and France watch us. England has no purpose nearer her heart than to cripple and undermine the manufacturing and commercial supremacy of the North. How can she do it? By robbing her of one half of the Union. By seizing the opportunity to plant a rival State at her side. That State, with the underhand support of English money and English arms, can take Mexico for her right wing, and Cuba for her left, and then, with some eighteen millions of inhabitants, holding the black population in chains, she will be one of the best customers that Lancashire has. How much would the British government do to found and uphold such a State? She would do every thing. And I do not believe in any such virtue in the middle classes of Great Britain as would rebuke very severely the administration for the useful crime of acknowledging such a confederacy. For I remember China and India. If, therefore, the war lasts two or three years, it is not a war with the Southern States alone; it is probably a war with the Southern States, supported openly or by stealth by England; specially if the death of Louis Napoleon should free England from fear of French interference or invasion; when, by the time that happens, possibly there may be a fourth party in the play. The slave may take arms in his own hands, and instead of being a counter on this chess board, he may be a player in the game. When that comes, emancipation is to be a hard work, wrung from the bloodiest civil war known to history. Whether it is to come from a divided Union, and afterward the failure of the Southern confederacy to sustain itself, or whether it is to come from he indomitable rage of these Northern States, determined that, through seas of blood, no matter how deep, the stars and stripes shall float to the Gulf, I do not know; but, surely, it will come from the bloodiest war that history has known for half a century. For it is impossible that this war should endure three years or probably two, without the interference of European governments, and probably of the slave. It is almost impossible that this war should continue two or three years, without great probability of the acknowledgment of the Southern confederacy by certain portions of the Northern States. I know the anger, and pride, and determination of the Northern people; but when these looms and workshops have been silent and still for twenty-four months,-when the families of half a million of volunteers have been upon our hands,-those very hands empty and idle,-for support, when no greater progress is made than seems to be now in the conflict, how long will the North endure such a war? I am not sure that she will not find that the better policy is submission, and submit. Mark you! I have no fear of the failure of ultimate emancipation. God has broken up the fountains of this nation, and the slave is to be shaken out of his chains. (Prolonged cheering.) I can believe that the South, driven to the wall, rather than submit to the hated North, might herself, in despair, free the slaves, and writing "Emancipation" on her flag, appeal so to the cupidity of England and the rest of Europe to uphold her, and thus cripple the manufacturing North. She is easily capable of such a master-stroke of cunning statesmanship: and would bear even freedom, even be just, rather than submit to us. The only question is, how can the problem be solved with the least bloodshed, at the least cost, and with the best future? I say that every moment of delay embitters the problem; every moment of delay renders more probable the interference of other governments; every moment of delay renders the South more a unit than she is this week. These are the reasons why I urge upon the government and upon you, the adoption of a policy as speedily as possible. For the present, we have none. Government avows no plan. She has not even a plan of the war, much less a statesmanlike plan of how to relieve herself of the difficulty which created the war.
We drift before the storm, no hand on the helm. Government has been defeated. She deserved to be! Mr. Whiting's letter [Hon. N. H. [complains that England does not sympathize with us. We have no right to the sympathy of England. (Hear, hear.) You and I, near at hand, with our eyes fixed on the crisis, may dimly discern through the cloud that emancipation is inevitable, spite of men and parties. But, three thousand miles off, ignorant of: the heady currents that confuse our national position, why should England sympathize with your government, which marks its first step in the war by the return of slaves, and a pledge to put down insurrections? (Applause.) I should blush for Great Britain if she sympathized with such an administration. My lips would be the last to ask her for one word of sympathy for such a government What does England know? She knows only that, under our, to an Englishman, utterly incomprehensible Federal government, there has arisen, between different sections of the country, a dispute as
<c03>
to certain arrangements of the civil force. She cannot put her hand into the disordered machine intelligently, and therefore she keeps it out. I think she does wisely; I think she does well. Do not misunderstand me while I speak thus of England. It is from no idea of the high character or lofty motives of the English government. It is the most selfish of all European governments, guided by the lowest and most interested motives; and the same is true, to some extent, of her people. But we have no claim to the sympathy of England. Neither have we a right to victory-none at all. The government does not organize victory. I will tell you when, in my opinion, we shall be entitled to victory. When one single secession spy, traitor or pirate has been punished-(loud applause); when the seal of government disapprobation has been set on one single person within their power who has betrayed the Union. (Applause.) John Brown rebelled, it is claimed, against the laws of Virginia. He was hung at Charlestown. The government said Amen! The government has had in its grasp at least fifty, if not a hundred, ten times deeper dyed in the guilt, if guilt it be, of resisting the laws of the Union, and she has dismissed them all! When only one quarter of the clerks in one department at Washington are traitors-only a quarter-I will acknowledge that the government deserves victory. (Laughter and applause.) But while she keeps at least two thirds disloyal men in her employ, that is not organizing victory. The battle at Bull Run was wholesale butchery, public murder; and the government of the United States, more than any other power, is guilty of the murder, for they sent out their troops from a city full of traitors in the employ of the government, knowing, or able to know, that every secret of the government was probably communicated to the rebels twelve hours before those troops quitted Washington. Why do they not hang a pirate? Because Jefferson Davis says he will retaliate; and they save the life of some prisoner at Richmond by pardoning a pirate or a spy. At the same time, they please themselves by continuing to give bread to traitors in Washington at the cost of sending out thousands of true men to be butchered on the battle-field. I mean what I say. Murder, with the full knowledge of the government; for the Secretary who keeps his desks full of traitors from pity to their families, or the associations of past years, is the veriest traitor to the government. Every plan, except those made at Washington, succeeds. There has been but one-the blunder at Bethel-that has not succeeded. Missouri, one line of conquest; in Western Virginia, under McClellan, uninterrupted success; because the generals who planned the movements had around them true men. But from the nest of traitors at Washington, they organize nothing but defeat. (Hear, hear.)
Such a government deserve the sympathy of other nations! We have not yet shown that we are a government. When the world doubted whether the United States of America, in the Revolution, were in earnest, Washington hung Andre. He begged to be shot, as a soldier; and Washington replied-" By nations, spies are hung. I would cheerfully moderate the punishment, and accede to your wishes; but I must prove to the world, in your person, that this is a nation, and has its rights." (Applause.) And Andre was hung. His fate settled the American Revolution. England knew it was not rebels, but a nation, with which she dealt; and she acknowledged our independence as much in consequence of that act as the surrender of Cornwallis. What the government needs to-day is to prove its earnestness-to prove that it actually holds these rebels, traitors. The government that, in its own capital, sees its prisoners from Bull Run waited upon by the ladies of Washington, and furnished with every luxury, while its troops want food, is not worthy of victory. When were traitors in any other capital waited upon by such attendants, or buoyed up with such respect?
I speak of these things, because the momentous hours of this summer are to decide what is to be the exit out of this war. To-day, government stands strong enough in the power and enthusiasm of the North, strong enough in the fear or forbearance of Europe, to write on her banner EMANCIPATION, and so make it impossible that any English administration should acknowledge the Southern Confederacy. (Applause.) Let her delay it, let that government once advance to break the blockade or acknowledge the Confederacy, and the step is too late. Then we must carry emancipation, if at all, in defiance of England. We carry it now with her sympathy and with her help. This summer is to create a public opinion, which, on the opening of Congress in December, is to strengthen the Administration's hands up to this limit of national vigor and life. If we float rudderless, let the South strengthen herself into a long war, let the North settle down to an indifference which compels the government to recruit by drafting, not by volunteers,-the moment we get settled to that, we accept the problem of St Domingo. We write our history on one of two leaves. Two nations-bitter civil war on the borders-constant conflict; irruption from our own soil to interfere with the slave States-channels of trade changed, disordered, choked-Mexican civilization there. Or we write it on another page-Northern determination, resolved, spite of England, spite of the South, spite of defeat, spite of pecuniary cost, to carry the stars and stripes to the Gulf, and emancipate every slave they cover. (Loud applause.) One or the other. This summer, the problem is not half so difficult. Now the slave watches our banner, counting it herald of his redemption-waiting, longing, expecting, to throw his weight into our scale. Let him see that army penetrate the South under orders to allow no fugitive slave within its lines, and with commanders who return such to their masters, their spirits droop, their purpose dies away. Instead of warm friends, we have sullen, disappointed foes. Now, we advance into the South with four million of the people on our side. What a strength, even if no one of them takes, up arms! With the slightest encouragement, they are active on our side. They judge us by acts, not words. Six months may confuse, discourage and alienate them into sullen distrust.
Now, Wall street cries out, We cannot afford to risk bankruptcy again by being citizens of a Union with one slave State in it. Tell them of Disunion as sure soon, in a dozen years, to result in emancipation and bankruptcy: Wall street replies, "Yes, but that dozen
<c04>
years is my harvest. Let the future take care of itself. Disunion risks the question whether New York shall be the commercial capital of the continent for the next fifteen years. At present, with channels of commerce worn as now, I make twenty thousand dollars a year. What may come with Disunion, I know not. From that heady tumult, another man may come up swimming on the topmost wave. For me, my purpose is to make dollars, just as I have, and for that I demand emancipation to the Gulf, to save all risk of such wars as this; and I want it now, to ensure New York's being the commercial capital of the continent, beyond dispute, in my time."
Now, the North, like a race horse, spurns pain, blood, death itself, in its fierce enthusiasm. Twelve months of enforced idleness and utter poverty may chill the ardor of the masses. Now, therefore, is the accepted time. The helm is within our reach. The question is purely domestic. Wealth, Wall street, is the upper millstone, Anti-Slavery principle the lower; between the two, Jefferson Davis may be ground to powder. The slave holds himself ready, pressing for an opportunity; the North is, to a great extent, a unit. Let the government seize the auspicious moment. They tell us they are ready to obey public opinion. Yes, but one word from them, one act, will largely help to form it. We claim of them statesmanship to lead, not wholly to lean on others.
We, too, are to do our part. We are to visit every man, no matter what his position or his courage, with public rebuke, that fails on the great question of the hour. I acknowledge the courage of Col. Cowdin; I am glad he is a teetotaller; I remember his merits in both these respects; but never, until, in the face of the American people, he takes back the act, though he be covered from head to foot with laurels, will I forget that, without legal necessity, without proofs, with no claim, he thrust back a negro into the hell of Virginia slavery, as his soldier baptism in this war. ("Shame!") No military success is to blot it out. If he were to stand before an hundred batteries, never, till he disavows that act, cruel and illegal, can he fit himself for the society of honorable men. (Applause.)
I know what it is to be a critic. I suppose it is fated I shall always be such. (A voice-"We hope so.") But so long as I stand here, and four million of black men there, no man within the hearing of my voice shall betray their cause without hearing it. (Hearty Applause.) And if, with the memory of that sad and bloody week of the surrender of Thomas Sims in the capital of the State, your Governor appoints as the Colonel of a Massachusetts regiment the infamous and brutal United States Marshal who led that surrender, Charles Devens, I shall say here and every where, that he has broken the promise of his whole life, forfeited the confidence of his friends, disgraced the office he holds, and insulted the Commonwealth. You may forget, I never shall, until I see them on their knees in public repentance, either the Marshal in the Sims case or the Burns case; and whoever, at such an hour as this, places in the right hand of Charles Devens or of Watson Freeman the broad seal of Massachusetts, I hold him a traitor to the slave question. (Applause.) And the reason is, the American people need to be reminded, to-day, that the kernel of this dispute is slavery; that no man should be sent South of Mason and Dixon's line who has not at least a decently white record behind him. I overlook all political differences. I welcome the Democratic candidate for Governor to his place as a General; I remember him only as a man who differed from me in opinion. I welcome his service in the hour of the nation's need. But the men who have actually hunted slaves are beyond the admissibility to service, even in such an hour as this. (Loud applause.) To trust them with office is to tell the world that Massachusetts people think so little of the guilt of slave-holding, that a few years wash away their horror for it-that Massachusetts looks on their position with such craven dread as to flee for aid to hands red with the blood of pitiable, helpless bondmen. Girt with a million of freemen and women, I do not yet so despair of the Commonwealth. And if I did, I would rather see the Stars and Stripes bow to the Palmetto, than see them held up by men known in the past only as slave-hunters, and who, for aught the public know, stand ready to hunt slaves again. Such men are symbols. When your Governor holds them up to public respect, he confuses and demoralizes the moral sense of the State.
If, during that bitter week while the city rained curses on us, and, at this Marshal's bidding, muskets were levelled at our breasts because we obeyed the plainest of God's laws, some one had said to us, Within ten years, one of the foremost of your little band shall be Governor of the State, and, as such, shall give to that man, without claiming a public word of acknowledgment or repentance, one of the highest offices in a war whose cause and justification that Governor well knew to be, that it is a war for the slave, should we not all have indignantly exclaimed, "Is any one of us a dog, that he should do this thing?"
I know some of you may be disposed to look at this question from a broader stand-point. You may be interested in the Union, the old historic associations; I am not. At least, to-day, I am not. To-day belongs to the negro. To-day belongs to the slave. History has consecrated it for his use. Whatever question we discuss to-day, we should discuss as the slave looks at it-from no other stand-point. It is not for us, at least, on the First of August, to plan for the perpetuity of civil institutions. This day belongs to the problem and the method of emancipation. I demand of the government, therefore, if not an immediate avowal of the purpose of emancipation, at least this:-When a man enters the lines of Gen. Scott's or Gen. Butler's division, what is he? Congress, the Republican party, its leaders, have all declared that the Constitution of the United States knows nothing of property in man. When we urged you to declare that Constitution "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell," you replied, "It knows the black man only as a person." You know that, every one of you. That is the argument of Mr. Sumner; that is the claim of Mr. Giddings. All the Republican policy is founded upon it. The government has constantly refused to pay for slaves lost in war, denying its right to view them as property. When that black man enters Gen. Butler's camp, he calls him, by a lawyer's stratagem, "contraband of war." Then he is property;! for only property can be contraband. It was a convenient re
<c05>
source for the occasion. It was a benevolent dodge. I thank him for it. (Applause.) I am thankful for the shrewd, ingenious turn of the Middlesex lawyer, that saved 350 slaves. But that technical distinction is not broad enough to hold a government. In technical language, unless you repudiate the whole policy of the government, and specially the platform of the successful party, "it won't hold water." There is nothing in it, properly speaking, unless we are right, and then you have no right in the government. On the whole accorded construction of the dominant political party, there is no ground for it. At any rate, it is only a specious, ingenious technicality, wholly unfit for a great people to rest thereon a national question like this.
That black man enters the camp. What is the only fact that Gen. Butler knows in regard to him? This! He was just now outside our lines; he is now inside. That is all he knows. He was outside either as a friend or as an enemy. If he was a friend, he comes here to be protected, and, if he will fight, to be armed. If he was an enemy, he comes here to be imprisoned, and if he has fought, to be hanged. The government of the United States is bound so to regard the blacks. There is no judge to sit under the Fugitive Slave Law, and find out whether that black man was a slave. There is no court sitting in the camp to decide it; there is no authority there competent to settle it. He is a man, with the marks of manhood God has given him. He is capable of firing a musket, and is therefore either to be armed and used, or imprisoned and punished. Let the government of the United States say, through its Lieut. Gen. Scott, or through its Secretary of War, to the various generals of division,-"What we shall do in the future with slavery, we know not; the future will shape itself; but every man, black or white, that enters your lines, hang him or arm him." (Applause.) When they have said it, there is no longer slavery in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The moment they have said it, wherever the stars and stripes float, liberty surrounds them. The moment they have said it, ours is an army advancing into a country where one half of the population is on our side-men, women and children. That is one half the victory. The moment we have said it, the South knows the vigor of the North has touched the point of efficiency. I ask that of the government, leaving Congress to shape its future.
Then I ask this further, that they shall clear all the public offices of secession spies. I said just now, and I hold it, that the battle of Bull Run was butchery, and the government were largely responsible for it, while they keep the public offices full of men with Southern principles. There is sitting at this moment-mark you! Charlestown still exists, with its sky almost yet bearing the shadow of that gibbet whereon hung a man for breaking his allegiance to the government of the United States-there is sitting at this moment, within one hundred miles of it, in the city of Washington, a Committee of the House of Representatives, to find out the number of men in the public offices who have refused to take the oath of allegiance. "The number"! Why, there ought not to be one there. Instead of a Committee to find out the number of traitors, that House of Representatives should have memorialized the President to remove any Secretary who had in his employ one man who had refused to take the oath of allegiance. (Loud applause.) If I were brother, or son, or father of any man murdered at Bull Run, I should think that the Secretary who kept traitors in his employment run the risk of every life that left Washington in that army. If you and I had marched out of that capital, knowing that, by the criminal weakness of the government, we left behind us in the public offices, with peculiar facilities, therefore, for gaining knowledge of public plans, hosts of men who often avowed their wish for our defeat, we should hardly feel that such a government deserved our blood shed in its defence.
I believe, therefore, that the government should announce what I said in regard to the blacks: Every man that enters the lines, arm him or punish him. And in regard to the public offices, empty Washington of every man, woman and child who will not take the oath of allegiance-every one probably disloyal. (Cheers.) Until that is done, this war is a bloody farce. The government is not fighting; they are only playing with bloody counters-with the lives of 200,000 men. Maps just finished in Washington found in the tents of the rebels! The plan of the campaign known to be in possession of the staff of the opposite army! Out of such a nest, no army should be sent. We have a right to ask this of the government. War is horrible. No government, no mere form, is worth a single human life. If we enter it, we enter it for the gravest and most solemn of all purposes; and after that, every step should be taken to make it as efficient as possible. You and I are to create that efficiency. You and I are to save years of this bloody war. I would not take one step, nor refrain from it, out of regard to England or France. (Loud applause.) In one sense, I do not care for their sympathy. If nineteen millions of men are hot able to hold their government up, may it tumble down. (Loud applause.) If we need England or France to decree government and justice on this continent, we had better be under a king. (Applause, and cries of "Hear, hear.") I would not, therefore, take a step, nor for-bear it, out of any regard to England. With a fair purpose and proper exercise of will, we are able to decide this question. General Scott might have burned over Virginia months ago, and left no woods to conceal the masked batteries of Manassas. Why did he let his hundred thousand men linger in Washington? Better there, than to be sent out to be butchered: Such was not Wellington's conduct when for long months he created an army behind ramparts in Portugal. Occasional employment helped formal drill, while it kept up the spirit of the soldier. But what we may rightfully ask of this government is to put on its banner something worth fighting for; and them to put behind it an army not already betrayed by its own servants.
I know that this may seem like disloyal criticism of the Administration; but this matter is your concern and mine as much as the Administration's. We are to be beggared, our neighbors are to be shot, our national honor is at stake. Whoever seals his lips, I shall not seal mine. (Prolonged applause.) I believe that Gen. Scott is honest; I know that he is able. I have no criticism to make of the secrets or details of
<c06>
military science. But every man who has his eyes open knows that war is a serious and earnest game. The South spares nothing. She goes back to the days of barbarism for her methods. She is in deadly earnest, and we are at play. We pardon traitors at home; we almost smile on them on the other side; and in Washington, they are spoken of as "our friends at the South," and exchange of courtesies takes place. If we have a war worthy of the blood of New England men, it is to be an earnest war, and it is to be made now, if the great purpose of the war is to be saved from the complications which another spring, and the difficulties and embarrassments which another six months cannot fail to bring. If you have any influence, therefore; on members of Congress, on editors, on the creators of public opinion, on your neighbors, on the rank and file of your army, teach them that with Massachusetts bayonets, it is better to be insubordinate, and shoot a Colonel, than it is, unasked, unauthorized, and Heaven-damned, to turn themselves into hunters of slaves. (Loud and prolonged cheers.) Help the government to dare to give free rein to the ardor of the people. That sight of the stars and stripes bowing to the palmetto at Charleston, that flight at Bull Run, will rankle in the history of the Republic for centuries. The only opiate for this ache of the nation's heart is the government bidding the world take note of the cause of this fell disease, avowing her purpose with mortal surgery to cut it out, and then, gathering four million of the oppressed under her flag, plant it, in serene strength, amid shouts of jubilee, on the shores of the Gulf. (Loud applause.)

From the Jefferson, (Ohio,) Sentinel.
FUGITIVE SLAVES.
The prostitution of our military force to the catching and returning furtive slaves, recently exhibited in Western Virginia, must leave a stain upon the character of those engaged in it, and reflect upon the service in which they are employed.
There is nothing upon which civilized nations look with more detestation than upon this matter of catching slaves. They view it as an act far more disgraceful than that of the original capture of slaves in Africa, inasmuch as the slave who escapes from his master shows intelligence, a love of liberty, which is less apparent among the heathens of that barbarous land. Hence a Russian nobleman declared to a distinguished American, that nothing ever transpired in Russia so despotic as the catching of fugitive slaves. It will be recollected that the slave Anderson, while attempting to escape from Missouri, was met on his way by his master, who attempted to force him back to bondage. The slave at once slew his master, and escaped to Canada, He was demanded as a murderer. The Canadian court discharged him, declaring the act to be just and proper, repeating the maxim, that "self-defence was the first law of nature," and he who attempts to enslave a man is unfit for human association, and may be killed with impunity. A gentleman of distinction from England assured me, that the delivery of Anderson as a murderer would have worked a revolution in England. As a nation, we hang the men who seize human beings in Africa, although they are far less guilty than those who seize and enslave them in this Christian land.
When the Mohammedans of Africa enslaved our citizens, we pronounced them pirates, and sent an army and navy, not to seize and send back our friends who escaped from bondage, but to avenge them on those who committed the crime of holding them in servitude. It is the deep moral turpitude of enslaving the human soul which imparts to the act an ineffable disgrace.
The slaves on board the Amistad, in 1840, rose and slew the captain and cook, took possession of the ship, and landed on the shore of Connecticut. The Spanish government denounced them as murderers, but the Supreme Court of the United States, and all civilized men, said they had done their duty nobly, and we sent them back to Africa.
In 1841, the slaves on board the Creole took possession of the ship, slew one of the slave-dealers, and arrived at Nassau. John Tyler, of Virginia, called on the British government to send them back to the United States. But the British Minister insisted that it was no crime to kill a slave-dealer, and refused to deliver them up.
During the revolutionary war, slaves were employed in our armies to fight our battles, and we, as a nation, gave them pensions, instead of seizing and delivering them up to their masters. Even North Carolina, when subsequently passing that most barbarous enactment authorizing the re-enslavement of persons emancipated, had the grace to exclude from such a fate "those who served the country during the recent war."
In 1814, Gen. Jackson armed a battalion of blacks, without inquiring whether they were slaves or not. They fought gallantly, and some of them died like heroes; and the veteran warrior publicly thanked them, and honored them for their valor, instead of surrendering them to their masters. The owners of those killed petitioned Congress for compensation, but that body has ever treated these petitions with disfavor. Methinks the officer who should have dared to catch a slave in Jackson's camp would himself have been remanded out of it as a disgrace to the service.
General Jesup, at one time, permitted the owners of slaves to come within his lines to search for fugitives; but he soon saw the demoralizing effects of such conduct, and not only excluded them from his camp, but prohibited them from coming within certain geographical lines, far more extensive than his encampment, appearing to regard the putridity of a slave-catcher dangerous to the honor of the service. And General Taylor never at any time would permit a slave-catcher to come within his lines.
Again, all these Generals gave liberty to slaves who joined their camps, instead of sending them back to slavery. And their action was fully and ably vindicated by John Quincy Adams on the 14th of April, 1842. That most illustrious statesman of the age in which he lived declared that the fugitive slave held from the Creator the same right to live the same right to defend life and liberty, obtain knowledge, and enjoy happiness and heaven, with which God has endowed other men. To invade these rights constitutes a crime against God and humanity. It is an offence against the first, the essential element of our government. It is a violation of the vital principle on which the Republican party came into power, which they stand pledged to maintain. To involve bur soldiers in the disgrace of catching slaves, or of serving under officers who disgrace themselves and regiment by catching slaves, constitutes a violation of the President's proclamation, a violation of the contract of enlistment. We advise our soldiers who enter the military service to vindicate the government, to maintain, its
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the <illegible> and, exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senato, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, of in the political theories of Aristotle, with which is can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
dignity and uphold its laws. No man who volunteered for those nigh and honorable objects expected to serve under slave-catchers, or to maintain the barbarous enactments of Virginia, or become subservient to customs or laws which disgrace the age in which we live. If State laws or State Constitutions are to govern our Ohio troops, they are sworn to uphold those of our State, which knows no slavery, but which looks upon that institution as heathenish and barbarous. Indeed, we all know that it is slavery which has involved us in this war, and every reflecting man understands, that while slavery exists, there can be no real union among these States.
But I hear some men say, we have a Fugitive Slave Law, that the Constitution provides for the delivery of fugitive slaves. I do not propose to argue that question now; for admitting that construction of the Constitution and of the Fugitive Law given by the most arrant slaveholders, yet they only extend to the capture of fugitives who "escape from one Stale to another," but neither dough-face nor slaveholder, until this war, ever held it to be our duty to send an army to Virginia to catch her slaves while they remain in that State. No Constitution, no laws ever authorized a Quartermaster or other military officer to sit in judgment upon the right of a fellow-man to liberty. The act of Judge Key, in passing sentence of slavery upon the fugitive, was the exercise of no power delegated to him. It was rank usurpation, the exercise of a revolting despotism, and the fate of a despot should await him.
But I am astonished to hear men inquire what our army shall do with fugitive slaves. I reply in the same language which I have used for twenty-five years: Let them alone. LET THEM TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES. If Gen. McClellan desires, he may legitimately forbid them from entering his camp. he may forbid his men from employing any one who is not a soldier. He may exclude both master and slave from his encampment, or he may do as Gen. Taylor did, exclude the master only; or he may do as Mr. Adams proposed, give liberty in the slaves. But neither he nor any other officer holds the legal or constitutional right to employ our men in catching slaves. And when our neighbors or friends, who have volunteered for the patriotic duty of maintaining our Federal Government, and upholding its honor and dignity, are compelled to see a fellow-being seized within camp by soldiers of their own regiment, dragged before a military coxcomb, and doomed to chains, and sighs, and sufferings, by a petty usurper, it becomes our duty to speak for our soldiers, who are not permitted to speak for themselves.
We are proud of our gallant men who stood forth at Philippi, and could even look upon their dead bodies with pensive pride, should they fall in honorable battle; but we protest against their being involved in the disgrace of serving under officers who stoop to become the blood-hounds for Southern catchpoles.
JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS.

THE GRAND QUESTION.
FORTRESS MONROE, OLD POINT COMFORT, August 1, 1861.
The rebels have lately been down Back River, and the neighborhood of Fox Hill, and run off all the able-bodied negroes they could lay their hands on, and taken them to Yorktown and other places, to help build fortifications. They are using negroes wherever they can be found, without regard to ownership or other considerations, to construct batteries. Negroes have thereby come to be an element of warfare as much as powder or guns. If there was a depot or factory of powder or guns that Gen. Butler could take or destroy, would he not take or destroy it? Would it not be his duty to do it, and thus inflict a heavy blow on rebellion? There cannot be a moment's hesitation about what would be his duty in such a case. What essential difference is there between it and the gobbling up of hundreds and thousands of negroes to construct batteries behind which rebellion will make a stand? If there was a rebel depot of horses, carts, shovels, wheelbarrows, or other utensils for building fortifications, within striking distance, would there be any reason for hesitating about seizing said horses, carts, and so on, and using them to build batteries for national troops? Since negroes are used in precisely the same way by the rebels, they are just as much instruments and an element of warfare, as powder, guns, horses, carts, and similar utensils; and why should there be any more hesitation about the one than about the other?
The late confiscation law does not touch the question in the only shape in which it is practically presented, or is likely to come up. We have it now before us in precisely this shape, and in this shape it must be treated. Hitherto, the negro question has presented itself, so to speak, in a milder form. Gen. Butler has been called to decide what shall be done with negroes seeking refuge and protection within his lines. It was simply a question whether they should have it or not-a question that was not difficult to decide. The confiscation law does not touch even that question, however; it only applies to negroes actually employed on rebel fortifications, and must be without practical effect or value, since the negroes are in the hands of the enemy, and the rebels the witnesses. So far, therefore, the law is little more or less than parchment to read and look at. The grand question still remains: What shall be done in the case of the great mass of negroes who are being gathered up and taken off by the rebels to build batteries, from districts that are equally accessible to our forces, where, if the effort is only made, we can obtain willing laborers to build our batteries? I say nothing about what shall be done with the negroes when we are done with them, or, what is. perhaps, a greater question still, what shall be done with the women and children, and the aged, dependent on the able-bodied husbands, fathers and sons? Considerations of a warlike nature might decide in favor of taking without ceremony the able-bodied laborers: but humanity interposes a strong plea on behalf of the women, the children, and the sick and aged.-Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.

PRACTICAL JOKE OF A CHICAGO FIRE ZOUAVE.
A member of the New York Fire Zouaves, who went from this city to join Col. Ellsworth, in April, and who until then, had been an industrious typo in the Chicago Tribune office, was out on picket duty one day last month, when the following incident occurred:
An F. F. V. with rather more than the usual superciliousness of his race, rode up in a carriage from the direction of Alexandria, driven of course by his "servant." Zoo-zoo stepped into the road, holding his bayonet in such a way as to threaten horse, negro and white man at one charge, and roared out, "TICKETS!" Mr. V. turned up his lip, set down his brows, and by other gestures indicated his contempt for such mudsills as the soldier before him, ending by handing his pass over to the darkey, and motioning him to get out and show it to Zoo-zoo.
"All right," said the latter, glancing at it, "move on," accompanying the remark with a jerk at the coat collar of the colored person which sent him spinning several paces down the road. "Now, sir, what do you want?" addressing the astonished white man.
White man by this time had recovered his tongue. "Want? I want to go on, of course. That was my pass."
"Can't help it," replied Zoo; "it says pass the bearer, and the bearer is already passed. You can't get two men through this picket on one man's pass."
Mr. V. reflected a moment, glanced at the bayonet in front of him, and then called out to his black man to come back. Sambo approached cautiously, but fell back in confusion when the "shooting-stick" was brandished towards his own breast.
"Where's your pass, sirrah?" asked Zoo-zoo.
"Here, massa," said the chattel, presenting the same one he had received from the gent, in the carriage.
"Won't do," replied the holder of the bayonet.
"That passes you to Fairfax; can't let any one come from Fairfax on that ticket. MOVE ON!" A stamp of the foot sent Sambo down the road at a hand gallop.
"Now, sir. if you stay here any longer, I shall take you under arrest to head-quarters," he continued.
Mr. V. grabbed up his lines, wheeled around, and went off at the best trot his horse could manage over the "sacred soil." Whether Sambo ever hunted his master up is not known,-Chicago Tribune.
Two fugitive slaves, who escaped to the Pocahontas, state that the rebels are employing five hundred negroes to build fortifications at the mouth of the Rappahannock. But none such must be permitted to enlist in support of the government!
<c02>
FEELINGS OF THE PEOPLE OF ENGLAND.
ENGLAND, July 5, 1861.
To THE EDITORS OF THE INDEPENDENT:
SIRS: I am an occasional reader of The Independent, and reside in the midst of the cotton-consuming district of England. In common with the bulk of my countrymen. I have been surprised and grieved at the tone of feeling which has prevailed in the press of the United States towards this country, in relation to the present unhappy civil war which rages in your country. In order to put the readers of The Independent right on this subject, I am induced to write this letter to express the feelings and the opinions which generally prevail in England on this question. I do it not only in accordance with the bent of my own inclination, but at the suggestion of others who, with myself, are distressed at the false impressions which the people of the United States have of the policy of our Government and the sentiments of the British nation.
It is a matter of deep sorrow to the majority of this nation that an evil of such tremendous magnitude as a civil war should have befallen the United States. Do not mistake me. I do not say that we are sorry that the Northern States have risen as one man in defence of their Federal Government, and in putting down the Southern rebellion-in this we rejoice-but we are grieved that there should be any necessity for war, and the immense loss of human life. In this country there is really a strong desire for the union, the freedom, and the prosperity of the United States. Our newspapers may criticise your character, Government and proceedings, and even show sometimes an improper spirit, and individuals may indulge in hostile criticisms; but still the nation at large, including our politicians, entertain a sincere desire for the good-will and the prosperity of your country. If unkind observations were to become the rule by which the feeling of one country toward another should be determined, I do not know where any of us should be. The press of this country are constantly criticising the institutions, the movements, and the men of their own nation; and if they sometimes turn their attention to America in the same spirit, there is nothing but equality in praise or blame. If we, in England, were to judge the people of the United States by the standard of The New York Herald, which we do not, we should entertain bad thoughts of our brethren in the States. The freedom of speech and the press which exists here and with you, involves the possible abuse of the pen and the tongue in the utterance of an evil spirit now and then. Do not confound the sentiments of our Government and people with the occasional utterance of The Times or any other newspaper, or the hasty words of an obscure and untrustworthy politician. We feel that we are your brethren in blood, in religion, in love of liberty, and in human progress. We therefore sincerely regret your misfortunes, and wish you soon out of them.
Amongst all classes of the British people there is but one opinion on the merits of the dispute between the North and the South. There may be a few individuals who are influenced by connection with the South and by prejudice, to favor the cause of the Secessionists, but as a whole nation we are, without doubt or hesitation, of opinion that justice, truth and right are on the side of the North, and that the South have not a genuine pretence, say nothing of principle, to justify their proceedings. They seceded without any ground of complaint, and in our judgment were influenced only by the spirit of tyranny and monopoly. We regard you in the North, therefore, as fighting in the cause of justice and freedom, against an unscrupulous faction who desire to make the United States a republic, founded upon the detestable principle of slavery.
Believing that the Northern States are engaged in a righteous cause, we have but one intense desire, viz., that they will speedily triumph over the Southern rebellion, and utterly crush the slaveocracy, and rescue the republic from slave dictation. Now that this war has commenced, and that the dispute cannot be settled without bloodshed, our hope is that it will be carried on by the North with vigor, until the South is completely prostrated, and the power of slavery forever destroyed or immensely diminished. Though regretting such a calamity as a civil war, we are inclined to think that the present is an emergency thrust upon the North, in order that they may discharge their duties to the slave and the Republic in reference to the slaveocracy. It is evident to us in this country, that the North has suffered itself to be bullied by the South too long, and that now is the time for emancipating yourselves from the bondage, and asserting the prerogatives of the majority, and the preponderance of wealth and intelligence which are found in the free States.
These sentiments of good-will to the North, and speedy and complete victory over the Secessionists, are the general sentiments of the people of this country. Whilst entertaining them as individuals, our government and nation have long determined to take no part in the struggle, but to remain neutral. This is the only policy possible to us as a nation, and the one which your government has demanded and the press has required. In carrying out this policy consistently, our government has, however, been entirely misunderstood by your press and people. The recognition of the "belligerent rights" of the South has been interpreted as taking sides with the South, or as recognizing a complete equality between the North and the South. This is a total misconception. The constant intercourse between this country and the South, as well as the North, required that our practical policy should be well defined and proclaimed; and, in accordance with the law and custom of old nations, a policy of neutrality required that such recognition should take place. But this expresses no opinion on the dispute or the merits of the contest; it simply recognizes existing facts-two portions of one nation at war-and resolves to allow them to fight it out themselves. Such recognition was unavoidable as a guiding principle of conduct. We will not allow privateers to enter any of our harbors, or to take advantage of any means belonging to our government, nor will we allow British subjects to join them. If our government had not made this recognition, they would have been compelled to treat the privateers as pirates, and to employ their own forces in putting them down. Also, if they had not done so, they could not have acknowledged the blockade of the Southern ports by the Federal Government. It is evident that the blockade is more than closing certain ports for revenue purposes, as contended even by The Independent itself-it is to all intents and purposes a regular blockade in accordance with the laws of war. If such were not the case, why should United States ships of war seize, even on the open sea, vessels belonging to the South, and confiscate the goods of private individuals? In fact, in our judgment your government are treating the Southern States as a foreign country at war with themselves, and therefore they recognize the same facts and the same laws as are implied in our recognition of "belligerent rights." Do not, therefore, imagine that in opinion or action we are in favor of the South. If this recognition had not taken place, we should have been required by the circumstances of the case to take sides in the contest; hence, in denying the propriety of our policy, you positively wish us to take a part in the contest. Our best wishes are with you, the people of the North; but our policy is one of fair and strict neutrality.
I have said that I reside in the centre of the cotton-consuming district of England. You seem to imagine that the cotton question blinds our eyes to the true nature of the contest. I beg to inform you that such is not the case. The people of this district are quite calm. If the war and the blockade continue till next winter, the cotton trade of this district will suffer-but will not be destroyed. We are making immense efforts to promote the growth of cotton in India, Africa, the West Indies, and some fifty other places. In India, now some four million bales of cotton are grown, and nothing but good communications to the seaboard are required to secure an immense supply, and this is being rapidly secured. In my opinion, the ultimate result of the Southern rebellion will be the death-blow to slavery. Come what will, this country will no longer be mainly dependent upon the Southern Stages for the supply of the raw material of cotton, and those States will never again be permitted to dictate to the North.
Your well-wisher,
J. E.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Herald says, "The Bull Run affair seems to have whetted the appetite of our soldiers for an opportunity to retrieve the credit of our cause. When an order to pack up and move was read to the Seventh Massachusetts Regiment, this afternoon, the enthusiasm of the men was inexpressible. Caps were waved and cheers rent the air."
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 9, 1861.
CELEBRATION OF THE FIRST OF AUGUST
AT ABINGTON.
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society celebrated the twenty-sixth anniversary of the day when
-"Across the Carib sea
Was heard the clash of breaking chains,"
at Abington, on Thursday of last week, August 1st. This celebration has been held for so many years, that it has now become an institution, and it is one that, we doubt not, will be perpetuated until the coming of the jubilee for the four million of slaves in this land. The heavy rain of the previous night, and the threatening aspect of the heavens in the morning, made the gathering smaller, in point of numbers, than in former years, but still, it was sufficiently large to crowd the Town Hall,-where the morning session was held,-to overflowing.
The meeting was called to order, shortly before 11 o'clock, by E. H. HEYWOOD, who, in behalf of the Committee of Arrangements, proposed the following list of officers:-
President-WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston.
Vice Presidents-BOURNE SPOONER, Plymouth; Hon. F. W. BIRD, Walpole; JAMES N. BUFFUM, Lynn; Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, New York; A. J. GROVEN, Esq., Illinois; MARYGREW, Penn.; Mrs. CHARLOTTE A. JOY, Hopedale; SAMUEL S. DREW, Dorchester; F. M. VAUGHAN, Middleboro'; EDMUND JACKSON, Boston; E. D. DRAPER, Hopedale.
Secretaries-CHAS. K. WHIPPLE, JAS. M. W. YERRINTON, Boston.
Finance Committee-ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, J. G. DODGE, LOUISE WELLINGTON, ELIZA WELLINGTON, MARY WILLEY, Dr. T. P. KNOX.
These officers were unanimously accepted by the meeting.
Mr. GARRISON, on taking his position as President, was heartily cheered. He said-
The system of slavery which was abolished twenty-seven years ago by the fiat of British philanthropy was, in its leading features, essentially like that which exists in the Southern part of our country. The number of victims held in bondage was only one fifth as many as are now driven to unrequited toil on our Southern plantations. The slave code of the West Indies was bloody and barbarous. Chains and thumbscrews, whips and drivers and bloodhounds, were the paraphernalia of that horrible system, whose over-throw we have met to celebrate. One would naturally think, that when the effort was first made to abolish a system so palpably wicked and cruel, there would have been an uprising of the people every where in Great Britain, in favor of so humane an object. But the historical fact is, that the fiercest opposition was manifested towards the friends of emancipation from the day when Clarkson and Wilberforce stood foremost in the work of freedom, until the last hour, when the chains of those in bondage were broken.
Twenty-seven years have passed since emancipation took place. You know that it was confidently predicted that such a measure would be productive of vastly more evil than slavery itself. But where are the false prophets who told us that, if the slaves should he liberated, they would ravage the plantations, and carry fire and desolation wherever they might go? Every year has shown that freedom is safe and beneficent. No act of violence has been perpetrated during this long period. The West India islands have ever since been rising in the scale of human improvement and general prosperity. We Abolitionists, therefore, have a right to hold up our heads rejoicing; to feel that we have been sustained by the righteousness of our cause from the beginning; and that what we are now endeavoring to achieve for our country is to bring about the same auspicious state of things here as exists in the British isles.
I will not detain you by any further introductory remarks; but propose that we commence by singing the hymn on the printed sheet,-
"Blest day of Britain's freedom,
We hail thy brilliant light;
Our vision is extended
To see the joyful sight."
After the singing of this hymn, to the tune of the "Missionary Hymn," Mr. Garrison read the following letter from Hon. N. H. WHITING, who had been expected to preside, but was unavoidably detained:-
BOSTON, July 31, 1861.
W. L. GARRISON:
MY DEAR FRIEND,-I find it will not be convenient for me to attend the Anniversary of West India Emancipation; to-morrow, at Abington. I look upon the event you are to celebrate as one of the greatest oases in the vast desert of crime and oppression with which earth is filled; and it is among the brightest jewels in the historic renown of the nation, or people, by whom the simple act of justice you commemorate was done. How far it can be said, "They builded better than they knew," or wrought from the narrowest and meanest selfishness a deed of peaceful and glorious humanity for a despised race, perhaps we shall never know.
Judging the British nation by its spirit and conduct towards us, since the commencement of our present struggle with the barbarism of slavery, now in open and wanton rebellion against the Constitution and the Union, it will not give us a very exalted opinion of her philanthropy, justice, or honesty.
To England, more than to all other causes, do we owe it that the devil of slavery is so woven into the social and political life of this nation, that, in the effort to cast him out, like the young man in the Scripture, it may be taken up for dead; and though she has been taunting us, with full blown Pharisaical pride, through many years, for our faithlessness to the principles contained in our Declaration of Independence, and our criminal connivance at the great crime of oppression, no sooner does the Slave Power, maddened by defeat in a constitutional election, take up arms against the government, for the avowed purpose of seeking its destruction, because it can no longer be used in its remorseless crusade against human freedom, than the moral (or immoral) and political influence of the British government is at once thrown into the scale of rebellion and slavery.
Not a throb of sympathy, not a word of encouragement, is sent across the ocean to a people "struggling in the embraces of the monster Python," who, through British cupidity, as well as American prejudice and avarice, has been suffered to coil around the nation's heart. How icy cold has her boasted philanthropy become! With what carping criticism-with what heartless indifference, or scarcely veiled sympathy with the rebellion-is the progress of this great drama watched by the ruling classes in the British Isles!-although it is manifest that in its development is involved the weal or woe of uncounted millions of our race, in the present and future. With what hot, not to say indecent haste do they express their more than half recognition of the so-called Confederate States, by putting them in the role of "belligerents," entitled to receive the same consideration as the nation with which they have treaties, and with which they have not only had relations of friendship and amity for many years, but for whose support of slavery they have read us many a lecture aforetime! Now rebellion seems riot through the South. The prestige of slavery in the government is lost. It is crippled, hemmed in, and threatened with ultimate destruction. After having gone into an election and failed, the chivalrous slaveholders refuse to submit to the rule of the new administration; and, having thus shown themselves more dishonorable and unprincipled than any company of gamblers that would be tolerated even in the purlieus of our civilization, they proceed
<c04>
to set up a government whose sole, origin, scope and purpose is the "propagation, extension and perpetuation of human slavery"! And England-ANTI-SLAVERY ENGLAND (!!)-does not wait for the sun to rise, before she dubs this nest of pirates,-these rebellious slave-propagandists,-these shameless traffickers in human flesh, as even she has been wont to call them,-with the rights of "belligerents"! "O, the offence is rank-it smells to heaven!"
Your Irish correspondent, RICHARD D. WEBB, in his letter published in the last number of the Liberator, seems to be greatly surprised at what he calls the outcry raised in this country against the action of the British government, to which I have alluded. "These measures," says Mr. Webb, "seemed so inevitable' and so reasonable, that we did not know what to make of the anger they excited." "Inevitable"! "reasonable"! are they? When before, in all the history of Great Britain, has she recognized the belligerent rights of any people, rising in rebellion against constituted authority, before the ink was dry with which their proclamation of independence was written? Was it in the case of Greece, of Hungary, of Poland-of Italy even? When did it ever before occur? For shame! men of England! If you desire the destruction of the American nation, have the manliness to say so, as the organ of the tory interest, Blackwood's Magazine, is frank enough to avow, and not seek to hide your jealousy and envy behind so shallow an excuse as Mr. Webb, with the Gregorys and Lord John Russells, offers for the encouragement they are giving to our rebels.
We have had, on this side of the water, a sort of excuse for the British government in their evident anxiety, and apparent necessity, for a supply of cotton, in order to obtain bread for a large number of their people. But Mr. Webb gives up even this poor plea, affirming that "the world is wide, and that in India, in China, and in Africa, there may be obtained a supply a hundred fold greater than their wants." If this be true, it shows an ignorance or malignity even more inexcusable and hateful than we have been disposed to charge them with; and places them I before the world as the conscious, deliberate, but not by any means ingenuous allies of slavery, in order to cripple, if not destroy, a formidable, and hitherto successful rival.
It may be true, as Mr. Webb says, that "the wealth, strength and courage of England arc prodigious," and at a premium; but her sincerity, liberality and justice, I fear, will only be taken at a large discount. I would fain believe that the great body of the English people are with us in our day of trial, and hope may, in some way, put an effectual veto upon the manifest tendency of cotton and corn to take part in this warfare, and that, too, on the side of slavery. But I think we had better make up our minds to fight this battle against the concealed, possibly the open hostility of the British government. Remembering ever that the gods help them who help themselves, let us show ourselves worthy of victory, and the approval of God and all good men, by seeking to do equal and exact justice to all.
If our government is wise, it will not close this war until the vile system, which is its only cause, is placed beyond the reach of further mischief. In the wild tumult and shock of this great battle with the "Armageddon of the race," we may care little for the negro, and may strive to utterly ignore him; but, more real, potent and terrible than Banquo's ghost, he will not down at our bidding. As hero-like Tillman, as "contraband," as fugitive from Slavery's dark den, as patient and earnest worker in the ranks of the rebel army, he is ever summoning us to judgment. On one side or the other, he is sure to be seen and felt. If we are disposed to treat him as a man, he will play the part of a man towards us; but if, on the contrary, through mistaken policy or relentless hate, we persist in treating him as a thing, to be used only as merchandize, to be driven into the hell of slavery, and trampled in its mire by the nation's armed heel, we must not be surprised if he joins with his master in the work of throttling a nation which the direst calamities, as well as the plainest dictates of justice and God's law, have failed to teach the simplest lesson of ethics, namely, that neither individuals nor nations can serve God and Mammon, freedom and slavery, and live.
I think the day of the negro's emancipation is bursting up the sky. I hope the nation has vitality enough to pass safely through its terrible ordeal. Its destiny is in the hands of its people. At any rate, justice will survive; the right shall endure. By cleaving to this, the great cycle of immortal life is before us. Forsaking these, through all the mutations of being there is written on the arch of heaven, as with a sunbeam, the warning declaration,
"When Faith is lost, when Honor dies,
The man is dead!"
When that occurs, the form or the continuance of any institution is not of the slightest moment.
Perhaps I cannot better close this long letter than by quoting a gem of purest gold with which that chronic hater of abolitionism, George Lunt, was somehow inspired, and say that, with the blessing of God, "We shall never tire of catching the diamond gleam from the forehead of eternal truth. The presence of whatever is purely good in life and thought is always welcome. We revert forever to the grand moral principles to which all ages have appealed. They never lose their force, however degraded we ourselves may be in mind and practice, and an honest sentiment finds its echo in the very hearts of thieves."
Hoping that you may have a pleasant and profitable time at your meeting to-morrow,
I remain, yours, enlisted for the war,
N. H. WHITING.
Mr. GARRISON then made a few remarks in reference to this letter. He said-I am inclined to say a word on the letter of our respected friend, just read in your hearing. The tone of it is one of great severity toward the British government and people. So far as my esteemed friend, Richard D. Webb, is concerned, I am sure that his testimony is worth being taken as he gives it, namely,-that he does not believe there is one man out of five hundred in England who does not heartily sympathize with the North in this struggle to put down the Slave Power. (Applause.) So much for the general heart of England; and, surely, a friend so faithful, so long-tried, so clear-sighted as he is, is not to be suspected of having any desire to bestow the least sympathy upon the traitors who are endeavoring to overturn this government for a most diabolical purpose. It is true, the attitude of the British government is one of neutrality towards us, at the present time. Whether it should take different ground or not, is an open question. Ten millions of people in arms, asserting their right to fashion their own institutions and maintain their own independence, present a formidable difficulty, as it respects the matter of piracy; and as our own government has not yet hung any of the rebels as pirates, although it has caught a good many, I presume that England will hesitate to take the initiative in treating them as such. This is certain-England refuses to allow any of her ports to be used for the purposes of the South, in relation to the captures of our ships by rebel privateers. We cannot expect much of any government, as a matter of disinterested virtue, in a critical emergency; but, as far as the people of England are concerned, I feel warranted in saying that they will never intelligently allow their government to do any act which shall make against the cause of freedom in which we are interested, which shall give any countenance whatever to the Slave Power of America. (Cheers.) [1]
I now have the pleasure of introducing to you, as the first speaker, one who has been, for more than thirty years, a most devoted and faithful friend of the Anti-Slavery cause; one to whom I feel myself so largely indebted for his early countenance and support, that I have no language to express the feelings of
[1] For strong confirmatory evidence of the correctness of this view, sea Letter of the English correspondent of the New York Independent, in a preceding column.
<c05>
my heart towards him. I allude to our beloved friend, Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY.
Mr. May was very cordially welcomed by the audience, and spoke as follows:-
SPEECH OF REV, SAMUEL J. MAY.
For more than thirty years, we have been trying to answer to the people of this country the simple question, that is so fully and abundantly answered by the glorious event which we are here to celebrate-What is to be done with the colored population of the country? This question has been asked in various quarters, and with greater frequency of late than ever before, which satisfies me that the nation-the people of the North, certainly-are coming to perceive that the great issue is now before us, and that the question is to be decided.
Seventy-five years ago, Thomas Jefferson, one of the most far-seeing of all the men of that day, or that have since lived in our country, said (I may not quote his words precisely)-"If we do not liberate them [the slaves] by the generous energy of our own minds, they will liberate themselves by the awful processes of St. Domingo-civil and servile war." The civil war is already upon us; and if we do not make that civil war end in the abolition of slavery, it will inevitably be followed by a servile war. It is obvious enough, and men are every where seeing, that this great commotion which is now agitating this country as it never was agitated before, and as no other country, perhaps, was ever agitated, cannot be allayed until the source of this great trouble is removed. I hope it will not be allayed until then. (Applause.)
I need not say I am a man of peace. I need not say I abhor the custom of war. I have argued against it with all the little power that I have. I believe it one of the greatest follies of which men can be guilty. But, notwithstanding all that has been said on this subject by Noah Worcester, for more than forty years, and all that has been said by Mr. Garrison for more than thirty years, and by those who have labored with him,-notwithstanding all our remonstrance's and all our entreaties to the people of our land to settle this great question, this terrible, this intolerable wrong in our midst, by peaceful and Christian means, the people have not heeded us; and Christian ministers, as they are called, and Christian churches, as they assume to be, have even ridiculed us for what we have said on this subject; and now we are plunged into war. How are we to get out of it? The event is to show. All I can say is, that we can never, blessed be God, get out of it, until we have utterly extirpated the cause of it (loud cheers); and a great many people throughout the country are coming to see that it is so, and are anxiously asking the question, "What is to be done with the enslaved people of our land?" In reply to this question, I have said again and again, "Why have you not informed yourselves of the happy results of emancipation in the British West Indies?" I am ashamed to say, that there are a great many people, even in this community, who do not know how admirable, how far better than the most sanguine friends of that movement dared to anticipate, have been the results of emancipation in the West Indies. But we all know how industriously, how untiringly, how laboriously, the political press of our country-the Herald, the Commercial Advertiser, the Courier and Enquirer, in New York, and the Courier, in Boston, (and, I believe, not less, in former days, the Daily Advertiser,) and I know not how many other papers, have tried to make it believed that it is a failure; and I have not a doubt that there are thousands of well-meaning people among us who are now brought to the conviction that slavery ought to be and must be abolished in the country, who tremble at the anticipation of the evil consequences of emancipation, the utter unfitness of the enslaved for freedom. That is, the utter unfitness of human beings for their birthright! You might as well doubt whether men were fit to breathe as whether they are fit to be free. The nonsense of the objection would be so glaring as not to leave us patience to answer it, if it were not that the frequency of the objection has really become a matter of grave importance in the prosecution of this great enterprise. Let us, then, my friends, send out from this meeting to-day as strong an utterance on the subject as we can bring ourselves to give of so plain and obvious a truth; and let us increase our diligence in circulating through the land, where-over we can, the admirable publications of our Society, more especially Mrs. Child's excellent pamphlet, "The Eight Way the Safe Way," that wherever the people who are now raising this inquiry are willing to have it answered, they may see how fully and how beautifully it has been answered in those islands where took place the event we are here to celebrate-a glorious event indeed!
The volume of Thome and Kimball, published in 1835, is a most thrillingly interesting narrative of the blessed effects that manifested themselves immediately after the Emancipation Act took effect. In 183-, Mr. Gurney, a very distinguished member of the Society of Friends in England, visited the West India Islands for the express purpose of informing himself, and the people of Great Britain, of the true results of their gift of freedom to the enslaved. His Report showed those results to have been much better than were anticipated.
Numerous articles, published from time to time in the Liberator, Anti-Slavery Standard, and the New York Tribune, have confirmed Mr. Gurney's Report by the most ample and indisputable testimonies. Tracts have been published by the American Anti-Slavery Society, embodying the evidence thus obtained, and eloquently pressing it upon the consideration of the doubting.
In 1858, Rev. Henry Bleby, who had resided and labored as a missionary thirty years in the islands, visited this country. He lectured in several of our principal cities. The substance of his speeches was published in several periodicals, and in pamphlet form, giving the most satisfactory assurances that the emancipation of the enslaved in the British West India islands had been a blessing, in every way, to all concerned.
The same assurances were given to the British public, in I860, by the Hon. Mr. Hincks, one of the Governors of the West India islands, then on a visit to England. But there has lately been published, by the Messrs. Harpers of New York, a volume which I especially commend to the perusal of all who would prefer the testimony of such as have not been committed to the anti-slavery cause in our country or in England. I refer to the volume entitled, "The Ordeal of Free and Slave Labor."
I have been reminded, in thinking of this meeting to-day, of other evidence of this self-evident truth, that it is safe to treat men as men. I have been thinking of other evidences that have come to me, since I entered upon this work of trying to induce our fellow-countrymen to regard and treat the enslaved population of the land as human beings, and to rely upon the healthful influences of those natural inducements to labor, and to behave as men should, which keep other people in proper subjection to what is reasonable and right. I shall never forget, and I have often used, the brief and all-comprehensive reply which our friend Elizur Wright, very early in our movement, gave to this, question, "What shall be done with the enslaved population?" He said, "Take them from under Mr. Lash, and put them under Mr. Cash." (Applause.) That answers the question as well as it can be answered. A folio volume which should be written with the best ability of the most eminent, pro-slavery or anti-slavery man in our country, would bring us at last to that conclusion. "Take them from under Mr. Lash, and put them under Mr. Cash!" The simplest thing in the world; and that it has always worked well wherever it has been tried, we have the most abundant evidence.
I need not, of course, refer you now to the evidence, with which all anti-slavery persons, men and women, are so familiar, recorded; in pamphlets and speeches that we have all of us, I trust, read again and again; but I remember, some twenty-five or more years ago, that excellent old man, Moses Brown, of Providence-
<c06>
one of the earliest and truest friends of the anti-slavery cause-put into my hands several important pamphlets and stouter books, some of which I still have but the one to which I am now about to refer, I am sorry to say, I have not. I read it, however, with so much interest then, that it made an impression that has not been effaced; I am not conscious that it has been dimmed., Still, as I am going to state the contents from recollection, of course some allowances must be made, notwithstanding my confidence in my memory. It was an account of Mr. Joshua Steele, of England, a man of large West India possessions, who had lived at ease in England, with little or no thought of those who were toiling for him on his far-distant plantations, until he had attained, I believe, nearly, if not quite, the age of seventy years, when a deep religious conviction came over him-those effects that are produced upon the hearts of men by that Spirit which is continually striving with us to will and to do of the good pleasure of the impartial Father of us all. A deep religious conviction came upon him, that he had been living in great unrighteousness, and had been guilty of terrible wrongs (to what extent he knew not) to those whom he held as his property. He therefore settled up his affairs in England, took leave of his friends, and, in 1780; came to the island of Barbadoes, with the determination to devote himself, the rest of his life, to the welfare of his enslaved fellow-beings on his plantations-amounting, I think, to four or five hundred in all.
He found their condition much worse than he had feared. He found the treatment to which they were subjected by his overseers more cruel than he could hare believed, and the impositions practised upon them in various ways by those overseers greater far than he had dreamed of. He gathered about him his enslaved; brethren and sisters, acknowledged the wrong of which he had been guilty, and declared to them his intention thenceforward to be with them, and to do for them all that be might. He dismissed his overseers, called to his assistance some young men from England, who had never been contaminated by any immediate connection with the working of the slave system, opened accounts with alt his slaves, who were able to be thus employed, as free laborers, and paid them wages. He encouraged and assisted them in improving their habitations, and gathering about them the comforts of civilized life. I need not go into detail. He did all that, under the circumstances, he knew how to do, to help them to live as human beings should live, and as those who are partaking of the blessings of liberty might lire. In effect, so far! as he could, he had emancipated his slaves-without perhaps, giving that name to it; though, if I remember right, (I am not sure on this point,) he informed them that, if they were willing to go from under his hand, they might; but if they pleased to remain, as he wished they might, he should do what he could for them. They all, with few exceptions, if my memory serves me right, chose to remain with him, in the relation of employer and employed. He was permitted to live-although, when he commenced this benevolent operation, he was an old man-ten or fifteen years; and I remember distinctly the details which I read, with eyes filled with delight, of the constantly improving condition of the people in his employment for the whole number of years that he was permitted to live with them. Their expenditures for their own comfort and convenience were vastly greater, but the income from his estates to himself, after having paid his people generously, was greater than it ever had been while they were treated as slaves, and was increasingly greater to the last. (Loud applause.)
Now, friends, if any of you think I have not a good memory, I hope you will hunt up that little pamphlet, and see wherein I am incorrect in my statements.
I will tell you now something that has never been written, but I think should be. Soon after I commenced, under the inspiration of this man, [Mr. Garrison,] who has misled me so much, (laughter,) to labor in this cause, (I think it was in 1835,) as I was on my way to Taunton and New Bedford, I met two gentlemen in the stage, who, somehow or other, had heard who I was, and what I was about. After awhile, they made this fact known to me, and gave me to understand that they were from the Southern States. After conversing upon the subject, and learning what are the principles we avow and the purposes we aim to accomplish, one of the gentlemen said, with a very kindly and earnest manner, "Well, I don't blame you. Slavery is a horrible institution, and, for my part, so far as I have been concerned with it. I have got rid of it, as far as I can." "What," said I, "do you mean? Have you emancipated your slaves! "Well, they know they may go away if they've a mind to; but they choose to remain." "Do let me have," said I, "a full account of your experiment, for I am extremely anxious to know all about it." "My name," he said, "is Marshall; I am a lawyer, now settled in Fredericksburg, but I formerly lived on my plantation, which was about fifteen miles from Fredericksburg. I found, as you doubtless know many planters in eastern Virginia have found to their sorrow, that our system of labor was an exceedingly expensive and wasteful one, and it had become evident to me that I was running behind hand, and could not long sustain myself upon the place. Provoked by the mismanagement of the overseer, and in a feeling partly of despair and partly of impatience, said to my wife, 'I am going to throw the plantation into the hands of the people, and let them see if they can support themselves, and I wilt go into Fredericksburg, and support myself by my profession.' She gladly consented." He called his slaves about him, forty in number, and told them he was going to Fredericksburg to live; "and," said he, "I am going to give up the plantation to you, and you must see how you can manage it." Instantly, he said, are expression went over their countenances which satisfied him he had touched the right chord. "Master," said they, "you will see how we will manage." Before night, he said, they had had a meeting-the first democratic meeting, I suppose, ever held on a plantation (applause)-and chosen the very men whom he should have selected as the best, to guide them in their new mode of living They selected two, and called one Colonel, and the other Captain, Of course, they did not want any overseers or drivers any longer.
Mr. Marshall said that, having done this, he went, as soon as possible, to Fredericksburg, where, of course, he was very busy in establishing himself in his profession, so that something like two months passed before he went out to his plantation. Then happening to think, one day, that it was "play day" among the slaves, he said to his wife, "We will go out, and see how the slaves are getting along." When he approached the house, he saw no signs of jollification at all, and when he got upon the grounds, he found them hard at work. So he called the Captain, or Colonel, and said, "How is this?" He answered, very intelligently and knowingly, "You know that the crop is in just such a situation, that a day's work is very important just now; and you know, master," said he, looking upon into his face, "we can take the day now whenever, we've a mind to." "Certainly," said Mr. Marshall. So he went round the plantation and was exceedingly gratified at the way in which they had managed it. He praised them highly, for he said they had done admirably well, and went back to Fredericksburg very well satisfied with what he had seen. A few weeks later, there came a messenger, on a foaming horse, to report to him that there was an insurrection on his plantation. "Insurrection!" said he, "what is there for them to have an insurrection about?" You can easily understand that some of his neighbors were not very well pleased at the way in which he had managed his plantation; but you know the plantations are widely separated in that section, and nothing had occurred specially to excite their fears until that day. It did not occur to him what the trouble could be, but in deference to the alarm which he was led to suppose had occurred in the neighborhood, he mounted his horse to go to the plantation, and see what the trouble, was. When he got there, the slaves exclaimed, "How did you know this was our play day?" (Laughter and applause.) So he went to the
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
neighboring plantation, and allayed the fears of the people there by assuring them that his slaves were only having their play day," and then returned and spent the day with them. Of course, he was treated like a lord. They took him about the place, and showed him the improvements they had made in their houses-how many convenient domestic utensils they had supplied themselves with; and they were particularly anxious that he should see how well they were managing this and that crop, and all that. He said he perfectly satisfied that the experiment was an entirely safe one; that it was safe to treat man as man. strange as it may seem! (Applause.)And," I added, very unsafe, sir, to treat man as any thing else but man." (Renewed applause.) Very unsafe, as we, are finding continually.
This experiment had been going on, Sir. Marshall told me, five years and his slaves had never been half so comfortable. Talk about their not being able to take care of themselves! said he." My overseers and my agents never have taken half as good care of them as they have taken of themselves, and my plantation has never been so profitable It is profitable now; I was running behind-hand before."
Now my friends, you are not surprised at this. You would be almost assumed that I should tell you the story to convince you of the truth. And yet, just such facts as these are necessary to be spread before the people of our country, to convince them that the real danger resides in the terrible experiment that has been going on so long in our country; that experience which would make brutes of human beings; subject to the condition of domesticated animals those whom God has created in his own image, and intended should be followers of himself as dear children. That is the fearful experiment that the people of this country have been making for a hundred years; and look at the horrible predicament into which our country is now thrown! God only knows how we are to come out of it. It is a just retribution. I bow reverently and submissively to this vindication of right which is now going on in our midst. Never since I thought of the subject have I dared to pray that I, or any whom I love, or any others, might be exempted from the natural consequences of our sins and our follies. I have long since got rid of those notions of God that led me to fear that he would treat us, wicked, ungrateful, perverse as we may be, with any too great severity. No. I believe that we shall be brought out of this terrible predicament somehow, better, perhaps, than we fear: hut yet not until we have been made to feel and penitently to own, that we have been a fearfully wicked people. (Applause.) It is by true, unfeigned, heart felt repentance alone that this most egregious, Heaven daring, God-defying system of iniquity, and its consequences, can be utterly done away. (Applause.)
The President then introduced WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., who was received with enthusiastic applause, His speech-a most timely and able one-may be found on our first page.
At the conclusion of Mr. Phillips's speech, the meeting, after singing another hymn, adjourned for one hour.
[We shall publish the substance of the afternoon proceedings next week.]

BRITISH VEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
The celebration of the colored citizens of New Bedford, in commemoration of the 27th anniversary of British West India Emancipation, took place at Arnold's Grove on Friday afternoon, August 2d.
The meeting was organized with the following officers:-President, Alfred Swan; Vice-Presidents, Chas. Allen, Rev. Win. Jackson, Dr. Thomas Bayne, Win. Henry Johnson; Secretaries, Dr. William P. Powell, Jr., John Freedom.
Rev. Edmund Kelley officiated as Chaplain, and offered prayer.
The following resolutions were offered by Wm. P. Towel!:-
Whereas, in order to subjugate the legitimate government of the United States, his un-excellency, the arch traitor and would-be President, Jeff. Davis, issued his proclamation at Montgomery, to commission letter? of marquee to make reprisals upon the lawful property of loyal American citizens; and, Whereas, in view of this atrocious fact, several piratical vessels are already in commission, and several vessels and cargoes seized and forfeited, and several loyal colored American citizens sold into life-long slavery, contrary to the codes of civil warfare and international law; therefore,
Resolved, That Wm. Tillman, the colored steward of schooner S. J. Waring, seized by the piratical brig Jeff. Davis, 7th July, for his heroic act, in recapturing said vessel and cargo, by unwillingly taking the lives of the piratical crew, thereby saving valuable property to the amount of $100,000; and also in saving of what is of more value than money, his own liberty, is entitled to the unanimous thanks of the United States Congress.
That a Committee of three be appointed to forward these resolutions to the Hon. T. Dawes Eliot, Representative from this district, and present the same to Congress.
That the proceedings of this meeting, together with the resolutions, be published in the New Bedford Mercury, Evening Standard, Boston Liberator, New York National Anti-Slavery Standard.
The resolutions were adopted.
Eloquent and interesting addresses were made by Rev. Mr. Girdwood, Dr. Stearns, lion. Rodney French, Dr. Bayne, Rev. Thomas Jones, Dr. William Powell, David W. Ruggles and William Henry Johnson.
The following preamble and resolution, offered by Dr. Bayne, were also adopted:-
Whereas, the colored people of this Commonwealth have applied to the Legislature to have the word white stricken from the militia list, that the colored men of this Commonwealth might render loyal service in times of war; and,
Whereas, His Excellency ex-Governor Banks has decided that the grant of such a petition would be unconstitutional-therefore,
Resolved, That we, as colored men, regard it hypocritical' and wicked in those that ask us as colored men why we do not go to war.
The assembly was quite large and respectable, and everything was conducted in the most orderly and satisfactory manner.
WASHINGTON ON SLAVERY. The following sentiments of Gen. George Washington, in a letter to Gen. Lafayette in 1791, will show with sufficient significance what was his opinion of the peculiar institution at that time:-
"I agree with you cordially in your views in regard to negro slavery. I have long considered it a most serious evil, both socially and politically, and I should rejoice in any feasible scheme to rid our Suites of such a burden. The Congress of 1787 adopted an ordinance which prohibits the existence of involuntary servitude in our Northwestern Territory forever. consider it a wise measure. It met with the approval and asset of nearly every member from the. States more immediately interested in slave labor. The prevailing opinion in Virginia is against the spread of slavery in our new Territories, AND I TRUST WE SHALL HAVE A CONFEDERACY OF FREE STATES."
If Washington were living to utter such a sentiment as this Richmond, he this in Richmond, he would hardly escape being summarily lynched or banished!
Rev. W. H. Channing, lately of Liverpool, but who has since accepted a call to Brixtone Chapel, London, is in Boston, diligently learning all he can regarding the condition and prospects of the country in this emergency, and posting leading English thinkers on, the matter. He is looking very well, and is exceedingly absorbed in the state of things. A lecture of his in London has been published in London, makes a considerable pamphlet. It is one of the best things that have appeared on the subject It is sold by Walker, Wise & Co., in Boston.
We shall publish, in our next, the able Discourse of Rev. Mr. Mayo, of Albany, at Music Hall.
<c02>
DISCUSSION ON EMIGRATION.
Reported for the Pine and Palm by JAMES M.W. YERRINTON
On the evening of the 21st. ult, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., delivered ah address in Rev. Mr. Grimes's church, Southac street, on: the War and the Haytian Emigration Movement-a verbatim report of which appeared in the Pine and Palm of July 26.
While the collection was being taken up, Mr. Garrison said, if any person in the audience desired to ask any questions, lie would endeavor to answer them.
GEORGE T. DOWNING.-A. great deal of confidence is naturally placed in any remark that falls from our friend Mr. Garrison, because we have known him long and well, and we know that whatever he says, he says in an honest spirit, and not in the spirit of compromise, and that he will speak freely and fully what he thinks. He has drawn several parallels between the old Colonization Society and the new. There are two others, to which he has not alluded. One is this: that both of them seem to desire to create in the minds of the colored people the impression that they cannot be anything in this country. I think that any one who has followed the movements of the two Societies, will admit that this is a fact Another point is this: that they both aim to keep the light from us, by preventing discussion. I will give an instance. Mr. Hamilton, in connection with Mr. Sipkins, went into several colonization meetings, some years back, and dared to ask certain questions as to the bearing of this movement upon the interests of the colored people, but they were not permitted to discuss the matter. This Society will not allow any colored man to question its motive or plans. I believe I am stating facts. These two parallels have a striking influence upon my mind. If I was allowed to discuss this matter freely, I might look with more favor than I do upon this movement. But finding this depressing influence emanating from the Society, and, also, a disposition on the part of the Society to suppress all discussion, I question the honesty of it.
MR. GARRISON.-I would say, in reply to the statements of our friend Mr. Downing, that whenever or wherever I shall see any such spirit exhibited, I shall feel bound to denounce it in the strongest manner. If this is the spirit which animates those who have the new movement under their charge, it certainly does not indicate the right spirit, nor one that is willing to be " searched as with a candle."
As to the assertion that you cannot rise in the scale of civilization here, I should be sorry to find any colored man retailing that monstrous heresy of the old Colonization Society. I regard it as a libel upon the goodness of God, and the power of Christianity. It may be, that you will suffer yet a good deal from complexional prejudice; it may be, that I am too sanguine in the expectation that all your rights will, at no distant day, be conceded to you; it may be, that the day of emancipation is further off than I now apprehend it to be; but I beg of you not to lose your trust in God, or in the power of his truth, and not to believe that this country is so utterly depraved that the truth cannot find its way into the hearts of the people, and that we cannot, as a nation, be saved. I desire you to believe that you shall rise here in the good time coming" that you are not to be always kept down; and to give no countenance to any man, or any body of men, who propagate the disheartening doctrine that you must always be despised and degraded here. And yet, if a man is so morbidly constituted that he cannot take any other view than that, of course he will advocate it; and perhaps we ought to be as charitable towards him as possible, especially if he be a colored man. But when I hear a white man assert that you can never rise here, on account of your complexion, it creates a moral conflagration in my soul. I should be sorry to have any colored man imitate that bad example by expressing his conviction that you must leave the country, before you can gain the possession: of your rights, and escape from inevitable degradation.
WM. W. BROWN.-I should be very sorry to have those of our people who are here go away with the impression that the emigration movement advocates the doctrine, that colored men cannot rise in this country. If it should appear that such a doctrine was advocated, I would at once oppose it, as I would slavery in the Southern States. I am glad my friend Garrison has not seen any thing of that kind, for we all know he would oppose it, if he saw it manifested. I have heard colored men say that we cannot rise in this country, but I have never heard any say so connected with this movement.
In regard to the matter of discussion in their journal, that may be a matter of opinion. It may be that they thought the subjects presented were not presented in the manner that they ought to have been. I remember to have heard the expression used by Mr. Red path, within a day or two, that Thomas W. Higginson could have a column every week to oppose the movement, if he thought fit; or any body who would discuss the subject in a manner that was calculated to enlighten the people, and not abuse the privileges of the press.
I thought it was no more than justice to the movement to make this explanation, for I myself feel an interest in Hayti; but the interest I feel is not sufficient to make me willing that our cause should be damaged here, in order that Hayti may be benefited by emigration there. Still, we ought to do the persons connected with this movement simple justice. Mr. Garrison's remarks upon Hayti I concur in entirely. I think that they are timely and just, and what we ought to hear upon this subject. It seems to me that we ought to hesitate, before leaving the country, upon every little thing that conies up; but when such a movement as this by the Haytian government is inaugurated, and taken up by people here, we ought to do them justice, and give justice to those who are interested in the movement here.
M.R. DOWNING.-Mr. Garrison will observe the point of my questions. I mentioned two parallels between the Societies, of which he had not spoken. I wish to have his impressions upon these points.
MR. GARRISON.-I have heard that, in discussing this question, some of the agents employed have held up this desponding view. I cannot speak of my own knowledge upon this point. I only say, that if I shall discover any thing of the kind in a tangible shape, I shall certainly not be sparing of my rebuke. I abhor the old doctrine, and hold it to be very pernicious. It seems to me that the progress of the last thirty years has been very wonderful, in subduing and overcoming this unnatural prejudice; and although much more remains to be done, still, in view of the past, and of the signs with regard to the future, I think we may all of us "thank God, and take courage." I would not have you leave this country on any account; I and yet, I admit, it requires almost or quite an apostolic self-sac rice for you to remain. Notwithstanding the advance in public opinion on the right side, there is still a heavy pressure upon you everywhere. The temptation to go elsewhere among people of your own complexion, where you will no longer be proscribed, is certainly a powerful one; and I think a great deal may be pardoned to one who, feeling that pressure very keenly, desires to get out of this country. Nevertheless, I want to impress it upon your minds, that it will be the noblest work you can do, to stand here in your lot, and, if it must be so, suffer-(applause)-suffer for the sake of the millions in bondage. I want to see the colored people increasing, not diminishing, in number. The slaveholder dreads to have you multiply, and I want you to multiply. He wants you to be shipped out of the country; I would have you resolve not to be shipped out of the country. He understands the bearing of this question very sagaciously upon the slave system. Before God, I do not see how this nation can be really civilized and Christianized, if you go. You are needed to make us Christians, to make us understand what Christianity means; and if you go away from us, and leave us as we are, we shall certainly be damned as a people! We have taken all the nations of the earth into our embrace, with one exception. Only look at the army, as it is
<c03>
going Southward! See how it is composed of all men and nations, except colored men!. But they will have a chance, by and by. I say it is significant; that the day is very near at hand, when the last vestige of caste will be destroyed, and there will no longer be any black or any white men to talk about, invidiously and hatefully, bat we shall mingle harmoniously together as one people. And may God hasten the day!

THE ATTITUDE OF ENGLAND.
Let us not be unreasonable in our expectations of England in the struggle now pending in this country.
When we say England, we mean sometimes the people of Great Britain, and sometimes their government.
If, when we talk of the duty of England to give sympathy and aid to the North in the existing contest, we mean the people of England, is should be remembered that that nation includes as many varieties in feeling, interest, prejudice, principle, and want of principle, as our own. If it be asked-What is the feeling of Americans towards England?-the answer must be that half a dozen widely different states of feeling are cherished and expressed by as many widely different classes here, each possessed of more or less influence through its numbers, its weight, or its activity. Of course, the same variety of feeling exists among the English people in relation to us. The Times, and Blackwood's Magazine, and the English lady who wrote, a few years ago, a book full of intense laudation of Southern society, effervescent with delight in its manners, customs, morals, religion, and no less in its "peculiar institution," have their circle of sympathizers, and that a large and powerful one. They, certainly, are not to be expected to favor us in preference to the South. Neither can such favor be expected from that large portion of the mercantile class who think free trade the best, and protection" the worst of all possible things; nor from that large portion of the manufacturing class to whom cotton is the most important of all worldly considerations; nor from those temporal and spiritual dignitaries who have, ever since our Revolution, considered overmuch freedom to be the vice and the danger of this country, and who have constantly looked for its decline and fall in consequence of the amount of democracy (not at all in consequence of the amount of tyranny ) incorporated with it. These classes, at least, all great and strong ones, cannot be expected to sympathize particularly with the North. They declare our present trouble be a fulfillment of their oft-repeated predictions.
Are we to expect sympathy, then, from the philanthropists of England? from those of her people who rejoice in the fact that their slavery was long since abolished, and who have long urged the duty of a similar abolition on our part, and the shame of our Northern continued complicity with slavery?
These persons feel, no doubt, an active sympathy with the Abolitionists, the people who are laboring, now as heretofore, in the direction of their wishes, and of justice and humanity; but can they be expected to show or to feel any active interest in that United States Government which takes special care that its action against rebellious slaveholders shall not interfere with their slavery?-which makes special protestation of its purpose to protect that wickedness in the loyal States, and to leave it undisturbed even in the hostile ones? Favor and help to the present Administration, in its present attitude, would give no direct help to the overthrow of slavery. Even if such help were given, to the extent of compelling a submission of the rebels, slavery would still exist among them, and exist by our direct connivance, as heretofore; and would still produce the same pestilent brood of troubles, making constant efforts to overthrow its natural enemy, liberty. While our government concedes a right, not only to its citizens but to its rebels, to hold slaves, what can British philanthropists do but look on and wait, protesting, meanwhile, against such folly and wickedness?
But if, when we say England ought to help us put down the rebellion, we mean the English government, we show ourselves to be guided by prejudice rather than reason. Governments, no more than corporations, have souls. They are governed by deliberate considerations of policy. Like Napoleon's idea of Providence, they are on the side of the strongest battalions; and until it is proved which side is the strongest, their part is to wait. Is the second to do more than his principal? Everybody sees that our government occupies a position of defence far more than of active forward movement. It keeps as quiet as its Southern assailants will allow. It does as little as possible, except guarding its capital against fire and sword. It makes no attempt to remove known traitors, not merely from the seat of government, but from positions of trust and active occupation in the government! It seizes a few actively traitorous persons in the very act of treachery to the government and help to the enemy, and releases them on parole, though they are known to be as destitute of honor as of honesty! It issues proclamations against certain persons as pirates; but when they fall into its power, though taken in the very act of murder and robbery on the high seas, it does not hang them as pirates! Is the English government to be more active than our own in opposing our rebels 1 Under such circumstances, what can she do but wait? Before any effective cooperation with us against the South, must she not at least have the assurance of acts more decided than any that have yet appeared, that our government is in earnest?-C. K. W.

PLAN POE TEEMINATING THE WAR,
BY DIVISION OF THE UNITED STATES, WITHOUT COSCESSION 
OF PRINCIPLE OR RIGHT ON THE
PART OF THE NORTH.
1. Let the United States be divided into two distinct Federal Republics, each sovereign and independent of the other.
2. The Southern Slaveholding Republic to be bounded by the present boundary between the Slave States and the Free States, unless either of the border Slave States shall determine to be attached to the Northern division.
3. The Western, or yet unsettled part of Texas, and all the Territories now remaining in a territorial condition, to be annexed to the Northern Republic.
4. All the forts, arsenals, navy yards, and other public establishments or property of the United States, to be ceded to the Republic in the boundaries of which they are respectively situated.
5. The District of Columbia., with the city of Washington, to be re-ceded to the State of Maryland, to whichever of the Republics that State shall decide to belong; the proportion of the cost of the public buildings, &c., derived from the Free States, to be reimbursed to the Northern Republic. (The Northern Republic will then establish its capital in a more eligible situation in a free State.)
6. The navigation of the river Mississippi to be free to the citizens of both Republics; and a sufficient number of limited locations on the banks of that river, to its mouth, to be sold by the States bordering on the river to the Northern Republic, on which to erect forts or batteries for the protection of that navigation.
7. The Northern Republic no longer to be obligated to return fugitives from service in the Southern Republic, nor for any crime, not recognized as such by both Republics; nor to take any measure implying a recognition of the right of property in man; and to reserve the right of emancipating any persons coming in any way under its power or dominion.
8. Commerce between the two Republics to be free; and no duties or imports to be levied by the Governments of either, on imports or exports from one Republic to the other, unless by mutual consent, by treaty, or enactment of the legislatures of both Republics.
9. Travel, residence, domestic and social engagements, commercial transactions, and the exercise of speech, writing and printing to be free, and protected to the citizens of either Republic, in the dominions of the other, and each Government to be responsible for
<c04>
any injury to the persons, property, or rights of the citizens of the other, within its dominions excepting by legal process for violation of the laws.
Should the above conditions of separation be agreed to by leading men of both sections, the mode of effecting the division is easy. It is only that the President and Congress should recognize the actual independence of the seceded States, simply as a feet, accomplished by them, which could not be prevented; and then Commissioners might be appointed on both sides, to negotiate a treaty of peace, which might be on the above or similar terms, and which, when ratified by the Senate, would complete the separation.
It is said that the Government and States of the Southern Confederacy will not agree to the above conditions, and will, prefer to continue to resist the Federal Government by war, rather than consent to them; if so, then, after trial by Conference, (which ought to be made,) their refusal will not render it necessary for the Northern Government to give up a single one. of these conditions, or any principle of right, or to continue this sanguinary conflict; the Northern Union has only to enact this plan of separation itself; to recognize the independence of the Southern Confederacy; to withdraw their armies from the seceded States; to take possession, by those forces, of the Territories claimed in the above project, still holding Washington and the Southern forts, and blockading the Southern ports; to expunge from the Constitution, by Art. 5, the provision for the return of fugitives from service; and then simply holding on to that position, without any further aggressive movement, the States of the Southern Confederacy, in view of the inevitable loss of many of their slaves, cut off from all foreign commerce and intercourse, and standing in worse position than this plan would allow them, would soon find themselves compelled to agree to these stipulations, or such others as we might choose to impose.
Let us now look at the advantages which would accrue to the Northern States, from the separation of the Southern on the above plan.
1. If adopted immediately, there would be a cession of hostilities, (which might be anticipated by an armistice,) a great saving of lives, treasure, and other blessings, and a peace secured, which might be permanent; as the causes of war now occurring between the two sections would be removed.
2. The Northern Republic and its citizens would be exempted from the recognition of the right of human property, and from all obligations to the support of slavery, directly or indirectly.
3. The maintenance of Northern and Western freedom could not be again imperilled, or secretly undermined, by unprincipled parties, having a supposed interest again to favor the ascendancy in the Union of the slave-holding power.
4. There could be no further necessity for a burdensome standing army, by the Northern Republic, now always required, for the suppression of servile insurrection, or defence against Southern Indians.
5. The vast expenditure of the revenue, now chiefly collected at the North, and more proportionally disbursed at the South, would be economized.
6. The great reproach of the American Union in Europe and elsewhere, as a nation professing ultra principles of freedom, and yet cherishing slavery in its bosom, would be removed from the Northern Republic, and its high reputation and influence consequently reestablished.
7. The regions covered by the Northern Republic would be vastly larger than those of the Southern and, freed from the weakening, impoverishing, and corrupting influence of connected slavery, would invite a more intelligent immigration, and soon rise to an empire second to none on the earth, and take its rank with the first class of nations.
8. And lastly, The impossibility of preserving slavery at the South, when the Northern support should be withdrawn from it, from the perpetual escape of slaves and danger of insurrection, would compel emancipation for safety, and thus make this measure of separation the speediest and most peaceable one of abolishing slavery that can be devised; the prosecution of the war, however successful, while the Union is insisted on, cannot do it.
J. P. B.

BATTLE IN MISSOURI.
Union Troops Victorious-Defeat of McColloch's Army. SPRINGFIELD, Mo., 2d. A battle occurred to-day at Tug Spring, 19 miles south of this place, between Gen. Lyon's forces and Ben McColloch's troops, Eight of the former were killed, and 30 wounded; while 40 of Ben McColloch's rebels were killed and 44 wounded. Gen. Lyon took 80 stand of arms and 15 horses and wagons. Our cavalry, 270 strong, made a charge on a body of rebels said to be 4000 strong, cutting their way through, and routing them with a loss of only five cavalry. The charge was most gallant and terrible. Several dead rebels were found with their heads cloven clear through. The enemy retired during the night, and Gen. Lyon took possession of the field. Another battle is momentarily expected, the enemy being in large force west of Spring-field.
A COLORED CREW REFUSE TO GO INTO BALTIMORE, FOR FEAR OF BEING-SOLD INTO SLAVERY. The brig Robert C. Wright, Capt. Garland, arrived at New York, on Sunday, under the following peculiar circumstances:-It appears that the brig, sailed from Cuba, having on board an entire crew of colored men, who, when they learned she was bound for Baltimore, refused to go to that port, alleging that when they arrived, they would be sold into bondage. No persuasion or assurance on the part of the captain and his officers could alter the feelings of the colored men, and they resolved on measures unwise, but in their minds the only one by which they should escape a life of slavery. They took a favorable opportunity, and rose en masse, and informed the captain and officers, if they persisted in going into Baltimore, they would, by force, take possession of the vessel, and bring her into a Northern port. The superior numbers of the colored crew, and their determined attitude, led Captain Garland to fear for the life of himself and officers; and after vainly attempting to mollify the exasperated negroes, he was obliged to alter his course. On arriving at New York, the crew were taken in change by the harbor police, and committed for trial.
The Tribune correspondent writes:-" A letter from a prominent secessionist at Fernandina, Florida, to a gentleman now in this city, received by the way of Louisville, states that all property owned by Northerners will be confiscated in October. This is held out as a reward and inducement to the soldiers, who in no other way can get any pay. In a postscript on business is the following: 'There is, in the interior, a well organized negro soldiery, who are ready to defend the soil, and to whom a bonus of $10 is offered for every scalp of an invading foe; and I assure you they are anxious for a contest.'"
Mr. Robert McGraw, brother of Henry McGraw, who accompanied Arnold Harris in the expedition to recover the body of Col. Cameron, has received intelligence from his brother, through Baltimore. Messrs. McGraw and Harris are comfortably. cared for at Richmond. Mr. McGraw has been assigned prison quarters in a tobacco warehouse. The rebel leaders propose to exchange Messrs. Harris and McGraw for two of the officers of the piratical vessel captured by our fleet. This is the sublimity of impudence. Messrs. Harris and McGraw were taken prisoners while proceeding upon a mission of mercy under a flag of truce, and the pirates were captured in actual hostility not recognized as legitimate by any Christian people.
INDIANIANS HUNG. A man by the name of Elijah Thomas, and his son, formerly of this city, were hung in Missouri by rebels, at the family residence on the line of the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad. Mr. Thomas hoisted the Stars and Stripes on his housetop, but hauled them down to prevent an attack. He was visited and asked if he raised the Union flag, and answering in the affirmative, he and his eldest son were seized and taken to the woods, and hung on the same tree.-Lafayette Courier.
Two contrabands have just reached the Pocahontas, off Acquia Creek, saying that they escaped recently from Mosquito Point, at the mouth of the Rappahannock. They add that they were part of a force of 500 negroes that had been drafted from the plantations within reach, to erect fortifications at that point, for which work preparations were being made when they sloped.
HAYTIAN INDEPENDENCE. In the U. S. Senate, on Monday last, Mr. Simmer presented the resolutions of the Legislature of Massachusetts, instructing the Senators, and requesting the Representatives, from that State, by all means to encourage the recognition of the Republic of Hayti. Laid on the table, and ordered to be printed.
<c05>
GENERAL BUTLER ON THE CONTRABAND QUESTION.
The following interesting letter from Gen. Butler has been received at the War Department:-
"HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINA FORTRESS MONROE, July 30, 1861.
HON. SIMON CAMERON, Secretary of War:
Sir,-By an order received on the morning of the 26th July from Major General Dix, by a telegraphic order from Lieut-General Scott, I was commanded to forward, of the troops of this department, four regiments and a half, including Col. Baker's California regiment, to Washington via Baltimore. This order reached me at 2 o'clock, A. M., by special boat from Baltimore. Believing that it emanated because of some pressing exigency for the defence of Washington, I issued my orders before daybreak for the embarkation of the troops, sending those who were among the very best regiments I had. In the course of the following day, they were all embarked for Baltimore, with the exception of some 400, for whom I had no transportation, although I had all the transport force an the hands of the Quartermaster here, to aid the Bay line of steamers, which, by the same order from the Lieutenant-General, was directed to furnish transportation. Up to and at the time of the order, I had been preparing for an advance movement by which I hoped to cripple the resources of the enemy at Yorktown, and especially by seizing a large quantity of negroes who were being pressed into their service in building the intrenchments there. I had five days previously been enabled to mount, for the first time, the first company of Light Artillery, which I had been empowered to raise, and they had but a single rifled cannon, an iron six-pounder. Of course, everything must and did yield to the supposed exigency and the orders. This ordering away the troops from this department, while it weakened the posts at Newport News, necessitated the withdrawal of the troops from Hampton, where I was then throwing up intrenched works to enable me to hold the town with a small force, while I advanced up the York or James river. In the village of Hampton, there were a large number of negroes, composed in a great measure of women and children of the men who had fled thither within my lines for protection, who had escaped from marauding parries of rebels who had been gathering up able-bodied blacks to aid them in constructing their batteries on the James and York rivers. I had employed the men in Hampton in throwing up intrenchments, and they were working zealously and efficiently at that duty, saving our soldiers from that labor under the gleam of the mid-day sun. The women were earning substantially their own subsistence in washing, marketing, and taking care of the clothes of the soldiers, and rations were being served out to the men who worked for the support of the children. But by the evacuation of Hampton, rendered necessary by the withdrawal of troops, leaving me scarcely 5,000 men outside the Fort, including the force at Newport News, all these black people were obliged to break up their homes at Hampton, fleeing across the creek within my lines for protection and support. Indeed, it was a most distressing sight to see these poor creatures, who had trusted to the protection of the arras of the United States, and who aided the troops of the United States in their enterprise, to be thus obliged to flee from their homes, and the homes of their masters, who had deserted them, and become not fugitives from fear of the return of the rebel soldiery, who had threatened to shoot the men who had wrought for us, and to carry off the women, who had served us, to a worse than Egyptian bondage. I have, therefore, now within the Peninsula, this side of Hampton Creek, 900 negroes, 300 of whom are able-bodied men, 30 of whom are men substantially past hard labor, 175 women, 225 children under the age of ten years, and 170 between ten and eighteen years, and many more coming in. The questions which this state of facts raises are very embarrassing.
First, What shall be done with them? and, Second, What is their state and condition?
Upon these questions I desire the instructions of the Department.
The first question, however, may perhaps be answered by considering the last. Are these men, women, and children slaves? Are they free? Is their condition that of men, women, and children, or of property, or is it a mixed relation? What their status was under the Constitution and laws, we all know. What has been the effect of rebellion and a state of war upon that status? When I adopted the theory of treating the able-bodied negro fit to work in the trenches as property, liable to be used in aid of rebellion, and so contraband of war, that condition of things was in so far met, as I then and still believe, on a legal and constitutional basis. But now a new series of questions arise. Passing by women, the children certainly cannot be treated on that basis; if property, they must be considered the in cumbrance, rather than the auxiliary of an army, and, of coarse, in no possible legal relation, could be treated as contraband. Are they property? If they were so, they have been left by their masters and owners, deserted, thrown away, abandoned, like the wrecked vessel upon the ocean. Their former possessors and owners have causelessly, traitorously, rebelliously, and, to carry out the figure, practically abandoned them to be swallowed up by the Winter storm of starvation. If property, do they not become the property of the salvers? But we, their salvers, do not need and will not hold such property and will assume no such ownership; has not, therefore, all proprietary relation ceased? Have they not become thereupon men, women, and children? No longer under ownership of any kind, the fearful relicts of fugitive masters, have they not by their masters' acts, and the state of war, assumed the condition, which we hold to bo the normal one, of those made in God's image? Is not every constitutional, legal, and moral requirement, as well to the runaway master as their relinquished slaves, thus answered? I confess that my own mind is compelled by this reasoning to look upon them as men and women. If not free born, yet free, manumitted, sent forth from the hand that held them, never to be reclaimed.
Of course, if this reasoning thus imperfectly set forth is correct, my duty as a humane man is very plain. I should take the same care of these men, women and children, houseless, homeless and un provided for, as I would of the same number of men, women, and children, who for their attachment to he Union had been driven or allowed to flee from he Confederate States. I should have no doubt on his question, had I not seen it stated, that an order had been issued by General McDowell in his department, substantially forbidding all fugitive slaves from coming within his lines, or being harbored there. Is hat order to be enforced in all Military Departments! if so, who are to be considered fugitives slaves? Is a slave to be considered fugitive, whose master runs way and leaves him? Is it forbidden to the troops to aid or harbor within their lines the negro children who are found therein, or is the soldier, when his march has destroyed their means of subsistence, to allow them to starve because he has driven off the [label master"? Now shall the commander of regiment or battalion sit in judgment upon the question, whether any given black man has fled from his master, or his master fled from him? Indeed, how are the free born to be distinguished? Is one any more or less a fugitive slave because he has labored upon the Rebel intrenchments? If he has so labored, if I understand it, he is to be harbored. By the reception of which, are the Rebels most to be distressed, by taking those who have wrought all their Rebel masters desired, masked their battery, or those who have refused to labor, and left the battery unmasked.
I have very decided opinions upon the subject of this order. It does not become me to criticise it, and I write in no spirit of criticism, but simply to explain the full difficulties that surround the enforcing it. If the enforcement of that order becomes the policy of the Government, I, as a soldier, shall be bound to enforce it steadfastly, if not cheerfully. But if left to my own discretion, as you may have gathered from my reasoning, I should take a widely different course from that which it indicates.
In a loyal State, I would put down a servile insurrection. In a state of rebellion, I would confiscate that which was used to oppose my arms, and take all that property, which constituted the wealth of that State, and furnished the means by which the war is prosecuted, beside being the cause of the war; and if, in so doing, it should be objected that human beings were brought to the free enjoyment of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, such objection might not require much consideration.
Pardon me for addressing the Secretary of War directly upon this question, as it involves some political questions as well as propriety of military action.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
BENJAMIN.F. BUTLER."
Gen. Scott will not recognize the Southern Confederacy by exchanging prisoners. He will release on parole of honor. All the Confederate troops, sixty in number, recently taken prisoners in Western Virginia, and conveyed to Grafton, have been released on, their parole. Those recently under Col. Pegram, also taken prisoners, have likewise been released.
The rebel sympathizers of Baltimore have subscribed $2000 for provisions for the rebel prisoners at Washington.
Sunday last was observed in the churches at Memphis, Tenn., as a day for thanksgiving for the success of the Southern army in the late battle.
Fifty subscribers of the New York Tribune in Worcester have discontinued that sheet on account of the course it has pursued daring the war.
It is stated that considerate English gold is in circulation at Richmond, which has been advanced for the new cotton crop.
<c06>
CHILDREN'S CONVENTION AT LONGWOOD
CHESTER COUNTY, PA.,
On Seventh day the 17th of the 8th mo., (August) 1861, at 10 1/2 o'clock, A. M:
UNCLE JOSEPH'S SEVENTH ANNUAL LETTER TO THE LITTLE FOLKS
DEAR CHILDREN,-Before the apple trees were in blossom, or a nest of young robins had piped their way oat of the tiny blue eggs, some boys and girls began to stir about our Children's Convention, which we have held annually since 1855. So, some of them wrote a letter, and addressed it to an uncle" of theirs, proposing to hold it in hot haste, and not wait for the usual time, in the autumn. Way did not open, however. Would you believe it, one of the signers is a Secessionist? Time was when he was a brave boy, but he seceded into the State of Matrimony. Even thy good name will not Shield thee, William! There are strong indications that others may go, but we must not be discouraged; we can afford to be magnanimous, and yet sustain our Government," which, we are determined to deal all hazards. The time has now arrived for the children to consider this anniversary their own. However, I took the responsibility to see our friend G. W. Peirce about the grand old Park, to go into after the meeting shall be over. As usual, the birds poured out a torrent of warbling, as though they had something to say on the question; and I just thought that if every melodious sound could come down like a snow flake, festooning the Norways, and making a white carpet under their wide-spreading boughs, and you were all there for about five minutes in your little bare feet-wouldn't it be real fun to see 1000 or 1500 little tracks? By the way, that must be multiplied by two, as each fellow would make two impressions. You would be as joyous as the little girl that had tight shoes, and took them off, stocking and all; saying, There, little feets, now be happy, won't you?" I like snow and waters I have thought, sometimes, there would be a baby born, if it is not already, that would make light and fuel out of water. We shall see.
Girls and boys, what do you remember the farthest back? How we should all be amused to hear each tell the story! Well, when I was a wee little follow," I had a fashion of running down, and playing by the side of a stream like the Brandywine. Father had cautioned me, without the desired effect. One day, he had me take off my clothing, and, suddenly as a bird would swallow a worm, soused me neck and heels under the water. I sprang for the shore, but how I came to succeed in getting there, I never could tell. I was so frightened that I did not hear my father calling me to stop. I leaped like a young antelope, ran into the village street, and bounded in at the front door. I learned a lesson of obedience that day, and that is the farthest that I can remember away back amidst the star-beams of near half a century.
I wish the traitors could all be taught an effectual lesson. I think they will be. They are like the borers who destroy our beautiful trees.
Children, we must all work and pray, that the Angel of Liberty may cast out the Demon of Slavery which is boring out the heart, and causing the leaves on the tree of the nation to look sallow. The tree must not be suffered to die. When I think of overthrowing oppression, putting down intemperance, tobacco using, profanity, and all other evils, I can't help feeling that little children may aid in the work. I believe in my heart the holy Jesus thought so too, for we read And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them; and his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, ho was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them pot; for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily, I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, ha shall not enter therein."
There is a cord reaching from whore we are, to where the lover of little children dwells. Let every little hand take. hold of it, and, as some one said, it will ring the bell; and though we may not hear, the angels will hear, and God will hear, and answer us according to our works.
Come, then, come one, come all! When you think the wagon is full, sic a little closer, and crowd one more little fellow in. Oar meeting will occur in August, the anniversary month of British emancipation, when hundreds of thousands of little children, with their parents, were changed from the condition of chattelism into freedom. God hasten the period when the foot-print of a slave shall not pollute our fair land!
A noble little Chester county boy raised six dollars in five cent pieces last winter, and sent it to the committee to relieve the starving people in Kansas. I have never seen him. I hope he will come to the Convention. I would rather shake hands with him than with a chieftain or a conqueror. Let the gallant little State of Delaware, our own counties of Lancaster, Montgomery, and Delaware, all he represented as usual, for we are to have a good time. The order will be first to hold the meeting, then load a couple of wagons with the well-filled baskets, when we will all walk over to the Park, with the distinct understanding that; no carriages are to enter the gate.
Affectionately, your Uncle and Friend,
JOSEPH A. DUGDALE.
P. S. The West Chester and Philadelphia cars on the Baltimore Central will arrive at 10 o'clock, A. M., at the Greenwood Station, twenty minutes' walk from Longwood.
DIED-In Roxbury, July 31st, Dr. AMOS FARNSWORTH, (formerly of Groton,) in the 73d year of his age. Among ho earliest to espouse the unpopular cause of the enslaved millions in our land, he remained steadfast to the end-allowing no considerations of professional success, or local respectability, or religious standing, or social position, to abate his zeal, or limit his action. His public identification with that cause dates back more than twenty seven years. It was at an Anti-Slavery Convention in Groton, where Dr. F. presided, on the 1st of October, 1834, that GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., the eloquent advocate of Negro emancipation from England, made his introductory speech-the commencement of that extended series which so electrified the friends and so alarmed the enemies of those in bondage at the South. His residence was, for many years, the hospitable home of the agents and lecturers of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, of which ho was an honored officer, as well as President of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society, The service rendered to our cause, in, its infancy, by so decided and uncompromising an adhesion as he gave to it,, was, in view of his position, exceedingly valuable and important. Though not permitted to live to see the abolition of slavery, his departure was at an hour fall of promise in that direction-it being more and more manifest that that beneficent act will be essential to the life of the republic, and the only solution of the terrible conflict which, is now going on in the land.
"O, Ago! thy silver crown
Into the dust drops down:
O, Death! thy sunset shadows close the. eyes.
Earth's weary winter ends;
The withered leaf descends;
The winged seed is wafted to the skies.
What glorious visions ope
Beyond the cloudy cope
Of pent Mortality's contracted span!
O, Death! where is thy sting?-
Now blooms the second spring.
And youth and love renew the aged man.
Give to the dust its own!
Glad Soul, ascend thy throne!
In triumph rise-the onward march is given!
From sphere to sphere ascend!
Thy bliss shall never end-
For thine is life, love, harmony and heaven!"
A. T. FOSS will speak at
North Beverly, Sunday, August 11. 
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on The War," at Rutland, Sunday, Aug. 11, 10 1-2, A. M.
Hubbardston, Sunday, Aug. 11, 5, P.M

HOPEDALE
HOME SCHOOL
THE next Term of this Reformatory, and Progressive, Institution will commence oc Wednesday. Sept. 4 and continue Fifteen weeks. For full particulars, please address WM.S. HAY.WOOD, Principal.
Milford, Mass., Aug. 6,1861,

TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No., 77 Myrtle St., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes', walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who-may favor; the house with a call Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate. Terms moderate.
S. NEWELL.
Boston, Jan.7 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
A TRUMPET-BLAST.
BY JOHN G. WRITTIER.
[The following lines, written eighteen years ago, sound
like prophecy fulfilled at the present crisis.]
O! for God and duty stand,
Heart to heart, and hand to hand,
Round the old graves of the land!
Whoso shrinks or falters now,
Whose to the yoke would bow,
Brand the craven on his brow!
Freedom's soil hag only place
For s free and fearless race;
None for traitors false and base.
Perish party! perish clan!
Strike together, while ye can,
Like the arm of one strong man!
With one heart and with one month
Let the North unto the South
Speak the word befitting both:
What though teacher be strong,
Ye may load his back with wrong
Over much and over long.
Patience, with her cup o'crrun,
With her weary thread outspun,
Murmurs that her work is done.
Boldly, or with treacherous art,
Strike our blood-wrought chain apart!
Break the Union's mighty heart'.
Work the ruin, if ye will!
Flack upon your heads an ill
Which shall grow and deepen still!
With your bondman's right arm bare.
With his heart of black despair.
Stand alone, if stand ye dare!.
Onward with your fell design-
Dig the gulf, and draw the line-
Fire beneath your feet the mine!
Deeply when the wide abyss
Yawns between your land and this,
Shall ye feel your helplessness.

OUR BOY FOR EVERMORE.
Now lay your head close to my heart,
My wife Elizabeth!
Our Tommy is no more distrust:-
The neighbors say, Tis death:
We know the child has gone to rest,-
A word that comforteth.
How often, wife, we deemed the boy
Too early wise for earth!
We felt be was no idle toy,
To wake a transient mirth:
Our Lord had lent him as a joy
To sanctify our hearth.
He never pain'd our hearts, yon know,
Save in this bitter grief:
'Tis well the tears awhile should flow
To give the breast relief;
But, lest we bin in doing so,
Let sorrow's time be brief.
Why question aught the Lord's decree?
'Twere wiser to adore
The grace hid in grief's mystery
We knew not of before,
That Tommy in our minds shall be
Our boy for evermore.
Let not our faith grow faint nor cold;
God's goodness claims our praise,
That makes the cup of sorrow hold
The joy of many days,-
For Tommy, never growing old,
The same shall be always.
The child of scarce five summers, we
Shall see him every day,-
Now skipping in his sinless glee,
Out on the lawn at play;
Now, meekly bending at your knee,
His evening prayer to pray.
He stands on tiptoe at the gate,
Before the sun goes down,
In glad expectance wont to wait',
Our coming from the town;-
He runs with eager haste elate
To catch you by the gown.
At table, on his 'costumed chair,
The while the grace is said,
He shots his eyes with reverent air,
And gently bows his head:
His knife, his fork, his napkin there,-
Our Tommy is not dear?
We see the cherub in the skies
Among the children stand,
Near to the Lord, whose gracious eyes
Smile on the loving band;
Our Harriet, with glad surprise,
Grasping his tiny hand.
Ere yet nineteen, our fisting died
In bloom of maiden grace:
Her brother now is by her side,
Who never saw her face
Till she became his gentle guide
Around the heavenly place.
When on their children honors fall,
Men give it proud report:
What glory that the King should call
Our children to his court,
To stand before him in his hall,
Where heavenly ones resort!
How gentry with us God has dealt!
So deals he with us still;
The double sorrow we have felt,
He never meant for ill
The Finer lights the fire to melt
The metal to his will.

THE LIE.
BY JENNIE FISH.
The moon was shining, dim and was.
The cloud-mists floated by;
You told her that you loved her, but
God knows yon told a lie.
Yon held one arm around her waist,
And gazed into bet eye;
Her hungry heart drank in the words,
Nor dreamed yon told a lie.
The dandelion at your feet
Had dosed its yellow eye;
It heard the row, but could not tell
The maiden't was a lie.
A bird, with head beneath its wing,
Sept on a bosh close by;
It half awoke, but never guessed
You told the maid a lie.
The fragrant breath of early spring
Came with the zephyr's sigh,
But naught to her was half so sweet
As that dark, treacherous lie.
Days came and passed, then weeks, then months,
And years flew swiftly by,
And then the maiden come to know
'Twas all a wicked lie.
And now she gazes on thy form
Not even with a sigh,
Save at the wreck of sin, and thanks
Her God, it was a lie.

MINISTERING SPIRITS.
There are, who, like the seen of old,
Can see the helpers God has sent,
And how life's rugged mountain side
Is white with many an angel tent:
They bear the heralds whom our Lord
Sends down his pathway to prepare;
And light, from others hidden, shines
On their high place of faith and prayer.
<c02>
Selections.
NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION.
[From, the Atlantic Monthly for August.] 
[CONCLUDED.]
Of the capture or escape of most of that small band who met with Nat Turner in the woods upon the Transplantation, little can now be known. All appear among the list of convicted, except Henry and. Will. General Moore, who occasionally figures as second in command, in the newspaper narratives of that day, was probably the Hark or Hercules; before mentioned; as no other of the confederates bad belonged to Mrs. Travis, or would have been likely to bear her previous name of Moore. As usual, the newspapers state that most, if not all the slaves, were the property of kind and indulgent masters." Whether in any case they were also the sons of those masters is a point ignored; but from the fact that three out of the seven were at first reported as being white men by several witnesses.-the whole number being correctly given, and the statement, therefore, probably authentic,-one must suppose that there was an admixture of patrician blood in some of these conspirators.
The subordinate insurgents sought safety as they could. A free colored man, named Will Artist, shot himself in the woods, where his hat was found on a stake, and his pistol lying by him; another was found drowned; others were traced to the Dismal Swamp; others returned to their homes, and tried to conceal their share in the insurrection, assuring their masters that they had been forced, against their will, to join,-the usual defence in such cases. The number shot down at random must, by all accounts, have amounted to many hundreds, but it is past all human registration now. The number who had a formal trial, such as it was, is officially stated at fifty-five; of these, seventeen were convicted and hanged, twelve convicted and transported, twenty acquitted, and four free colored men sent on for further trial, and finally acquitted Not one of those known to be concerned escaped." Of those executed, one only was a woman: Lucy, slave of John T. Barrow; that is all her epitaph, shorter even than that of Wordsworth's more famous Lucy;-but whether this one was old or young, pure or wicked, lovely or repulsive, octoroon or negro, a Gassy, an Emily, or a Topsy, no information appeal's; she was a woman, she was a slave, and she died.
There is one touching story, in connection with these terrible retaliations, which rests on good authority, that of the Rev. M. B. Cox, a Liberian missionary, then in Virginia. In the hunt which followed the massacre, a slaveholder went into the woods, accompanied by a faithful slave, who had been the means of saving his life during the insurrection. When they had reached a retired place in the forest, the man handed his gun to his master, in forming him that he could not live a slave any longer, and requesting him, either to free him or shoot him on the spot. The master took the gun, in some trepidation, leveled it at the faithful negro, and shot him through the heart. It is probable that this slaveholder was a Dr. Blunt,-his being the only plantation where the slaves were reported as thus defending their masters. If this be true." said the Richmond Enquirer, when it first narrated this instance of loyalty, great will be. the desert of these noble-minded Africans. This" noble-minded African," at least, estimated his own desert at a high standard: he demanded freedom,-and obtained it.
Meanwhile the panic of the whites continued; for, though all others might be disposed of, Nat Turner was still at large. We have, positive evidence of the extent of the alarm, although great efforts were afterwards made to represent it as a trifling affair. A distinguished citizen of Virginia wrote three months later to the Hon. W. B. Sea brook of South Carolina,-"From all that has come to my knowledge during and since that affair, I am convinced most fully that every black preacher in the county east of the Blue Ridge is in the secret." There is much reason to believe," says the Governor's message on December 6th. that the spirit of insurrection was not confined to Southampton. Many convictions have taken place elsewhere, and some few in distant counties." The withdrawal of the United States troops, after some ten days' service, was a signal for fresh excitement, and an address, numerously signed, was presented to the United States Government, imploring their continued stay. More than three weeks after the first, alarm, the Governor sent a supply of arms into Prince William, Fauquier, and Orange Counties. From examinations which have taken place in other counties," says one of the best newspaper historians of the affair, (in the Richmond Enquirer of September 6th.) I fear that the scheme embraced a wider sphere than I at first supposed." Nat Turner himself, intentionally or otherwise, increased the confusion by denying all knowledge of the North Carolina outbreak, and declaring that he had communicated his plans to his four confederates within six months; while, on the other hand, a slave girl, sixteen or seventeen years old, belonging to Solomon Parker, testified that she had heard the subject discussed for eighteen months, and that at a meeting held during the previous May some eight or ten had joined the plot.
It is astonishing to discover, by laborious comparison of newspaper files, how vast was the immediate range of these insurrectionary alarms. Every Southern State seems to have borne its harvest of terror. On the Eastern shore of Maryland, great alarm was at once manifested, especially in the neighborhood of Easton and Snowhill; and the houses of colored men were searched for arms even in Baltimore. In Delaware, there were similar rumors through Sussex and Dover Counties; there were arrests and executions; and in Somerset County, great public meetings were held, to demand additional safeguards. On election-day, in Seaford, Delaware, some young men. going out to hunt rabbits, discharged their guns in sport; the men being absent, all the women in the vicinity took to flight: the alarm spread like the Ipswich Fright; soon Seaford was thronged with armed men; and when the, boys returned from hunting, they found cannon drawn out to receive them. 
In North Carolina, Raleigh and Fayetteville were put under military defence, and women and children concealed themselves in the swamps for many days. The rebel organization was supposed to include two thousand. Forty-six slaves were imprisoned in Union County, twenty-five in Sampson County, and twenty-three at least in Duplin County, some of whom were executed. The panic also extended into Wayne, New Hanover, and Lenoir Counties. Four men were shot without trial in Wilmington,-Nimrod, Abraham, Prince, and'' Dan the Drayman," the latter a man of seventy,-and their heads placed on poles at the four corners of the town. Nearly two months afterwards, the trials were still continuing; and at a still later day, the Governor in his proclamation recommended the formation of companies of volunteers in every county.
In South Carolina, General Hayne issued a proclamation to prove the groundlessness of the existing alarms,"-thus implying that serious alarms existed. In Macon, Georgia, the whole population were roused from their beds at midnight by a report of a large force, of armed negroes five miles off. In an hour, every woman and child was deposited in the largest building of the town, and a military force hastily collected in front. The editor of the Macon Messenger excused the poor condition of his paper, a few days afterwards, by the absorption of his workmen in patrol duties, and describes dismay and terror" as the condition of the people, of all ages and sexes." In Jones, Twiggs, and Monroe Counties, the same alarms were reported; and in one place several slaves were tied to a tree, while a militia captain hacked at them with his sword."
In Alabama, at Columbus and Fort Mitchell, a rumor was spread of a joint conspiracy of Indians and negroes. At Claiborne the panic was still greater; the slaves were said to be thoroughly organized through that part of the State, and multitudes were imprisoned; the whole alarm being apparently founded on one stray copy of the Liberator.
In Tennessee, the Shelbyville Freeman announced that an insurrectionary plot had just been discovered, barely in time for its defeat, through the treachery of a female slave. In Louisville, Kentucky, a similar organization was discovered or imagined, and arrests were made in consequence. The papers, from motives of policy, do not notice the disturbance," wrote one correspondent to the Portland Courier. Pity ns!" he added.
But the greatest bubble burst in Louisiana. Captain Alexander, an English tourist, arriving in New Orleans at the beginning of September, found the whole city in tumult. Handbills had been issued, appealing to the slaves to rise against their masters, saying that all men were born equal, declaring that Hannibal was a black man, and that they also might
<c03>
have great leaders among them. Twelve hundred stand of weapons were said to have been found in a Pack man's house; five hundred citizens were under arms, and four companies of regulars were ordered to the city, whose barracks Alexander himself visited.
If such were the alarm in New Orleans, the story, of course, lost nothing by transmission, to other slave States. A rumor reached Frankfort, Kentucky, that the slaves already had possession of the coast, both above and below New Orleans. But; the most remarkable circumstance is, that all this seems to have been merely a revival of an old terror, once before excited and exploded. The following. paragraph appeared in the Jacksonville, (Ga.) Observer, during the spring previous:-
"FEARFUL DISCOVERY. We were favored, by yesterday's mail, with a letter from New: Orleans, of May 1st, in which we find that an important discovery had been made a few days previous in that city. The following is an extract:-'Pour days ago, as some planters were digging under ground, they found a square room containing eleven thousand stand of arms and fifteen thousand cartridges, each of the cartridges containing a bullet.' It is-said the negroes mended to rise as soon as the sickly season began, and obtain possession of the city by massacring the white population. The same letter states that the Mayor had prohibited the opening of Sunday schools for the instruction of blacks, under a penalty of five hundred dollars for the first offence, and for the second, death."
Such were the terrors that came back from nine other slave States, as the echo of the voice of Nat Turner; and when it is also known that the subject was at once taken up by the legislatures of other States, where there was no public panic, as in Missouri and Tennessee,-and when, finally, it is added that reports of insurrection had been arriving all that year from Rio Janeiro, Martinique, St. Jago, Antigua, Caraccas, and Tortola, it is easy to see with what prolonged distress the accumulated terror must have weighed down upon Virginia, during the two mouths that Nat Turner lay hid.
True, there were a thousand men in arms in Southampton county, to inspire security. But the blow had been struck by only seven men before; and unless there were an armed guard in every house, who could tell but any house might, at any moment, be the scene of new horrors? They might kill or imprison unresisting negroes by day, but could they resist their avengers by night? The half cannot be told." wrote a lady from another part of Virginia, at this time, of the distresses of the people. In Southampton county, the scene of the insurrection, the distress beggars description. A gentleman who has been there says that even here, where there has been great alarm, we have no idea of the situation of those in that county. I do not hesitate to believe that many negroes around us would join in a massacre as horrible as that which has taken place, if an opportunity should offer."
Meanwhile, the cause of all this terror was made the object of desperate search. On September 17th, the Governor offered a reward of five hundred dollars for his capture, and there were other rewards swelling the amount to eleven hundred dollars,-but in vain. No one could track or trap him. On September 30th, a minute account of his capture appeared in the newspapers, but it was wholly false. On October 7th there was another, and on October 18th another; yet all without foundation. Worn out by confinement in his little cave, Nat Turner grew more adventurous, and began to move about stealthily by night, afraid to speak to any human being, but hoping to obtain some information that might aid his escape. Returning regularly to his retreat before daybreak, he might possibly have continued this mode of life until pursuit had ceased, had not a dog succeeded where men had failed. The creature accidentally smelt out the provisions hid in the cave, and finally led thither his masters, two negroes, one of whom was named Nelson. On discovering the terrible fugitive, they fled precipitately, when he hastened to retreat in an opposite direction. This was on October 15th, and from this moment the neighborhood was all alive with excitement, and live or six hundred men undertook the pursuit.
It shows a more than Indian adroitness in Nat Turner to have escaped capture any longer. The cave, the anus, the provisions were found; and lying among them the notched stick of this miserable Robinson Crusoe, marked with five weary weeks and six days. But the man was gone. For ten days more he concealed himself among the wheat-stacks on Mr. Francis's plantation, and during this time was reduced almost to despair. Once he decided to surrender himself, and walked by night within two miles of Jerusalem before his purpose failed him. Three times he tried to get out of that neighborhood, but in vain: traveling by day was, of course, out of the question, and by night he. found it impossible to elude the patrol. Again and again, therefore, he returned to his hiding-place, and during his whole two months' liberty never went five miles from the Cross Keys. On the 25th of October, he was at last discovered by Mr. Francis, as he was emerging from a stack. A load of buckshot was instantly discharged at him, twelve of which passed through his hat as he fell to the ground. He escaped even then, but his pursuers were rapidly concentrating upon him, and it is perfectly astonishing that he could have eluded them for five days more.
On Sunday, October 30th, a man named Benjamin Phipps. going out for the first time on patrol duty, was passing at noon a clearing in the woods where a number of pine trees had long since been felled. There was a motion among their boughs; he stopped to watch it; and through a gap in the branches he saw, emerging from a hole in the earth beneath, the face of Nat Turner. Aiming his gun instantly, Phipps called on him to surrender. The fugitive, exhausted with watching and privation, entangled in the branches, armed only with a sword, had nothing to do but to yield; sagaciously reflecting, also, as he afterwards explained, that the woods were full, of armed men, and that ho had better trust fortune for some later chance of escape, instead of desperately attempting it then. He was correct in the first impression, since there were fifty armed scouts within a circuit of two miles. His insurrection ended where it began; for this spot was only a mile and a half from the house of Joseph Travis.
Torn, emaciated, ragged, a mere scarecrow," still wearing the hat perforated with buckshot, with his arms bound to his side, he was driven before the levelled gun to the nearest house, that of Mr. Edwards. He was confined there that night; but the news had spread so rapidly that, within an hour after his arrival, a hundred persons had collected, and the excitement became so intense that it was with difficulty he could be conveyed alive to Jerusalem." The enthusiasm spread instantly through Virginia; Mr. Trezvant, the Jerusalem post-master, sent notices of it far and near; and Governor Floyd himself wrote a letter to the Richmond Enquirer to give official announcement of the momentous capture.
When Nat Turner was asked by Mr. T. R. Gray, the counsel assigned him, whether, although defeated, he still believed in his own Providential mission, he answered, as simply as one who came thirty years after him, Was not Christ crucified?" In the same spirit, when arraigned before the court, he answered,' Not guilty,' saying to his counsel that he did not feel so." But apparently no argument was made in his favor by his counsel, nor were any witnesses called,-he being convicted on the testimony of Lev! Waller, and upon his own confession, which was put in by Mr. Gray, and acknowledged by the prisoner before the six justices composing the court, as being full, free, and voluntary." He was therefore placed in the paradoxical position of conviction by his own confession, under a plea of Not guilty." The arrest took place on the thirtieth of October, 1831, the confession on the first of November, the trial and conviction on the fifth, and the execution on the following Friday, the eleventh of November, precisely at noon. He met his death with perfect composure, declined addressing the multitude assembled, and told the sheriff in a firm voice that he was ready. Another account says that he betrayed no emotion, and even hurried the executioner in the performance of his duty. "Not a limb nor a muscle was observed to move. His body, after his death, was given over to the surgeons for dissection."
This last statement merits remark. There would be no evidence that this formidable man was not favored during his imprisonment with that full measure of luxury which slave-jails afford to slaves, but for a rumor which arose after the execution, that he was compelled to sell his body in advance for purposes of dissection, in exchange for food. But it does not appear probable, from the known habits of Southern anatomists, that any such bargain could have been needed. For in the circular of the South Carolina Medical School for that very year, I find 
<c04>
this remarkable suggestion:-Some advantages to a peculiar character are connect with this institution. No place in the United States affords so great opportunities for the acquiring of medical knowledge, subjects being obtained among the colored population in sufficient number for every purpose, and proper dissections carried on without offending any individual." What a convenience, to possess for scientific purposes a class of population sufficiently human to be dissected, but not human enough to be supposed to take offence at it! And as the same arrangement may be supposed to have existed in Virginia, Nat Turner would hardly have gone through the formality of selling his body for food to those who claimed its control at any rate.
The Confession of the captive was published under authority of Mr. Gray, in a pamphlet, at Baltimore. Fifty thousand copies of it are said to have been printed, and it was embellished with an accurate likeness of the brigand, taken by Mr. John Crawley, portrait-painter, and lithographed by Endicott & Swett, at Baltimore." The newly published Liberator said obit, at the time, that it would only. serve to rouse up other leaders, and hasten other insurrections," and advised grand juries to indict Mr. Gray. I have never seen a copy of the original pamphlet; it is not to be found in any of our public libraries, and I have heard of but one as still existing, although the Confession itself has been repeatedly reprinted. Another small pamphlet, containing the main features of the outbreak, was published at New York during the same year, and this is in my possession. Bu the greater part of the facts which I have given were gleaned from the contemporary newspapers.
Who now shall go hack thirty years, and read the heart of this extraordinary man, who, by the admission of his captors, never was known to swear an oath or drink a drop of spirits,"-who, on the same authority, for natural intelligence and quickness of apprehension was. surpassed by few men, "with a mind capable of attaining anything," who knew no book but his Bible, and that by heart,-who devoted himself soul and body, to the cause of his race, without the trace of personal hope or" fear,-who laid his plans so shrewdly that they came at last with less warning than any earthquake on the doomed community around,-and who, when that time arrived, took the life of man, woman, and child, without a throb of compunction, a word of exultation, or an act of superfluous outrage? Mrs. Stowe's Dred" seems dim and melo-dramatic beside the actual Nat Turner. De Quincey's Avenger" is his only parallel in imaginative literature: similar wrongs,. similar retribution. Mr. Gray, his self-appointed confessor, rises into a sort of bewildered enthusiasm, with the prisoner before him. I shall not attempt to describe the effect of his narrative, as told; and commented on by himself, in the condemned hole of the prison. The calm, deliberate composure with which lie spoke of his late deeds and intentions, the expression of his fiend-like face when excited by enthusiasm, still bearing the stains of the blood of helpless innocence about him, clothed with rags and covered with chains, yet daring to raise his manacled hands to heaven, with a spirit soaring above the attributes of man,-I looked on him, and the blood curdled in my veins." 
But the more remarkable the personal character of Nat Turner, the greater the amazement felt that he should not have appreciated the extreme felicity of his position as a slave. In all insurrections, the standing wonder seems to be that the slaves most trusted and best used should be most deeply involved. So in this case, as usual, they resorted to the most astonishing theories of the origin of the affair. One attributed it to Free-Masonry, and another, to free whiskey,-liberty appearing dangerous, even in these forms. The poor whites charged it upon the free colored people, and urged their expulsion, forgetting that in North Carolina the plot was betrayed by one of this class, and that in Virginia there were but two engaged, both of whom had slave wives. The slaveholding clergymen traced it to want of knowledge of the Bible, forgetting that Nat Turner knew scarcely anything else. On the other hand, a distinguished citizen of Virginia" combined in one sweeping denunciation of Northern incendiaries, tracts, Sunday-schools, religion, reading and writing."
But whether the theories of its origin were wise or foolish, the insurrection made its mark, and the famous band of Virginia emancipationists, who all that winter made the House of Delegates ring with unavailing eloquence-till the rise of slave-exportation to new cotton regions stopped their voices-were but the unconscious mouth-pieces of Nat Turner. In January, 1832, in reply to a member who had called the outbreak A petty affair," the eloquent James McDowell thus described the impression it left behind:-
"Now, sir, I ask you, I ask gentlemen, in conscience to say, was that A 'petty affair' which startled the feelings of your whole population,-which threw a portion of it into alarm, a portion of it into panic,-which wrung out from an affrighted people the thrilling cry, day after day, conveyed to your Executive,' We are in peril of our lives; send us an army for defence'? Was that A 'petty affair' which drove families from their homes,-which assembled women and children in crowds, without shelter, at places of common refuge, in every condition of weakness and infirmity, under every suffering which want and terror could inflict, yet willing to endure all, willing to meet death from famine,-death from climate, death from hardships, preferring anything rather than the horrors of meeting it from a domestic assassin? Was that A 'petty affair' which erected a peaceful and confiding portion of the State into a military camp,-which outlawed from pity the unfortunate beings whose brothers had offended,-which barred every door, penetrated every bosom with fear or suspicion,-which so banished every sense of security from every man's dwelling, that, let but a hoof or horn break upon the silence of the night, and an aching throb would be driven to the heart, the husband would look to his weapon, and the. mother would shudder and weep upon her cradle? Was it the fear of Nat Turner, and his deluded, drunken handful of followers, which produced such effects? Was it this that induced distant counties, where the very, name of Southampton was strange, to arm and equip for a struggle? No, sir, it was the suspicion eternally attached to the slave itself,-the suspicion that a Nat Turner might be in every family,-that the same bloody deed might be acted over at any time and in any place,-that the materials for it were spread through the land, and were always ready for a like explosion. Nothing but the force of this withering apprehension,-nothing but the paralyzing, the deadening weight with which it falls upon and prostrates the heart of every man who has helpless dependants to protect,-nothing but this could have thrown a brave people into consternation, or could have made any portion of this powerful Commonwealth, for a single instant, to have quailed and trembled."
While these things were going on, the enthusiasm for the Polish Evolution was rising to its height. The nation was ringing with a peal, of joy, on hearing that at Frankfort the Poles had killed fourteen thousand Russians. The Southern Religious Telegraph. was publishing an impassioned address to Kosciusko; standards were being consecrated for Poland in the larger cities; heroes, like Skrzynecki, Czartoryski, Rozyski, Kaminski, were choking the trump of Fame with their complicated patronymics. These are all forgotten now; and this poor negro, who did. not even possess a name, beyond one abrupt monosyllable,-for even the name of Turner was the master's property,-still lives, a memory of terror, and a symbol of retribution triumphant.

LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH TO SENATOR BREOCKINRIDGE.
PETERBORO'', July 23, 1861.
SENATOR BRECKTNRIDGE:
DEAR SIR-How much I admired you when I was in Congress with you, I need not again say. I thought no member had a better intellect or a braver spirit. Surprised and sad would I have been, had I foreseen your present relations to your country.
I have just read your speech of the 16th inst., in the Senate. I do not deduce from it that you are dishonest-but only that you are self-deceived. You know the old story of the gentleman who gave, as his reason for not rescuing the drowning man, that he, had never been introduced to him. But the gentleman was self-deceived, if he thought such an unheard-bf regard for social forms to be the true reason. He failed-to save the man simply because he did not care to save him.; And not less groundless is your fancy, that it is owing to your great regard for Constitutional: forms that you do not fall in with the measures for saving the nation. You do
<c05>
not care to save it. Nay, it is evident that your heart has long been set on breaking it up. All who busy themselves in declaiming against, the unconstitutionality of these measures are self-deceived, if nothing worse. Their concern to save the Constitution is no greater, but their concern to save the nation is much less, than that of others.
The traitors had got the control of some eight or nine of the States; had captured Fort Sumter; felt sure of Washington; were threatening the large cities of the North; and had, in a word, brought the nation to the brink of ruin. It was under these circumstances that President Lincoln made haste to save it. Shame on you for saying that he made war"! His steps were not all constitutional, you say. Nevertheless, by such persons as were for saving the nation, their unconstitutionality was forgiven, if seen-but was probably unseen. Indeed, so anxious were they for the life of the nation, that they had neither time nor heart to think of the Constitution. But you, being free; from such anxiety, had leisure and composure for surveying the departures from the Constitution. Moreover, these departures were all the greater in your eyes, since they grew out of his honest and earnest endeavor to preserve a government and a nation, which you were intent on destroying. A loyal man no more thinks of national rules when he sees his loved nation in imminent danger of a violent death, than does a true son think of family rules when he sees an assassin upon his loved father. But you, dear Sir, are just in the mood of mind to call for the rules and the red tape.
Perhaps the President has not been constitutional in all his steps. Nevertheless, he may have been right even in such as were unconstitutional. Not contemplating a rebellion so extensive, causeless, unnatural, monstrous, the Constitution may not have provided the means for putting it down. But, surely, it does not forbid the means. If the Constitution does not clothe the President with a very large discretion, it must, nevertheless, leave him free to exercise it in imaginable circumstances. It says: He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed." But should a hundred thousand armed men, when Congress is not in session, suddenly startup to defeat their execution, may he not summon another hundred thousand to withstand them? Then you seem to forget that the President is Commander-in-Chie: of the Army and Navy; and that, as such, his power is far more discretionary than prescribed. In that capacity he may often be left to decide, irrespective of Constitution or statute, not only in small and common, but in great and uncommon cases. In that capacity he may, although the Constitution does not say so, appropriate everything within his reach; may order the destruction of bridges and railroads on the one hand, and the burning of cities on the other. And what greater stretch of power would it be should he, in the exigencies of war, call to his aid tens of thousands of volunteers? Then, too, you seem to forget that the President is a man, and is under no obligation to sink the man in the officer. When he saw the capital of the nation, and the nation itself, in imminent peril, he was, as a man, just as much as were you and I, bound to do all he could for their safety. But you will say that, in acting as a man, he had no right to use the Presidential authority. I answer that, in the circumstances, he might go as far as did Ethan Allen, and use the authority of God Almighty." In that dark and threatening hour, everything was his which he could turn to the salvation of his country. What, then, can restrain the President from becoming a despot? His responsibilities. Swift and terrible will be his punishment if he shall be found, in the life-or-death struggle of his country, to be serving his selfishness instead of serving her. I add that, to trammel his powers in such an hour, through fear of his prostituting them, is virtually the poor policy of giving up your country in advance, under the apprehension that, some time or other, some how or other, it may be lost. Better is it to choose for our officer the man whom in an emergency we can trust with unmeasured power, than to let the emergency prove fatal by too jealously measuring his power. You will also say that it is for Congress to make the main provision for meeting a war which may be brought against us. Granted. And had Congress been in session when this war became unequivocal in the bombardment of Sumter, you would probably have had no occasion to complain of the President, for he would probably have had no occasion to do what you complain of. The traitors having chosen the recess of Congress in which to tell us, with cannon-shot, and unmistakably, that they meant war, we had to make the best fight we could without the help of Congress. That we acted outside the Constitution, if indeed we did so, was a necessity resulting solely from their having chosen that time; and hence for them to complain, or employ you to complain, of our unconstitutional action, is deeply disingenuous and amazingly impudent. For the traitors and their sympathizers to charge us in the straits to which they had reduced us with failing to observe the whole letter of the Constitution, is much such an outrage, on human patience as would be the complaint of the inquisition that the victim it was torturing did not preserve his usual pleasant expression. Again, if any may charge us with neglecting portions of the Constitution, it must not be they who are trampling on the whole of it.
You are entirely right in supposing that Congress cannot constitutionalist what is unconstitutional in the acts of the President. But Congress can say, and it is bound to say, whether that which, in the great necessities of his country, he was constrained to do, was right or wrong, praiseworthy or blame worthy.
You denounce the President as a usurper. Most unjustly so. His words and deeds prove him to be an unsophisticated and unambitious man. He is over careful to keep himself in unison with the public sentiment, and is too much afraid of taking a step in advance of it. He is a sincere servant of his country. You denounce the President for acting unconstitutionally. I honor him for hastening to save his country, by means, whether constitutional or unconstitutional. Exceedingly rare is the case in which the Constitution may be put aside. But when, to hold to the Constitution is manifestly to lose the nation, he is both a coward and a traitor who will hold to it. The old Austrian Generals complained that the. first Napoleon did not fight according to rule. Nevertheless, Frenchmen did not regret his victories, because they were achieved through the violation of rules. Frenchmen love France; and did you love America more than you love slavery, you would not regret her salvation, even though it were purchased at expense to the Constitution. Your joy would be too full to leave room for regret.
This cry of The Constitution! the Constitution!" is not less disgusting to patriots than was Johnny Hook's celebrated cry of Beef! Beef!" It is even more so. For Johnny was entirely sincere. He meant beef when he cried beef. But those who prate of the Constitution mean slavery. The Constitution was made for the saving of the nation. Very guiltily do they pervert it who degrade it to a watch' word in their war upon the nation.
President Lincoln has done well. I admit that he might have done better. Not, however, by following your counsels, and giving himself up to the study of Constitutional limitations, while the traitors were left to complete the destruction of Government and Nation. On learning that Sumter was taken, he should have made a sure and speedy end of the war. He should have cut it short in righteousness," by proclaiming the freedom of the slaves in all the States which had seceded. This measure, followed up as it should and would have been, would have ended the war ere now. Other States would have seen that they could not secede but at the peril of the like proclamation. Doubt not that the North would have sustained the President in it. They were in just the temper for it. The high measure would have harmonized with the storm of their indignation; and ere that storm had begun to subside, that measure should have been put to its nation-saving operation.
Other nations agree with the great writers on the Law of Nations;" with Vattel, for instance, who says that in war we have the right to weaken our enemy, in order to render him incapable of supporting his unjust violence;" to deprive him of everything which may enable him to make war," and to deprive him of it in the manner most suitable to us." But we, with rare generosity and chivalry, leave to our enemy his slaves to till his land for him, and build his fortifications. Without the help of slaves, our enemy could hardly maintain a war against Lilliputian. Our last Congress-although the pro-slavery war was, in point of fact, already begun, though not so admitted by all-not only failed to meet the war, or, if you prefer, the prospect of the war, by providing for the common defence and general welfare of the United States," but it
<c06>
actually took steps to provide for the protection of slavery. Our President's first official words were gratuitous assurances of such protection. With such assurances do our Generals enter upon their friendly war against the rebels, And the people of the North, instead of assembling in all their towns, and calling on Government to abolish slavery, and thus stop the war, and save them from the needless loss of tens of thousands of lives, and hundreds of millions of money, feel little power and less disposition to move against slavery. Whence this infatuation and this paralysis? It is a part of our punishment for having fostered and honored slavery until at length we have come to regard it as sacred and inviolable-for having served it and fallen down before fore it, until at length we are spell-bound and helpless in its presence. In prosecuting the present war, we are almost as much embarrassed by our reverence for slavery as were the ancient Egyptians in battle by their worship of animals-their enemy ingeniously protecting himself by placing the objects of worship between himself and the Egyptians. The Egyptians were to be pitied, because it was then-enemy who made this appalling disposition of the sacred animals. We are not to be pitied, because we can, if we will only muster the resolution to do it hurl slavery out of our path. The enemies of the Jews were wont to fall upon them on the Sabbath, hoping they would not defend themselves on the day they so superstitiously observed. Our enemies venture to wage a war for slavery, and even to employ slaves in it, presuming on our long service and worship of slavery that we cannot have a heart to strike at it.
I thought the war would be very short, because I assumed that the North would soon be sufficiently provoked to tell the slaves that were free. She will yet tell them so; but I fear she has not yet suffered enough to do It may be that the God of the oppressed has much more suffering in store for her before she can be brought to tell them, so, It-may be that the war must first carry sorrow into thousands more of her families, and much more of ruin to her industrial and commercial interests, ere she will feel constrained to do so. God's controversy with the North is the same as with the South; and LET MY PEOPLE GO" is the one only condition on which He will consent to end it with either. What has come upon the nation does not astonish the handful of Abolitionists. For thirty years have they been crying in the wilderness" and in the city that slavery, it not soon put away in peace and righteousness, would end in blood. How happy had they been listened to! How different from now would have been the condition of our country had William Lloyd Garrison been heeded-that great and good man whom, more than thirty years ago, God called in his youth and from his obscurity and commissioned to sound a prophet's alarm in the sleeping, alas! still sleeping, ears of the American people! Then would our nation have been united instead of broken up; the blessing of peace upon it instead of the curse of war; not one slave in it instead of 4,000,000; then it had been the glory instead of the shame of mankind; the pattern instead of the warning of the nations. But I repeat that the war may not end very soon. He, into whose ears have ascended the groans of the successive generations of American slave, and who has bottled up all their tears, may not be content with less than wide desolations in both the North and the South. He may think this needful for a sufficiently conspicuous and enduring monument of the crime and punishment of slavery-for a sufficiently effective warning to all nations" not to oppress His unoffending and helpless poor. Would God that all this might be averted by the instant and penitent abolition of slavery! Would God such an abolition might not be, delayed until He shall say: But ye would not! Behold your house is left unto you desolate!" I fear, however, that it will. I sorrowfully lay my account, with the continued stupidity and infatuation of the American people in regard to slavery. I even fear that Congress will else the present session without resolving in favor of its abolition.
Pardon my wonder that a gentleman of your very great intelligence should be so anxious to save slavery from the impending destruction. It could survive it but a short time. The war has already given it death wounds. The shots at Fort Sumter, being all shots at slavery, were enough to make the death of slavery sure. Never more will the cotton manufacturers rely on the South for supplies of cotton-and that is as much as to say that never more will slavery recover its vitality. From other considerations, also, slavery has lived out its day. The accursed relic of barbarism is a trespasser on the advanced and advancing civilization of Christendom. It will soon hide itself forever from the sight of earth and heaven.
Very respectfully yours,
GERRIT SMITE

ANNIVERSARY OF WEST INDIA EMANOIPATION.
The first day of August was celebrated in this city yesterday. The services were held in the Abyssinian church, both forenoon and afternoon. There was a Levee in the evening at the Ward Room on Franklin street. The attendance at the day meetings was fair.
The meeting in the morning was called to order by Rev. James F. Brown, acting pastor of the Abyssinian church; Mr. Elbridge J. Talbot was appointed chairman, and Mr. Jacob C. Dickson secretary.
On taking the chair, Mr. Talbot made a few remarks pertinent to the occasion, and admirably expressed, when he introduced Rev. Frederick Frothing ham, an ever faithful friend of the race, who, after reading select passages of scripture, from Isaiah 42d, and 25th chapter of Matthew, offered a prayer, and then proceeded to address the audience upon the occasion of the meeting, namely, the emancipation of the slaves in the British West India Islands. in the year 1834. He was followed by Hon. Neal Dow in the same direction. Both addresses were received with great favor.
In the afternoon, the meeting was further addressed in an interesting and profitable manner, by the chairman, Thomas H. Talbot, Esq., Mr. Reuben Ruby and others.
The singing by the choir was very appropriate and excellent. A hymn, prepared for the occasion by Rev. Mr. Brown, was sung. We insert the first stanza:
"Hail, happy day! joy of a nation blest,
The day God gave to his bound people rest:
When His word, spoken o'er the western sea,
The nations heard:' My people shall be free.
Other hymns, interspersing the speeches, were sung with good effect. Much credit is due the choir for the manner of their performance.
But not the least interesting feature of the occasion was the presence of the young sons and daughters of temperance, dressed in a very neat and becoming style. Their' general behavior was excellent; and several acquitted themselves admirably in the recitation of select pieces for the occasion. We give their names: Misses Nettle Palmer, Octave Bradley, Louisa Mahoney, Ida Harris and Lizzie M. Daniels; and Masters George Ball and John Parr. Each spoke in a clear, distinct voice, giving the proper emphasis to every word, and showing that they understood the sentiment as well as the language of the subject We are by no means satisfied that white children, taking the same pains these colored children took, might not have succeeded in every respect as well.
It was resolved, at the close of these services, to hold a monthly concert in behalf of the enslaved, on the second Sabbath evening of each Monty-a very excellent movement, which, we trust, will not only meet the approval but secure the cooperation of anti-slavery friends in this city.
We were unfortunately prevented from attending the levee in the evening; and are without report from, that quarter. We trust, however, it was a decided success.-Portland Standard.
THE HEROES OF THE SEA. The only two men who have as yet won maritime distinction in the war are not members, of the Navy, and are colored men into the bargain. Wm. Tillman, a black steward, by his determined energy, has saved for its owners, property to the amount of $100,000, and has captured for our government the prize crew of a Southern privateer; and another of his race, whose name is not mentioned, has given into our hands the schooner Enchantress," which was being carried away under similar circumstances. We are not informed whether these sable gentlemen come under the rule of contraband" or otherwise, but submit that the point is established that one of them can fight, and fight effectually.-Roxbury Journal.
