
THE LIBERATOR 
IS PUBLISHED 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.

Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.

All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.

Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.

The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSONS and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINGTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 26. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1742.
<C01>
Refuge of Oppression.
A LOST LEADER.
Every man has his seventh of March-the hour when he listens to the voices without rather than the voice within; when, like King David, he prefers to count the people rather than to trust in Israel’as God. In such hours, men make merchansdise of truth; for they doubt the omnipotence of the Right, and therefore are ready to compromise with error.
No man in this nation has held a higher moral rank for a long period of time, in the public estimation than William Lloyd Garrison. He has been looked on as a true descendant of those holy men of <illegible> who spake as they were moved by the Lord of Hosts fearing neither king nor subject, persecution nor death; but boldly uttering what was given them to say. He has been publicly pointed out as a fixed <illegible> whose light could no more be dimmed or uncertain than the light of Jupiter or Mars.

Perilous position for any man to hold!
Garrison has fallen. The old man is no longer the prophet whom we revered. Drunk with the wine of political expediency-tasted now for the first time-he has uncovered his nakedness, and made himself the sport of the mob. Some of his sons have covered him reverently; but with a sad heart, and pityingly withal. Some others, like the parasite of the drunken king, too far gone themselves to lift him up, have loyally lain down in the mire at his side.

It is a fact well known to those familiar with the secret history of existing parties, that for some time past there has been rapidly developing a great division in the non-voting, anti-slavery ranks-Mr. Garrison leading the conservative wing, and Wendell Phillips the radicals. Recent conventions in New York and Boston have intensified this spirit, and made it no longer possible of concealment. The last session of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention in Boston more especially served to draw the lines distinctly and permanently.

The evening session was opened by Parker Pillsbury, in a short but powerful speech, in which he advocated the adoption of a series of resolutions denouncing the Administration, and demanding more efficient anti-slavery service from this Government. Mr. Garrison had substituted others, laudatory of the Government, and only faintly suggestive of more earnest action.
Mr. Phillips rose, and, in one of the most eloquent speeches that he ever delivered, arraigned the Administration for its manifold shortcomings and infidelity to the high trust committed to its guardianship. He had spoken an hour, but his argument was still incomplete, although he would soon have finished it, as was evident to all who critically listened to his speech.
Suddenly Mr. Garrison jumped up, and complained that Mr. Phillips was taking up all the evening, and that Mr. Thompson and he would not have an equal length of time to reply! Mr. Phillips at once sat down, and Mr. Garrison came forward.
This was too much for the patience of a large portion of the audience. "Phillips! Phillips! Free speech!” were shouted by hundreds of indignant voices. Livid with anger and mortified pride-" Did you ever see a man look so chopfallen?" whispered a person near us-Mr. Garrison tried in vain to address the audience. Mr. Phillips came forward, and <illegible> the people by a few quiet words, when Mr. Garrison, with a cool insolence, said that the rowdies of the audience were with the orator.
Mr. Garrison then made a Partisan speech in favor of Mr. Lincoln, eulogizing him with as much unction as an old officeholder, and attempted to make Mr. Phillips appear inconsistent by reading garbled extracts from his previous speeches. Had Mr. Garrison heard the comments of some of his sincere friends–“That is infamous!” "How is it possible for Garrison to be so unscrupulous?” —he might have suddenly found that he was buying the applause of the mob at a most ruinous rate. In defending Lincoln, be omitted or glided over the acts for which his career should be branded with reprobation as adroitly as an old politician. Mr. Raymond, of the New York Times, has not been more unscrupulously skilful. He did not mention the removals of Fremont, Butler, Rosecrans, and Hunter, as soon as they were <illigible>  for freedom; or the retention of pro-slavery men in places of power, and their rapid promotion or the establishment of serfdom in Louisiana, or the execrable Presidential plan of reconstruction, or in fact, anything that was unpleasant in the record of his favorite. It was a speech thoroughly ungentlemenly, vindictive, and unfair from beginning to end. It was never hissed—the mob kept their hisses for Phillips.
Mr. Thompson followed in the lead of Garrison; but it is evident that this distinguished gentleman, however familiar he may be with the printed facts of out recent history, is but ill-informed as to the spirit of our politics. His perfect innocence, displayed in his remarks on American politicians, was really and delightfully refreshing. Mr. Thompson will lose <illegible> of reputation by being longer in our country before attempting to debate our questions of the day—lose nothing, and have less to retract in the future.
Mr. Phillips, in a few moments, cut Mr. Garrison’s readings and commentary to the heart, by asserting that he was quite willing to stand by all his speeches, read in full and with their dates affixed—not garbled; and with a delicate irony, disposed of Mr. Thompson’s supplementary address. Mr. Phillips was too magnanimous to quote Garrison vs. Garrison; had be attempted it, the argument would have been as <illegible> as it would have been complete.
For, whatever force there might be in Mr. Garrison's quotations, it applied only to the letter, not the spirit of Mr. Phillips’s thought. But, both in letter and spirit, Mr. Garrison now stands the foe of his <illegible> self. In a previous speech—and the argument is common now among his partisans—he took the ground that we had no right to judge men by our standards, but by their own.
This is a formal and emphatic recantation of what constituted Garrisonian criticism; for both its strength and its weakness lay just there—in judging men, not <illegible> weighing their temperament, education, temptation and surroundings, but invariably by the highest standard of right without regard to circumstance. Of course, we mean the highest standard of the <illegible>
Its strength lay in that method; because the Garrision standard was undoubtedly higher than the <illegible> in everything pertaining to justice in political life, and therefore their criticisms were productive of beneficial results. Sharp and angular, they were admirable spurs for the slow-going hacks of public life.
Its weakness lay just here also. It necessarily <illegible> in weak natures a spirit of intolerance, of pride, Pharisaical conceit, and a sectarian clannishness and narrowness not less deplorable here than inside of the ecclesiastical organizations. As a general rule, the reformer flourished at the expense of the man. Some  vigorous natures were but little vitiated
<C02>
by this incessant denunciation of the faults of public men; but the damage it inflicted on the feebler mind |of the lesser followers, was incalculable. They be came literally living sacrifices to the truth.
 Mr. Phillips is a Garrisonian,. as Milton was wag a Puritan, or Bunyan a teacher of the Westminster Catechism ; his splendid genius, his genial and chivalrous nature, his fine scholarship, and, above all, the charms of hi his personal presence, drew men to it lovingly whom its own frigidity repelled. A firm believer in its method, his far-seeing prevision, his statesmanlike breadth of view, his wonderful eloquence, transfigured it; his speeches contain the resolutions of the Anti-Slavery Convention in the same sense that Paradise Lost contains the five points of Calvinism, and the Pilgrim’s Progress the dogmas-of the Roundhead Churches. You will doubtless find the pebbles there—smooth stones from the brook, if you will, that have killed the Goliath of the Southern Philistines—but exquisitely wt set with cunningest workmanship in rubies and diamonds, glittering, costly, and rare.

The Garrisonian method has, we think, greatly impaired Mr. Phillips’s influence; not his nature. But this cannot belie said of the old pioneer himself. It has stunted him : and the excessive, eulogy of which he has been the object, has told fearfully on his character. In that flushed and vindictive face, as he stood when he had cut short the speech of his noble friend, no one would have been able to recognize the pure-minded and enthusiastic young man who whose expression was described as almost heavenly when in his; early youth he stood forth to claim justice,. for the slave. It was “ Richard Baxter lacking grace,” truly. Not the man charged with a divine message, but the political partisan stood forth! “ ! Oh! what a fall was there, my countrymen! “!" What thoughts arose in the audience, it would be easy to guess, even had they not already made themselves heard. People will ask whether it was courteous or even decent in him, the advocate of freedom, to suppress free speech ; to rudely interrupt a man to whom he owes the larger part of his fame; without whom, for the last ten years, he would hardly have been listened to or his Conventions attended? ? And they ask, whether, had Mr. Phillips been speaking on his side, or in praise of him, Mr. Garrison would have acted thus? No one believes it. And, again, all Mr. Garrison’s fame did not authorize the egotistical assumption that he was entitled to an equal length of time to address the audience.

Mrs. Foster uttered a theory of Mr. Garrison’s course very generally held. She compared him to Lord Brougham in hit his dotage, recreant to the ideas of his youth. Lord Brougham once pathetically remarked that he had not changed—that he could not we see the justice of the accusation of his enemies! So does Garrison. The trouble is just that—they do not see it, while all others do.

Either Garrison has been wrong for a quarter of a century, or he is wrong now. One held constantly the banner of Reform aloft; the other shouts hurrah! ! before the battle is won, and then rests on his arms. Under which Garrison,. Bezonian? Garrison the Reformer, or Garrison the politician? Mr. Phillips’s loftiest eloquence now is used and needed to defend the Garrison whom we knew, for the Garrison we see.

Another lost leader! God bless him for the noble service he has rendered to all of us! While the progress of truth compels us to leave him where he lies, let us drop a tear on his curse come; let us hope that the may even yet arise, and renew his youth as an eagle, rind and again lead the moral hosts to battle. But, whatever may be his fate—if he has thoroughly put himself hors du combat—his better soul is still marching on, and when, renewed and redeemed, the nation leads proudly and without a fear of the advance-guard of humanity, we shall all love to remember his long years of devotion to the slave, and render him the honor justly his due.

Another lost leader! Let us mourn for him, but not for the cause. No man is necessary to insure its success. Every leader who falls by his own spirit of presumption only teaches the great host to rely on itself. We want no coming man. We want men. “" Shall we bring water out of the Rock?”  ?"No, haughty leaders, you need not trouble your selves; God can raise out of these stones children to serve him.

Garrison has fallen! “Let him that standeth take heed" A tear for the prostrate chief—a salute over his remains—shoulder arms! forward! MARCH!—New Nation—Fremont’s Organ.
 
A LOST LEADER.

The Baltimore Convention, after having demanded abolition in every form, and political equality without distinction of race or color, has joined example to precept by refusing the South Carolina delegation because it comprised colored delegates, thus following Lincoln's well-known logic, “" To say and to do are two things;”;" the massacres of Fort Pillow, those of the two Carolinas., the inequality of pay, the Pope’s bull, had long since enlightened us as to the value of the declaration of the principles of the Administration. But Garrison complaining that the Cleveland Convention does not utter a word of protestation against the want of protection on the part of the Government, of which the colored troops have been the victims, going to the Baltimore Convention to shut its doors in the face of colored delegates, and going from there to Washington to compliment the author of the outrages of which the colored population have been the victims for three years—this is the climax of political inconsistency and indecency.

Of all the lost illusions which the sad condition of humanity obliges us to state every day, we know of none sadder than that which obliges us to change into contempt the affection and esteem which a talent not wanting in skill to assume for a long time past the forms of conviction, had inspired in us.

Such apostacy cannot inspire anger or indignation; : it only inspires insurmountable disgust.—New Nation.

A COMPLAINT FROM MR. GARRISON.

 In the last number of Mr. Garrison’s paper. The Liberator, we find the following very strange objections to the platform of the Radical Democracy adopted at Cleveland:
" It will by he noticed, in the resolutions adopted by the Cleveland Convention, that no mention is made of the freedmen, or of the colored soldier of the Republic, of their claim to protection, or of the injustice the latter are suffering by the refusal to pay them as other troops are paid ; nor of the question of retaliation for the barbarities of Fort Pillow and elsewhere. Nor is the claim of the freed slaves to a share in the confiscated lands of the South anywhere recognized.”

There are a great many more things which might have been incorporated into the resolutions, provided then there had been room for them and time, to rehearse them. Mr. Garrison might have filled up his paper mentioning the minor objects that were all ail implied in the comprehensive resolutions, but not named in them. It is an odd thing, thought, for

<C03>

Mr. Garrison to reproach the Cleveland Convention for not declaring itself in condemnation of the injustice to our black soldiers, which Mr., Lincoln has refused to rectify, while be he supports Mr. Lincoln himself for re-election, and would thereby perpetuate and approve the very wrongs he professes to abhor. But Mr. Garrison is in his dotage; he is a “" Lost Leader;”;" he has gone after strange gods, and the people and the places that once knew him will know him no longer. In a lucid moment he babbles, like Falstaff, of the green fields which he knew before his decadence. Poor man !—Ibid.

Selectiond.
FREEDMEN’S
SUMNER’S SPEECH.
IN SENATE, Wednesday, June 9, 1864.
The Senate, as in Committee of the Whole, proceeded to consider the bill (H. R. No. 51) to establish a Bureau of Freedmen’s Affairs.: The select committee on slavery and freedmen reported the bill with an amendment to strike out of the bill all after the enacting clause, and insert the following in lieu thereof:

 That an office is hereby created in the Treasury Department to be called the Bureau of Freedmen, meaning thereby such persons, as have become free since the beginning of the present war, under the care of a Commissioner, with an annual salary of $4.,000, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate ; and there shall be a chief clerk, acting also as disbursing officer, under bonds to the United States, with an annual salary of $2,000, and also such number of clerks, not exceeding two of each class, as shall be necessary, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
 SEC. 
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner shall have authority, under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, to create departments of freedmen within the rebel States, so far as the same may be brought under the military power of the United States ; and each department shall be under the supervision of an assistant commissioner, with an annual salary of $2,000, to be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and with authority to appoint local superintendents and clerks, so far as the same may be needed, at a compensation not exceeding the ordinary rate for similar services, subject, in all respects, to the approval of the Secretary.

SEC. 3. And be it further enacted. That the military commander within any department shall, on the application of the assistant commissioner thereof, supply all needful military support in the discharge of the duties of such assistant commissioner, unless there are controlling military reasons for withholding the same; and any military commander may be appointed assistant commissioner, without increase of salary.

 SEC.SEC. 4. And be it further enacted., That the Commissioner, under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall have the general superintendence of all freedmen throughout the several departments, and it shall be his duty especially to watch over the execution of all laws, proclamations, and military orders of emancipation, or in any way concerning freedom, and generally, by careful regulations, in the spirit of the Constitution, to protect these persons in the enjoyment of their rights, to promote their welfare, and to secure to them and their posterity the blessings of liberty.
 SEC. 
SEC. 5. And be it further enacted., That the assistant commissioners shall have authority, within their respective departments, to take possession of all abandoned real estate and all real estate, with the houses thereon, liable to sale or confiscation, or to any claim of title by the United States, and not already appropriated to Government uses ; and also to take possession of all personal property, found on such estate, and to rent on lease all such real estate, or any part thereof, with the personal property thereon, and to act as inspectors of the same ; or, in case no proper lessees can he be found, then to cause the same to be cultivated or occupied by the freedmen, on such terms, in either case, and under such regulations, as the Commissioner may determine. Provided, That no freedmen shall be held to service on any estate above mentioned, otherwise than according to voluntary contract reduced to writing and certified by the assistant commissioner or local superintendent; nor shallaltall any such contract be for a longer period than twelve months.

 SEC.SEC. 6. And be it further enacted., That the assistant commissioners, and local superintendents shall be ready, as advisory guardians, to aid the freedmen in the adjustment of their wages, or, where they have rented plantations or small holdings, in the organization of their labor; that they shall take care that the freedmen do not suffer from ill-treatment or any failure of contract on the part of others, and that on their part they perform their duty in the premises; that they shall further do what they can as arbitrators, to reconcile and settle any differences in which freedmen may be involved, whether among themselves or between themselves and other persons ; and in case such differences are carried before any tribunal, civil or military, they shall appear as next friends of the freedmen, so far as to see that the case is fairly stated and heard. And in all such proceedings there shall be no disability or exclusion on account of color.  SEC. 
SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, 'That leases hereto-fore made by the supervising special agents of the Treasury Department, under the authority of the General Order 331, of the Secretary of War, dated October 9, 1863, and in accordance with the regulations of the Treasury Department, shall have the same effect as if made by assistant commissioners under this act; and such agents shall have the same powers, in the premises, as are given here in to assist commissioners. : Provided, that no lease shall be made by them for a longer period than one year, and that immediately upon the organization of any department of freedmen, such agents shall cease to execute their functions within such department, and shall deliver over to the assistant commissioner thereof all property and papers held by them as agents. But all expenses necessarily incurred by such agents in any department, prior to its organization under this act, shall be defrayed by the Secretary of the Treasury out of any moneys in his hands arising from the leases made by such agents.
 SEC. 
SEC 8. And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner shall apply the proceeds arising from leases in the several departments to pay the salaries and other expenses under this act, so  that the bureau here ! in established may become at an early day self-supporting ; and any proceeds over and above the annual expense thereof shall be paid into the Treasury of the United State.

SEC. 9. And be it further enacted,. That it shall be the duty of nil all officers, civil and military, charged with the execution of any law, proclamation, or military order of emancipation, or in any way concerning freedmen inert, not mustered into, nor regularly engaged in, the military service, to make return to the Commissioner of all their proceedings in execution thereof, under such regulation a shall regulations as from time to time be prescribed.
SEC. 
SEC. 10. And be it further enacted, That the Commissioner shall, before the commencement of each session of Congress, make full report of hi his proceedings to the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall communicate the same to Congress. And the assistant commissioner, shall make quarterly reports of their proceeding to the –Commissioners proceedings to the "Commissoners, and also such otherofter special reports a as from time to time may be required.
 
Mr. SUMNER.SUMNER. Mr. President, the Senate only a short time ago was engaged for a week in considering how to open an iron way from the Atlantic to

<C04>

the Pacific. It is now to consider how to open a way from slavery to freedom.
 
I regret much that only thus tardily we have been able to take upUp the bill for a Bureau of Freedmen. But I trust that nothing will interfere with its consideration now. In what I have to say, I shall confine 
myself to a simple statement. If I differ from others, I beg to be understood that it is in no spirit of controversy, and with no pride >.of opinion. Nothing of this kind can enter justly <w> illegible>any such discussion.

I shall not detain the Senate to expose the importance of this measure. All must confess it at a glance. It is at once a charity and a duty.
 By virtue of existing acts of Congress, and also under the proclamation of the President, large numbers of slaves have suddenly become free. These may now be counted by the hundred thousand. In the progress of victory, they will be counted by the millions.
 
As they derive their freedom from the United States, under legislative or executive acts, the national Government cannot be excused from making such provisions as may be required for their immediate protection and welfare during the present transition period. The freedom that has been conferred must be rendered useful, or at least saved from being a burden. Reports, official and unofficial, show the necessity of action. In some places it is a question of life and death.

It would be superfluous to quote at length from these reports, which all testify alike, whether from Louisiana, South Carolina, Fortress Monroe, Vicksburg, Tennessee, Arkansas. I know not where the call is most urgent. It is urgent everywhere; and in some places it is the voice of distress.
 
Wherever our arms have prevailed, the old social system has been destroyed. Masters have fled, and slaves have assumed a new character. Released from their farmer obligations, and often adrift in the world, they naturally look to the prevailing power. Here, for Instance, is testimony which I take from an excellent report made in the department of Tennessee, under date of April 29 1863:
 “ :
"Negroes, in accordance with the acts of Congress, free on coming within our lines, circulated much like water; the task was to take care for and render useful.
 
They rolled like eddies around military posts. ; many of the men employed in accordance with Order No. 72, district West Tennessee; women and children largely doing nothing but eating and idling, the dupes of vice and crime, the unsuspecting sources of disease.”
 ."
From this statement, Senators may form an idea of the numbers who seek assistance.
  
But the question is often asked as to the disposition of these persons to labor. Here, also, the testimony is explicit. I have in my hand the answers from different stations on this point.

 “Question ‘What of their disposition to labor? ’
'Answer, Corinth. ‘So far as I have tested it, better than I expected; willing to work for money, except in waiting on the sick. One hundred and fifty hands gathered five hundred acres of cotton in less than three I weeks, much of which time was bad weather. The owner admitted that it was done more quickly than it could have been done with slaves... When detailed for service, they generally remained till honorably discharged, even when badly treated. I am well satisfied, from careful calculations, that the contrabands of this camp and district have netted the Government, over and above all their expenses, including rations, tents, &c., at least $§3,000 per month, independent of what the women do and all the property brought I through our lines from the rebels.’

Cairo. ‘Willing to labor when they can have proper motives.’

Grand Junction. ‘Have manifested considerable disposition to escape labor, having had no sufficient motives to work.’

Holly Spring and Memphis. ‘With few exceptions, generally willing, even without pay. Paid regularly, they are much more prompt.’
'
Memphis. ‘Among men, better than among women. Hold out to them the inducements, benefit to themselves and friends, essential to the industry of any race, and they would at once be diligent and industrious.’

Bolivar. ‘' Generally good; would be improved by the idea of pay.’“
'"
Here, also, is a glimpse at Newborn, North Carolina, under date of February 29, 1864:
“ : 
" Immediately on my return here, on the 12th of October, 1 I instituted measures, for placing the different abandoned plantations within our lines, in this State under proper management and cultivation. As soon as it became known that, as. supervising Treasury agent, I had charge of this property, I was visited by hundreds (and I might correctly say thousands) of contrabands, along with numerous white persons, desiring to obtain privileges to work upon the same.”
."
And here is the testimony of Gen. Banks, in Louisiana:
 “ : 
" Wherever in the department they, have been well treated and reasonably compensated, they have invariably rendered faithful service to their employers.From many persons who manage plantations, I have received the information that there is no difficulty whatever in keeping them at work, if the conditions, to which I have referred are complied with.”
."
I do not quote further, for it would simply take time. But I cannot forbear from adding that the report from the commission on freedmen, appointed by the Secretary of War, accumulates ample testimony on this head, all showingshoeing that the freedmen are anxious to find employment. But your Treasury testifies to their productive power, for it contains atal this moment more than a million dollars which have come from the sweat of freedmen.
 
It is evident, then, that the freedmen are not idlers. They desire work. But in their helpless condition they have not the ability to obtain it with-out assistance. They arc are alone, "friendless, and un informed. The curse of slavery is still upon them. Somebody must take them by the land; not to support them, but simply to help them to that work which will support them. Thus far private societies in different parts of the country, at the East and the West—especially at all the principal centres have done much toward this charity. But private societies are inadequate to the duties required. The intervention of the national Government is necessary. Without such intervention, many of these poor people, freed by our acts in the exercise of a military necessity, will be- left to perish.

The service required is too vast and complex for unorganized individuals. It must proceed from the national Government. This alone can supply the , adequate machinery, and extend the proper network of assistance, with that unity of operation which is required. The national Government must interfere in this case precisely as in building the Pacific railroad. Private charity in our country is active and generous, but it is powerless to cope with the evils arising from a wicked institution ; nor can it provide a remedy where society itself has been overthrown.
 " There are few who will not admit that something must be done by the Government. Cold must most be that heart which could turn away from this call. But whatever is done must be through some designated agency, and this brings me to another aspect of the question.
 
<C05>

The" President in his proclamation of emancipation has used the following language: “" I recommend to them”— that is to the freedmen—”freedmen—" that in all cases, when allowed, they labor faithfully for reasonable wages.”." Such is the recommendation from that supreme authority which decreed emancipation., They are to labor, and for reasonable wages. But the President does not undertake to say how this opportunity shall be obtained ; how the laborer shall be brought in connection with the land; how his rights shall be protected ; and how his new-found liberty shall be made a blessing. It was enough, perhaps, on the occasion of the proclamation, that the suggestion should be made. Faithful labor and reasonable wages! Let these be secured, and everything else will follow. But how shall these be secured?
Different subjects as they become important are committed to the care of special bureaus. I need only refer to patents, agriculture, public lands, pensions, and Indian affairs, each under the charge of a separate Commissioner. Clearly the time has come for a Bureau of Freedmen. In speaking of a Bureau of Freedmen, I mean a bureau which will be confined in its operations to the affairs of freedmen, and not travel beyond this increasing class to embrace others, it may be of African descent. Our present necessity is to help those who have been made free by the present war; and the term freedmen describes sufficiently those who have once been slaves ; and it is this class which we propose to help during the transition period from slavery to freedom. Call it charity or duty, it is sacred as humanity.
But here a practical question arises with regard to the Department in which this bureau shall be placed. There are reasons for placing it in the War Department—at least during the continuance of the war. There are other reasons for placing it in the Department of the Interior, which has charge of the public lands, Indian affairs, pensions, and patents. But whatever may be the reasons on general grounds for placing it in one of these two Departments, there are other reasons, of special importance at this moment, which point to the Treasury Department. Indeed, after careful consideration, the committee were satisfied that it was so clearly associated with other ! : interests already intrusted to this Department, that j it could not be advantageously administered elsewhere. Although beginning this inquiry with a conviction in favor of the. War Department, I could not I resist the conclusion of the committee.
 
Look, for one moment, at the class of duties already imposed upon the Treasury, Department in connection, with the very homes of these freedmen.

Congress has, by special acts, conferred upon the Secretary. -of the Treasury extraordinary powers with regard to trade in the rebel States. There was, first, the act of July 13,I3, 1861, entitled “" further to provide for the collection of duties on imports and other purposes,”," which declared that commercial intercourse with any State or part of a State in rebellion, when licensed by the President, “" shall be conducted and carried on only in pursuance of rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.”." And it is further provided that

“" The Secretary of the Treasury may appoint such officers at places where officers of the customs are not now authorized by law, as may be needed to curry carry into ; effect such licenses, rules, and regulations.”—."—Statutes at Large, vol. 12, p. 257.

There is another act of Congress, approved July 13, 1862, supplementary to the latter act, which confers additional powers upon the Secretary of the Treasury with reference to trade with “any place in the possession or under the control of insurgents against the United States.”
' There is also the act of June 7, 1862, entitled “" An act for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States, and for other purposes.”." In this act it is provided (section nine.) that, “" where the board of commissioners shall be satisfied that the owners of lands have left the same to join the rebel forces, or otherwise to engage in and abet this rebellion, and the same shall have been struck off to the United States at said sale, the said commissioners shall, in the name of the United States, enter upon and take possession of the same, and may lease the same, together or in parcels, to any person or persons who are citizens of the United States;” ;" and (section ten) the commissioners “" shall from time to time make such temporary rules and regulations and insert such clauses in said leases as shall be just and proper to secure employment and support, at wages or upon shares of the crop, of such persons and families as may be residing upon the said parcels or lots of land, which said rules and regulations are declared to be subject to the approval of the President.”." (Statutes at Large, volume twelve, page 424.) The execution of this act is lodged in the Treasury Department.
 
Then comes the act of Congress, approved March .12, 1863, entitled “" An act to provide for the collection of abandoned property and for the prevention of frauds in insurrectionary districts -'within the United States.”." Under this act the Secretary was authorized “" to appoint a special agent or agents to receive and collect all abandoned or captured property in any State,  or Territory of the United States, designated as in insurrection against the lawful Government of the United States.”." The act proceeds with details on the subject.
 
Such are the powers conferred by Congress upon the Treasury Department concerning trade and abandoned property in the rebel States. These were followed by a general order from the War Department, as follows:

(General Orders, No. 331.]
WAR DEPARTMENT, ) ADJUTANT GENERAL’S OFFICE, ) WASHINGTON] WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,) WASHINGTON, October? 9, 1863. 

The President orders:
 1. All Louses, tenements, lands, and plantations, except such as may he required for military purposes, which have been or may be deserted unit and abandoned by insurgents within the lines of the military occupation of the United States forces in States declared by proclamation of the President to be in insurrection, will hereafter be under the supervision and control of the he .supervising .special agents of the Treasury Department.

2. All commanders of military departments, districts, and posts will, upon receipt of this order, surrender and turn over to the proper supervising special agent such houses., tenements, lands, and plantations not required for military uses as may be in their possession or under their control; and all officers of the Army of the United Suites State, will at ail times , render to the agents appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury all such aid as may be necessary to enable them to obtain possession of such houses, tenements, lands, and plantations, and to maintain their authority over the same.
 By order of the Secretary of War: , E. D. TOWNSEND. Assistant Adjutant General.

By this order, as it appears, the Treasury Department has been substituted for the War Department in jurisdiction over “" houses, tenements, lands, and plantations deserted and abandoned by insurgents . within the lines of military occupation.”." This is broad, but it is positive.
, 
In pursuance of these acts of Congress, and of this order of the War Department, the Secretary ofoff the

<C06>

Treasury has proceeded to appoint special agents and to establish a code of regulations. 1 I have in my hands now a small volume, entitled “" Commercial Intercourse with States Declared in Insurrection, and the Collection of Abandoned and Captured Property,”," containing the statutes and also the departmental regulations on the subject. It appears that there is now an organization under the Secretary of the Treasury, awl and also a system, both of reasonable completeness, to carry out these purposes.
 
In determining where the Bureau of Freedmen should be placed, it becomes important to consider the interests which it is proposed to guard ; and this brings me to another aspect of the question.

Looking at the freedmen, whose welfare is in question, we shall find that their labor may be classified under two different heads ; first, military ; and secondly, predial, or relating to farms. There will be still other laborers, including especially mechanics; but these will be chiefly in the towns.' The large mass will be included in tin; two classes the I have named. It is, therefore, these two classes that are to be particularly considered.
 
1. The first class is already provided for. It appears that one hundred thousand freedmen are already engaged in the military service as soldiers or laborers. Others will continue to be engaged in this way. These are all naturally and logically under the charge of the War Department; nor do they need the superintendence of the proposed bureau. The act of Congress equalizing their condition in the army of the United States is better for them than any bureau.
 
2. But there will remain the other larger class, consisting in the main of women and children, and farm laborers, who must find fail employment on the abandoned lands. To this labor they are accustomed. These lands are their natural home. But this class must naturally and logically come under the charge of the Department which has charge of the abandoned lands. Conceding that all in the military service fall under the superintendence of the War Department, it follows with equal reason that all who labor on the lands must fall under the superintendence of the Treasury Department, so long, at least, as this Department has charge of the lands.
 
This conclusion seems so reasonable that your committee were not able to resist it. But the testimony of persons who have given particular attention to the question is explicit also, so that experience is in harmony with reason. 1I have in Bf mfyhands a letter from Colonel Mc-Kaye, an eminent citizen of New York, and also a member of the commission to inquire and report on this subject, appointed by the Secretary of War. After visiting South Carolina and Louisiana, expressly to study the necessities of freedmen, and to ascertain what could be done to benefit them, he thus expresses himself:—

 “" In the first place, everybody who has had any practical experience of the working of the plantations, or of the superintendence of negro labor, will tell you that the control of the abandoned plantations and the can care of the colored people must be. in the same hands.”
."
You will not fail to observe how positive this expert speaks. According to him, all who have had “- practical experience” " insist; that chat the care of the freedmen and of the plantations should be “" in the same hands;” ;" and so important does he regard this point that he names it first of all—“—" in the first place.”
." 
But Colonel McKaye is not alone. Here is a letter from Hon. Robert Dale Owen, chairman of the Commission on Freedmen, appointed by the Secretary of War, which testifies as follows:—
 “ :—
" It will never do to have Treasury agents who lease the lands to white men and War Department agents, who assign the same lands to colored people. Nothing it but contusion and conflict of authority can result. It will not work at all. But even if it would, why employ two sets of agents to do what one sets can do much better?belter? And who is to inspect the leased plantations and see to it that neither employers nor employed are wronged ‘? The men who gave the leases?? But they are Treasury agents, and have nothing to do with freedmen. Or the freedmen’s commission! ? But what authority can they have over men who do not hold their leases from them? ? The men who have the care of that the laborer ought to have the leasing of the land and the inspection of the leases; and they should- be authorized to lease equally to white and to colored people.”
."
Such a statement is an argument.
 This conclusion has the support also of General Banks, in a letter addressed to one of the Freedmen’s Commission. Here are his words:—
“The assignment :—
" The asaignment of the abandoned or forfeited plantations to one department of the Government, and the protection and support of the emancipated people to another, is it a fundamental error productive of incalculable evils, and cannot be too soon or too thoroughly corrected.”
."
The able and elaborate report from the Freedmen’s-men's Commission, just published, considers this question carefully. Nothing could be more explicit than the following testimony:—
“ :—
" But in the judgment of the commission, the most serious error in connection with the present arrangements for the care and protection of these people arises out of the assignment to a different agency of the care can and detailedisposal of the abandoned plantations. To enter into the detail of allalt the evils andsnd abases that have arisen out of this error, and which are unavoidable so long as it continues to exist, would occupy too great a space in this report. Suffice it to say that it is the source of the greatest confusion, and a perpetual collision between the different local authorities, in which not only the emancipated population, bat but the Government itself, suffers the most must serious injuries and losses. 

And this is the purport of all the testimony which the commission has been able to obtain, not in the Department of the Gulf only, but every where, in relation to this mutter.
matter. 
The unhesitating judgment of every person, official or other, not interested in the opportunities it affords for peculation, with whom we have consulted, coincides with that of General Banks. All without exception declare that no system can avail to effect the great objects contemplated, that does. not assign to one and the same authority the care and disposal of the abandoned plantations, and the care and protection of the emancipated is emanicipated laborers who are to cultivate them.
 
And after the most through investigations, I am authorized in is saying that this is the deliberate judgment of the Commission.”
."
It was on this ground of reason, and yielding to the influence of such authoritative opinions, that the committee were led to believe that there was no alternative on this practical question.
 In the course of their inquiries, the committee sought the opinions of the Secretary of the Treasury. With the heavy burdens of his Department resting on his shoulders, be does not desire any additional labor, but he does not conceal his conviction that the care of the freedmen moat must for the present be associated with the care of the lands. He would he be glad to be relieved of nit all the responsibilities connected with the subject; bat but he hopes that it will not be divided between two different departments. In that event, it is feared that them win be litlethere will be little good from either.
<C0B>
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of the nation . I say that miltary authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institution, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST;and that, under the state of things, so far from its being true that the States who slavery exists have the exclusive managements of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EXANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile of foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed to the cession of States , burdened with slavery, to a foreign power,..... It is a war power. I may it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it to be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war and MUST CARRY IT ON ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR: and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territary ,"-J.Q.ADAMS.


<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I have dwelt with some minuteness on this question, because it seems to be the practical point on which there may be a difference of opinion. Al-ready gentlemen have taken sides, and newspapers: also. I regret this difference; but I trust that a calm and dispassionate consideration of the subject will render it inocuous. The first thought of all should be the cause.
There is another question which ought not to be passed over in silence, arising out of the desire to protect the freedmen from any system of serfdom or enforced apprenticeship. It is well known that among the former slave-masters there are many who continue to count upon appropriating the labor of their slaves, if not under the name of slavery, at least under some other system by which the freedmen are effectually bound to service.-The very phrase” bound to service,” standing alone, is the pleonastic definition of slavery itself. One of these slave-masters in a public speech said,” There is really no difference, in my opinion, whether we hold them as absolute slaves or obtain their labor by some other method. Of course we prefer the old method, but that question is not now before us." Such barefaced avowals were not needed to put humane men on their guard against the conspiracy to continue slavery under another name.
The bill now before the Senate provides against any such possibility by requiring first, that the assistant commissioners and local superintendents shall not only aid the freedmen in the adjustment of their wages. but that they shall take care that the freedmen do not suffer from ill treatment or any failure of contract on the part of Others; and secondly. that the contracts.-for service shall be limited to a wear. The latter provision is so important that I give it precisely:—
"Provided, That no freedmen shall be held to service on any estate above mentioned, otherwise than according to voluntary contract, reduced to writing, and certified by the assistant commissioner or local superintendent; nor shall any such contract be for a longer period than twelve months.”
Here is a safeguard against serfdom or enforced apprenticeship which seemed to your committee of especial value. In this respect the House Bill was thought to be fatally defective, inasmuch as it interposed no positive safeguards.
I do not know how extensive the desire may be to set slavery again on its feet under another name. But when we take into consideration the selfish tendencies of the world, the disposition of the strong to appropriate the labor of the weak, and the reluctance of slave-masters to renounce their habitual power, I have felt that Congress would not do its duty on this occasion if it did not by special provision guard against any such outrage. There must be no slavery under another alias. This terrible wrong must not be allowed to skulk in serfdom or compulsory labor.” Once free, always free;" such is the maxim of justice, and of jurisprudence. But any system by which the freedmen may be annexed to the soil. adscripti glebre will be if direct conflict with their newly acquired rights. They can be properly bound only by contract; and considering how easily they may be induced to enter into engagements ignorantly or heedlessly, and thus become the legal victims of designing men, it is evident that no precautions in their behalf can be too great.
It is well known that in some of the British West Indies an attempt was made, at the period of emancipation, to establish a system of apprenticeship which should be an intermediate condition between slavery and freedom. But the experiment failed. In some of the islands it was I abandoned by the planters themselves, who frankly accepted emancipation outright. And in all it finally fell, blasted by the eloquence of Brougham. Here is a passage from one of his speeches:—
"They who always dreaded emancipation, who were alarmed at the prospect of negro indolence, who stood aghast at the vision of negro rebellion should the chains cease to rattle, or the lash to resound through the air, gathering no wisdom from the past, still persist in affrighting themselves and scaring you with imaginary apprehensions from the transition to entire freedom out of the present intermediate state. But that intermediate state is the very source of all their real danger; and I disguise not its magnitude from myself. You have gone too far if you stop here, and go no further; you are in imminent hazard if, having loosened the fetters, you do not strike them off; if, leaving them ineffectual to restrain, you let them remain to gall and to iritate and to goad. Beware of that state yet more unnatural than slavery itself, liberty bestowed by halves!”—Third Series Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, vol. 40, p. 1812.
"I have demonstrated to you that everything is ordered, every previous step taken, all safe, by experience shown to be safe for the long-desired consummation. The time has come, the trial has been made, the hour is striking; you have no longer a pretext for hesitation, or faltering, or delay. The slave has shown by four years blameless behavior, and devotion to the pursuits of peaceful industry, that he is as fit for his freedom as any English peasant, ay, or any lord whom I now address. I demand his rights; I demand his liberty without stint; in the name of justice and of law, in the name of reason, in the name of God, who has given you no right to work injustice."—bid., p. 1314. 
But surely there is no need of eloquence or persuasion to induce you to set your faces like flint against any such half-way system. Freedom that has been declared must be secured completely, so that it may not fail through any pretension or fraud of wicked men. The least that can be done is what is proposed by your committee.
Much more might be said on the whole subject, but I forbear. I have opened to consideration the two principal questions. If the Senate agree with the committee, first, on the importance of keeping the superintendence of the freedmen and of the lands in the same hands, so as to avoid local conflict and discord, and, secondly, in the importance of providing surely against any system of serfdom or adscription to the soil, the bill of the committee must be adopted 
For the sake of plainness, I ask your attention to the main features of this bill, under the following heads:—
1. It provides exclusively for freedmen, meaning thereby” such persons as were once slaves," without undertaking to embrace persons generally of African descent.
2. It seeks to secure to such freedmen the opportunity of labor on those lands which are natural and congenial to them, and on this account it places the superintendence of the freedmen in the Department which has the superintendence of the lands.
3. It provides positively against any system of enforced labor or apprenticeship, by requiring contracts between the freedmen and their employers, to be carefully attested before their local officers.
4. It establishes a careful machinery for the purposes of the bill, both as regards the freedmen and as regards the lands.
But the bill may be seen not only in what it does, but also in what it avoids doing. It does not undertake too much. It does not assume to provide ways and means for the support of the freedmen; but it does look to securing them the opportunities of labor according to well-guarded contracts, and under the friendly advice of agents of the Government, who shall take care that they are protected against abuse of all kinds. It is the declared duty of these, agents” to protect these persons in the enjoyment of their rights, to promote their welfare, and to secure to them and their posterity the blessings of liberty." Under these comprehensive words, all that is proper and Constitutional will be authorized for their welfare and security, while liberty and labor will be made to go hand in hand. Thus far in the sad history of this people Labor has been compelled by Slavery. But the case at last will be reversed. It will be Liberty that will conduct the freedman to the fields, protect him in his toil, and secure to him all its fruits.
In closing what I have to say on this subject, allow me to read the official testimony of the Commission on Freedmen, appointed by the Secretary of War in their recent report on this subject:—
"We need a freed man's <illegible>, not because these people are negroes, but because they are men who have been for generations despoiled of their rights. The commission has heretofore, to wit, in a supplemental report made to you in December last, recommended, to effect the above objects, the establishment of such a bureau; and they believe that all that is essential to its proper organization is contained, substantially, in a bill to that effect, reported on April 12, from the senate committee on slavery and freedmen."
This is the bill which is now under consideration it will be for the senate to determine, under the circumstances, what it will do. My earnest hope is that it will do something. The opportunity must not be lost of helping so many persons who are now helpless and of aiding the cause of reconciliation without which peace cannot be assured. In this spirit I leave the whole subject to the good judgment of the Senate. If anything better than the work of the committee can be found. I hope that it will be adopted; but meanwhile I ask you to accept that which is now offered.
<c02>
THE DIFFERENCE.
Lieutenant Governor Jacobs, of Kentucky, is a bitter Copperhead. He is also a brother in-law of John C. Fremont, both gentlemen having married daughters of Thomas H. Benton. Recently Lieutenant Governor Jacobs made a Copperhead speech at Lexington, and General Fremont wrote a letter accepting the nomination for the Presidency tendered him by the Cleveland Convention. We give an extract from each, to show our readers how very near alike are the views of these two brothers-in-law, when Abraham Lincoln is the subject of their oracular utterances:
From Gov. Jacobs Speech.
" Mr. Lincoln has changed His ground, and taken the Position that he wills abolish slavery. He has crushed the laws of his country, been false to the Constitution, and east aside the solemn oath of office be had given to the people. Instead of using a proclamation in accordance with, and to enforce the laws of his country, he has issued a pronunciamento He did it out as President of the United States, but as the head of the Executive Department. That pronunciamento was a startling usurpation of power. Such a usurpation cost Charles the First bin head. So this usurpation may yet cost Abraham Lincoln his neck. [Cheer.]"
From Gen Fremont's Letter.
“The ordinary rights secured under the Constitution and the laws of the country have been violated, and extraordinary powers have been usurped by the Executive. It is directly before the people now to say whether or not the principles established by the Revolution are worth main-training. If, as we have been taught to believe, those guarantees for liberty, which made the distinctive value and glory of our country, are in truth inviolably sacred, then there must be a protect against the arbitrary violation which had not even the excuse of necessity,
It was among the objects to arouse the attention of the people to such facts, and to bring; them to realize that while we are saturating Southern soil with the best blood of the country in the name of liberty, we have really parted with it at home."
Gov. Jacobs is a pro-slavery man; Gen. Fremont has the reputation of being radically anti-slavery. Herein they are supposed to differ. But they are together in their hatred of Abraham Lincoln, and in the determination to defeat his election, no matter who should be his successor.—Pittsburgh Gazette.

“CONSCIENTIOUS OPPOSITION."
If proof were wanting of the infuriate madness which has seized the Fremont wire-pullers, the disloyal assaults of their organ (the New Nation) upon the public credit would furnish it. The last number of that sheet, under date of the 11th, has an editorial article which, in speaking of the New York money market, says:
"Federal bonds may be good enough investment for federal currency; but for a safe deposit of real value, they can no longer be commended. The limited subscriptions of the ten-forty loan show that these views have become wide-spread."
Again it tells us that
"Even non-dividend-paying railroad shares bring more than the six per cent, government securities. Discredit has scarcely a lower depth, and the tendency in government securities is downward." Not satisfied with even this attempt to stab the national credit, and thus give success to the rebellion, this organ of the great author of “vigorous war" indulges in the following infamous threat:
"In order to rid themselves of a tyrant, the people may be driven to strike at the foundations of government, and in the struggle public credit can hardly tail to suffer. In view of this danger, many people are exchanging their “greenbacks” for notes of sound State banks, which, it is believed, would not be wholly involved in the ruin which seems inseparable from a continuance of Mr. Lincoln's administration."
This we understand to be a sample of the “elements of conscientious opposition” which Fremont told us in his letter of acceptance he would labor to” combine" for the defeat of Mr. Lincoln, if nominated at Baltimore. First, the bonds of the government are pronounced not of” real value," and for that reason” can no longer be commended” as a mode of” safe, deposit;” and, as if afraid that this disloyal assertion would not be accepted by the people, the infamous intimation is thrown out that" the. people”—of the style of Vallandigham, with whom Fremont is” combining” may be driven to strike at the foundations of government." In other words, Fremont may get up a rebellion over Mr. Lincoln's second election, as Jeff. Davis did over the first. Not to leave, any doubt as to the worthlessness of government bonds, this infamous sheet in this same connection speaks of” ruin which seems inseparable from a continuance of Mr. Lincoln's Administration”! Truly did this New Nation declare that” there is so little difference” between Fremont's squad and” the Democratic party that it would be easy to adopt a common ticket." And that “difference” is “growing small by degrees," if not “beautifully less."— Toledo Blade. 

THE CLEVELAND CONVENTION.
The Union party arc in favor of putting down the rebellion—they are for acquiescing in whatever measures may. be necessary to secure this result—they have nominated a candidate at Baltimore, pledged to carry out these objects. On the other hand, the Copperheads are opposed to the war, are opposed to all measures of the Government calculated to effect this result. Now, whoever deprives the Union party of a vote thereby gives a vote to the Copperheads. The Cleveland dissentients-profess to be. radical men, to desire the absolute equality of all men before the law, and yet they would strike down the party that carries a banner upon which is inscribed liberty, and rally round a party whose leaders proclaim slavery to be a “divine institution." And their organ, the New Nation, cannot find words sufficiently abusive to express its hatred and jealousy in regard to the Government. There is not a general in command of one of our armies but it declares incompetent for the position. Every act of I the Administration is not only criticised, but condemned. It speaks with derision of the President and his Cabinet, and more than intimates that they are all villains of the deepest dye, who have perjured themselves, and now seek to degrade and disgrace their country and their fellow-citizens.” We can admire the manliness of the rebel who shoulders his musket, and hies away to the battle-field to fight against us—we can tolerate the cringing copperhead, who would grant any conditions and terms that the rebels might demand, and who has the audacity to declare himself—but the professed Union man, who is seen skulking about like a felon or midnight assassin, peering around to see if some opportunity will not present itself, so that he may aggrandize himself at the expense not only of his country but his friends—such a man is so base, despicable, mean, and contemptible, that his society ought to be avoided as one would shun a pestilence.— York, (Pa.) True Democrat.

COMING TOGETHER. 
It is curious to watch the Copperheads and Fremonters, and see how, starting from positions the most antagonistic possible, they gradually approach each other, like two bodies drawn together by a common attraction. As illustrating this process, we give a couple of extracts. First, from the New York World, which says:
"Fremont is unequivocally for Free Speech, a Free Press, the Right of Asylum, the Monroe doctrine, and the Guarantees of Personal Liberty. There is nothing in the Slavery question to be weighed for one moment against these. So far as the radicals consent to stand upon these principles of the Cleveland plat-form, they have bond of sympathy with the Democratic party, and with all true patriots."
Next, froth the New Nation, the Fremont organ in New York, and edited by one of his staff. It says:
"There is so little difference between this party and the Democratic party that it would be easy to adopt a common ticket, which would sweep everything before it."
And yet Gen. Fremont, between whom and” the Democratic party" there is” so little difference," had the impudence to dictate to the Union Convention whom it should nominate to run against the” Democratic party”.—Toledo Blade.
Republicans have now to choose between a gentleman and a buffoon, between decent Fremont and indecent Lincoln—between principles and shoddy.—Saco Democrat.
The above morceau illustrates the beautiful style and excellent taste of the copperhead press.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1864. 
VISTI TO BALTIMORE AND THE CAPITAL 
I have just returned from a short visit to Baltimore and Washington, in company with my esteemed friend, THEODORE TILTON, Esq., Editor of the New York Independent. The latter city I had never seen before; and thirty-four years had elapsed since I left my prison-cell in Baltimore, and commenced the work of” agitation” of the slavery question at the North. Until within two years, I could not have visited either “the monumental city" or the national capital, except on peril of abduction, imprisonment, or assassination. True, my CONSTITUTIONAL right to travel in any slave State or District, and to enjoy untrammelled liberty of speech, was as unquestionable as that of Jeff. Davis to make a tour of the free States ad libitum, and give free utterance to his opinions on any subject he might choose to discuss; but it was a right popularly recognized, in my case, as null and void, and a crime of the deepest dye If attempted to be exercised in opposition to that execrable system of bondage which is now filling the land with the horrors of civil war. For one third of a century I, an American citizen, guiltless of crime, had been outlawed in all the South, and, consequently, unable safely to visit any portion of that extended section of my native land. Throughout that long period I had again and again been tauntingly asked,” Why don't you go to the South?" with my sneering questioners well &knew that I could do so only on the certainty of being put to torture and a barbarous death as soon as apprehended. What sympathy or support had I then, as the friend and advocate of the. oppressed, even at the North? A price was upon my head, temptingly offered by the traffickers in human flesh; and there was no power to save <illegible> doom, if caught any where in <illegible> regions. I was an honest believer in the <illegible> of Independence, and therefore rejected <illegible>“the wild and guilty fantasy that man can <illegible> property in man." I recognized the binding obligation of the Golden Rule," Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them," and therefore made the case of the slave my own. I felt to respond to the apostolic injunction,” Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them," and therefore demanded immediate and unconditional emancipation. And for this I had nothing but universal condemnation at the North, and a horrible doom threatened me at the South! To have gone to the South, in these circumstances, would have indicated neither moral heroism nor soundness of reason. In choosing Boston as the best place in which to establish the Liberator, and the North as the most appropriate field of labor, any instinct and judgment were not at fault, as time has fully demonstrated. The strength of the slave system lay in the universal complicity which the people of the North gave to it, through their apologetical and exculpatory pleadings, their commercial and manufacturing intercourse, their religious and political affiliation, their constitutional compromises, their mobocratic outbreaks against freedom of speech, their hot persecution of the abolitionists as fanatics and incendiaries, and their malign art prejudice towards the negro.' If the cause of the slave could not be successfully pleaded here, where a direct interest in the perpetuity of slavery was quite exceptional, then there was no hope for any part of our land. For it was meet to remember, as of old, that” judgment must first begin at the house of God; fur if the righteous be scarcely saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?" In other words, if among an intelligent and moral people, whose connection with slavery was only incidental and geographical, and whose soil was cultivated exclusively by free labor, it was impossible, for a long series of years, to obtain a candid hearing in favor of letting the oppressed go free, what hope or chance remained of converting the benighted and utterly demoralized South, Where by law it was made a penal offence even to question the rectitude of dealing in “slaves and the souls of men”? The Anti-Slavery movement was an appeal to the understanding and conscience of a guilty nation to put away its great iniquity, if it would escape impending judgments—not an invasion of the slave States by physical force. In no State could its moral lever be so effectively planted for the upturning of the slave system as in Massachusetts; and of all the cities in which to establish an organ, there was none comparable to Boston. Sooner or later,” Wisdom is justified of her children”; and the abolitionists now stand generally confessed as the most far-seeing and sagacious, as well as the most courageous and upright, of all classes in the country.
Thirty-four years since I had last seen Baltimore! A whole generation since my prison-fetters were broken! The old prison had vanished; but there was the city, still recognizable in some of its local features—but how changed in extent and appearance! Then it had a population of eighty thousand; now it has three times that number, and might have had five times more if it had been a free city, and Maryland a free State. Happily, Maryland is soon to be without a slave, and henceforth is destined to be great and prosperous under the regenerating influences of “free labor, Tree soil, free speech, and free men." She shall assuredly see the promise fulfilled to the letter—" If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity, then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon-day. And thou shall be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places; thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in." 
I was gratified to find that the loyal sentiment of Baltimore was of the most radical anti-slavery type, neither desiring nor contemplating any other result than the extinction of slavery with the suppression of the rebellion. That sentiment now holds such mastery in the city that no sympathizer with the rebellion dares openly avow his disloyalty. It is resolutely bent on speedily enrolling Maryland among the free States of the Union, and taking active measures to secure that end. Indeed, it is believed that all the loyal slaveholders are now ready to sanction the act. For instance, at a dinner party where more than a score of them were present, Mr. MILTON, in being called upon to respond to a sentiment, advocated the most” ultra” abolition principles, and was warmly applauded by them. This is a cheering fact. 
As strongly corroborative evidence of the wonderful change which has taken place in the feelings of the citizens, I would state that, on three successive evenings, mass meetings were held in the square in front of Barnum's hotel, at which slavery and its abettors, copperheads and rebels, were denounced by such speakers as Gen. Carey of Cincinnati and Parson Brownlow in scathing terms, and unadulterated abolitionism expounded in the most fearless manner; and in all the vast assembly not a note of dissent was expressed, but the warmest applause followed! Such demonstrations made me almost doubt my identity— or, at least, led me to ask, whether I was not in dreamland, temporarily enjoying a happy illusion! If further evidence is needed of a regenerated city, take the fact that, in April last, a colored regiment marched without molestation over the pavements in Pratt Street that, two years before, were stained with the blood of our Massachusetts soldiers who were hurrying through Baltimore to the defence of the Capital. Nearly all the able-bodied slaves in the State, capable of bearing arms, have been enrolled as soldiers under the flag, and consequently set free;—especial thanks to Gen. Birney. 
During my brief sojourn in Baltimore, the Loyal National Convention was held in the Front Street Theatre, to nominate candidates for President and Vice-President of the United States at the approach-
<c04>
ing election. It was well worth going from one end of the country to the other to witness its proceedings; yet it came in my way incidentally, and I was glad to have the opportunity to be a” a looker-on in Venice." As a delegated body representing all the loyal States and Territories in the Union, it presented an imposing appearance, and indicated, both in the choice of its candidates and platform it adopted, the overwhelming sentiment of THE PEOPLE. Prior to its coming together, all the loyal States had, with a unanimity unexampled since the days of George Washington, officially declared in favor of the re-election of ABRAHAM LINCOLN; so that its duty was simply to record its votes for the man thus unmistakably designated. From Maine to Oregon, the response was the same, with the single exception of the Radical delegates from Missouri, who, on the first ballot, voted for General Grant, in accordance with their instructions; and then transferred their votes to Abraham Lincoln, making the grand total of 519 for his re-election. Though this unanimity was strongly to be desired for the weightiest considerations, it was hardly to be expected; for what had the enemies of the Administration left undone to create division in the ranks? When the result was announced, the enthusiasm was indescribable; and yet it was not comparable to the electric outbreak which followed the adoption of the following resolution:— 
3. Resolved, That as slavery was the cause and now constitutes the strength of this rebellion, and as it must be always and everywhere hostile to the principles of republican government, justice and the national safety demand its utter and complete extirpation from the soil of the republic; and that we uphold and Maintain the acts and proclamations by which the government, in its own defence, has aimed a death-blow at this gigantic evil. We are in favor, furthermore, of such an amendment to the Constitution, to be made by the people in conformity with its provisions, as shall <illegible> and forever prohibit the existence of slavery within the limits or the jurisdiction of the United States. 
The whole body of delegates sprang to their feet as by one impulse, giving vent to their feelings in prolonged cheering and warm congratulations,—again and again renewing their joyful demonstrations in the most enthusiastic manner. Was not a spectacle like that rich compensation for more than thirty years of universal personal opprobrium, bitter persecution, and murderous outlawry? It is impossible for me to describe my emotions on that occasion—for what had God wrought! It was the first NATIONAL VERDICT ever recorded, in form and fact, in. letter and spirit, against slavery, as a system” incompatible with the principles of republican government," and therefore no longer to be tolerated in the land. It was the sublime decree—" Let the covenant with death be annulled, and the agreement with hell no longer stand!” It was a full endorsement of all the abolition” fanaticism” and” incendiarism” with which I had stood branded for so many years The time for my complete vindication had Come, from the Atlantic to the Pacific—the vindication of all who had labored for the extinction of” the sum of all villanies," whether through evil report or good report—yea, the vindication of Eternal Truth and Justice! 
The following resolutions were also adopted by the Convention by shouts of applause, the waving of hats, and other tokens of high gratification:— 
5. Resolved, That we approve and applaud the practical wisdom, the unselfish patriotism and unswerving fidelity to the Constitution and the principles of American liberty with which Abraham Lincoln has discharged, under circumstances of unparalleled difficulty, the great duties and responsibilities of the Presidential office; that we approve and endorse, as demanded by the emergency and essential to the preservation of the nation, and as within the Constitution, the measures and acts which he has adopted to defend the nation against its open and secret foes; that we approve especially the proclamation of emancipation and the employment as Union soldiers of men here to lore held in slavery; and that we have full confidence in his determination to carry these and all other constitutional measures essential to the salvation of the country into full and complete effect. 
7. Resolved, That the government owes to all men employed in its armies, without regard to distinction of color, the full protection of the laws of war; and that any violation of these laws, or of the usages of civilized nations in time of war, by the rebels now in arms, should be made the subject of full and prompt redress. 
While in Baltimore I was most hospitably entertained in the family of my old and revered friend, JOHN NEEDLES—a worthy disciple of George Fox and William Penn—the Isaac T. Hopper of New York, and the Thomas Garrett of Delaware—the early friend and faithful coadjutor of Benjamin Lundy— who kindly took me by the hand and gave me encouraging words in the commencement of my Anti-Slavery career as associate editor of the Genius of Universal Emancipation in Baltimore in 1829—and who, for more than forty years, has unflinchingly espoused the cause of the hunted fugitive and the manacled slave, in the midst of perils and at great personal sacrifices, bearing himself at all times meekly yet intrepidly, and commanding the respect and homage of even his bitterest enemies. It was a sore disappointment to me (which I believe he fully reciprocated) to find that he was absent in the country for the benefit of his health, he having had a serious fall a few months ago, from the effects of which he is slowly recovering. I trust we shall yet be permitted to see each other in the flesh. What an inducement it will be to visit him when Maryland shall have actually declared herself to be a free State! Hasten the day! 
My visit to Washington was in all respects agreeable and satisfactory; especially so were my interviews with President Lincoln, Secretary Stanton and Solicitor Whiting. My special acknowledgments are due to Senators Sumner and Wilson for their kind attentions both in and out of the Senate Chamber; and also to other Senators, and to various members of the House of Representatives, (including Speaker Colfax,) for courtesies extended to me during my visit to the Capitol. 

PRESENTATION TO GOV. ANDREW. 
The Traveller states that, on Monday evening last, the colored church of which Rev. Leonard A. Grimes is the pastor was crowded by a large audience which assembled to witness a presentation to Governor Addrew. Wm. Wells Brown called the meeting to order, saying that an important event was about to happen, one perhaps, to which might be attached even historical interest. After considerable' anxious waiting, the Governor appeared in the hall shortly before nine o'clock. Without any further preliminary exercises, Mr. Wm. C. Nell stepped forward, and in an appropriate and eloquent speech, calling to mind the devoted service of His Excellency, through many years of persistent labor in behalf of the colored race, presented him with a large and beautiful portrait of. him-self (the Governor). The painting is finely executed, and though not taken from life, it is a very life-like likeness. Mr. Wm. H. Simpson is the artist, and Mr. Jacob Andrew the framer of the painting. They are young colored men, and their joint work elicited deserved admiration.
Gov. Andrew was completely surprised, as he had received no intimation why his presence was desired at the church. He thanked the gentlemen and the audience for this kind remembrance of his services. At the request of the congregation, he proceeded to address them on the prospects of the colored race on the issue of the rebellion. He made a powerful speech, and was enthusiastically applauded.
STAWBERRY FESTIVAL. It will be seen by an advertisement, that the ladies of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society (late Rev. Theodore Parker's) propose holding a strawberry festival and social entertainment, next Wednesday evening, June 29th, for the purpose of raising funds to furnish their place of service. 
Donations of strawberries and flowers will be gratefully received by the ladies, on the afternoon of the 29th, at the Fraternity Rooms. 
FREBDMEN'S BUREAU. The excellent speech of Hon. Charles Sumner, in support of the Freedmen's Bureau, (see first page,) will be read with interest.
<c05>
PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS' MEETING.
It was our privilege to be present at the Twelfth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends, which was held at Longwood, (Pa.) on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, June 2d, 3d, and 4th. It was well attended and one of the best of its highly interesting series. Six consecutive sessions were held. We attend no other convocation with so much pleasure. 
On Thursday morning, after the reading of the call and the singing of an appropriate hymn, an address was delivered by Oliver Johnson, reviewing the history of the Society, and explaining its principles and objects. The Society, voted unauimously that this address should be printed with its proceedings. 
Oliver Johnson of New York, and Annie M. Stambach of Philadelphia, Were elected Clerks, and Isaac Mendenhall Treasurer. The Business Committee consisted of William Lloyd Garrison, Thomas Whitson, Mary Ann Fulton, Theodore Tilton, H. P. Crozier, Alfred H. Love, Alice Eliza Hambleton, John W. Hum, Esther Hayes, Carroll Dunham, M.D. (of New York.) and Jennie K. Smith. This Committee brought forward testimonies on the subject of Slavery and the Rebellion; the Abolition of Slavery by Congress; the Amendment of, the United States Constitution so as forever to prohibit slavery; Prejudice against Color; the services of George Thompson in England in behalf of the American cause; Evils of the War; the Cause of Woman; Acceptable Worship. These subjects occupied the attention of the meeting for three days, eliciting earnest and sometimes eloquent discussion, in which W. L. Garrison, Theodore Tilton, H. P. Crozier, John Savery, (minister of the Universalist Church at Huntington, L. I.,) John W. 1 Hurn, Abiel Silver, (minister of the Swedenborgian Church at Wilmington.) Thomas Whitson, Anna E. Dickinson, Alcina Wilhelm, Robert Purvis, Oliver Johnson, Deborah Butler, (of Washington Co., N. Y.,) Maria J. Dennett, M.D., and several others took part. 
The music was excellent. It was in part by the Hutchinson Family, (John, his wife and children,} and in part by a small choir under the direction of Edward W. Nichols of New York. 
The Testimonies were all unanimously adopted, and the meeting was in every respect harmonious and satfactory to its friends. 
The regular local meeting of Progressive Friends was held at the usual hour on Sunday morning. The house, though the day was rainy, was very crowded, and the exercises, which were very interesting and impressive, consisted of the reading of a portion of Scripture by W. L. Garrison, prayer by Oliver Johnson, addresses by Oliver Johnson, Alcina Wilhelm, W. L. Garrison, Theodore Tilton, and Anna E. Dickinson, and music by the Hutchinson Family. 

ANOTHER FRATERNAL TOKEN. 
To the Honorable the Commons of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the Union and Emancipation Society, Manchester, in the County Palatine of Lancaster, sheweth— 
That your Memorialists having grounds for believing that another attempt will be made to obtain the assent of your Honorable House to intervention on behalf of the Confederate rebel States of America, respectfully but most earnestly submit the following reasons why assent should not be given to any proposition having in view direct or indirect intervention or recognition:— 
1st. That in 1860 and 1861, certain portions of the States, being slave States, belonging to the United Suites of America, revolted against the National Government, and under the leadership of Jefferson Davis in 1861 raised an armed insurrection to overthrow the constituted authorities of the nation. 
2nd. That in the Congress of I860, the said Jefferson Davis put forward the following demand, as an ultimatum: 
"That it shall be declared, by AMENDMENT of the CONSTITUTION, that PROPERTY IN SLAVES, recognized as such by the LOCAL law of any of the States of the Union, shall stand on the SAME footing in ALL Constitutional and FEDERAL relations as any OTHER species of property so recognized; and, like OTHER; PROPERTY, shall NOT be divested or impaired by the local law of any other State, either in escape thereto, or by the TRANSIT or SOJOURN of the owner therein. And in NO CASE whatever shall such property be subject to be divested or impaired by ANY LEGISLATIVE ACT of the United States, or of any of the Territories thereof." 
3rd. That this demand was rejected, and that Jefferson Davis made that rejection the cause for rebellion. 
4th. That its effect, if adopted, would have been to make of the whole area of the United States a Slave Empire, and to raise the system of slavery from a local to a national status. 
5th. That it would have crushed free labor, free institutions, and free men, and have blotted out all that ennobles humanity, and gives virtue, honor and dignity to nations. 
6th. That it would have established the curse of slavery over all the land, by force of Constitutional Law. 
7th. That failing in that infamous demand, Jefferson Davis and those who were placed in authority with him adopted a Constitution for the rebel States, in which it is declared that” no bill of attainder or ex-post-facto law, or the law denying or impairing the Right of Property in negro slaves shall be passed," and that in all territory of the said Confederate States” the institution of negro slavery shall be recognized and protected by Congress." 
8th. That Mr. Stephens, the second in authority, declared that slavery was the chief corner stone of their new nation. 
9th. That having regard to the foregoing facts, your Memorialists pray your Honorable House to reject any proposition that may be made to recognize in any way such a foul confederacy against human rights as fitted to sit in any Council of the civilized nations of the earth, much more to become an ally and equal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
And your Memorialists will ever pray.
Signed on behalf of the Society,
THOMAS BATLET POTTER, President,
SAMEEL WATTS, Jun., Treasurer.
JOHN U. ESTCOCRT, Chairman of Executive. JOHN C. EDWARDS, EDWARD OWKK GREENING, Hon sec. 
In the absence of the Editor, an article was inconsiderately inserted in last week's Liberator from the Centralia (Ohio) Sentinel, in which this language was used:—" Wendell Phillips and others like him descend to the business of common scolds," &c. Had we been at home, it would not have found a place in our columns. 
HARPER'S MONTHLY, for July, prints serials from Dickens, Thackeray, and Miss Muloch, an array of talent in fictitious literature such as no magazine has previously brought into its pages. It has its usual excellent illustrated matter, including historical and descriptive pieces, tales and poems. There are several; articles of interest in the number relating to the war. popular original stories, and lively and pleasant reading in its editor's department. Received by A.’ Williams & Co., Boston.
On Wednesday, the 25th of May, a company of colored soldiers, just arrived in Washington, was passing from the depot through North Capital Street towards the Capital, and in full view of that building. One of the soldiers was weak or weary, and evidently giving out. A white officer of the company walked up and spoke to him, seemingly with the purpose of urging him on. But instead of this, the brave man took from the weary soldier his knapsack, shouldered it himself, and carried it up the street. The Northern lady who saw and reported to me this a fleeting <illegible> did not succeed in finding out the name of the company, nor of the humane officer who thus distinguished himself.-C. K. W.
<c06> 
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK NO.X
NEW YORK, June 16, 1864
To the editor of the Liberator:
It has been the wish of many excellent citizens that, for the slave's sake and the nation's a better man than Abraham Lincoln should be nominated for president by the Baltimore Convention. That wish has not been gratified; but the voice of the loyal people has unmistakably and almost unanimously indicated their preference for the present, incumbent above any other aspirant. If to that very respectable element which strove for a more vigorous and enlightened leader this result seems deplorable, they must remember that they have had at least six months in which to win over the public mind to their idea, and that the most potent instrumentalities have been at their command. Prominent statesmen and influential <illegible> (of which it is enough to specify the Tribune have endeavored to render popular a change of administration. They had free field and fair play, but they did not effect their purpose. I will not say their of forts were wasted, for their agitation was on the side of progress, and the platform adopted at Baltimore is probably indebted to them for much of its thoroughness. Successful, if you please then. in shaping the policy of the loyal party, they failed to determine its future executors. They were not themseleves united upon any name to present in lien of Mr. Lincoln's nor were they able to elicit a definite popular expression of favor for any of the candidates whom they considered desirable. The case, therefore stands thus (and I speak now for myself as one in sympathy with the national movement) The people after having been earnestly entreated to adopt views which would necessiutate a new President and a new cabinet, declined sp to do, though taking a decidedly advanced position. If they have erred in judgementy will follow in due time; but, whatever this may be, it cannot be comparable to the awful disaster which would overtake the country upon the defeat of the loyal party through the disaffection of some of its members. In other words, the choice-as ever is reality, but never more critically than now-lies between Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis. Public sentiment being so harmonious upon the question of our Chief Magistrate, the Administration once again becomes identified with the Government, and the <illegible> cry renews its just demand" Stand by the Administration!" 
There is no middle ground. In time of peace when not a nation's life but only its management is at stake, that minority is not necessarily culpable which involves by its action the temporary success of the worser party. The triumph of the wicked in the calmination of their sway is not the greatest misfortune that can befall a community. The country was happier in having Buchanan for president than Fremont, for this circumstance only hastened the catastrophe of the conflict. But let who will that has foresight and a conscience imperil the success of the loyal ticket at the next election. May he be spared the bitter curse of Victory reversed, and Liberty bound hand and fool! And reflect: Is there any less reason for hearty, unflagging cooperation in the coming campaign for Mr. Lincoln than when he was first a nominee! Is he not far in advance of his original position? And can the country, with the same pilot for another term, cast anchor after the war in as troubled waters as before it? Clearly as a novel case, on its own merits, we could not; hesitate to yield our support unstintedly to that party which, whatever may be its shortcomings. means death to slavery and perdition to the rebellious. I report there is no middle ground. If the Fremont movement has seemed to any one to afford standing-room, the pretence can no longer be tolerated. Ridiculous indeed, is that faction which, having been intriguing half a year against the present Administration derives the greater part of its capital from events of yesterday—the suppression of the World, and the rendition of Argulles. Ridieulous, also, in claiming to advocate the most liberal principles of justice and national polity, when its platform beside that of Baltimore is like a skeleton compared with flesh and blood—in no respect superior, less vital. and pulpy in every part—without a word of commendation of recognition, even, of the great acts of Mr. Lincoln's administration—full of querulousness and accusations Unhappily, it is impossible to be content with laughing at a baseless assumption of extraordinary virtue. Mr. Fremont may acquit himself of the reproach of creating a schism in the party with which he has been identified." The loyal party is none of his divide or to unite. His letter of acceptance was a direct bid to the Democracy to take him up; and there be any who cannot so read that disgraceful document—if there be any who do not hear, or, hearing, do not credit, the town-talk that Fremont has sold himself cheaply to the adversary-let them interpret otherwise the barefaced proposal of the New nation to the disloyal, satanic, Copperhead Democracy. For my part, with all respect, in some instances love, for those who have participated in elevating Fremont to his present abasement, (I speak advisedly,) I cannot see how any patriot or abolitionist can sully his reputation upon such a party or such captain. My feelings, indeed, have forced a vent for themselves in the subjoined verses—it may be, perhaps, from the same philosophy which induced the Dutchman in the familiar story to resort to his native tongue for the expression of his most vigorous swearing:— 
LE CHEF PERDU
Adieu, FREMONT!. mais non, as Diable <illegible>!
Dont le parti tu as voulu mener.
De sa grandeur s' abaisse notre heros,
Et de son front arrache ses lauriers.
Voila le sort de toutes nos esperances,
Voila le fruit d' une belle renommee:
L' ami des hommes fait saints alliance
Avec les ennemis de la liberte!
Oh, n' as-tu pu rien a nos desirs
Respondre sauf cette pauvre apostasie!
Est-ce pour cela que tout a I' avenir
Semblait naguere dependre de ta vie!
Path finder? Oui! tu as bien trove...
Le chiming ouvert et court de I' infamie.
Un mot aurait <illegible> unite:
Tu parles, et tu divies la patrie!
Un mot... Encore n
os coeurs retentissaient
De tes paroles mortelles a I' eselavage;
Pour un principle, pour and grande idea,
Nous auions renouvele notre hommage.
Rien de ca; tu quittes notre ciel
Et nous pour un indigne entourage.
Garde-toi, a la poursite du reel,
D'etre tromped' un trop funeste mirage!
Thank Heaven, the lines are at last strictly drawn,so that all of loyalty is now anti-slavery, and all of disloyalty avowedly pro-slavery. The vote of the House yesterday upon the Constitutional amendness was the occasion of an almost incredible spectacle sixty-four representatives of a people commonly supposed to constitute a republic based on human equality and human freedom, conspired, when it was with in their power forever to abolish slavery on the American continent, to perpetuate it forever. This is that can continent, to perpe tuate it forever. This is that system for which England is responsible-which British cupiity fastened upon the un willing neeks of our forefathers-which the Democratic party never desired to conserve! such is the single issue to be debated at the polls in the fall. The president and the loyal party of the land are commited to the overthrow of African bondage, while the seditions and treasonable are solidly united to maintain it. Who will stand neutral in a controversy like this? who can withhold all that he has of energy heart, means, lieisure, to insure the supremacy of the principle which we prize above our lives, and the triumphant election of men who are eager to <illegible> those priniciples in the fundamental; law of the report lic? M. DU PAYS 
FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION AT FRAMINGHAM.
The usual Anti-Slavery celebration of the FRAMINGHAM of july in the Grove at Framingham, will be omitted on the ensuing anniversary of America Independence.
JUNE 24 THE LIBERATOR 102
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ABOLITION! PROHIBITION! THE NATIONAL WATCHWORDS. 
GRANVILLE, N.Y. June 13, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON: My heart is full of hope, full of joy Slavery is doomed! It is soon to be buried in a grave so deep that no resurrection trump can awaken it into life. Abolition—Prohibition! That is the battle cry now, both in the war of bullets and in the war of <illegible>. The Baltimore National Convention, June adopted unanimously and enthusiastically, as one of the most essential items of their platform on which to elect the next President, that “Slavery is the cause and now constitutes the strength of the rebellion;” that “it must be always and everywhere hostile to free institution and republican government;” that "JUSTICE and the national safety demand its utter and complete extirpation from the soil;” and that “we (the Convention) are in favor of such an amendment of the Constitution as shall terminate and forever <illegible> the existence of slavery within the limits of the jurisdiction of the United States.”
The same day,the National Union Loyal League, we embracing over a million of voters, adopted this expression of its sentiment in regard to slavery—“That slavery ought to be abolished without delay; and it is the sense of this organization that slavery, in all its forms, should be prohibited by an amendment of the Federal Constitution.”
Mr. Morgan, Chairman of the National Committee, said on calling the National Convention to order, that "slavery was the cause of the war, and the Convention would not do its duty unless it took ground decidedly in favor of a constitutional amendment to forever prohibit slavery”
Rev. Dr. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, temporary Chairman of the Convention, said, “We have arrived at a point where one of two thingthings must be done; either the whole power of the government must be used to put back slavery, so far as possible, where it was before the war commenced; or else use that power, and all other power the people may give it, to exterminate slavery. I cannot go for the first, and as a trueman and Christian must go for the last.”
I think this is the same man who, some twenty-five or thirty years ago, in the synod of Kentucky, declared slavery to be a system of “clear robbery, universal <illegible>, and universal prostitution”—a system that “abrogates the clearest laws of nature, outrages all decency and justice, and degrades and oppresses millions of beings created in the image of the most high God. THIS IS SLAVERY AS IT IS DAILY EXHIBITED IN EVERY SLAVE STATE.”
Ex.Gov. Denaison, of Ohio, President of the Convention, said on taking the chair—
“I need not remind you of the very grave responsibilities that devolve upon you as members of this Convention. The loyal people of the country have authorized and expect you to renew on their part the pledge of their faith to support the Government in the most vigorous prosecution of the war—to complete the suppression of the rebellion, regardless of the time or resources required to that end; and they equally expect and call upon you to declare THE CAUSE AND SUPPORT OF THE REBELLION TO BE SLAVERY; which, as well for its treasonable offences against the Government as for its incompatibility with the rights of Humanity and the permanent peace of the country, must, with the termination of the war, and as much speedier as possible, BE MADE TO CEASE FOREVER IN EVERY STATE AND TERRITORY IN THE UNION.”
Thus the great National Union Party, that have adopted Lincoln as their standard bearer, have declared ABOLITION and PROHIBITION to be the policy of their Administration, provided they elect their candidate in the coming presidential election. This policy the great National Loyal League has determined to sustain.
The Cleveland Convention, that has chosen Fremont is its standard-bearer, adopted exactly the same platform, so far as slavery is concerned. That went strongly for ABOLITION and PROHIBITION. The party organized at Cleveland—THE FREE DEMOCRACY—also say that “slavery is already dead, being destroyed by the rebellion.” So far as the Abolition and Prohibition of slavery are concerned, these two parties agree. They differ only in their views of the personal ability and fitness of the two candidates. Fremont says, “The element of slavery may be considered practically destroyed in the country.” “With the extinction of slavery, the party divisions created by it have also disappeared.” As to confiscation, he says, “I do not believe that confiscation extended to the property of all the rebels is practicable, and, if it were so, I don’t think it a measure of sound policy.” As to retaliation, the Union or Lincoln Party adopt the policy of extending “protection to all in the service of the government without regard to distinction of color.” The Fremont party declares that “Lincoln has been faithless to the principles he was elected to defend”—and accuses the present Administration of a “disregard of constitutional rights by its violation of personal liberty and the liberty of the press, and, as a crowning shame, by its abandonment of the right of asylum.” It says—through the letter of acceptance from its candidate—that Lincoln and the present Administration have managed the war to suit their personal ends.”
The Copperhead Democracy! What will it do? Who will be its candidate? Will it adopt as its battle-cry, ABOLITIONS and PROHIBITION, as the Lincoln and Fremont praties have done? Will it nominate Grant, who says, “Slavery is dead, and cannot be resurrected”? Who also says, “The North and South can never live together in peace, except without slavery,” and that he “would not be willing to see the war ended until slavery is forever abolished”?
Behold the results of that War of Ideas against slavery proclaimed by you and your coadjutors thirty years ago! Abolition and Prohibition is the adopted policy of the Federal Government. An Amendment of the Constitution forever prohibiting slavery had been adopted the past winter but for the fifty-five votes <illegible> against it—every one being cast by a <illegible>! Our work is before us—i.e., to make Abolition and Prohibition living facts.
HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
THE MEXICAN QUESTION.
SPRINGFIELD, (Vt.) June 18,1864. EDITOR LIBERATOR: I notice in Gerrit Smith's letter of Mrs. Stanton, in the last number of the Liberator, a sentence that, in my view of the case, spoils the effect of that otherwise excellent epistle. He speaks of slapping the face of France with the "<ileligibel> doctrine," and characterizes it as a piece of impotent bravado it may be, but it now appears to be the settled purpose of the nation to allow no more meddling by the despotic governments of Europe with the free institutions of republican America. Look at the record:
First In the early part of 1861, before our war had fairly commenced, the republic of Dominica was seized upon by the Spanish Government, and degraded from its position among the nations of the earth to that of a conquered province. The people, taken by surprise, submitted at first, but soon, irritated by the oppression of the usurpers into whose hands they had been betrayed, rose in arms to assert their right to govern themselves. The issue of the conflict is as per doubtful, but the insurgents, as they are called, have gained slight advantages recently. If the <illegible> doctrine had been asserted at that time, it appears to me that much trouble might have been avoided by every slight effort on our part; France would have seen our determination, and would have abandoned her designs upon Mexico.
The Mexican question has been stated so many times in the public prints of the day, that it is hardly necessary to recall the facts. But now we have another case, viz., the recent attempt upon the free republic of Peru by the Spanish forces. This indicates the line of policy determined upon by the wily Emperor of France, than whom the United States have no so more bitter and unscrupulous an enemy. The plan appears to be to subvert, first, the weaker republics,and then, in concert with the disaffected and rebellions Americans, establish a great monarchy, or rather a series of monarchies, whose thrones are to be
<c02>
filled by creatures of the French Emperor. Thus the United States disposed of, and the principal part of the American continent virtually in her possession, France will become the leading nation of the world. 
The instinct of self-preservation ought therefore to induce us to enforce this principle.    Instead of being before the times, it seems that we are a great distance behind. 
Does not the Golden Rule apply to nations as well as to individuals? ‘Ought not a nation,  great in wealth and power, blessed by Heaven with the blessings of freedom, to extend the hand of friendship to a weaker people striving to preserve their liberties? And why need we fear to offend France? She has not proved a true friend to us during the past four years, that we must bow and cringe to her as she attempts to rob our neighbors and well-wishers, whose  hopes are centred upon our success, of their rights. I believe there is virtue enough in the people of America to support this doctrine of the great Monroe. Let it then be enforced.    Let us not show forth to the world that we consider ourselves too weak to do right.
W. 
GOVERNOR JOHNSON’S ACCEPTANCE.
A great Union mass meeting was held at Nashville, Tennessee, on Friday night last, at which  Andrew Johnson, the Union Republican candidate for the Vice Presidency, made an eloquent and patriotic speech. In the course of his remarks he said with much emphasis:
“I did not seek the position assigned me by the National Convention. Not a man in all the  land can truthfully say that I have asked him to use his influence in my behalf in that body, for the position allotted to me, or for any other. On the contrary, I have avoided the candidacy. But while I have not sought it, still, being conferred upon me unsought, I appreciate it the more highly. Being conferred on me without solicitation, I shall not decline it. (Applause.) Come weal or woe, success or defeat, sink or swim, survive or perish, I accept the nomination, on principle, be the consequences what they may. I will do what I believe to be my duty.”
Speaking of slavery, Gov. Johnson used this language:—
“And here let me say that now is the time to recur to these fundamental principles, while the land is rent with anarchy and upheaves with the throes of a mighty revolution, While society is in this disordered state, and we are seeking security, let us fix the foundations of the Government on principles of eternal justice which will endure for all time. There is an element in our midst which is for perpetuating the institution of slavery. Let me say to you, Tennesseeans and men from the Northern States, that slavery is dead. It was not murdered by me. I told you long ago what the result would be, if you endeavored to go out of the Union to save slavery, and that the result would be bloodshed, rapine, devastated fields, plundered villages and cities; and, therefore, I urged you to remain in the Union. In trying to save slavery, you killed it, and lost your own freedom. Your slavery is dead, but I did not murder it. As Macbeth said to Banquo’s bloody ghost, 
“Never shake thy gory locks at me—
Thou canst not say I did it.”
Slavery is dead, and you must pardon me if I do not mourn over its dead body; you can bury it out of sight. In restoring the State, leave out that disturbing and dangerous element, and  use only those parts of the machinery which will move in harmony. 
Now, in regard to emancipation, I want to say to the black, that liberty means liberty to work and enjoy the fruits of our labor. Idleness is not freedom. I desire that all men shall have a fair start and an equal chance in the race of life, and let him succeed who has the most merit.    This, I think, is a principle of Heaven. I am for emancipation for two reasons: first, because it is right in itself, and second, because in the emancipation of the slaves, we break down an odious and dangerous aristocracy. I think that we are freeing more whites than blacks in Tennessee. 
I am a Democrat in the strictest meaning of the term. I am for this Government, because it is democratic—a government of the people. I am for putting down this rebellion, because it is war against democracy. He who stands off, stirring up discontent in this State and higgling about negroes, is practically in the rebel camp, and encourages treason. He who in Indiana or Ohio makes war upon the Government out of regard to slavery is just as bad. The salvation of the country is now the only business which concerns the patriot.”
SPEECH OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN AT PHILADELPHIA.
PHILADELPHIA, June 17th. The reception of the President yesterday was enthusiastic. Mr. Lincoln and wife visited the fair at 4 P. M. At the supper the President responded to a toast, in which after referring to the war and its effect, and complimenting the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, he said:
“We accepted this war, and did not begin it. (Deafening applause.) We accepted it for one object, and that object accomplished, the war will end, and I hope to God it will never end until that object is accomplished (Great applause.)
We are going through with our task so far as I am concerned, if it takes us three years longer.    I have not been in the habit of making predictions, but I am almost tempted now to hazard one. I will; it is that Gen. Grant is this morning in a position with Gens, Meade and Hancock of Pa., where he can never be dislodged by the enemy until Richmond is taken. If I shall discover that Gen. Grant may be greatly facilitated in the capture of Richmond, by rapidly sending to him a large number of armed men at the briefest notice, will you go? (Cries of ‘yes.’) Will you march on with him? (Cries of ‘yes, yes.’) Then I shall call on you when it is necessary.”(Applause.) During which the President retired. 
General Wallace followed. Edward Everett also paid a handsome tribute to the ladies’ efforts in originating fairs, and closed by saying, “There are various modes of traffic in these fairs, buying and subscribing. There is one kind of traffic that I hope will not be protected and that is, ' ’In swapping horses when crossing a stream.’ ”
Ex-Gov. Pollock presented the President with a silver medal in behalf of the ladies. 
The President’s reception at all points was very enthusiastic. He leaves for Washington Friday morning. 
RESOLUTIONS OF THE LEGISLATURE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
CONCORD, N. H., June. 16. The following resolutions relating, to the abolishment of slavery in the United States, passed the House to-day by a vote of 160 to 103:
Resolved, That in order to re-establish the supremacy of the Government of the Union, and secure a permanent peace, it is necessary not only to crush the military power of the rebellion, and to enfranchise the slaves of rebels, but also to root out and destroy the system of slavery itself; and that to accomplish the purposes for which the Constitution was framed, it has become necessary to amend the instrument in the manner proposed.
Resolved, That the State, of New Hampshire, desiring to see this amendment adopted   without delay, hereby request the Representatives in Congress from New Hampshire to do all in their power to secure the concurrence of the House of Representatives by the necessary two-thirds vote, in the adoption of said resolution, before the close of the present session of Congress; and, if possible, in season to enable the Legislature of New Hampshire to act thereon during the present session. 
THE CASE OF ARGUELLES. The opposition papers, both of the Fremont and the Copperhead variety, are making a great hue and cry over the action of Mr. Seward, in delivering up to the Governor-General of Cuba, by request of the Spanish government, Arguelles, a slave trader, who it is claimed not only abused a high public trust to consign to slavery a hundred negroes who were free, but reported them dead, and bribed a priest to falsify his church register to make it so appear. Arguelles escaped to New York, and was given up in the absence of any extradition treaty with Spain. It is alleged that this was a violation of the “sacred right of asylum.” There is, however, nothing to sustain such a charge. The right of asylum’ applies to political offenders, who have been engaged in conspiracies against established  governments,—like Kossuth and Mazzini,—and it has grown up to a custom among nations not to surrender men who may have taken refuge among them on account of such offences.    But the case of Arguelles was not of this class. His was a criminal offence, and one of more than usual magnitude, and to consider his surrender as a violation of the right of asylum is only an abuse of language.— Yarmouth Register. 
RECEPTlON OF THE ELEVENTH MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT IN BOSTON. The reception of the 11th Massachusets regiment on their return on Monday, from the battle-field, their three years in the service having expired, equalled any demonstration of the same character yet made. They were escorted by a military and civic procession, including the Scotch Club, through the principal streets to Fanenil Hall, where a collation and addresses   of welcome were given. Their march through the city was an ovation of cheers and boquets.
<c03>
THE NOMINATION OF “HONEST ABE” A BITTER PILL FOR THE REBELS. 
“For our own part, we are glad to hear that Lincoln has received the nomination. When some enterprising partisan officer of the Revolution proposed to carry off Sir William Howe from the midst of his army, Washington put his veto on it at once. He had no doubt that it was feasible; but Howe had conducted the war as stupidly as it was possible for any man to conduct it, and any change whatever could be but for the British interest. Let him stay, for fear of a successor who might not be quite such an imbecile. So we say of old Abe. It would be impossible to find another such ass in the United States; and, therefore, we say let him stay. We, at least, of the Confederacy, ought to be satisfied with him, for he has conducted the war exactly as we ought to wish it to be conducted. He has confirmed those that were wavering, heated red-hot those who were lukewarm, made those zealous who were careless, converted cold indifference into furious passion, and calculating neutrality into burning  patriotism. As for the military operations conceived and executed under his auspices, surely we have no right to complain. No service ever had so many blundering officers, and no campaigns were ever conducted with greater stupidity. For these reasons we are decidedly in favor of Old Abe; and if we could command a million of votes in Yankeedom, he should have them all. He has made the South the most united people that ever went forth to battle with an invader; and for that he deserves the lively gratitude of every Southern man. If anything could add to the obligations under which we lie to the Baltimore Convention, it would be found in the nomination of Andrew Johnson—the man of all others most detested in the South, and the most likely to keep together the parties already united in one solid mass  for the prosecution of the war. Convinced, as we are, that nobody in favor of discontinuing the war could be elected, and that no other would conduct it so foolishly, we go for this ticket.”—Richmond Dispatch, 13th. 
“The great army of contractors and office-holders—in short, those who live by the war, and on the country—have succeeded, at least, in starting Lincoln fairly for another race. It amounts to a declaration that those conventioners desire to see four years more in all respects like unto the last four years. They want no change at all; to the present incumbents of power and profit, all works well enough as it is. They care little, perhaps, about the “Emancipation Proclamation,” or the exact definition which may be applied to Lincoln, as an immediate, or essential, or contingent Abolitionist; care little indeed about politics at all, or principles, or the destiny of their nation, or other “abstractions” of that sort; they are practical men; and what they know and feel in their inmost souls is, that four more years of revelling at will in treasure and plunder will make them all rich enough, them and their descendants to the third and fourth generation.”—Richmond Examiner. 
THE CAMPAIGN for the Presidency promises to be the most extraordinary on record. The New York World led off with the elegant assertion that our candidate for President is a “rail-splitting buffoon,” and our candidate for Vice President a “boorish tailor.” The example of this graceful editor is followed by his colleagues throughout the country, one journal printed in Washington venturing the following criticism on Andrew Johnson:
“He has an old mother, more than seventy years of age, whom he suffers to traverse the  streets of Philadelphia with a basket on her arm, selling tripe for a living. Ye who have hearts, only think of this! a man who is rolling in wealth and aspires to the position of Vice President of this great country suffers his old mother to trudge about the streets of a large city, hawking tripe, that she may buy bread to keep her poor old soul and body together. Ingratitude can assume no darker shade than this.”
If the Copperheads begin in this way, what have we to expect when the campaign becomes more earnest? Is it not possible for us to Conduct this canvass without resorting to means that can bring no good upon their authors, and only disgrace our profession in the eyes of the world?—Phil. Press. 
NEW YORK, June 13, 1864. 
To the Editor of the New York News:
You have designated General Fremont as the candidate of the War Democracy. I do not see what title he has to the appellation. There is nothing in his letter of acceptance that advocates a prosecution of the war. I do not know what General Fremont’s unexpressed opinions may be, but so far as he has expressed himself in relation to his position as a candidate, I can find nothing to indicate that he favors armed coercion. He comes nearer the peace doctrine than Governor Seymour did when he was nominated. As far as my observation goes, there has been no candidate before the people, since the war began, who could with more propriety claim the support of the Peace element. 
If I am to vote to defeat Abraham Lincoln, and not for a principle, I think General Fremont is the most available man. He is the first one that has had the moral courage to drop the senseless appeal for a vigorous prosecution of hostilities, and he has the strongest elements to defeat the Administration. If, as the War Department say, we must sacrifice principle to secure the defeat of Abraham Lincoln, we can certainly poll more votes by uniting on Fremont than we can by making another and a third nomination. 
PEACE DEMOCRAT.
WHOM IT PLEASES. The Copperheads cannot conceal their joy over the action of the Cleveland Convention. The Chicago Times—that most infamous sheet—reports the Convention’s doings fully, and its correspondent says: 
“When it is known that this is the very first organized attempt by representatives from the entire North to establish a national opposition to the despotism at Washington. In this last respect, however much men may differ as to the correctness of some of the principles advocated by the Convention, good men everywhere cannot fail to afford their movement a cordial sympathy.”
A WESTERN PLATFORM. The following despatch was received on Friday night from Governor Yates, of Illinois, at a recent Union meeting in Chicago:
SPRINGFIELD, ILL., June 10. 
To Colonel John L. Hancock: 
I cannot be with you to night, but please to say that I am for Abe and Andy, Dick No. 2 and the Deacon—against all Copperheads, North or South— against slavery—for the Monroe doctrine—for Grant and his army—for freedom and the Union, now and forever.   
RICHARD YATES, Governor. 
BUT ONE SENTIMENT. The unanimity displayed in favor of Mr. Lincoln in the Baltimore Convention is unprecedented, we believe, in the history of politics in this country. He received on the first ballot the vote of every State, save Missouri, and one of her delegation then made the motion for a unanimous nomination. Such a unity of sentiment is not the  mere work of politicians. It is the voice of the people, and should be respected as such by all who desire the success of the loyal cause.—Kansas Journal. 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN is nominated by the Baltimore Convention for the next Presidential term. That he is bound to be elected there can be little doubt. We would like a prompter, bolder, faster man, but no such could probably receive the people’s votes. He has two things to recommend him—his Proclamation and his honesty. Let us make the best of him. Fremont is played out. Sorry for him.—Ankona Star. 
THURLOW IN THE DUMPS. The platform adopted at Baltimore, to which it is understood Mr. Lincoln heartily assents, has made Thurlow Weed desperate. He went home from the Convention in a huff, and has since written to the Albany Evening Journal:—
 “Though always treated courteously by Mr. Lincoln, my views and suggestions have not concurred with his convictions of duty; and from my first interview with the President elect at Springfield to my last, in January, I have been of no account”
The moral of which is, that Thurlow had better abandon his efforts at statesmanship.    Lobbying is his efforts, and he should never have departed from it.—Roxbury Journal. 
GOOD FOR PRINCETON. On the evening of the 17th of June, there was a grand Union demonstration at Princeton College, New Jersey. It was designed as a response to a meeting of rebel sympathizers held in that place the night before, in honor of the return of Vallandigham. The College Copperheads, on that occasion, made a bonfire of boxes and fences which they had stolen, and cheered lustily for Jeff. Davis and the Southern Confederacy. These proceedings so aroused the indignation of the loyal students that they resolved to show the friends of “Nassau” that such conduct would not be there. A large quantity of fuel was purchased, and at 10 P. M., the wood was piled around “that same old cannon,” and over it was suspended an effigy of Vallandigham, by a wire stretched from two trees, and the whole was then fired. Frequent groans were given for the Northern traitor, many and loud cheers for “Honest Old Abe” as our next President, for Grant and the Army of the Potomac, and the Emancipation Proclamation. A procession was then formed, and headed by the flag of stars and stripes, marched to the houses of the Professors, whose patriotic remarks were in keeping with the sentiments of these loyal and spirited students, and added greatly to the enthusiasm of the meeting. 
<c04>
HON. JOSHUA R. GIDDINGS. At a public meeting held in Montreal, at which the Mayor presided, resolutions of respect to the memory of Hon. Joshua R. Giddings were passed. 
Among the speakers was Rev. John Cordner, the pastor of the Unitarian Church in Montreal.    His remarks were eloquent and appropriate. Paying due honor to the worth of the subject of his eulogy, Mr. Cordner incidentally and naturally gave a graphic statement of the nature of the crisis on American affairs, and uttered plain truths which Canadian sympathizers with secession will do well to heed, if they desire to retain amicable relations with their neighbors of the Northern States. 
The following are the resolutions read and advocated in turn, and then adopted: 
Resolved, That in view of the sudden decease in our midst of Hon. Joshua R. Giddings, United States Consul-General for British North America, and the necessary removal of his remains to the home of his family in Ohio, before his friends and the public of Montreal could offer any testimony of respect to his memory, <illegible> desire through this meeting to express our high regard for his admirable qualities of character, and our appreciation of his great services in the cause of human rights, by his active and consistent opposition to slavery throughout a lengthened public career.
Resolved, That we very respectfully tender to his widow and family our profound sympathy in this hour of their bereavement and trial, and assure them of the affectionate regard in which the memory of Mr. Giddings is held by his many friends in this city. 
Resolved, That in the discharge of his arduous duties as United States Consul-General, his whole course of conduct was marked by a sincere desire to secure the utmost harmony between Canada and the United States, and that by his personal intercourse with our citizens he gained for himself many friends, who deeply deplore his loss, and sympathize with his family in their sad bereavement: and that, as a mark of respect for his memory, a copy of these resolutions be transmitted to them. 
THE CAMPAIGN IN VIRGINIA. In alluding to Gen. Grant’s chtnge of base, the Washington correspondent of the Advertiser telegraphs that Grant has achieved up to this time exactly what he intended when he crossed the Rapidan, and that he has not deviated ten miles from his proposed line of march on any place. His crossing at the North Anna was undertaken for the purpose of effectually destroying the section of the Virginia Central railroad between Hanover Junction and Gordonsville, thereby preventing the return of Lee’s army northward under any circumstances. This work was accomplished in the most thorough manner, rendering it impossible to supply an army moving on Washington from the South, Northern Virginia being utterly exhausted of food, since our forces crossed the Rapidan. 
They have forced Lee back sixty miles, through four complete lines of fortifications, captured 12,000 prisoners by actual count, and twenty-three pieces of artillery. We have lost less than 6000 prisoners, one-half of whom were stragglers, and only three guns. Being the attacking party, we have lost a few more in killed and wounded than the enemy, but only a few. We have lost seventeen general officers, and the enemy twenty-five.
It is stated that our cavalry have thoroughly destroyed miles of the Fredericksburg and   Virginia Central Railroad, leading northward from Richmond.
ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, June 16—6 P. M.—Smith’s command, which landed at Point of Rocks on Tuesday evening, advanced early yesterday morning on the City Point and Petersburg road, and finding the enemy near Harrison's Creek, drove them into their fortifications, some half a mile beyond. A line of battle was formed, with Hinks’s colored division on the left. A charge was made, and the entire line of works carried, our troops capturing 16 guns, 300 prisoners and several battle-flags. The position was one of great strength, and should have resisted an attack from a much larger force. The colored troops are reported as behaving admirably, taking their part of the enemy’s line at the same time as the others did. Our loss in the whole affair was not over 200, of which some 40 were colored. 
The 2d corps came up in the evening, and took position on the left of Smith. In the morning an advance was made by the 2d corps, Gen. Birney in command, and the enemy driven from other strong positions, with considerable loss in killed, wounded and prisoners. 
In the afternoon, Gen. Burnside came up and took position on the left of the 2d corps. At 
6 o’clock in the evening a combined advance was made along the line, and a desperate struggle ensued on the left and on the centre, both with artillery and infantry, which lasted until long after dark, Gen. Birney’s command gaining a breastwork in their front, and taking a large number of prisoners. 
A correspondent of the Herald says of Wednesday’s fight:—
The enemy were met about four miles this side of the city is a strong line of breastworks, well fortified with artillery. A New York regiment deployed in a ravine so as to get a range of musketry on the rebel artillerymen. A general charge was then ordered, and the entire line of works was carried at the point of the bayonet. Gen. Hinks’s colored troops took part in this charge, and behaved admirably. Two forts, containing 16 guns and 300 rebels, fell into our possession. Had these works been garrisoned by veterans, instead of militia under Gen. Wise, it is doubtful if they could have been taken without great loss, as they were very strong. The enemy rapidly fell back to another line of works. Our guns were turned on them, and shell fell in the streets of Petersburg. The rebel force at this time in our front was about 5000, and reinforcements which had been sent were too late to aid in holding the first line of earthworks, but were now pouring into the second line. 
On Thursday, considerable skirmishing ensued, and it was not until near 6 o’clock that a severe engagement took place, lasting over an hour, the struggle being for a crest of hills commanding the rebel works and the city. The enemy finally fell back, and Burnside’s forces occupied the position, and captured 400 prisoners.
On Friday, Hancock and Burnside held all the important strategic positions on this side of Petersburg; and though the enemy annoyed us all of that day by artillery firing, there was   no doubt that the city would soon fall. It was in plain sight—not more than 2 1.2 miles off.    There would, however, probably be some more fighting, as the prisoners taken on Friday say that some of Beauregard’s forces had arrived to support the militia. 
The fighting on Saturday was very severe along the greater part of the line, the most determined efforts being made to break the enemy’s line at several points. But little ground, however, was gained, except on the left, where the Rebels were forced to fall back to an inner line, on account of the advanced position gained by Ledlie’s division of Burnside’s corps, on Friday afternoon.
Our losses during the past two days will reach 8,000 in killed and wounded. 
The loss of the enemy at some points was greater than ours, but being generally behind their entrenchments, they were not so much exposed, and, of course, suffered less on the whole. 
To-day (19th) the rebels renewed the attack on Gen. Foster’s forces of Gen. Butler’s command with infantry and artillery. Our centre was driven back, but Gen. Foster ordered another advance, and the enemy were driven so that we now hold our line triumphantly. 
WHETHER NEGROES WILL FIGHT. There is a complete concurrence of testimony as to the superb courage of the negro troops at the storming of the Petersburg intrenchments on Wednesday. The dispatches to the War Department refer to them as “assaulting and carrying the rifle-pits with great gallantry,” and add: “The hardest fighting was done by the black troops. The forts they stormed were the worst of all. After the affair was over, Gen. Smith went to thank them, and tell them he was proud of their courage and dash. He says they cannot be exceeded as soldiers, and that hereafter he will send them into a difficult place as readily as the best white troops. They captured six out of the sixteen cannon which he took.” The accounts of all the newspaper correspondents are of the same tenor. The facts are beyond question. The division which earned this praise was the division of Gen. Hinks, part of Gen. Butler’s command. 
“BURLEIGH” correspondent of the Journal, writes as follows:—
“The severest punishment inflicted on the rebels is through the colored troops. Prisoners taken are usually sent from the front, guarded by colored soldiers. The capture is nothing in comparison to this so called indignity. To be captured by the Yankees is bad enough, but to be marched off under the guard of slaves is a little too much for Southern chivalry. A gentleman from the front witnessed a very impressive sight the other day. A large number of prisoners came in from the front under a colored guard. The rebels were haggard, down-spirited and tired. They lagged a little, and seemed anxious to rest. The colored officer saw  this disposition, and shouted out, “Close up dar! close up dar! we be boss now.” The order was obeyed, but sullenly. The gentleman said to one of the officers, “This is better than being shot.” He replied with a shake of the head, “I don’t know about that. I had rather die.” Terrible retributions these rebels are undergoing; more terrible than war or conquest. By God’s inevitable law  of righteous compensation, these black men, on the simple line of military duty, are making reprisals on the South for years of wrong done to their race.”
<c05>
WASHINGTON, June 11.
SENATE. The Report of the conference committee on the army appropriation bill was agreed to.
The Report is as follows:
“All persons of color who were free on the 19th of April, 1861, and who have been enlisted and mustered into the military service of the United States, shall from the time of their enlistment be entitled to receive pay bounty and clothing allowed to such persons by the laws existing at the time of their enlistment. The Attorney-General is authorized to determine any question of law arising under this provision, and if the Attorney-General shall determine that any such enlisted persons are entitled to receive any pay, bounty or clothing in addition to what they have already received, the Secretary of War shall make all necessary regulations to enable the pay department to make payment in accordance with such determination.”
The House concurred in the report, 70 to 58. 
The correspondent of the New York Herald at Port Royal writes as follows:—
There is trouble again about the pay of the Massachusetts colored troops. The 54th and 55th, at Morris Island, have always refused the pay provided by law for negro troops, claiming that they volunteered prior to the passage of the act, and under the general law for volunteers.    The paymasters have just been around and the negroes have again refused their pay, because they could not get all they claimed. The act equalizing the pay of white troops and black ones not being retroactive, does not help them at all while they contend so obstinately for a principle. It is represented that many of the families of these soldiers are in workhouses; but still they claim white men’s pay, and every cent of it, or nothing at all. It is stated that these men are inspired with all this firmness by their officers, and but for them would have long since settled with the Government on its own terms. [Not so!] But I hardly feel like criticizing the conduct of these troops in any respect; for their merits as fighting  men are acknowledged   throughout the department—officers and men.
Col. Hallowell is now in Washington, endeavoring to have this matter settled, having been specially detailed for that service by Gen. Foster. 
TERRIBLE RAILROAD ACCIDENT. The New York express train for Boston via Springfield, about noon on Monday, when a mile north of Berlin, met with an accident caused by the spreading of the tracks. The two rear cars were thrown down an embankment, and were badly broken up. Some thirty-five persons are reported injured, mostly by bruises—two fatally. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky., 17th. General Burbridge has suppressed the circulation of the Cincinnati Enquirer in his department. The pursuit of Morgan is ended, he having passed the lines with a few hundred men. 
In response to a serenade at Dayton, Vallandigham stated that he doubted if the Government would at tempt to arrest him; but if it was attempted, he and his friends were prepared. He said he should remain quiet until the Chicago Convention met, when his purposes would be made known.
MEMPHIS, June 16.—Another body of seventy stragglers from General Sturgis’ expedition got in last night. Among them were twenty negroes. Each negro had his gun and accoutrements, while most of the white soldiers had lost all of their equipments. Two of the negroes were wounded in the legs near Guntown, but marched in, walking a distance of nearly a hundred miles, bringing their guns with them. Sturgis has been relieved. 
COLONEL PORTER. The funeral of Colonel PETER A. PORTER took place at Niagara Falls last week, Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, officiating. Colonel Porter was a nephew of Rev. Doctor BRECKINRIDGE, of Kentucky, and both himself and his first wife were cousins to the traitor General Breckinridge. He met his death from rebel sharpshooters; having received sixteen wounds, one of them directly through the heart. 
The Washington correspondent of the Tribune says:
“Indiana politicians here regard with great concern the concurrence of the evil events of Vallandigham’s return and Morgan’s raid, coupled with the general and secret arming of the Copperheads of Indiana, and the recent withdrawal from that State of immense numbers of Unionists as one hundred day men. In their judgment, the dispersion of Morgan’s force and the defeat of the scheme for a new invasion of Indiana have alone saved as from the rebellion in a Northern State in aid of the slaveholders’ rebellion.”
The Richmond Examiner reports the death of Col. L. M. Keitt, of South Carolina, in one of the late battles. He will be recollected as the coadjutor of Brooks in his murderous assault on Sumner.
H. Clay Pate, a Know-Nothing leader in ‘56, the man who tried to capture old John Brown in Kansas and “caught a Tartar,” was also killed in one of the late Virginia battles. He was an officer of some sort in the rebel service.
The Secretary of State has written another of his prophetic legends upon our history. In a letter to a committee of New York Union men, he says that “the election of LINCOLN and JOHNSON, at the close of a successful campaign, will then speak the people’s decision, that slavery has perished, and that the American Union is invincible.” Let us make this one of the watchwords of our campaign, for no truer words have been spoken.—Phil. Press.
The widow of the late Ex-President John Tyler has written to President Lincoln, complaining that Gen. Wild has arrested a slave-owner who had been flogging his female chattels, and that the General had him tied, and permitted the women to repay the blows with interest. Mrs. Tyler is indignant that a Virginia gentleman should have been treated thus. 
Senator Sumner has succeeded in engrafting on the Washington Horse Railroad bill a proviso that no one shall be refused admittance to a car on account of color. Good! 
The Chicago Times, the great Copperhead newspaper of the West, endorses Gen. Fremont’s letter of acceptance, and speaks in flattering terms of the General. 
Mrs. Lincoln has presented to the Central Fair at Philadelphia, a splendid vase  which was given to her a few years since by the Japanese Embassy.    It will be sold for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission at the close of the Fair. 
For the first time in thirty years, an execution will take place in the State of Maine during the present month. The victim of the gallows is Spencer, who murdered the Warden of the State Prison. 
At Marquette, 8th inst., a train of twenty nine cars, each loaded with seven tons of iron, broke loose on a steep grade, and plunged out of sight into the lake. 
The Washington Chronicle says it is expected that President Lincoln will be present at Commencement at Harvard College on the third Wednesday of July. 
FORTRESS MONROE, June 6. Gen. Butler to-day relieved Gen. Gillmore for alleged delinquency. 
The Richmond Whig of  the 15th reports that Lieut Gen. Bishop Polk was killed in the fight at Atlanta. 
TWO PATRIOTS FALLEN. 
[Written on learning the death of J. G. CUSHING and W. I. STODDAR, of the Mass. 32d.] 
These noble men our firesides left,
A few short weeks ago;—
Their country called—they volunteered 
To meet the rebel foe. 
We saw them on their furlough here, 
We took them by the hand,
And wished to each a safe return 
To this, their own dear land. 
But saddening news now reaches us, 
These patriots are no more;—
They died, contending for the truth,
Amid the battle’s roar. 
CUSHING and STODDAR—names to us
Which tell of actions true—
Have died in Freedom’s holy cause,
While yet their years were few. 
But life we measure not by years,
For their’s had just begun;
Yet worthy deeds their life had crowned,
When they were taken home. 
Ye weeping friends, remember this, 
No traitorous hearts had they;
A noble record they have left, 
In conflict far away. 
The foregoing lines were written for the Hingham Journal by Mr. Arthur S. Luke, late of Hingham, but now Principal of the Academy at Hanover, Mass. 
Jacob Gilkey Cushing was the only son of Mr. John Cushing of South Hingham. At the breaking out of the rebellion, he served in the Hingham company for three months, in the vicinity of Fortress Monroe. Subsequently he enlisted in the battalion at Fort Warren, and marched in May, 1862, after the defeat of Gen. Banks, to Washington. The Battalion was then recruited to a regiment, and was known as the 32d Mass. Regiment. 
Washington Loring Stoddar was the son of Mr. Caleb Stoddar of South Hingham. He was a member of 32d Regiment during its whole career of hardships and dangers. These two young men fell fatally wounded on the 12th of May, near Spottsylvania, in that terrible day’s straggle. The former lived but two days, the latter but one—Com. 
<c06>
GROVE MEETING IN MICHIGAN.—The friends of reform will hold a meeting in G. K. Wilbor’s Grove, one mile south-west of the village of Farmington, Oakland Co., Michigan, on Saturday and Sunday, the 2d and 3d days of July next, commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M., each day.
H. C WRIGHT of Boston, Mass., G. B STEBBINS of Rochester, N. Y., and MOSES HULL of Battle Creek, Mich., are expected to attend.
A general invitation is hereby given. Homes will be provided for strangers.
In behalf of the Committee,
NORTON LAPHAM,
A. L. POWER,
G. K. WILBOR,
and others.
NOTICE.—The friends of Reform and Progress will hold a meeting in King’ Grove, new Burton Square, Geauga Co., O., commencing the last Saturday in June, and continuing through the following Sabbath.
We should be glad to see some of our radical reformers from the East on that occasion.
R. H. OBER.
STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL.
The Ladies of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will hold a STRAWBERRY FESTIVAL at the Parker Fraternity Rooms, 554 Washington Street, on WEDNESDAY EVENING, June 29.
“The members and friends of the Society are cordially invited to attend.
Tickets—Gentlemen one dollar; Ladies fifty cents. For sale at Ditson & Co’s, 277 Washington Street; J. C. Haynes & Co’s, 33 Court Street; John S. Rogers’s, 1077 Washington Street.
Strawberries from 8 to 10 o’clock.
Dancing and other entertainments from 9 to 12 o’clock.
MEETING IN HAMILTON—PARKER PILLSBURY will attend a meeting at Rev. Elam Burnham’s in Hamilton, (East Side,) on Sunday, the 26th inst., at 10 and 2 o’clock.
The people of the town and of the county are respectfully invited, as subjects of vital interest to them and the nation will be most seriously and earnestly considered.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on “The South-Side of Freedom,” in Union Hall, North Abington, Saturday evening, June 25; in Union Hall, same town, Sunday A. M. and P. M., 26th; South Abington, evening of same day. In Upton, Sunday evening, July 3d.
FREEDOM FOR ALL.—WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will deliver a lecture at the Central Methodist Church, Taunton, Mass., Sunday evening, June 26.
FURTHER SUBSCRIPTIONS 
To the Thirtieth National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, (1864.)
Mrs: Lydia D. Parker, Boston, $20,00
EDINBURGH Ladies’ Emancipation Society, by Miss Wigham, 1000
HALIFAX, (England.) by Mrs. Thorpe and Mrs. M. W. Chapman, 25 0 0
A. J. GROVER, 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants. 
References
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A.L PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD A Co., Chicago, Illinois.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
May 20. tf 
MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135. $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled. 
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians a Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuekerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson. Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26 6m
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC  VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. All interested in Phonography, the best Shorthand, should send for No. 4 of the Phonographic Visitor, 7 cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents. Address 
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. Dec, 1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THE AUCTION-BLOCK
BY ELMER RUAN COATES.
Dr. Seltzer, of Philadelphia, late Surgeon of the Eighty-eighth Pennsylvania Infantry, brought home from Alexandria a slave auction-block, used by the firm of Burch & Price. The Mayor of Alexandria said he had witnessed many human beings sold upon it. This block may now be seen at the residence of Edwin H. Coates, 930 Spring Garden street, where the following poem was suggested:-
An auction-block! great Heaven! can it be
They sold "God's image" on this wooden frame?
Have we, in "free" (?) and great America,
Incurred that foul and most infernal stain?
Yes! brutal men, with feelings turned to rock,
Sold human beings on this very block!
And, as we look, we see the many dints
Made by the hammer as it strongly fell-
Where some low villain, for his craved per cent.,
Invoked the vengeance of the fiends of hell.
Methinks the very Prince of Darkness found
A maddening horror in that hammer's sound.
I see this in the land of Jefferson;
The rum-bloat traders gather for a sale;
The whip is cracking o'er the merchandise,
Now led to market from a filthy jail;
And furies seem to hover in the air,
As some are jesting, and as others swear.
There was some transient heaven in a cot
A ray of comfort when the work was done;
A doating father fondled on his wife,
And kissed his only, darling little one:
The hammer falls;-its most accursed tone
Has sold that father from the loved at home.
Upon a balmy, holy night serene,
Two care-worn lovers join the lip and heart-
Young spirits, weary of their loathsome lot,
Would heal the wounds they bear from sorrow's dart:
The hammer falls, and seals the foulest doom-
A harlot's life for that pure octoroon!
I see a youth who has a noble hope-
A hope to learn to read about his God:
Oft would he study by the bright pine knot,
When night would shield him from a tyrant's rod:
The hammer, waiting on the “once, twice, thrice,”
For learning, sends him to the swamp of rice.
Two little sisters, at their childish sport,
Not dreaming they were born within a snare,
Make glowing pictures for the time to come-
They build grand castles in the summer air:
The hammer falls;-the two are sold apart,
To dream of each, and feel a broken heart.
Poor child of bondage!-‘Tis a knavish plea
That robs thee of thy liberty and bread;
They aim to keep thee a submissive tool-
To humble thee till aspiration's dead;
Then, when thy spirit's driven to its grave,
They point and say, fate made thee for a slave.
They speak of Afric' as a Pagan land,
And vow that bondage is thy truest friend;
But with example and a freeman's right,
Thy native force would reach a prouder end:
If there's advantage or religious gain,
Give it to progress, not to lash and chain.
Thou bane of hope! around thee concentrate
More sickly horrors than the pen can write;
More damning evils than the mortal brain
Can e'en imagine in its highest flight.
Thy field is anguish, darkness, and disgust,
Vile tyranny and self-consuming lust.
And brilliant statesmen, for their private gain,
Apologise for this inhuman trade,
And fawn like spaniels to a few proud knaves,
Who'd own the white man of the plough and spade:
They boldly argue, with sophistic art,
God smiles on that which racks a noble heart!
No theologian with a doubtful text,
No settled practice of an olden saint,
Can scent or polish what our "framers" called
A heinous scourge and pestilential taint.
What our unfettered wisdom bolds as true
Is inspiration-ay! and Scripture, too!
Bear it away! No longer I'd behold
A thing suggestive of a nation's night;
Give no tradition to the child unborn,
Or tell the heathen of our country's blight;
Sink to the bottom of a deep abyss
All recollection of a shame like this.
Senates, awake! and dedicate to God
Columbia a unit-free, sublime!-
Or let our manhood, with a righteous sword,
Rouse sons of Afric' in the rebel clime!
Beat down their shambles with your martial knocks,
And kindle fires out of Auction Block!
-Sunday Dispatch.

TEXTUAL SONG.
"Proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison doors to them that are bound.”-PSALM 61:1
Not yet are all earth's millions free;
They darkly grope to bondmen's graves;
And countless millions yet to be
Must live, and move, and perish-slaves!
Nor yet has Freedom's tocsin rung;
Unbroken still the Despot's rod;
MIND hath not off its fetters flung,
Nor its great heart-pulse timed with God.
Earth's landscape stretcheth weary miles,
Alternate flecked with shade and sheen;
Here Freedom's joyous sunshine smiles,
But dark Oppression broods between.
The morning clouds that wrapped our world
Still linger in its noon-day sky;
O, shall they, ere its close, be furled,
And glory reign ere nations die?
Yea—saith a cheering voice from heaven-
E'en now its murmurs sweel from far!
Yea, Freedom shall to earth be given,
E'en in the thunder-tones of war.
Each fettered limb shall dash its chains;
Each captive from his dungeon dance;
And o'er the world's ensanguined plains
The FREE shall claim inheritance.
Pittsfield, Mass.
E. W.B.CANNING.

HYMN
FOR THE GOLDEN WEDDING OF
ELLIS AND LUCY ALLEN.
MEDFIELD, APRIL 11, 1864.
"Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken."
O God! thy presence we entreat,
As with our children here we come,
Each fond, familiar face to greet
In this our dear ancestral home.
Before this family altar bowed,
Our fathers raised their prayers to Thee;
Here pledged their loyal faith, and vowed
To live for Truth and Liberty.
For fifty years thy servants here
Have shared in love what Thou hast given;
Each gladdening joy, each bitter tear,
Has brought them nearer Thee and Heaven.
For all these blessed years have brought-
For children here or called above-
For mercies granted, lessons taught,
We give Thee thanks, O God of Love!
So, when, upon this happy day,
They pledge anew their love of old,
Bless them with thy rich grace, we pray,
And in thy tender arms enfold.
And when is loosed the silver cord,
And broke at last the golden bowl,
Grant them with Thee, O gracious Lord,
Th' eternal marriage of the soul!
This venerable couple have always warmly espoused the cause of the enslaved in our land.]
<c02>
The Liberator.
PRISE AND BLAME.
The admirable extract from a sermon of Henry Ward Beecher(admirable with the exception of a single word) which may be seen on the fourth page of last week's Liberator, closes with this paragraph, namely:—
"I declare to you that, so far as we now can judge, we are going to gain by the sword more conscience and more humanity than we have gained by all the printing presses, and all the Bible Societies and Tract Societies on this continent, for the last thirty years. We are going to gain more by the cannon than we have gained in twenty-five years by the pulpits of this nation. It may be a sad thing to say; but what has been the moral delinquency of a nation and an age when it is true that physical convulsions really lift its people higher than moral influences administered by faithful men?”
I have called the extract admirable, from which this sentence is taken, and I trust no one will omit to read it. But the single exceptional word above referred to introduces into it a sentiment so false in fact, and so vicious in philosophy, that it should not be suffered to pass without protest.
Is it possible that any physical convulsion—and especially that a three years' continuance of a system involving so much brutal violence and moral deterioration of various sorts as war—can really lift its people higher than "moral influences administered by faithful men"? The idea is absurd and preposterous. The whole tendency and most of the results of war are in precisely the contrary direction. The beneficial results that sometimes follow that hideous phenomenon called war—the deliberate mutual use, by two nations, of every possible method to injure the interests, plunder or annihilate the property, and destroy the lives of each other—are due to an intermixture of moral considerations with the action of one of the parties. If the great characteristic features of war were actual producers of the elevating influence thus claimed, the church militant might equip itself solely with Sharp’s rifles and cartridge-boxes, and cease its complaints about desecration of the Sabbath by battles.
To come now to the question of fact. Why is it that we are at present, and have been for three years past, involved in war? It is because the very parties specified by Mr. Beecher as heretofore unsuccessful in their administration of moral influences—the Bible Societies, Tract Societies and pulpits of our land— have been managed by unfaithful men; by men who have not only tolerated slavery, but apologized for it, justified it, pandered to it, opposed and calumniated the opposers of it quoted Old Testament and New Testament against interference with it, and vindicated those who practised and upheld it as worthy successors of the patriarchs, and worthy members of the Christian church.
Mr. Beecher himself has been by no means free from guilt in this matter. Joining the battle at a late hour, he nevertheless did good yeomanly service against one—the most guilty—of the Tract Societies, as well as against the slave system generally in the pulpit. But he never said a word against the infamous action of the Bible Society in reprinting and distributing, with emphatic eulogy, an elaborate vindication of slavery as Scriptural and Christian, written by a South Carolinian slaveholder; and he has been, to the present time, the persistent advocate, eulogist and patron of that must guilty and most effective of the practical allies of slavery at the North, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.
In the present case, the sentiment of Mr. Beecher which I have been controverting seems to have been a mere inadvertence; a professional habit of considering his clerical brethren as faithful men in general, notwithstanding the particular criticism which he often applies to them.
—C. K. W.

"LIBERTY" 
A few of the two-cent pieces just coined are in circulation in this city. The new coin is a handsome one, a little less in size than the gold eagle, and probably composed of the same materials as the small cents. It bears on one side a shield, encircled with an olive wreath, and two crossed arrows behind it. Below the shield is the date, “1864,” and above it is a scroll, bearing the motto, “In God we trust." The other side bears the denomination of the coin, "2 CENTS," surrounded by a wreath of wheat, which again is surrounded by the inscription, "United States of America."
Our old cents used to bear the beautiful word "Liberty" upon them. When the first small cent was coined, (under the Presidency of Franklin Pierce, I believe,) that word was omitted from the coin, an eagle being substituted for the head that bore it. Afterwards the eagle gave place to the head of an Indian queen, and the word "Liberty" was restored, though so small as to be nearly illegible. Now, under the Presidency of Abraham Lincoln, that significant word is again omitted.—C. K. W.

GARIBALDI, AND THE MANCHESTER UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
CHESTER PARK, BOSTON, June 15, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
I have just received from England a copy of the following addresses of the Garibaldi Reception Committee of the Manchester Union and Emancipation Society, presented to General Garibaldi, at Caprera, by Thomas B. Potter, Esq., the President of the Society. Autograph copies were received in Manchester on the 30th of May. Correct translations will be found below.
The insertion of these interesting documents in the next issue of the Liberator will oblige
Your friend,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
TO GENERAL GARIBALDI.
SIR—It is with profound regret the Manchester Garibaldi Reception Committee have learned that circumstances have rendered your departure from this country needful before you have been able to fulfil your intention of visiting the North of England; and they venture to assure you that, contrary to the representations which are stated to have been made to you, there was no risk that the “magnificent national reception, given to you in the great metropolis of this country, should lose something of its real dignity from being frequently repeated elsewhere."
London is not England, and there would have been no danger of the spontaneous enthusiasm which your presence in the provinces would have evoked being in any degree behind that which greeted your entry into the metropolis.
On behalf of their fellow-citizens, and especially of the industrious millions of this locality, the committee desire to express to you their admiration of the noble and self-denying career you have hitherto pursued on behalf of your country, regardless alike of the blandishments of those in exalted positions, when success crowned your labors, or the frowns of the timid whilst the result was doubtful.
They recognize in yon not only the champion of freedom in your own land, but the enemy of oppression everywhere; and it is because your love of liberty knows no geographical boundaries, but is coextensive with the whole human family, that you. live in the hearts of the working classes of England.
The committee cannot fail to tee that whilst Italial unity is incomplete, your great work is not fully accomplished; and it is their fervent hope that you may have health and strength to pursue it to the end. They desired by a hearty welcome to have assured you of sympathy in this noble cause face to face; bat if that most be deferred for a season, they venture to indulge the hope that at no distant period they may have the pleasure of seeing you in this city.—I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRANCIS TAYLOR, Chairman.
Manchester, 22nd April, 1864.
<c03>
[REPLY.]
TO THE RECEPTION COMMITTEE, MANCHESTER.
CAPRERA, 24th May, 1864.
I cannot possibly express to you how great a disappointment it was to me that I was unable to accept your invitation, and how grateful I am for the kindness you have shown to me Being myself a son of the people, I nourish a great affection for the laboring classes who throng your noble country. In shaking the hardened hand of the working man, I feel that I take a brother's hand; and though I have not yet been able to express this to you personally, as I ought to have done, I hope the time is not distant when I shall have the opportunity of doing so. In the meantime give to your friends my affectionate greeting, and believe me for ever yours,
G. GARIBALDI.
To the Chairman of the Reception Committee, Manchester.
ADDRESS OF WELCOME TO GENERAL GARIBALDI FROM THE UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.
HONORED SIR:—The Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, deeply regretting that you have not been able to pay your promised visit to their city, beg to forward you a cordial and most sincere expression of their admiration and deep sympathy with you as the Liberator of Italy and the friend of universal freedom.
Not entering into any matters that specially bear upon religious creeds or partizan policies, either in your own nation or in this country, we delight to recognize you as one of the uncrowned, kings of the earth, to whose genius, purity and self-abnegation all hearts do homage.
We believe that your sympathies are with the oppressed peoples of ail races, and that it is your earnest desire to do the will and carry out the mission of the Great Emancipator who came to break every yoke and set the captive free.
We honor you as a liberator and a social reformer; our hearts echo the noble words you have addressed from time to time to the friends of freedom and constitutional government among a brave and kindred people on the other side of the Atlantic, where the slaveholders and enemies of all just rule have arisen in armed rebellion for the avowed and infamous purpose of rendering human bondage a perpetual institution upon the earth.
With you and the true friends of freedom and humanity in every land, we pray that all tyranny and oppression may speedily be annihilated, and that those who now groan in thralldom may be emancipated, and endowed with the rights and blessings of free born citizens.
Cherishing the hope that you may soon return to our shores, and praying that your noble and useful life may long be preserved for the service of humanity, we subscribe ourselves your sincere friends and ardent admirers.
Signed on behalf of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester.
THOS. B. POTTER, President.
JNO. H. ESTCOURT, Chairman.
J. C. EDWARDS, Hon. Secs.
E. O. GREENING, Hon. Secs.
And the Executive Committee.

[REPLY.]
TO THE UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.
CAPRERA, 24th May, 1864.
Thanks for your kind address—you to whom the task of life is to further the highest aims of humanity. You have honored in me a soldier of your own rank, who is proud to spend his life for the advancement of the principles which you proclaim.
Yes! to understand your views, it is requisite only to know the name your society has adopted.
Union! Is it not by union that nations should be bound together, and become as brothers?
Has not the human family, for many centuries, while marching onward in the glorious career of progress, exemplified by the doctrines of our Saviour, wished for the same union, though often retarded by corruption and tyranny?
Emancipation! May God bless you!
What mission is more glorious than that of emancipating slaves?
I am proud that fortune has chosen me for one who could say in his lifetime to the prostrate slave—Rise! Be free! When depressed by obstructions and feeling the need of consolation, I remember those who have been free. I feel all pains vanish before the delightful pleasure of the work of emancipation.—I am, with all my heart, yours,
G. GARIBALDI.
To the President of the Union and Emancipation Society, Manchester.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NEW ENGLAND FREEDMAN’S AID SOCIETY.
The Second Annual Report of the New England Freedmen’s Aid Society, (Educational Commission,) presented to the Society, April 21, 1864, makes a handsome pamphlet of 84 octavo pages, crowded with interesting and cheering facts pertaining to the Operations of the Society from May, 1863, to April, 1864, in relation to the freedmen of the South, particularly those within the immediate jurisdiction of the Society. It concludes as follows:—
It will be seen at a glance that the statistics given in the preceding pages do not afford the means of even approximating to the number of slaves liberated in the course of the last three years. We have no count or estimate of the Freedmen in Northern Georgia and Alabama, in Tennessee, Missouri, Kansas, and Maryland. The President has stated in a recent letter that the Emancipation Proclamation has so far added to the national strength 130,000 soldiers, seamen, and laborers. In all moderation we may allow as large a number of women, children, and unserviceable men. Our figures, on being summed up, will be found to amount to about 150,000; not including more than 14,000 negroes in Virginia and North Carolina who were free when the war broke out, and not making any deduction for free negroes elsewhere. Of these 150.000, about one-sixth are soldiers. Reckoning the liberated slaves now serving in the army and navy at 50,000, and supposing this proportion to be constant, we shall have 300,000 for the present number of the Freedmen.
Three hundred thousand is not quite one-tenth of the slave population of the States in rebellion. It is, however, a large number in itself, and perhaps everybody will admit that it is as large a number as it was well for us to have on our hands, until the general disposition of our people towards the black race had been improved, and until we had gained from experience some little knowledge of the right and wise way of dealing with them. At least a hundred and fifty thousand of the late slaves have now been for a considerable time conspicuously on trial as free men, before a nation not previously inclined to judge them leniently, and under circumstances in some respects very unfavorable. The result has been an enlightening of the minds and a rectifying of the feelings of the people of the North, of vastly more value to the blacks than a much wider emancipation would have been. How much has been learned, how many errors and prejudices have been renounced, how many delusions dissipated! Who will now pretend that the slave is indifferent to liberty, and even loves his chains? Who will pretend that he is incurably lazy, incapable of taking care of himself, contented with ignorance? Who will say that he dares not meet a white foe face to face? And where are the massacres, and all the horrible and fiendish deeds to which, we used to be told, the least whisper of sympathy, however far off in the North, would incite the slaves? So far as such things have occurred, who has been guilty of them? Such changes have taken place that there is now scarce a demagogue who will predict that the blacks will flock to the North and ruin the white laborer by their competition, or as may serve his turn, that they will become an immense tribe of paupers, whether in the North or in the South; hardly a politician who will advocate a scheme of foreign colonization. Even the cruel and absurd prejudice of color, the mere accident of slave institutions, which impudently assumes the name of a natural instinct, though active still, is softening every day. Strange indeed would it be, if the gentle and orderly behavior of the emancipated, their patient waiting for long-deferred justice, the sufferings and perils they have incurred in achieving
Few facts seem better established than the repugnance of the blacks to pauperism. They are also nearly free from the vice which is so frequent a cause of pauperism—drunkenness. Evidence may be found in the reports of the Freedmen's Inquiry Commission.
<c04>
their freedom, the heroism with which they have fought to maintain it, did not win the respect of the Northern people. Respect they have won, and by and by they will receive our gratitude: for had they chosen to conduct themselves differently, bad they thrown their weight into the enemy's side of the balance, what would have been the consequence to the national cause?
The discipline and experience of the last three years have prepared us to meet the vast event of universal emancipation, however speedily it may be realized. Undertaken in the right spirit, the problem of incorporating four millions of Freedmen into our nation, difficult as it is, is by no means appalling. With any other race than the African, the task would be immensely greater. Experience has amply shown that we can calculate upon forbearance and every other help from them, if only we address ourselves earnestly to this great act of justice, which is no less one of wise policy. For the fulfilment of this object, the power and means of the government must be joined with and supplemented by the labor and thought and contributions of individuals and of societies. Societies and individuals are doing much, and are ready to do more; the President, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of War, and various officers of the army, have for two years past, in such ways as were open to them, and according to the measure of their authority, made partial and temporary provision for the protection and assistance of the freed people. But as yet no special officer or board has been put over this most important concern, and of course no uniform system of management has been adopted. The creation of a Bureau under one of the departments of the government for the administration and superintendence of Freedom's Affairs is a crying necessity. We wait anxiously for such a measure to be adopted. The utmost activity will be required of our society and of its compeers, equally before and after this step shall be taken.

NEGRO TROOPS IN THE WEST.
WAR DEPARTMENT Adj. Gen.'s Office,
WASHINGTON, May 30,1864.
HON. H. WILSON—Dear Sir: On several occasions, when on the Mississippi river, I contemplated writing to you respecting the colored troops, and to suggest that, as they have been fully tested as soldiers, their pay should be raised to that of white troops; and I desire now to give my testimony in their behalf You are aware that I have been engaged in the organization of freedmen for over a year, and have necessarily been thrown in constant contact with them.
The negro, in a state of slavery, is brought up by the master from early childhood to strict obedience, and to obey implicitly the dictates of the white man; and they are thus led to believe they are an inferior race. Now when organized into troops, they carry this habit of obedience with them, and their officers being entirely white men, the negro promptly obeys his orders. A regiment is thus rapidly brought into a state of discipline. They are a religious people, another high quality for making good soldiers. They are a musical people, and thus readily learn to march, and accurately perform their manoeuvers. They take pride in being elevated as soldiers, and keep themselves, as well as their camp grounds, neat and clean. This I know from personal inspection, and from the reports of my special inspectors, two of my staff officers being constantly on inspecting duty.
They have proved a most important addition to our forces, enabling the generals in active operations to take a large force of white troops into the field; and now, brigades of blacks are placed with whites. The forts erected at the important points on the river are nearly all garrisoned by blacks—artillery regiments raised for the purpose, say at Paducah and Columbus, Kentucky, Memphis, Tennessee, Vicksburg and Natchez, Mississippi, and most of the works around New Orleans. Experience proves that they manage heavy guns very well. Their fighting qualities have also been fully tested several times, and I am yet to hear of one case where they did not fully stand up to their work. I passed over the ground where the 1st Louisiana made the gallant charge at Port Hudson, by far the strongest part of the rebel works. The wonder is that so many made their escape at Milliken's Bend, where I had three incomplete regiments, one with out arms Until the day previous to the attack. Greatly superior numbers of rebels charged furiously up to the very breastworks: the negroes met the enemy on the ramparts, and both sides freely used the bayonet—a most rare occurrence in warfare, as one or the other party gives way before coming in contact with the steel. The rebels were defeated with heavy loss. The bridge at Moscow on the line of railroad from Memphis to Corinth was defended by one small regiment of blacks. A cavalry attack of three times their number was made, the blacks defeating them in the three charges made by the rebels. They fought them hours, till our cavalry came up, when the defeat was made complete, many of the rebel dead being left on the field. A cavalry force of three hundred and fifty attacked three hundred rebel cavalry near the Big Black, with signal success, a number of prisoners being taken and marched to Vicksburg. Forrest attacked Paducah with seven thousand five hundred men. The garrison was between five and six hundred, nearly four hundred being colored troops recently raised. What troops could have done better??" So, too, they fought well at Fort Pillow till overpowered by greatly superior numbers.
The above enumerated cases seem to me sufficient to demonstrate the value of the colored troops. I make no mention of the cases on the Atlantic coast, with which you are perfectly familiar.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L. THOMAS, Adjt. General.

SLAVE-HUNTING IN KENTUCKY.
Senator Wilson authorizes the publication of a letter addressed to him from Kentucky, which says: “I don’t" I don't care how loud-mouthed may be the protestation of loyalty here; the negro stands first and foremost. It seems to be the policy to keep Kentucky officers and troops in this State, and the result is that it is a hunting ground for fugitives, and the hunters are men employed and paid by the United States as soldiers. Since I have been stationed here, now something more than eleven months, it has been an almost daily occurrence for a squad of men to be employed in hunting slaves and returning them to their masters. I have seen a colonel of a regiment riding at the rear of a slave gang composed of men, women and children, tied together, and guarded by men in uniform of United States soldiers. Let me give you an instance. Last Saturday, the commandant of this post gave an order to the provost marshal to seize and deliver outside of the lines, to her master, a slave girl who was employed as cook at the convalescent camp. This girl had been away from her master, who is and always has been a noted rebel, for more than six months. She ran away on account of his cruelty.
The owner of the girl, with the guard, went to the camp, seized the girl, and, amid her cries and frantic appeals for protection, were taking her away. She fell upon her knees, and begged the guard to shoot her upon the spot, saying her master would whip her to death if he got her away. This was too much for the endurance of some of the inmates of the camp, and they interfered and took the girl away from the guard, dressed her in boy's clothes, and secreted her. In a few minutes an officer came with amounted patrol, and exhibited in an order from the commanding officer to search the camp for the girl, and return her to her owner. Thanks to the soldiers in the hospital, she was not to be found. It makes my blond boil to bear the It makes blood boil to hear the high-sounding speeches and campaign orders published in the papers, and then witness these things daily.” ."The writer then, speaking with loathing of the degradation of United States troops to the brutal business of whipping women, incloses to Senator Wilson this monstrous order:
HEADQUARTERS, CAMP NELSON. KY., OFFICE POST COMMANDANT,
May 23, 1864.
LIEUTENANT:—Information has reached these headquarters that three of the women which you placed beyond the lines yesterday are back again in camp; and the colonel commanding, directs that you send out your patrol and arrest them, and confine them in the military prison until they are all collected by themselves, when you will tie them then up and give them a few lashes, and expel them beyond the lines the distance heretofore ordered. Alto, any Also, may negro women here without authority will be
<c05>
arrested and sent beyond the lines, and informed that, if they return, the lash awaits them.
By command of
Col. A. H. Clark, Commanding Post.
GEO. A. HARRAFORD, Lieut. And Post Adjt.
To Lieut. John McQueen, Provost Marshal, Camp Nelson, Kentucky.
Adjt. Gen. Thomas will in Kentucky next week, and two silver eagles will take an unusually high flight, and then the slaves of Kentucky will be gathered in by this great recruiter with a rake that will not leave a county unvisited. The epoch of pro-slavery bluster, border-state sneaking and military slave-driving is at an end. The negroes of! Kentucky have got to fight for the Union. Gen. Thomas goes down with plenary powers, and carries in his pocket, to start with, the organization of three regiments, the names of qualified officers who have passed Casey's board. Sixteen regiments of Kentucky blacks will swell our ranks in a will swell our ranks in a few weeks.

THE BALTIMORE CONVENTION.
It seems to be understood that the Baltimore Convention, on the 7th of June, will nominate Mr. Lincoln for reelection. The views which we have: hitherto expressed of the wisdom of this course have. not been changed by any of the events of the summer. The charges made against him, of the exercise of arbitrary power by the Copperheads, and of indifference to the slavery question by Mr. Wendell Phillips, seem to us to he, in the first case, a mere party clamor, and, in the second, a profound misapprehension. Summary arrests have been j made by the Government, as in every war they must I be made, The practical question is, whether this power has been generally abused. That mistakes may have been made is to say that men are fallible; bur that there has been a peculiarly dangerous exercise of this power, whether in the detail or in the intention, he is a very hardy man who seriously affirms.
Of course, we do not gravely combat the assertion that the President has menaced our liberties, and meant to menace them. There is a phrase in the western part of the State, applied to very difficult enterprises, that you might as well try to scull up Niagara as do that. This is advice of exactly the proper dignity to be offered to gentlemen who, mindful of Junius and the pamphleteers, attempt to depict Mr. Lincoln as playing the part of Charles or James Stuart. The President’s policy, if an English precedent must be found, is to be sought rather in that of William the Third, who established the British Constitution. Nor will the student forget that, while James was the advocate of the divine right of kings, against the political power of the people, so the Copperhead gentlemen who decry the President are the champions of the privileges of rebellious slaveholders against the natural rights of man. It is enough to know that these indignant vindicators of civil rights against executive usurpation are the zealous politicians who repudiate the principles of the Declaration of Independence. Jefferson Davis, after an election in which he and his friends take part, attempts with them by force ( arms to destroy the Government of which he has lost the constitutional control, and these gentlemen smoothly consider that Davis and his friends have been goaded and exasperated into an unfortunately erroneous position. The President, in the extreme peril of the country, takes summary steps which the Constitution expressly authorizes, or even, in his zeal to maintain the Government and the national welfare takes a step which is debatable, and the same gentlemen explode in columns of horror at the wanton invasion of our liberties. It is a party cry, and perfectly understood.
The other complaint urged by gentlemen to of whom Mr. Phillips is the spokesman, is that the President considers slavery the only sacred thing in the country. This seems to us simply a rhetorical misstatement. But the very fact that one body of opponents decry his interference with slavery, and that another denounce him for hesitating to touch it, shows what? It shows that he deals warily and wisely with the roost most difficult of all the questions of the war—neither hindered nor hastened by the sour accusations of one side, or the caustic taunts and bitter misrepresentations of the other. The argument of Mr. Phillips and his friends is, that if the President could set aside the habeas corpus, which is the most sacred of civil rights, as it is conceded, he had the power to do, then he might certainly have abolished slavery, which is the most infamous of human wrongs. But the reply to this, which is so obvious that it would seem impossible for it to escape the attention of those who did not wish to avoid it, is plainly this: that both in the suspension of the writ and in any measure of emancipation, the President must be controlled by his conviction of public approval. It is very clear that the public mind might be entirely ready for one step, when its opposition to the other might be so resolute as to imperil the very object for which alone both steps were to be taken. Indeed, the fallacy of this complaint is that it requires of Mr. Lincoln to embody in his policy as President the views held by a few of the most advanced Abolitionists, when nothing can be clearer than that the views of these gentlemen are not those of the great mass of the American people. That those views are right, both as regards slavery and its relation to the war, we individually fully believe. That an enormous stride toward their adoption has been made by the country, under the teaching of the war, is as evident as the progress of General Grant toward Richmond. But that no policy is wise or practicable which is not supported by popular conviction, is beyond dispute. While, therefore, it is the duty of every sincere citizen to influence public opinion by every means he can command, so that it will take the simple, manly., American ground of fair play for all men, it is idle for him to denounce the Government for not taking for granted what it knows to be untrue.
The Government cannot carry on this war by doing what it thinks to be abstractly right, but by doing all the right that is practicable. If we believed Mr. Lincoln were likely to be unable to see or unwilling to do that, we should oppose him as warmly as we support him. If we thought that he be lagged behind public sentiment, we should feel that he retarded it. It is because we believe, that the nation is heartily in earnest in its resolution to maintain the Union; that it sees every day more and more clearly that Union without Liberty is impossible; that it will very soon establish the personal, and ultimately the political, liberty of all innocent and capable citizens; and it is because Mr. Lincoln, with marvellous sagacity, with incorruptible honesty, and with conspicuous ability represents this movement of the popular mind, that we hope to see him President for another term. The London Spectator, which has been calmly friendly to us throughout the war, says in words which we cordially approve; “" How any honest Northerners who read these noble words, (in the Kentucky letter,) and see. how modestly yet firmly Mr. Lincoln has acted on the lessons which have opened his eyes to the great Divine purpose of this war, can meditate the substitution of any untried man for the next President, we find it hard indeed to conceive.”—Harper’s Weekly.

SOME EDITORIAL NOTES.
"We set down some hurried notes of a visit to the Baltimore Convention and to Washington—not as parading the travels of our unimportant self, but to state several gratifying indications of the changed and changing spirit of the times.
One of the greatest of these evidences was the simple fact that our travelling companion was no other than that fanatical, heretical, and incendiary gentleman, Mr. William Lloyd Garrison, of Bunker Hill—whose company .in the cars, a few years ago, would not have rendered a journey south ward eminently enviable; to whom, however, on this late journey, as far south of Mason and Dixon as we could get, all hats went off, all hands were thrust in welcome, and all hospitable honors shown—in the midst of which the bewildered man stood a modest, and meek-minded conservative before those more fiery radicals on whom the new pentecost has fallen with its tongues of flame. Not having beer, in Baltimore since be was there imprisoned, thirty-four years ago., and never in his life having been in Washington, (honest man!) his journey was full of strange emotions at every turn. Condemned as criminal for speaking in a criminal for speaking in a slave-city against slavery, he returned to that city to find it so far regenerated that to-day Baltimore is ready to give a larger proportional vote than Boston, for universal liberty. The court in which Mr. Garrison was tried and sentenced is now presided over by a radical Abolitionist—Judge Hugh' L. Bond, one of the most indefatigable and influential Unionists in the State, who, to gratify our curiosity, hunted up from the old records of the 
<c06>
court the time-yellowed papers of indictment against Mr. Garrison., which that gentleman, putting on his spectacles, perused with eyes as full of 
merriment as we noticed “Horace Greeley’s on being dismissed from his contempt of Judge Barnard’s court. As we had threatened to put Mr. Garrison into his old cell, and shut him up for a night, we were disappointed to learn that the city authorities, not foreseeing how they were spoiling a good historical incident, had torn down the old jail, and built a new one in its place-where, however, not the opposers but a abettors of slavery and treason are now confined! Thus the gallows which was built for Mordecai, is used for hanging Haman! Eight or nine of the original jurymen who gave the verdict against Mr. Garrison are still living, and Judge Bond jocosely threatened to summon them all into court, that Mr. Garrison might forgive them in public! We bargained in advance for a photograph of the scene.
If any Northerner supposed that a Presidential Convention held in Baltimore would necessarily lack something of the free atmosphere which four years ago was so bracing at Chicago, one day in that changed Southern city, whose streets were not in vain baptized by the blood of Northern men, was sufficient to dispel the idea. The spirit of loyalty in the North now here manifests itself so pungently as in the Border States, where the two parties divide themselves like Jews and Samaritans, having no dealings with each other-families and friends closing their houses against their own blood-kindred and lifelong associates-loyalists hanging out flags which disloyalists will go tiresomely out of their way rather than that walk under. For instance, we were told of a family of Unionists whose house was between two houses of rebels-the Union house keeping out a flag reaching all across the street-whereupon the rebel families would walk round the whole square to get at each other without passing under the intervening flag! The leader, s of the radial party in Baltimore-such men as Bond, Streeter, Mathews, Stewart, Stirling, and others—are among the most plucky and invincible hard-workers, for the good cause whom we have anywhere met. Henry Winter Davis, the leader of the Maryland radicals in Congress, deserves the thanks of all loyal men in the North for his noble, uncompromising advocacy of Liberty and Union. The chief stumbling-block which these men find in their way is Montgomery Blair, whom they daily and hourly charge with thwarting the progress of freedom in that State, by using his official position as a member of President Lincoln’s cabinet to pull down what they are laboring to set up, and to hold up what they are seeking to pull down. Another of the hatreds of Maryland is Mr. Seward, who, in his late appearance at the New England Kitchen of the Baltimore Fair, was so far the victim of an unhappy habit as to have disgraced himself and insulted his friends, leaving his name behind him as a by-word and reproach—a fact which would not be here mentioned, except that, during a storm, some one ought to give me warning when a drunken man’s hand is on the helm.—N. Y. Independent.
ACHAN'S WEDGE. Some two weeks since, we referred to the action of Congress on the Montana Bill. We had hoped that the loyal majority in the House would accede to the Senate amendment to the bill to strike out the word “white” as a qualification of “"persons”" entitled to exercise the elective franchise. But the House refused to do so, and the Senate has finally receded from the amendment. So that now, even at this late day, men of African complexion are disfranchised by the American Congress-made the victims of wicked Slavery-begotten prejudice. Thanks to our loyal delegation from this State, for saving New Hampshire from the disgrace of such wretched and reactionary "conservatism.” Is it ".It is not strange that men claiming to be statesmen should be such dull pupils in the school of events, as thus poorly to learn the lesson of justice to all men, which War, the sternest of school-masters, has been teaching for three whole years? If we did not believe the great heart of the people to be sounder than appear to be the hearts of some of our statesmen in Congress upon the all-important matter of equal and exact justice to the colored men, we should, indeed, despair of full and final victory over the Rebellious Slave Power. But let the people search the camp, and see if no Achan wedge is there hidden away, abhorrent to the sight of the God of Justice and of Nations, in whom is our strength and our deliverance.-Independent Democrat, Concord, N. H.

THE SIEGE OF RICHMOND.
A Southern correspondent of the Tribune discourses interestingly upon the fortifications of Richmond—the information concerning which was derived from a Mr. Harris, an impressed citizen of Richmond, who has recently escaped North, and also furnishes much intelligence respecting rebel mail communication with New York, giving the names of several parties engaged in the underground postal service, whereby mail matter is transmitted between rebels at the South and their Copperhead allies in our own section of the country.
In regard to the siege of Richmond, the writer is of opinion that persons who expect Gen. Grant to carry the defences of that city by a grand assault will be disappointed. Such a course would, in his belief, involve the sacrifice of too much life, and unnecessarily make tens of thousands of widows and orphans. He says:—
"The defences of Richmond consist of a large number of forts of various dimensions, so situated that mutual protection exists between them, while an interior circumscribing system of defence has been adopted as an additional security, should single outwork fall.
Looking to the southeast we find Fort Jackson near Fair Oaks, about 3½ 1/2 miles from the city, between the New Bridge Road and York River Railroad.
Then comes Fort Johnson, just below the Chickahominy, in the neighborhood of a mile from the <illegible> Pike. This fort commands the Mechanicsville Bridge, and, in fact, all the bridges and fords between it and New Bridge.
Two miles and a half from the city, and about midway between the Virginia Central Railroad and Mechanicsville Pike, is the ‘Malakoff,’ bearing on the Mechanicsville bridge and Wilkinson’s of or Railroad bridge, and will, in fact, sweep all that part of the Chickahominy between the points named.
About two and three quarter miles from the city , nearly midway of the Meadow Bridge Road and the Brook Run Pike, situate on a high hill, is Fort Bean regard, commanding the Brook Run Pike and Meadow Bridge Road. A mile and a half in advance of it is a great redoubt, bearing on the meadow Bridge and the bridge over Brook Run, and all intermediate points on the stream.
Three and a half miles from the city, between the Brook Run Pike and the Richmond and Fredericksburg Railroad, on an eminense, stands Fort Lee, commanding, both those thoroughfares for a long distance, and commanding as well Brook Run Bridge and two fords on the Deep Run.
Within and without and between these forts are others on a smaller scale; and in addition to this, the intervals are enclosed by heavy curtains and ramparts from eighty to ninety feet in thickness. In front of the forts and ramparts are ditches twenty-eight feet in width, and twenty two feet deep, in which are constructed Carnot walls of the most ingenious character.”
The same writer uses facts gathered from the same source, in relation to the difficulty experienced by the rebels in procuring supplies of various kinds, mentioning particularly the supply of gunpowder as being extremely precarious, and saying that the scarcity of salt petreor and the difficulty of obtaining it from abroad has excited among the Confederate leaders considerable apprehension. Experiments with gun-cotton as a substitute for powder had lately been made by the rebels with considerable success, and a large number of guns and howitzers adapted to its use had been <illegible>, and a part of them received.—-Boston Journal.

IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 
Washington Street, to 
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has had for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none toot excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forests.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are need in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
