THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed(POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1. 50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 3.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1865.
WHOLE NO. 1772
<c01>
Selections.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
SPEECH OF HON. J. M. ASHLEY,
In the U. S. House of Representatives, Jan. 6, 1865.
Mr. ASHLEY I desire to call up this morning, pursuant to notice previously given, the motion to reconsider the vote by which the joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution in reference to slavery was rejected.
Mr. HOLMAN. Does the gentleman call it up for action to-day?
Mr. ASHLEY No, sir; but for discussion, intending to allow that discussion to run on until the House sees fit to order the main question to be put.
The SPEAKER. This being private bill day, it requires a majority vote to set aside the consideration of private bills.
The consideration of private bills was set aside by a majority vote, and the motion to reconsider was taken up.
Mr. ASHLEY Mr. Speaker, “If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong.” Thus simply and truth-fully has spoken our worthy Chief Magistrate.
The proposition before us is, whether this universally acknowledged wrong shall be continued or abolished. Shall it receive the sanction of the American Congress by the rejection of this proposition, or shall it be condemned as an intolerable wrong by its adoption?
It slavery had never been known in the United States, and the proposition should be made in Congress to-day, to authorize the people of the several States to enslave any portion of our own people or the people of any other country, it would be universally denounced as an infamous and criminal proposition, and its author would be execrated, and justly, by all right-thinking men, and held to be an enemy of the human race.
I do not believe such a proposition could secure a single vote in this House; and yet we all know that a number of gentlemen, who could not be induced to enslave a single free man, will nevertheless vote to keep millions of men in slavery, who are by nature and the laws of God as much entitled to their freedom as we are. I will not attempt to explain this strange inconsistency, or make an argument to show its fallacy. I content myself with simply stating the fact.
It would seem as if no man favorable to peace, concord, and a restored Union could hesitate for a moment as to how he should vote on this proposition. Certainly, whatever of strife, sectional bitterness, and personal animosity these Halls have witnessed since my appearance in Congress, or, indeed, I may say, since the organization of parties in 1836, slavery has usually been the sole cause. No observer of our history, or of the political parties which have been organized and disbanded, now hesitates to declare that slavery is the cause of this terrible civil war. All who understand anything of our troubles, either in this country or Europe, now know that but for slavery, there would have been no rebellion in this country to-day.
In the very nature of things it was impossible for a Government organized as ours to endure half slave and half free; and nothing can be clearer to the reader of history, than that the men who made our Constitution never expected nor desired the nation to remain half slave and half free. Our fathers were men of ideas, and they believed that with the adoption of the Constitution slavery would cease to exist. Sir, while demanding liberty for themselves, and proclaiming to the world the inalienable right of all men to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, they were not guilty of the infamy of making a Constitution which, by any fair rules of construction, can be interpreted into a denial of liberty, happiness, and justice to an entire race.
That the founders of the Republic were sadly disappointed in their expectations that slavery would cease on the adoption of the national Constitution is undoubtedly true. Instead of disappearing as they confidently expected, circumstances unforeseen by them so strengthened slavery, that in less than eighty years, it became the dominant interest in the nation, and in 1860 openly demanded the entire control of the national Government. Because this demand was refused by the free laboring men of the North, the slave-masters of the South organized this the most wicked of all rebellions, and for nearly four long years, have waged this terrible war with the avowed purpose of destroying the best form of government ever vouchsafed to man, in order to establish in its stead a Government whose corner-stone should be human slavery. This is the logic of the contest. It has at last so fully developed itself that all the world, including its most stupid editors, now understand it. The Government of our fathers must either be maintained, and slavery die, or slavery must live and the Government be destroyed. The conflict is “irrepressible,” and beyond compromise. The nation cannot longer endure half slave and half free.
Had statesmen administered this Government for the past thirty years, instead of the trading politicians who have disgraced it, first by apologizing for, then justifying, and at last openly defending slavery as a right guarantied by the national Constitution, we should have had no such desolating war as we have in this country to-day.
If the national Constitution had been rightfully interpreted, and the Government organized under it properly administered, slavery could not have legally existed in this country for a single hour, and practically but a few years after the adoption of the Constitution. Only because the fundamental principles of the Government have been persistently violated in its administration, and the Constitution grossly perverted by the courts, is it necessary to-day to pass the amendment now under consideration. I say this much in vindication of the memory of the great and good men who, when establishing this Government made a Constitution which to-day is the best known among men.
As for myself, I do not believe any constitution can legalize the enslavement of men. I do not believe any Government, democratic or despotic, can rightfully make a single slave, and that which a Government cannot rightfully do it cannot rightfully or legally authorize or even permit its subject to do. I do not believe that there can be legally such a thing as property in man. A majority in a republic cannot rightfully enslave the minority, nor can the accumulated decrees of courts or the musty precedents of Governments make oppression just. I do not, however, wish to go into a discussion of the question of slavery as an abstract question. It is a system so at war with human nature, so revolting and brutal, and is withal so at variance with the precepts of Christianity and every idea of justice, so absolutely indefensible in itself, that I will not uncover its hideous blackness, and thus harrow up my own and the feelings of others by a description of its disgusting horrors, or an attempted recital of its terrible barbarism and indescribable villany.
<c02>
It is enough for me to know that slavery has forced this terrible civil war upon us; a war which we could not have avoided, if we would, without an unconditional surrender to its degrading demands. It has thus attempted to strike a death-blow at the national life. It has shrouded the land in mourning and filled it with widows and orphans. It has publicly proclaimed itself the enemy of the Union and our unity as a free people. Its barbarities have no parallel in the world’s history. The enormities committed by it upon our Union prisoners of war were never equalled in atrocity since the creation of man.
For more than thirty years past there is no crime known among men which it has not committed under the sanction of law. It has bound men and women in chains, and even the children of the slave-master, and sold them in the public shambles like beasts. Under the plea of Christianizing them, it has enslaved, beaten, maimed, and robbed millions of men for whose salvation the Man of sorrows died. It so constituted its courts that the complaints and appeals of these people could not be heard by reason of the decision “that black men had no rights which white men were bound to respect.” It has for many years defied the Government and trampled upon the national Constitution, by kidnapping, imprisoning, mobbing, and murdering white citizens of the United States, guilty of no offence, except protesting against its terrible crimes. It has silenced every free pulpit within its control, and debauched thousands which ought to have been independent. It has denied the masses of poor white children within its power the privilege of free schools, and made free speech and a free press impossible within its domain; while ignorance, poverty, and vice are almost universal wherever it dominates. Such is slavery, our mortal enemy, and these are but a tithe of its crimes. No nation could adopt a code of laws which would sanction such enormities, and live. No man deserves the name of statesman who would consent that such a monster should live in the Republic for a single hour.
Mr. Speaker, if slavery is wrong and criminal, as the great body of enlightened and Christian men admit, it is certainly our duty to abolish it, if we have the power. Have we the power? The fifth article of the Constitution of the United States reads as follows:
“The Congress, whenever two-thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments to this Constitution, or, on the application of the Legislatures of two-thirds of the several States, shall call a convention for proposing amendments, which, in either case, shall be valid to all intents and purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three-fourths of the several States, or by conventions in three-fourths thereof, as one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress; provided that no amendment which may be made prior to the year 1808 shall in any manner affect the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the first article; and that no State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate.”
The question which first presents itself in examining this provision of the Constitution is, what constitutes two-thirds of both Houses, or what, in the eyes of the Constitution, is two-thirds of the House of Representatives? Is it two-thirds of the entire number of members to which all the States, including the States in rebellion, would be entitled, if they were all now represented, or is it two-thirds of the members who have been elected and qualified? 
This question would have entered largely into the discussion of the subject now under consideration, had not your predecessor, Mr. Speaker, decided, and this House sustained him in declaring, that a majority of the members elected and recognized by the House made a constitutional quorum.
It has, so far as the action of this body can dispose of the question, been authoritatively settled, and settled as I think it should have been, by declaring that a majority of the members elected and qualified constitutes a quorum, and that two-thirds of a quorum can constitutionally pass this amendment. The question having been thus disposed of, I do not care to make an argument in support of a proposition thus authoritatively settled.
My colleague from the first district, [Mr. Pendleton,] in a speech which he made at the last session against the passage of this amendment, raised the question as to the constitutional power of Congress to propose, and three-fourths of the Legislatures of the States to adopt, an amendment of the character of the one now under consideration. He claimed that, though Congress passed the proposed amendment by the requisite two-thirds, and three-fourths of the Legislatures of the several States adopted it, or, indeed, all the States save one, it would not legally become a part of the national Constitution. These are his words:
“But neither three-fourths of the States, nor all the States save one, can abolish slavery in that dissenting State, because it lies within the domain reserved entirely to each State for itself, and upon it the other States cannot enter.”
Is this position defensible? If I read the Constitution aright and understand the force of language, the section which I have just quoted is to-day free from all limitations and conditions save two, one of which provides that the suffrage of the several States in the Senate shall be equal, and that no State shall lose this equality by any amendment of the Constitution without its consent; the other relates to taxation. These are the only conditions and limitations.
In my judgment, Congress may propose, and three-fourths of the States may adopt, any amendment, republican in its character and consistent with the continued existence of the nation, save in the two particulars just named.
If they cannot, then is the clause of the Constitution just quoted a dead letter; the States sovereign, the Government a confederation, and the United States not a nation.
The extent to which this question of State rights and State sovereignty has aided this terrible rebellion, and manacled and weakened the arm of the national Government, can hardly be estimated. Certainly doctrines so at war with the fundamental principles of the Constitution could not be accepted and acted upon by any considerable number of our citizens, without eventually culminating in rebellion and civil war.
This fatal heresy doubtless carried many men of character and culture into the rebellion, who were sincerely attached to the Union. If we may credit the recently published private letters of General Lee, written in the spring of 1861, to his sister and friends, and never intended for publication, he was induced to unite his fortunes with the insurgents by the so-called secession of Virginia, under the belief that his first and highest allegiance was due to his State. Sir, I know how hard it is for loyal men to credit this. To thinking men, nothing seems more absurd than the political heresy called States rights, in the sense which makes each State sovereign, and the national Government the mere agent and creature of the States. Why, sir, the unity of the people of the United States antedates the Revolution.
<c03>
The original thirteen colonies were never in fact disunited. The man who had the right of citizenship in Virginia had the same right in New York. As one people they declared their independence, and as one people, after a seven years’ war, conquered it. But the unity and citizenship of the people existed before the Revolution, and before the national Constitution. In fact, this unity gave birth to the Constitution. Without this unity and preexisting nationality-if I may so express myself-the Constitution would never have been formed. The men who carried us through the revolutionary struggle never intended, when establishing this Government, to destroy that unity or lose their national citizen-ship. Least of all did they intend that we should become aliens to each other, and citizens of petty, independent, sovereign States. In order to make fruitful the blessings which they had promised themselves from independence, and to secure the unity and national citizenship for which they perilled life, fortune, and honor, they made the national Constitution. They had tried a confederation. It did not secure them such a Union as they had fought for, and they determined to “form a more perfect Union.” For this purpose they met in national convention, and formed a national Constitution. They then submitted it to the electors of the States for their adoption or rejection. They did not submit it to the States as States, nor to the governments of the several States, but to the citizens of the United States residing in all the States. This was the only way in which they could have submitted it and been consistent with the declaration made in the preamble, which says that “we, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, &c, do ordain and establish this Constitution.” The whole people were represented in this convention. Through their representatives, they pledged each other that whenever the people of nine States should ratify and approve the Constitution submitted to them, it should be the Constitution of the nation.
In the light of these facts, to claim that our Government is a confederation and the States sovereign seems an absurdity too transparent for serious argument. Not only is the letter of the Constitution against such a doctrine, but history also. Since the adoption of the national Constitution, twenty-two states have been admitted into the Union and clothed with part of the national sovereignty. The teritory out of which twenty-one of these States were formed was the common territory of the nation. It had been acquired by cession, conquest, or purchase. The sovereignty of the national Government over it was undisputed. The people who settled upon it were citizens of the United States. These twenty-one States were organized by the concurrent action of the citizens of the United States and the national Government. Without the consent of Congress, they would have remained Territories. What an absurdity, to claim that the citizens of the New England States, or of all the States, or of any section of the Union, may settle upon the territory of the United States, form State governments, with barely inhabitants enough to secure one Representative in this House under the apportionment, secure admission as a State, and then assume to be sovereign and master of the national Government, with power to secede and unite with another and hostile Government at pleasure, and to treat all citizens of the United States as alien enemies who do not think it their duty to unite with them. This is the doctrine which deluded many men into this rebellion, and which seems to delude some men here with the idea that the national Constitution cannot be amended so as to abolish slavery, even if all the States in the the Union demanded it save Delaware. Under this theory of State sovereignty, States like Florida and Arkansas, erected on the national domain, may, as soon as they secure admission into the Union, secede and embezzle all the property of the nation, including the public lands and forts and arsenals, declare all citizens of the United States who do not unite with them alien enemies, confiscate their property, rob them of their liberty, by impressing them into their army to fight against their own country and Government, and, if they refuse, to punish them by imprisonment and death. After doing this, if the authority to commit such wholesale robbery, impressments and murders is denied them by the national Government, they set up the claim that they are sovereign and independent, and are only defending their homes, their firesides and household gods, and we have men all over the North, who to-day defend this monstrous assumption and villany.
Mr. Speaker, I presume no man, not even my colleague, will deny that when the thirteen colonies or States assembled by their representatives in convention to make the present national Constitution, they might have abolished slavery at once. Or, if the theory of the old parties is true, that a republican Government may authorize or permit the enslavement of men, which I deny, they could have provided for the emancipation of all slaves in twenty or fifty years, if they had seen fit; and if the people of nine States had voted to ratify such a constitution, slavery could not, after the period named, have existed by State law and in defiance of the national Constitution, either in one of the old thirteen States or in any one of the States admitted into the Union since its adoption. If it was competent for the men who made the national Constitution to prohibit slavery at that time, or to provide for its future prohibition, why is it not just as competent for us now? The framers of the Constitution provided for its amendment in the section which I have already quoted. This was a wise provision. They provided that when an amendment was proposed and adopted in the manner and form prescribed, it should become a part of the national Constitution, and be as valid and binding as though originally a part of that instrument.
Had the framers of the Constitution desired the protection and continuance of slavery, they could easily have, provided against, an amendment of the character of the one now before us by guarding this interest as they did the right of the States to an equal representation in the Senate. They did not do it, because, as the history of the convention abundantly proves, the great majority of the framers of the Constitution desired the speedy abolition of slavery, and I contend that, so far from the Constitution prohibiting such an amendment, it has expressly provided for it.
Mr. Speaker, there is not a single section or clause in the national Constitution which clothes the political organizations which we call States with any of the attributes of a sovereign power, but on the other hand, prohibits in positive and unmistakable language any State from doing any act which a sovereign might do without the consent of Congress.
The supreme power of the national Government is rigorously maintained throughout the Constitution, and it is most emphatically ordained in article six, clause two, of the Constitution, as follows:
“This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land; and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution
<c04>
or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.”
Section eighth, article one, enumerates seventeen distinct sovereign powers of a national character conferred on Congress by the Constitution, and, as if to leave no doubt on the minds of any, this extraordinary enumeration of powers is followed by this sweeping and significant provision:
“To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof.”
If I understand this provision correctly, it means that the framers of the Constitution intended that the national Government should be intrusted with the interpretation of the Constitution, not only as to the construction of the powers delegated by it to Congress, but to all departments of the national Government. They never intended that any State, or any number of States, nor the officials of State governments, should be competent in any capacity to judge of the infractions of the national Constitution by any department of the national Government, nor of the propriety of any law passed by Congress. Any citizen has the undoubted right to express his opinions, and criticise the action of the General Government or of any department there of; but neither is a State, nor are the officials of a State, clothed with any authority to decide as to the constitutionality of any law passed by Congress, nor as to the propriety of any act done by any , department of the national Government.
It is past comprehension how any man with the Constitution before him, and the history of the convention which formed that Constitution within his reach, together with the repeated decisions of the Supreme Court against the assumption of the States rights pretensions, can be found at this late day defending the State sovereignty dogmas, and claiming that the national constitution cannot be so amended as to prohibit slavery, even though all the States of the Union save one gave it their approval.
That provision of the national Constitution which imposes upon Congress the duty of guaranteeing to the several States of the Union a republican form of government is one which impresses me as forcibly as any other with the idea of the utter indefensibility of the State sovereignty dogmas, and of the supreme power intended by the framers of the Constitution to be lodged in the national Government.
In this connection we ought not to overlook that provision of the Constitution which secures nationality of citizenship. The Constitution guaranties that the citizens of each State shall enjoy all the rights and privileges of citizens of the several States. It is a universal franchise, which cannot be confined to States, but belongs to the citizens of the Republic. We are fighting to maintain this national franchise and prevent its passing under the control of a foreign Power, where this great privilege would be denied us or so changed as to destroy its value. The nationality of our citizenship makes our Army a unit, although from distant States, and makes them also invincible. It is objected that if we pass this proposition, the requisite number of States cannot now be secured for its adoption. In answer to this objection, I have to say that Congress has not, in submitting the proposed amendment, limited the time in which the State shall adopt it; nor has Congress attempted authoritatively to declare that it will require the ratification of twenty-seven States to adopt this amendment.
I hold that whenever three-fourths of the States now represented in Congress give their consent to this proposition, it will legally become a part of the national Constitution, unless other States, now without civil governments known to the Constitution, establish governments such as Congress shall recognize, and such States, together with any new States which may be admitted, shall be represented in Congress before three-fourths of the States now represented adopt the proposed amendment; in which event the States thus recognized or admitted must be added to the number of States now represented in Congress, and the ratification of three-fourths of the States thus recognized, and none others, is all that will be required to adopt this amendment.
I lay it down as a proposition which I do not believe can be successfully controverted, that neither the Constitution of the United States nor the constituted authorities under it can know of the existence of a State in this Union unless it has a civil government organized in subordination to and working in harmony with the national Constitution. This principle has been fully recognized by all the coordinate branches of the Government since the outbreak of the rebellion. In this House we have authoritatively declared that a majority of the members elected and qualified are a quorum competent to transact business. The Senate at this session have adopted this rule also. Two- thirds of, this quorum, then, if this decision be correct, as I believe it is, may constitutionally pass the proposition before us. If we may constitutionally pass this amendment by a vote of two-thirds of a quorum of this House and Senate as now constituted, three-fourths of the States now represented in Congress may constitutionally adopt it, provided they do so before any new States are admitted, or before a rebel State government is organized and recognized by the joint action of Congress and the Executive. I believe this is the true theory of the Constitution. Certainly it is the only theory consistent with national existence. If we adopt the theory that a State once a State is always a State, we have no safety from factions and revolutions. Suppose that within the territorial jurisdiction known on the map of the United States as South Carolina, there should be no civil government organized in the next fifty years such as Congress will recognize, do gentlemen claim that at the expiration of that time, the old State organization would still be in existence, and that in order to secure the adoption of a constitutional amendment, such a State ought to be included in the number from which the constitutional three-fourths of the States must be secured for the ratification of an amendment? If not, then with what propriety can it be claimed as necessary today? The constitutional State government of South Carolina is as completely destroyed at this moment as though their Representatives had not been in these Halls, or their local government recognized by Congress for the past fifty years. Certainly no thoughtful man who has carefully examined this subject will defend the absurdity of the constitutional existence of political communities which we call States after their constitutional State governments hare been destroyed by the action of their own citizens.
Speeches were made at the last session, and indeed at every session of Congress since the rebellion, to prove that the several acts of secession of the rebel States being illegal, were therefore void, and that the State constitutions in those States not only remained, but that the government of such States could at any time be put in motion without
<c05>
the consent of Congress, whenever ten or more loyal men could be found to assume the Governorship and a few of the subordinate offices therein. Loyal citizens of the rebel States are fast being cured of this fallacy. They have learned by experience that the Government of the United States is supreme, and that local governments in rebel States cannot be put in motion without the consent of Congress. The mass of men did not at first seem to recognize the fact, that while acts of secession were illegal and I void as affecting the rights of the national Government, its jurisdiction and sovereignty, nevertheless, it was such a crime that those committing it forfeited all rights guarantied them by the national Constitution under their State organization.
Mr. Speaker, can there be such a thing known to our national Constitution as a State without a constitutional government? In my opinion, sir, a State government, to be constitutional, must be organized and act in subordination to the national Constitution, and in obedience to the laws of Congress. The national Constitution requires the officers in each State to swear to support it while discharging the duties of any State office to which they may have been elected or appointed. If a State does not act in subordination to the national Constitution, and its officers do not take an oath to support it, and they send no Senators or Representatives to Congress, there can be no constitutional State government in such State. Add to this the crime of secession, rebellion, and levying war, and the taking of an oath by the officers of such State to support another and a hostile government, and I claim it terminates, of necessity, and of right ought to terminate, the existence of a constitution al government in every such State. In a constitutional point of view, if there is no loyal State government, such as I have described, but in its stead a government unknown to the Constitution established by the action of its citizens, then, in fact, there is no constitutional State government, and, of course, no State known to the Constitution. The States then in rebellion have no constitutional governments. They have civil organizations, however, hostile to the United States; organizations which are recognized as de facto rebel governments. When the rebellion is suppressed, there will be no constitutional State governments, in fact, in one of the rebel States, and certainly the rebel de facto government cannot remain or be recognized by us after the rebellion is put down. The people residing within the limits of these so-called States will be under the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress, because in point of fact they cannot be subject to the laws of a State which has no State government known to the national Constitution.
I may be answered that it is the duty of Congress to guaranty to each State a republican form of government, and that this provision of the Constitution implies the continued existence of the State, although its government may have been overthrown by violence or by the deliberate acts of a majority of its citizens. Grant it for the sake of the argument, but what will be the legal condition of such State if the minority do not call upon Congress to secure them a republican government? What will be its condition if Congress, in the exercise of its constitutional power, attempts to secure such State a republican government and loyal citizens cannot be found in sufficient numbers to maintain a State government? Is not the condition of such State for the time being that of a quasi Territory? Certainly; during the time it remains in rebellion and is unable to maintain a State government, it is not a State. If so, then, for practical purposes, whether of national administration or for the adoption of this amendment, States in rebellion and without civil governments which Congress can recognize, are not States within the meaning of the Constitution, and cannot act upon this amendment to the Constitution, or do any other act which a loyal State of the Union may lawfully do.
    In pursuing this argument, we must keep steadily in view the fact that the United States are not a confederation, but a nation; that the national Constitution is the supreme law of the land, and that the Government organized under it is clothed with the sovereignty of the whole people. The first and highest allegiance is due from the citizen to the national Government; he is also subject to the laws constitutionally enacted by his own local State Government. If there be no local State government in existence, the citizen is legally subject only to the laws of Congress. In the absence of a constitutional State government in any portion of the territory of the United States, where a State government formerly existed. Congress has all the authority of a State government within such territory. If, then, in the rebellious States there is no constitutional civil governments, are they States within the contemplation of the Constitution? I again ask the question, can there be such a thing known to our national Constitution as a State without a constitutional government? If not, then the rebel States, having no constitutionally organized civil governments, are not States within the meaning of the Constitution, and the territory, and the citizens residing therein, are subject to the jurisdiction of Congress, the same as citizens in any Territory of the United States.
If the contrary theory is true, that a State once a State is always a State, nothing can be clearer to my mind than that the Constitution ought to be so amended at once as to make it impossible for a minority of the States to destroy the Government, ' as they might do every four years, if the Electoral College failed to elect a President and Vice President of the United States.
In the event of the Electoral College failing to elect, the duty devolves on the House of Representatives; each State having one vote. Two thirds of all the States must be present, and a majority of all the States is required to elect a President. The same rule applies when a Vice President is to be elected by the Senate. These are the words of the Constitution:
“But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by States, the representation from each State having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the States.”
Now, suppose that from any cause two of the States represented here were not represented, and there were but twenty-three States represented in this House, and there had been no election in 1864 of a President by the Electoral College. The election for President in that event would have devolved on this House.
Would you, Mr. Speaker, have decided, when the question was raised, as it would have been, “Is there a constitutional quorum present?” that it required the presence of members in this House from two-thirds of the States, including the eleven rebel States; or in other words, that twenty-four States must be represented here, and that it would require a majority of thirty-six States, or nineteen votes to elect the President? If you would have so decided, and this House should have sustained that decision, and if but twenty-three States were present, there would have been an end of the Government. If we could not proceed to elect a President with the
<c06>
Representatives of twenty-three out of the twenty-five loyal States, the Government would have fallen to pieces for the want of an Executive. If the duty of electing a President had devolved on this House at this session, and but twenty-three States were present, the question would not only have been raised as to what constituted a quorum, but the question also as to whether we should receive and count the electoral votes which, in the event of no election of President by the Electoral College, would probably have been sent here from several of the rebel States to embarrass, distract and divide us. Sir, no loyal man can contemplate a contingency such as I have suggested without a shudder. If the theory that a State once a State is always a State is to obtain in the national administration, there is no safety or security for the Government. I do not know, sir, how you would have decided such a question, if it had been raised under circumstances such as I have suggested; but I have faith to believe that you would have decided as I would have decided, that this House cannot know of the existence of State is this Union which has not a civil government organized in subordination to and working in harmony with the national Constitution. Any other decision would have been fatal to our national existence. Let us not set a bad precedent now by declaring that it will require the ratification of twenty-seven States to secure the adoption of this constitutional amendment.
Mr. Speaker, I find ample authority in the Constitution for the national Government to protect itself against any action which a minority of the States might attempt by confederating against it. The Constitution clothes Congress with the power “to declare the punishment of treason.” It clothes Congress with all power necessary to defend and preserve the Government which it created. “Levying war against the United States” is declared by the Constitution to be treason. A State which, by its constituted authorities, supported by a majority of its citizens, enters into any “treaty, alliance, or confederation,” and makes war upon the national Government, commits the crime of treason, and it is competent for Congress to inflict any penalty it may deem expedient. I want the national Government to inflict punishment so terrible upon the authors of this rebellion that in all coming time there shall be no such rebellion again. I want no precedent established which shall pave the way for a minority of the States and a minority of the people to destroy this Government. I want the precedent established that the States and people remaining loyal to the Government, as distinguished from those who rebel against it, shall be clothed with the sovereignty of the Government. In this way only can we come out of this contest safely, and “obtain indemnity for the past, and security for the future.”

THE ENGLISH WORKING MEN TO MR. LINCOLN.
The following address from the working men of England to Mr. Lincoln, congratulating him upon his reelection, appears in the London Daily News of December 23. It has been forwarded to Washington through Mr. Adams:
“To Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States:
“SIR: We congratulate the American people upon your reelection by a large majority. If resistance to the Slave Power was the reserved watchword of your first election, the triumphant war-cry of your reelection is ‘Death to Slavery.’ From the commencement of the Titanic American strife, the working men of Europe felt instinctively that the star-spangled banner carried the destiny of their class. The contest for the territories, which opened the dire conflict, was it not to decide whether the virgin soil of immense tracts should be wedded to the labor of the emigrant, or prostituted by the tramp of the slave-driver? When an oligarchy of three hundred thousand slaveholders dared to inscribe, for the first time in the annals of the world, slavery on the banner of armed revolt; when, on the very spots where hardly a century ago, the idea of one great democratic republic had first sprung up, whence the first declaration of the rights of man was issued, and the first impulse given to the European revolution of the eighteenth century; when on those very spots counter revolution, with systematic thoroughness gloried in rescinding ‘the ideas entertained at the time of the formation of the old Constitution,’ and maintained slavery to be a beneficent institution, indeed, the only solution of the great problem of the relation of capital to labor, and ‘cynically proclaimed property in man’ the corner-stone of the new edifice; then the working classes of Europe understood at once, even before the frantic partizanship of the upper classes for the Confederate gentry had given its dismal warning, that the slaveholders’ rebellion was to sound the tocsin for a general holy crusade of property against labor, and that for the men of labor, with their hopes for the future, even their past conquests were at stake in that tremendous conflict on the other side of the Atlantic. Everywhere they bore, therefore, patiently, the hardships imposed upon them by the cotton crisis, opposed enthusiastically the pro-slavery intervention importunities of their ‘betters,’ and from most parts of Europe contributed their quota of blood to the good cause. While the working men, the true political power of the North, allowed slavery to defile their own republic, while before the negro, mastered and sold without his concurrence, they boasted it the highest prerogative of the white-skinned laborer to sell himself and choose his own master, they were unable to attain the true freedom of labor, or to support their European brethren in their struggle for emancipation; but this barrier to progress has been swept off by the red sea of civil war. The workingmen of Europe feel sure that, as the American war of Independence initiated a new era of ascendancy for the middle class, so the American anti-slavery war will do for the working classes. They consider it an earnest of the epoch to come, that it fell to the lot of Abraham Lincoln, the single-minded son of the working class, to lead his country through the matchless struggle for the rescue of an enchained race, and the reconstruction of a social world.
“Signed on behalf of the International Working-Men’s Association, by the Members of the Central Council.”
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS, the rebel Vice President, is out in another letter, in which h says:
“The old Union and the old Constitution are both dead, dead forever, except in so far as the Constitution has been preserved by as. There is for the Union as it was no resurrection by any power short of that which brought Lazarus from the tomb. There may be, and doubtless are, many at the North and some at the South, who took for ward to a restoration of the Union and the Constitution as it was; but such ideas are as vain and illusory as the dreamy imaginings of the Indian warrior, who in death clings to his weapons in fond expectation that he will have use for them beyond the grave in other lands and new hunting grounds.”

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES….From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power….It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
PRESIDEIT LITCOLN AND GEORGE GIL FILLAN.
The President’s Message, waited for with mingled anxiety and curiosity, was brought to England by the Asia on Monday morning. Summaries of the Message were immediately telegraphed to the ”exchanges” and to the press of the empire. In the present dearth of home topics, the important document has naturally received quite its due share of attention. We beard some time ago, that Mr. Lincoln was at work on this Message so closely, that he had secluded himself almost entirely from general society. What was thus slowly elaborated has been very quickly criticised. Traversing a wide field, and reviewing alike the political, the financial, and military situations, deliberation was needed to its adequate comprehension. But, unfortunately, the newspaper editor has little time to deliberate; while he is thinking, time is passing, and printers are inexorable. As might have been anticipated, the Message has given rise to a vast amount of contradictory criticism. To some journalists it seems a noble, to others a contemptible document. In our estimate of its merits, we are not disposed to indulge in either extreme. Nothing that we remember Mr. Lincoln to have uttered deserves to be called contemptible, though scarcely anything rises into the noble. His is the genius of common sense-there is no idealism about him. He accepts facts, stating them boldly, whether assuring or adverse. There is about him little of the ”tragic grandeur” of the incarnation of the Confederacy. But if the citizen is not so commanding a figure in history as the soldier President, Lincoln has at least never been betrayed into the intemperance and exaggeration of Davis. What speech of the ”rail-splitter” can match the imprudence of the Macon manifesto of the ”repudiator”?
It says something for the sagacity and temper of the Federal Government, that, despite the many sources of misunderstanding inevitable during a state of war, it has managed to keep on terms of amity with all foreign powers. Questions have, indeed, arisen between our own government and the government of the United States; but we have the authority of Earl Russell for asserting that in every instance British representations and British claims have been met in a spirit of justice. Those who imagined General Butler’s New York speech foreshadowed the policy of the President, have been disappointed. The ostentatious display of the olive branch anticipated has not been made; dove-eyed Peace seems as far off as ever from the grim field of carnage. The war will cease with submission, but not till then; though there will be no vengeance, there must be obedience. The leader of the revolt is the only man who fights with a halter round his neck, and the emphasis with which Davis has put the issue-subjugation or independence-leaves Lincoln no alternative but to fight out the quarrel to its bitter end. While deploring the continuation of this struggle, we must not overlook the fact that it not Lincoln’s creation, but the legitimate offspring of the policy of the South. The spirit of compromise which so long kept the evil day at bay was exhausted. The North felt if it was not to give up every atom of manhood, a stand against the aggressive spirit of the slaveocracy was inevitable. President Lincoln was nothing except as the representative of that resolution. Personally he was as little objectionable as possible for a political antagonist. A free soiler from conviction, he had yet never exasperated ”the chivalry” by any intemperate denunciation of their ”peculiar institution.” In point of fact, while repudiating the idea of extending slavery, his repudiation was couched in terms of the utmost consideration for the slaveholder. Whoever looks with candor into his earlier utterances on this subject must confess they are attempted rather with the spirit of the philosopher than the partizan. The logic of events has lifted him to a higher platform than he occupied on the morrow of that election which proved the signal for revolt. He would, however, have been singularly unteachable, had he stood to-day precisely where he stood in 1860. Happily the advance has been all in the right direction. Let who may quarrel with Lincoln for the difference between his present and past opinions, assuredly it is most unseemly in the advocates of emancipation to chide him. Those so enamored of any particular name as to overlook the great principles involved in this war, have but a poor conception of the magnitude of the issue. Had there been a better representative of an emancipation policy than President Lincoln, we should have deplored his non-acceptance, but inasmuch as his antagonist was the creature of the pro-slavery peace party, we rejoice in Lincoln’s triumph. That triumph was the death-knell of a knot of as ignoble politicians as ever cursed a nation. The tools of the South, their craven-heartedness was yet the execration of ”the chivalry.” Had this party been victorious instead of vanquished in the Presidential contest, the friends of freedom must have bid farewell to hope.
Beyond all question, the real interest of America lay in the undelayed adoption of an emancipation policy. Emancipation in immediate prospect, and not merely glimmering through the mist of years, is indispensable to the weal of America. The interests of the white, no less than the black race, are bound up with the settlement of this great question in favor of freedom. The Message which Lincoln has just sent to Congress leaves no doubt that he, at least, is prepared so to settle it. How Mr. George Gilfillan can see in the election of such a man ”a heavy blow and great discouragement to the real interests of America,” is beyond our comprehension. It is easy to hurl invectives at the North, easy to accuse it of inordinate ambition and insatiate thirst for supremacy, and quite as easy ”to cover the multitude of Southern sins” by the one virtue the South has displayed. But we had expected an abolitionist to have left that dirty work to other pens. Mr. Gilfillan was not the least conspicuous among the band who, in other days, had nothing too bitter to say of the apologists of the South, and no taunt too stinging to cast in the teeth of the North for its complicity with man-stealers. Surely, then, when the North had cut loose from its ”covenant with death and agreement with hell,” it merited something of eulogy rather than rebuke. Mr. Lincoln has thrown no ”bloody gauntlet down on the floor of the West,” but says alike to West and South, only abandon slavery, and every right you erewhile enjoyed will be religiously respected. It is, therefore simply a caricature of the President’s policy Mr. Gilfillan’s letter presents. The spectre at which he stands aghast is self-created; like Prospero, he starts at his own wand. Has Mr. Gilfillan forgotten that whatever may have been Mr. Lincoln’s shortcomings, the leading abolitionists of America have given him their confidence? Surely William Lloyd Garrison may be trusted to test the sincerity of the” President’s convictions and policy! Let Mr. Gilfillan inquire on what side that band is to-day, who, when the nation bowed itself before the slave power, Abdiel-like, stood unmoved, unshaken in devotion to the negro? With scarcely an exception, they exerted their every energy to secure the reelection he deplores as ”a heavy blow and great discouragement to the real interests of America.” What would be thought of that total abstainer who kept perpetually abusing the inebriate for his dissipation, but who, the moment that inebriate began to eschew the bottle, suddenly turned round and lavished all his sympathy, yea, all his eulogy, upon the publican who had drugged him? Of inconsistency quite as gross is Mr. Gilfillan guilty. Who told Mr. Gilfillan it was by mercenary hands that the battles of the North were being fought? Does be not know there is scarcely a home in New England this war has not made a house of mourning? If he is skeptical on this point, let him look any day to the lists of killed and wounded which appear after great battles in the newspapers of the United States, and he will see those stricken in the strife bear mainly English and Scottish names. In proportion as we hailed with pleasure the eloquent and vigorons denunciations of unfaithfulness to anti-slavery principles Mr. Gilfillan was wont to indulge, we now mourn his defection from the good old cause. Self-love may, indeed, veil his practical apostacy. He may imagine himself as good an abolitionist as ever, but the fact that his latest utterances on this great question are words of eulogy of the South, and scorn of the North, bewray him as completely as did Peter’s speech in the judgment hall of Pilate. -Saturday (English) Press.
GEN. GRANT ON SHERMAN. In his letter to a committee of Ohioans relative to the testimonial to Gen. Sherman, which be has headed with $500, Gen. Grant says:-
“I cannot say a word too highly in praise of Gen. Sherman’s services from the beginning of the rebellion to the present day, and will, therefore, abstain from flattery of him. Suffice it to say, the world’s history gives no record of his superiors, and but few equals.”
<c02>
NEGRO SUFFRAGE. 
A LETTER FROM THEODORE TILTON.
CHICAGO, January 5.
Editors of the Missouri Democrat:
Let me borrow a hand’s breadth of your space, to say from a distance to your Constitutional Convention, what several gentlemen in St. Louis desired me to tarry and say by word of mouth.
The convention has a novel prerogative-to make a new constitution, which, when made, is not to be submitted to the people, but to go immediately into effect, subject to no tribunal of revision or rejection. But the convention is instructed by the people to perform three duties-first, to emancipate the slaves; second, to disfranchise the rebels; third, to ordain; what else the public good requires. As to emancipation and disfranchisement, only one sentiment (and that a right one) prevails. As to what else the public good requires, the gate stands wide open to suggestions, old or new,
I venture one concerning suffrage-a subject you are now debating Give the ballot to all who can read, and deny it to all who can not! It is strange that this proposition-approved, as it is, by every wise man’s private conviction-is so generally omitted from the public law. Democratic government is grounded on the intelligence of the people. Every voter is a legislator for every other. The theory, therefore, is that the voter must cast an intelligent vote. But what shall be the entitling measure of intelligence? Let it be the lowest measure consistent with the public safety. What is the lowest measure? If a man who could not read was once counted fit for an English king, let a man who can read be counted fit for an American voter. This is the simplest, easiest, and best of tests.
What is its practical value to your Convention? It affords a beautiful, just and equitable disposition of your disputed point of negro suffrage. I asked the radicals in St. Louis, ”Will you permit black men, who fight for the Union, to vote for the Union?” “No!” said they; ”the blacks are too ignorant.” “You are not opposed, then, to negro suffrage because the negro is black, but because he is ignorant.” They answered, ”When the negro knows how to vote, we will give him, the ballot.” Now, this is well. The negro should not vote till he knows how. Nor should the white man. Deny the ballot to both, so long as they can not read; give it to both as soon as they learn. To-day, in Missouri, more whites than blacks are unable to read. To grant the ballot to these ignorant whites, and deny it to these ignorant blacks, is a mere caprice of prejudice. Grant it to neither till they earn it by alphabet and spelling book. On the other hand, to deny negro suffrage entirely—to say, for instance, to a black man who is intelligent and thrifty, ”you may pay taxes on twenty thousand dollars’ earnings, but you shall not have a vote ”this violates the divinely-ordained democracy of mankind, and is an affront to Him who is ”no respecter of persons.”
Is negro suffrage an untried novelty, that it should be feared? Not at all. Many years ago, Maryland and North Carolina sent their free negroes to the polls. A few days ago, Gratz Brown told you truly that except for the negro vote in New York State, the calamity called Horatio Seymour would have been repeated at the last election. I believe with Frederick Douglass, that ”if a negro knows as much when sober as an Irishman when drunk, he knows enough to vote.” There is no reason why your State should not now receive the noblest of political constitutions. Such a basis of suffrage would command the assent and admiration of the world. Rendering impartial justice to all classes, it would crown its makers with everlasting remembrance. Now is the golden hour for Missouri. Let not her convention tarnish their opportunity by any stain of injustice and inequality.
Faithfully yours, 
THEODORE TILTON.

SENATOR WILSON. 
Massachusetts is to-day very fitly represented in her two Senators-Mr. Sumner, who is on his full third term, and Mr. Wilson, to whom another election will give sixteen years, and that is longer than anybody else has held for a long time, except Mr. Webster. Mr. Sumner represents Massachusetts in culture and refinement, in which our State is surpassed by no other in the Union, as in these respects Mr. Sumner is surpassed by no other Senator. Mr. Wilson represents Massachusetts in its industry, energy, force, and self-reliance, being excelled in these points by no other Senator, as Massachusetts is by no other State. By skill and industry-inventive and operative power-this State has become one grand workshop, and as irrepressible in its life as the steam engine in full force. From its workshops go out supplies for all the States, and in them rise up what we term self-made men, fitted to any position in life. We call them self-made because they owe nothing of position to their ancestry; nothing to proud relations; nothing to the influence of money; but all to themselves in the self-impelled development of their own powers. Henry Wilson is a model man of this class. Born in such absolute poverty, in the neighboring State of New Hampshire, that at the age of ten years he was put to live with a farmer to earn his own bread, and had less than ordinary privileges, he has nevertheless lifted himself to a high place among men of intelligence, and to the first rank among men of power. He has made and unmade, overturned and reconstructed, ’like one born to that high destiny, and commissioned to mould the body politic in its plastic condition and give it form for ages to come.
Henry Wilson came from Farmington, N. H., where he was born, to Natick, which has since been his home when he was twenty-one years old, about 1833. There he learned the shoe-trade. Some, in derision, have said: ”Let him stick to his last:” but the last was only a means to an end; he was not seeking the means to get a living, but the means of education; and while shoe-making, he constantly labored to prepare his mind for the great piece of cobbling he should perform for the nation, when the old shoes in which it had been travelling needed repairs. Soon after he left for some academy, and afterward made his first appearance in public as the ”Natick cobbler,” in 1840, making some of the most effective speeches of the Harrison campaign. He was extremely popular with the Whigs, who elected him to the House and the State Senate during five successive years. He continued with them to 1848-always anti-slavery, strongly so till the organization of the Free Soil party. As a Free Soiler, he was elected Senator, and made President of that body. In the mean time, previous to 1855, he was a candidate for Congress and for Governor, and failed but the hour of his great triumph had come, when he was the successor of Edward Everett; and jumping over the heads of all opponents, passed to the arena of the greatest efforts of Daniel Webster, John Davis and Rufus Choate.
In the Senate, Mr. Wilson has very ably sustained himself, and constantly been a rising man. His first speech was made in favor of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia-for he has ever been true to his anti-slavery idea, which is now the most loved sentiment of Massachusetts and the nation-and in 1861-2 he had the pleasure to see a bill introduced by himself, to purify the national capital by advancing every human chattel there to manhood, become a law. How well and truly he has adhered to this platform of freedom we need not relate. Upon other measures he has spoken and acted with great ability; but his great and most valuable services have been as Chairman of the Military Committee in Congress, which position he has held from the beginning of the rebellion, and which has had a world of labor and responsibility in it. Gen. Scott said that in the brief session of 1861, he performed more service than had devolved on the Chairman of that Committee before for twenty years; and Secretary Cameron complimented him by saying that he had aided the War Department more than any, other man in Congress.
In looking over his career, we can conceive of no possible reason why Massachusetts should not be united on his return. He is an open, manly politician, a growing statesman, and an honest man, whose hands are uncorrupted with bribes, and who has had the interests of his country before his own, as distinct from it. We have come to see that when the right man is in the right place, the longer we keep him there the better.-Newburyport Herald.
MISSOURI FOR THE AMENDMENT. In the Missouri Constitutional Convention, January 16th, a resolution was passed expressing the opinion that the amendment to the Constitution now before Congress should be adopted, and instructing the Senators and Representatives from Missouri to vote for and use their influence to procure the passage of said amendment.
<c03>
The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 20, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLABATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION I, SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MY POSITION I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVERY ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OF CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE TO RE ENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHERS, AND NOT I MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY. 
The THIRTY SECOND ANNUAL MEETING of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held at the MELODEON, in Boston, on Thursday, January’ 26th, 1865, day and evening, commencing at 10 o’-clock, A. M. The members and friends of the Society, one and all, are requested to attend.
At the morning session, with the least possible delay of organization, addresses are expected from Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., and others.
As heretofore, the NATIONAL ANTI SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION FESTIVAL at the Music Hall, on the previous evening, (Jan. 25th,) will constitute an additional attraction to all friends of the Cause.
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President. 
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec’y. 

MR. CONWAY ONCE MORE-AND FINALLY.
In the Commonwealth of the 14th inst. appears the following Card from M. D. Conway:-
28 NOTTING HILL SQUARE, LONDON W., 
December 17, 1864.
The greater portion of Mr. Garrison’s comments upon me in the Liberator of Dec. 2, is irrelevant to the real point of my letter to the Standard. When, on July 4, 1863, at Framingham, Wendell Phillips, whilst voting for a resolution condemnatory of my correspondence with Mason, avowed his acceptance of the abstract principle stated therein as to the motives of abolitionists in sustaining the war, he drew the line between what I am and what I am not disposed or able to defend in that matter. The error of judgment which led me to put a general statement, which I had the right to make, into a form which gave it the character of a negotiation which I had no right to make, was one of which I had me conscious before the correspondence terminated, and which I did my best to correct when Mason had published it. There is, therefore, no question on this point. Nor is there any on the principle involved; for I look in vain through resolutions passed by the abolitionists, or Mr. Garrison’s article, for any declaration that they would support the war were slavery uninvolved. Hence the only point requiring my attention is that which relates to the circumstances under which I came to England.
It seems to me scarcely candid that Mr. Garrison should have inserted the insinuations of his correspondent in Philadelphia, implying a ”secret history” that I should wish to conceal in the matter, when he (Mr. G.) was cognizant of all the facts, -facts which the Philadelphian is not likely to have known, and, in ignorance of which, has done me, unintentionally, I hope, an injustice. The project that some one of the abolitionists should go to England had been earnestly discussed during the winter. Mr. Phillips and Mr. Garrison were both urged to go, but declined. When the plan of my going was mentioned, Mr. Phillips and Mr. George L. Stearns warmly approved. Both of these gentlemen said they would give $100 apiece to the object, and more if necessary. I had before been connected with these gentlemen in anti-slavery operations, e. g. I had addressed public meetings throughout the State of Ohio, Mr. Phillips and the Anti Slavery Society paying my travelling expenses, and, by a similar arrangement with the Emancipation League, of which Mr. Stearns was a prominent member, had given lectures throughout Massachusetts. I entered eagerly into this new project, which would enable me to confront the busy Southerners in England with as Southerner’s testimonies for the cause of the slave. Mr. Phillips sent me at once to lay the matter before Mr. Garrison. Mr. G., whom I found in the type-set-ting room of the Liberator, received the plan with enthusiasm. ”It is the very thing,” he said. ”Gerrit Smith was the other day urging the importance of some one going, and wished me to go. I can’t at present. He will, no doubt, contribute to your going.” Mr. G. then named others who might be depended upon to help pay expenses. I inquired how such persons had better be reached. He replied ”As the matter is not a personal one of your own, but for the cause, I think you need not hesitate from any motives of delicacy to write to these gentlemen yourself.” Mr. Phillips and Mr. Stearns agreed with this view, in accordance with which I wrote about five letters, and these to persons with whom I had some personal acquaintance. From all sources, there was collected for the object $750 in American currency. Of this, $260 came in response to my letters. The rest,-omitting the contributions of Messrs. Phillips and Stearns, -was chiefly collected by such earnest anti-slavery men as Elizur Wright, John H. Stephenson, R. P. Hallowell and others. Theodore Parker’s ”Fraternity” contributed something. Hon. Gerrit Smith sent $100 to Mr. Garrison, still urging him to go to England, otherwise the money to be used, at Mr. G’s discretion, in sending some one else. This money Mr. Garrison applied to sending me. The sum thus raised was quite small, only £80 sterling when reduced to gold, and my passage was paid; but as I was desirous of going, I resolved to pay the rest out of my own small means, though going already implied giving up two-thirds of what my family depended upon for support.
If there is anything in these facts of which I should be ashamed, or to justify the insinuations referred to, I wait to have it pointed out. I came to England with no other objects than to serve the cause of the slave, and to defend the position of his friends in the American war. Though I have disappointed some of those who sent me-as some of them have disappointed me.-I will still keep those ends in view.
M. D. CONWAY.
REMARKS. 1. As this is a matter between Mr. Conway and ourselves, and as the Liberator is as open to him as it is to us, there is neither reason nor propriety in his sending to the Commonwealth his explanatory or defensory cards or letters. Nevertheless, though he has done so again and again, (as though he had been replied to by us through the same medium,) we have copied his articles into the Liberator without any claim or request on his part to do so; thus evincing not only a fair but magnanimous spirit, and a willingness that our readers should see his own method of vindicating his conduct. But this generous treatment has not been extended to us by the Commonwealth in a single instance-its idea of fair dealing being to give only one side of a controversy; for nothing that we have written in refutation of Mr. Conway’s statements has been transferred to its columns, so that its readers are left to conclude that those statements are correctly made.’
2. Mr. Conway says-“When the plan of my going to England was mentioned, [i.e., mentioned by himself,] Mr. Phillips and Mr. George L. Stearns warmly approved.” But in his letter to the Standard of NOV. 19th, he says it was Mr. Phillips who first suggested his going. The two statements are conflictive. When we asked Mr. Phillips, at the time, if Mr. C’s statement as to his part in the affair was true, he replied that he did not recollect whether he first named the subject to Conway, or Conway to him- showing either a marked loss of memory, or else that such a visit to England was deemed by him of so little consequence as to leave no distinct impression upon his mind. But it matters not a whit, as to the merits of the controversy, whether Mr. Phillips and Mr. Stearns suggested or approved Mr. Conway’s going abroad; nor whether he had before been connected with those gentlemen in anti-slavery operations; nor whether the Anti Slavery Society paid his traveling expenses here as a lecturer (though the Society paid nothing of the kind); nor whether we showed a friendly disposition to his visiting England, that he might ”confront the busy Southerners there with a Southerner’s testimonies for the cause of the slave.” The only issue the abolitionists of this country have raised with Mr. Conway is his utterly false declaration to the Rebel Commissioner Mason in London, that he was authorised to negotiate with him for the recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy, on the basis of the abolition of slavery; in which
<c04>
case, pledging the abolition strength of the country to force the American Government to bring the war to an end, and to grant that recognition. He now says it was an ”error of judgment”! No, it was an untruthful. averment, neither constructively nor inferentially justified by any opinions avowed or cherished by the abolitionists, whether relating to war or slavery.
3.Mr. Conway says we received his plan of going to England ”with enthusiasm.” For the words quoted, substitute ”in a friendly spirit.” At the same time, we marked out how we thought he might be useful abroad-precisely as he has stated it-by ”confronting the busy Southerners in England with a Southerner’s testimonies for the cause of the slave.” But what has that to do with an embassy to Mr. Mason or to any other rebel, with reference to securing Confederate independence by the quid pro quo of negro emancipation? Had we imagined that he could, by any possibility, be guilty of such stupendous folly, we should have given him no approving word, but rather any amount of discouragement.
4.The statement in this Card, that we have put in italics, is wholly incorrect. Gerrit Smith did not send us $100, to be used at our discretion in sending some one else to England, in case we declined going; consequently, we did not apply the money to sending Mr. Conway. Mr. Conway wrote to Mr. Smith to see whether he would be willing to grant him the $100 so kindly offered to us; and we presume his appeal was successful.
5. We have never reproached Mr. Conway for soliciting aid to enable him to give his anti-slavery testimonies in England, and to put forth measures to baffle the machinations of rebel emissaries; for there was nothing wrong or discreditable in so doing. But when he stoutly persists in asserting, as he does so lately as his letter to the Anti-Slavery Standard of the 19th November, that ”the leading anti-slavery men of America did send him to England, paying his expenses thither,” and giving him” authority to make his proposition to Mr. Mason,” it is too grave a matter to be allowed to pass without the most explicit denial.’
6. The less Mr. Conway says about this unfortunate affair, the better for himself. We take our leave of it and him by saying, that we cherish no unkind feelings towards him; that we appreciate the brilliancy of his genius, the value of his recorded anti-slavery testimonies, and the various sacrifices he has made as a Virginian in becoming an abolitionist; and we trust his future course will be as creditable to himself as serviceable to others. But we protest against his assuming to be clothed with powers never delegated to him.

HON. HENRY WILSON.
After the almost unanimous vote of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, last week, in favor of the re election of Hon. Henry Wilson to the Senate of the United States, there is general surprise and displeasure felt through the Commonwealth at the postponement, by the Senate, of its decision, (which, as there is not a copperhead in that body, should have been unanimously and promptly in concurrence with the House,) until the second Tuesday in February! This delay is wholly inexplicable, except for the reason set forth in the following paragraph from the Dedham Gazette:-
“The question was postponed at the suggestion of certain gentlemen who wanted more light! As though the question of re-electing General Wilson had not been practically settled for months! The real opposition to General Wilson comes from a class of men who hung on to the shroud of the late Whig party until it rotted in their grasp, and who are so much oppressed with a high sense of eminent respectability that they cannot bring their dainty minds to vote for a self-made man. But the vote in the House has settled the matter, expressing as it did the feelings and opinions of the State. The people have not forgotten the eminent services which General Wilson, through the long and dreary years that are past, has rendered the cause of freedom.”
No Senator could have proved himself more worthy of the renewed confidence and suffrage of Massachusetts than Henry Wilson, by his legislative experience, tact and ability; his good sense, practical knowledge, untiring industry, executive force, and ceaseless vigilance; his close attention to the varied interests of the State as well as to the welfare of the whole republic; his sterling patriotism, tempted and tried through long periods of darkness and peril at the national capital, and always unwavering; his self-control and courage, equal to any emergency; his exemplary life in the midst of abounding demoralization; his efficiency in originating and supporting measures for the suppression of a rebellion as horrible in its primary object as it is unparalleled in extent; but above all, his whole-hearted devotion to the cause of universal freedom, as shown by his brave deeds and noble words in behalf of: the oppressed for more than a score of years in public and private life-his unquailing front in many a hard-fought conflict with the haughty slaveholding oligarchs on the floor of the Senate-and his persevering effort to carry every possible anti-slavery measure through Congress; his latest achievement being the passage of an act, whereby all the slave wives and children of colored soldiers under the flag are declared forever free-the number thus liberated being estimated from seventy-five to one hundred thousand. It is to his honor that he is a self-made man,-one who has risen from poverty and the work bench to his present commanding position by native force of character and good service in the cause of freedom and free institutions. He is the fitting complement of Charles Sumner, who needs no eulogy from us in this connection; the people look for his reelection as a matter of course; and the Senate should seek to atone for its uncalled-tor delay by giving him a unanimous vote.

WHAT NEXT?
Ever since its existence,-and particularly since it passed into the hands of its new editor,-,—the Commonwealth has displayed towards us a pugnacious, hypercritical, pretentious, self-conceited spirit, of which we have hitherto taken no notice, and for which there has been no real provocation. When that paper was commenced, we gave it a cordial greeting-as we did the advent of Mr. Slack, its present editor; and we have never penned a line to its disparagment. Our kindness and magnanimity have been repaid, from week to week, by various flings and innuendoes, either editorial or communicated; all evincing an unfriendly and rival state of feeling. We still forbear making such replication as the case would justify, but reserve to ourselves the right to settle accounts hereafter, as we may feel moved. Here is a specimen of the vigilance and zeal of the Commonwealth to find occasion to make a petty thrust at us, as seen in that paper of  Saturday last:-
“ANOTHER MOTTO GONE. The Liberator drops, with the new year, its editorial motto-No Union with Slaveholders.’ Alas! the old landmarks and incentives!”
Now, if there is any point to this, it means that the Liberator is no longer guided by its ”old landmarks,” nor animated by its former ”incentives.” It means that we have yielded up our vital test of Union-a test, by the way, which the politicians of the Common wealth school never acted upon, nor accepted even in theory, as against the old ”covenant with death and agreement with hell.” Now this insinuation is equally ridiculous and false, as reference to the last week’s Liberator-issued one day in advance of the Commonwealth-will show. It is true that the motto referred to was not in the number for January 6th; but it was omitted in that instance-as it had been in scores of instances before, and for the same reason, namely-because we wanted room for two additional lines in the same column! Was ever such a ”mare’s nest” discovered before? 
The first decision of Chief Justice Chase in the Supreme Court of the United States, was, that West Virginia is legally a State.
<c05>
THOUGHTLESSNESS OR WORSE.
The papers have given wide currency, of late, to the following admonition, said to have been given by the President to a Tennessee lady, who had applied to him for the release of her rebel husband, held as a prisoner of war. He said to the lady-” You say that your husband is a religious man. Tell him when you meet him, that I say I am not much of a judge of religion, but that, in my opinion, the religion that sets men to rebel and fight against their government because they think that government does not sufficiently help some men to eat their bread in the sweat of other men’s faces, is not the sort of religion upon which people can get to heaven.”
Mr. Lincoln, it seems, though ”not much of a judge of religion,” knows some things respecting it; namely, that the advocacy of treason and slavery together is incompatible with true religion; that a church holding such a position is not worth joining; and that a minister preaching such doctrine is not worth hearing. His Proclamations and other State papers show that he understands the connection between slavery and treason in the South, and observation must have shown him the notorious fact that the four principal religious sects in the South, always devoted partizans of slavery, have been also thorough supporters of the rebellion.
The churches at Washington, under the governmental influences that preceded Mr. Lincoln’s administration, were of course pro-slavery. How do they stand now, and what is the President’s relation to them? 
The Washington correspondent of the Standard of Jan. 7th tells us that-”The colored people here celebrated the anniversary of the issuance of the Emancipation proclamation yesterday in several of their churches. Mr. Channing preached a sermon worthy of himself and the day in his church. Several of our Washington clergymen preached Union sermons, and a few were not afraid to rejoice openly over the doom of slavery. A large majority, however, did not care to touch the subject, and a very considerable minority were silent upon the subject of the war.”
The Washington correspondent of the Independent touched, the same week, upon the same subject. He thinks that” the President and every member of his Cabinet attend churches where there has never been an allusion from the pulpit to the Proclamation of Emancipation; in other words, pro-slavery churches. Channing is ever bold and truthful, and never forgets the colored race. Two or three other white clergy men referred in appropriate terms [on Sunday, Jan. 1st] to the war and the Emancipation Proclamation; but the most of them avoided the subject The Administration exercises little influence upon the Washington churches; for it neither patronizes anti-slavery churches and clergymen, nor refuses to listen to the preaching of men whose sympathies have always been with the master and against the slave.”
It is undesirable that the Administration at Washington should undertake to patronize any church whatever. We want no fashionable Government Church in this country. The right way is for every man to go to that church (or any other place) in which he finds the best food for his mind and soul. But one would think that Abraham Lincoln and the members of his Cabinet, however poor judges of religion, might have learned by this time enough to see that the clergyman who upholds slavery as consistent with Christianity, or who systematically avoids the performance of the Christian duty of aiding in the overthrow of so glaring a sin and evil as slavery, is not fit to stand in the place of a Christian minister. It is absurd to recognize such a person as a teacher of Christianity at all. Those who resort to him as an intelligent and competent preacher of the Gospel-of the doctrine of Him who testified of himself that he was sent ”to preach deliverance to the captive, and to set at liberty them that are bruised” can be excused only by the fact that they are not good judges of religion. But for Abraham Lincoln and the gentleman who combined with him in adopting the Emancipation Proclamation as a policy in dispensable for the country, for them to select persons of this sort as suitable spiritual guides or satisfactory teachers of religion, is to stultify themselves; to pull down with one hand what they have built up with the other; to set their moral and religious influence in diametrical opposition to their political influence; to declare that that which is pernicious and ruinous in the daily and social life of the nation and its individual members may still be in correct accordance with religion, and with the Christian religion!
A state of things like this helps to explain what has always been mysterious in the Administration at Washington, namely, why so many notorious sympathizers with secession and slavery have been suffered to retain Department clerkships, and other offices in the gift of Government. It has been plain, throughout our four years of war, that the plans of the Government, and the intended movements of our military and naval forces, were generally known beforehand to the enemy. Thousands of lives, a vast amount of precious time, and hundreds of millions of dollars; have been lost to the country by keeping the enemy systematically informed of our movements, and thus enabled to provide against them. Is it asked-How could so many of these Government plans have been known to persons disposed to communicate them to the enemy? The answer is plain. The number of persons known to be friendly to slavery and to the rebellion, whom the Government chose to keep in its service, and in all departments of its service, is abundantly sufficient to account for all this clandestine information.
Is this strange to a common sense view of things? Is it strange that a man should employ a known enemy to keep his accounts, giving as the reason for it that this enemy had greater skill in book -keeping than any honest man within his knowledge? Methinks this is no more strange than for a functionary whose station gives him immense and predominating influence to give that influence in one direction every Saturday, and in the direction precisely opposite every Sunday; to let the testimony given by his silent Presidential presence in church go to neutralize and stultify his action the preceding week in the council-chamber:-c. k. w. 
DEATH OF HON. EDWARD EVERETT. In the sudden death of Hon. Edward Everett, which took place in this city early on Sunday morning last, Boston has lost its most honored citizen, Massachusetts its most conspicuous son, and the country its most scholarly and renowned orator. His course since the rebellion broke out has been highly patriotic, and of eminent service to the government; causing a general disposition to sink out of sight some discreditable things in his public life, pertaining to his servile ”bowing of the knee to the dark spirit of slavery,” and his disposition to make any concessions to it in order to preserve a Union not based upon justice and equal rights. Now there will be an immense amount of eulogy bestowed upon his memory; but let it be discriminating as well as generous.
THE SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY. This always attractive and delightful anniversary occurs on Wednesday evening next, at Music: Hall; and we doubt not that the thousands who have invariably attended it-forming as choice a collection, intellectually and morally, as a popular gathering can be-will again be present, to enjoy its rare social interchange and agreeable exercises; all the more, as in all probability this is the last of the series that will be held, slavery being constitutionally abolished before another year. Let all who come bring some contribution, according to their means, so that there may be a handsome aggregate which shall enable the American Anti-Slavery Society to conclude its operations by an honorable discharge of all its pecuniary obligations, and” expire in a blaze of glory.’’
The Interesting letter from Nashville, signed ”Tweed,” in the Liberator of week before last, should have been credited to the Boston Recorder. 
<c06>
THE THIRTY-FIRST NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JAN. 25, 1865.
The AMERICAN ANTI SLAVERY SOCIETY was organized for the immediate and total abolition of slavery in the United States. Its labors have been unremittedly prosecuted, ”without compromise and with out concealment,”;” for a period of thirty years, through lecturing agencies, the pointing and circulating of anti-slavery publications, the support of an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these labors is largely due, primarily, that cheering and marvellous change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which has taken place in all the loyal States, and which enables the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDER’S REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so- called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation every where should the American Anti-Slavery Society be disbanded, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary and to carry on its ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently hoped and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority at the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon that body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the year 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long desired YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time-let the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions of those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feelings on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and vindicating the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserving of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th, 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the ”self-evident truths” enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence!
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Maria Child, Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth con Arnim,
Sarah Shaw Russell, Abby H. Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah H. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam, Abby Francis,
Mattie Griffith, Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson, Katharine Earle Farnum,
Evelina A. Smith, Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford, Ellen Wright Garrison,
Caroline M. Severance.
As on preceding years, this Anniversary Meeting will be held in the MUSIC HALL, Boston. The time (as already named) is WEDNESDAY evening next, 25th inst., from 7 to 10, P. M. Addresses are expected from Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, and Rev. ROBERT C. WATERSTON, commencing at 8 o’clock. The music of the great ORGAN cannot fail to prove a welcome addition to the other attractions of the occasion. We may reasonably anticipate that the meeting will prove interesting and successful to the full extent of any previous one. 
As it has been impossible to send the customary invitation-notes to all whom we hope to see on the occasion, we desire to say that these may be procured, on the day of the meeting, by any friend of the Anti-Slavery cause, (without charge, of course,) at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Room No. 6.
CARPENTER’S PAINTING. Those of our readers who have not already seen Carpenter’s admirable picture of ”The Emancipation Proclamation before the Cabinet” should lose no time in doing so, as we learn that it will remain at Williams & Everett’s but a short time longer. During its exhibition in this city, it has met with a degree of popular favor rarely equalled. The subscription list to the engraving is already very large, and on the first page of it may be seen the names of the late Edward Everett, Charles Sumner, John A. Andrew, George Thompson and other prominent men. This engraving, which is to be executed by Ritchie of New York, and published by Derby & Miller of that city, in the course of a year, can only be obtained by subscription. Our friends at a distance who may wish to obtain copies of it can do so by sending their names to the general agent, Mr. C. H. Brainard, No. 234 Washington St. The prices are-for artist’s proofs, $25; India proofs, $15; plain prints, $10, payable on delivery.
EDMONIA LEWIS. On our last page will be found a pleasant and interesting ”Chat with the Editor of the Standard,” by Lydia Maria Child, in relation to this talented young artist. In a private note, Mrs. Child mentions a fact not stated in the article, which it will gratify our readers to know, indicating as it does a recognition of Miss Lewis’s talent by a sister artist of high rank. Mrs. Child says:-I am glad to hear that Miss Hosmer, during her recent visit to this country, called upon Miss Lewis in her little studio. She was pleased with the bust of Col. Shaw, and remarked that it was ’modelled finely.’”
The Mercantile Library Association will furnish an agreeable entertainment at Music Hall, on Tuesday evening next, in the form of dramatic readings by Mr. Wyzeman Marshall and Mrs. J. W. Adams. B. J. Lang, organist. Tickets 25cents-reserved seats, 50 cents.
We could not find room for Mr. Foster’s letter, brief as it is, this week, in consequence of the large amount of matter already in type when it was received. It shall appear in our next.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXV.
NEW YORK, Jan. 12, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator: 
The issue of the war is plainly discernible in the condition of the Border Slave States at the present stage. In so for as the conspirators contemplated separation as a tolerable substitute for the dominion at which they aimed, these States were designed to be the political and military bulwarks of the Confederacy, whose transfer to the unfettered area of the North would be fatal to the permanence of independence and slavery. The history of the struggle, therefore, has been little else than that of invasion and counter invasion, possession and repossession, of the coveted territory–the extremities and yet the vitals of the assent empire. The new, year opens. Missouri has probably witnessed the last inroad of Price since his defeat by Pleasanton. Kentucky is harassed only by the guerillas whom she generated in her own bosom. Tennessee relies upon Thomas to keep Hood where he has been thrust out from her. Burbridge and Stone man give security to East Tennessee and West Virginia. Sheridan besieges the gate to Maryland and Delaware. The Confederacy has no military border, and Sherman marches at will through its hollowness. 
How is it politically? Slavery exists only nominally in Delaware; first, by reason of natural decay, and next, because the State is surrounded by free soil, without a Fugitive Slave Law to hedge her in. All this Governor Cannon points out in his annual message, and urges emancipation in order to render her attractive to immigrants, and ally her commercially as well as geographically with the Free States. Gov. Bradford, in his message, congratulates the Legislature upon the adoption of the new Constitution and the consequent death of slavery in Maryland. In Kentucky, besides the significant straw of the Louisville Journal, fluttering in the breeze of the November election, we have to note the Anti-Slavery Convention which assembled on the 4th at Frankfort, and endorsed the anti-slavery amendment of the U.S. Constitution; the message of Gov. Bramlette, which recommends gradual emancipation and colonization of the blacks–that’s the first symptom you know; and the resolutions introduced on the 6th into both Houses of the Legislature, declaring for the immediate abolition of slavery. As for Missouri, the telegraph flashes us this morning the unexpected tidings that she is a Free State–made so by the almost unanimous vote of her Constitutional Convention. And this is the fate of the compromise which attempted to set up an imaginary boundary to the aggrandizement of slavery and the irrepressible career of liberty. Now, whether the blacks will be admitted to immediate or prospective suffrage, or distinctly debarred, depends upon the Convention’s readiness to adopt the views of Hon. B. Gratz Brown or the Missouri Democrat. It is the old story: a certain step must be taken some time or other, because God is just, and man cannot remain otherwise. Shall we halt for posterity, or shall we lead in the march? 
Other signs of the decadence of slavery may be gathered from the debates on the Constitutional amendment in Congress, advocated by Yeaman, of Kentucky, King, of Missouri, Smithers, of Delaware, Odell, of New York, and scarcely opposed by Voorbees, of Indiana. Senator Wilson, too, carried his resolution by a handsome majority, to free the families of our colored soldiers. Not unseasonably, when the Richmond press discuss with the earnestness of despair the expediency of calling black volunteers to the armies of the Confederacy, by offering a higher boon than the ungenerous North has vouchsafed. To this dusky complexion has the game of the rebellion come at last. Its leaders, impotent for mischief, though fruitful in plots against the peace and security of our non-belligerent population–reaping nothing from “Sons of Liberty” or other secret assassins and incendiaries–deprived now of their subtlest accomplice, Horatio Seymour, in his official capacity–are beginning to reconsider the proposition of Vice President Stephens, that the love of slavery was the corner-stone of the new nation. Seeing clearly that in hoc signo they will be conquered rather than conquer, they incline to substitute the corollary for the theorem, and to pronounce their hatred of the Yankees the basis of their iniquitous fellowship. Bitter must be the choice between subjugation with out the aid of the negro, and independence only through him. Bitter the acknowledgment that men who were created for slavery are deserving of freedom, having fought pro patria. Such is the comfortless future to which
-the oppressor
Looks and is dumb with awe.
The eternal law
Which makes the crime its own blindfold redresser,
Shadows his heart with perilous foreboding;
And he can see the grim-eyed Doom,
From out the trembling gloom,
Its silent-footed steeds toward his palace goading!”
I had hoped that I might record the climax of the anti-slavery purpose of the people in the passage of the Constitutional amendment by the House. As I write, it is still debated, and its fate uncertain. 
The removal of Gen. Butler is naturally painful to those who regard him as the foremost of our generals and statesmen in his comprehension of the revolution. All the facts are not yet public upon which to form a correct judgment of the merits of his case. His farewell order is a model of dignity, and expresses the utmost confidence in the strength of his position. It is impossible that the man who was the father of military emancipation, who has ruled successively Baltimore, New Orleans and New York, and who has done more for the colored troops and their brethren in chains than any chieftain in the army, should remain in obscurity at Lowell while the Republic has need of him. For the present, the Copperheads have a day of triumph in his downfall.
M. DU. PAYS.
DISAPPOINTMENT. The Executive Committee of the Social, Civil and Statistical Association of the Colored People of Pennsylvania have inaugurated an interesting course of lectures “to suit the times,” to be delivered in Concert Hall in Philadelphia, -the finest in the city. We were to have given the opening lecture on Monday evening last, but sudden prostration by chills and fever prevented. Happily, our absence was more than supplied, through the never-failing kindness of our eloquent, coadjutor, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., who, though greatly worn by his labors in the lecturing field, readily consented to appear in our stead. The other speakers engaged for the course are Rev. Sella Martin, Mrs. F. E. Watkins Harper, J. M. Langston, Frederick Douglass, and Hon. Wm. D. Kelley. 
As a matter of prudence, and to prevent the chance of our disappointing our colored friends in New York through physical inability to be with them, we have requested to be excused from delivering the opening lecture, at Cooper Institute, on Tuesday evening next, of the course to be given by the African Civilization Society.
The Paris Debate says, in concluding an earnest eulogy of Mr. Dayton, our Minister to France, whose death was announced last week, says:–
“Mr. Dayton always rose to the level of his noble task, and thus it is he will leave long-lived regrets not only among the friends who knew his excellent and amiable qualities, but among all those who have been able to appreciate the orator, the diplomatist, and the patriot.” 
The Constitutional says, in a similar spirit: 
“He belonged to the school of Washington and Franklin. A minister in France while his country was passing through the most terrible crisis, and amid delicate circumstances, Mr. Dayton avoided, by the courtesy of his manners, the prudence of his language, and the moderation of his mind, many complications and embarrassments. The United States lose in Mr. Dayton an eminent citizen, and to-morrow we shall accompany with respect the coffin of the wise politician and the honest man.”
North Carolina has furnished 118,160 men for the rebel armies, of whom 18,585 were conscripts.
<c02>
DEATH OF HON. EDWARD EVERETT.
Edward Everett died at his residence, 82 Summer street, between 4 and 5 o’clock on Sunday morning last. The fact became known at an early hour, and was rapidly and extensively circulated, plunging the whole city in the profoundest grief. Men were scarcely able to credit the report, so recently had Mr. Everett been seen in our midst.
On Monday forenoon last, the 9th inst, Mr. Everett attended a hearing in chambers, at the Court House, from which he proceeded to Faneuil Hall at 12 o’clock, to address the meeting in aid of the suffering inhabitants of Savannah. He spoke at considerable length, though with some difficulty, but on returning home ate his dinner as usual, and at 3 o’clock again attended at the Court House. In the evening be found himself much exhausted, and suffering from a severe cold, and sent for Dr. Hayward, his family physician. On Tuesday, feeling somewhat better, he was very anxious to go out, but was persuaded not to do so, nor did he leave the house again. Through the week he was engaged in writing, though he conversed but little, the heavy cold which he had taken on Monday still oppressing him. Apart from this, he was cheerful as usual, and continued to follow the prescriptions of his medical attendant.
On Saturday evening Mr. Everett told his nurse that he felt much better, thought he should have a good night, and that it was not necessary that she should remain with him, which she had done through the week, sleeping on a sofa in the same apartment. She therefore proceeded to her own room, which was directly over that occupied by Mr. Everett. In the course of the night, however, she went down several times to see if anything was wanted, and on the last occasion, at about twenty minutes before four o’clock A.M., found him sleeping peacefully and breathing with apparent ease ; and she retired with great care lest he should be disturbed. Shortly after reaching her own room, she heard movements in the chamber below, and then a fall, and hastening down discovered Mr. Everett prostrate on the floor, breathing very heavily and with great difficulty. His son William was called and instantly went for Dr. Hayward, who arrived as soon as it was possible for him to do so, but found the statesman already dead.
The immediate cause of Mr. Everett’s decease was unquestionably apoplexy The stroke was aggravated and hastened, perhaps, by his previous illness, but the suffused appearance of the face on the arrival of the physician, the stertorous breathing and other symptoms described by the nurse, indeed all the circumstances attending his sudden death, leave no doubt of the nature of his disease.
Probably the last visit which Mr. Everett made was to the editorial room of the Journal. He called at about half past nine o’clock on Monday evening to read the proofs of his speech in Faneuil Hall. He seemed to be very much exhausted at the time, but after resting a few moments, he read his proofs, and left with a pleasant compliment to the compositors for their accuracy.
It is stated that Mr. Everett had a slight threatening of a similar attack about two years ago.  Owing to his extreme sensitiveness on such subjects, he was not informed of the nature of this attack, and its precise character has only been known to Dr. Hayward and to one other person, Mr. Everett’s constant attendant.
Mr. Everett had three sons and two daughters by his wife, Charlotte Gray, daughter of the late Hon. peter C. Brooks, who died about two years ago.  One daughter died while Mr. Everett was Minister to London, and subsequently he lost a son.  Two sons, Henry Sidney Everett and William Everett, and a daughter survive him.  The latter is married to Commander Henry A. Wise, of the Navy.—Boston Journal.
ORDER BY PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15. The following announcement has been furnished for general publication:
“DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, Jan. 15
The President directs the undersigned to perform the painful duty of announcing to the people of the United States that Edward Everett, distinguished not more by learning and eloquence than by unsurpassed and disinterested labors of patriotism at a period of political disorder, departed this life at four o’clock this morning. The several Executive departments of the Government will cause appropriate honors to be rendered to the memory of the deceased at home and abroad, wherever the National name and authority are acknowledged.
(Signed) WM. H. SEWARD
DISPATCH BY GOV. ANDREW.
BOSTON, Jan. 15, 1865.
Hon. Charles Sumner and Hon. Henry Wilson, United States Senators, Washington, D. C.:
Massachusetts mourns the irreparable loss of an eminent citizen in the sudden death of Edward Everett, which occurred this morning at 4 o’clock. Please apprise the President, of whom he was an elector; Mr. Seward, whom he preceded as Secretary of State, and the Massachusetts delegation, who remember him as a former Senator, Representative and Governor.
(Signed) JOHN A. ANDREW.”

CELEBRATION OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The second anniversary of the Proclamation of Emancipation was celebrated at National Hall, last night, by a very large and enthusiastic audience, gathered under the auspices of the Banneker Institute. The assemblage was composed principally of the colored people of the city, but contained a large sprinkling of white auditors.  The U. S. Military Post Band from Camp Wm. Penn was in attendance, and enlivened the proceedings with some excellent music.
The meeting was opened by the selection of Mr. Jacob C. White as President. Letters were then read from Hon. Charles Sumner, Frederick Douglass, and others.
Mr. Sumner’s letter is addressed to Mr. White, and is as follows:
LETTER FROM HON. CHARLES SUMNER
SENATE CHAMBER, Dec. 26, 1864.
DEAR SIR: It will not be in my power to be present at the celebration of the Emancipation Proclamation by the Banneker Institute. But wherever I may be, I shall celebrate it in my heart.
That proclamation has done more even than any military success to save the country. It has already saved the national character. The future historian will confess that it saved everything.
It remains for us to uphold it faithfully, so that it may not be impaired in a single jot or little.
And in the spirit of the proclamation, and taught by its example, we must press forward in the work of justice to the colored race until abuse and outrage have ceased, and all are equal before the law.
The astronomer, Banneker, whose honored name you bear, would be shut out of the street cars in some of our cities, but such a petty meanness cannot last long.
Accept my best wishes, and believe me, dear sir faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
This letter, during its reading, elicited loud applause, as also the letter of Mr.  Douglass, from which we make the following extracts:
Frederick Douglass, after apologizing for his inability to attend, and stating that great steps had already been made by the colored race in the favorable regard of their fellow-citizens during the past two years, proceeds to say:
“The work of an age has been suddenly compressed into a single day. Events have succeeded each other so rapidly, overlapping and overstepping each other so thickly, each rising higher than the other, that we are puzzled to separate and estimate at its value any one of all of them. Their variety, velocity, and proximity dazzle us and cause us to lose our reckoning. Only after-coming generations of men, far remote from this stormy and bewildering hour, will be able to describe with accuracy these great events, and give to each its true granduer and importance. There is one, however, which towers aloft above all the rest, like the mountain rock amid the dashing waves of a troubled ocean—solid, calm, unshaken, and immovable—and that is the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, whose second anniversary you are about to commemorate. Hayti and Liberia recognized; the colored man received at the capital of the United States; slavery abolished in the District of Columbia; slavery prohibited in all the Territories of the country; slavery recognized as the cause of the war, and its abolition decreed as the only wise remedy; Virginia half free; Missouri soon to follow; Tennessee not far behind; Kentucky trembling; “Maryland. My Maryland,” unfettered, her chains broken, and her limbs all free; Judge Taney dead; Judge Chase alive; McClellan defeated; Abraham Lincoln elected; slaveholding abolished; and brave black men, side by side with loyal white soldiers, winning laurels for their race upon every battlefield where they are permitted to confront the foe— constitute a few of the points of progress which rivet the attention, command our gratitude, and waken high hopes for the future of our race upon this our native soil. Until the colored man can handle the ballot as well as the musket—until he can vote in the country, as well as fight under its flag—until he shall be as welcome as a citizen as he now is as a soldier, he will be a despised and persecuted man, floundering in the depths of social degradation, a tempting target for all that is mean and malicious in the American mind and heart—having no rights which a white man is bound to respect. Let no man say within himself that this is untimely. The iron is hot, and now is the time to strike. The nation is looking about for safe
<c03>
anchoring ground for the ship of state, and you and I know where the safe ground is. Then let us firmly point out that ground. Our own cause, and the cause of the country, alike demand this at our hands. I will not argue here. The case is a plain one. It would be a shame, deeply scandalous and disgraceful in the nation, to treat us as citizens in war and as aliens in peace—tax us to support the country, and arm us to defend it, and yet deny us the full rights of American citizenship.  Profoundly grateful for what has been already accomplished, in full faith in the ultimate triumph of our country and our cause,
I am, very truly,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.”
After the recitation of a poem by Mr. John Smith, the opening address was delivered by Mr. Octavius V. Catto, a young man of considerable ability, and was frequently interrupted by loud applause as he advocated the rights of the negro to freedom and equality.
The oration of the evening was then delivered by Henry Highland Garnet. Taking for his subject the progress of freedom in the last four years, he depicted in graphic colors the different events and actions by which the condition of his race has been so much ameliorated. In the course of his remarks, he referred to the good which the negro had already wrought for the American people, mentioning among other things the bravery of the colored regiments at Port Hudson, Fort Jackson, before Petersburg, and on numerous other battle-fields of the Republic. Mr. Garnet’s remarks, which were extended to a considerable length, were frequently and loudly applauded.
After the singing of a song by a colored vocalist, the recitation of Boker’s well known “Second Louisiana Regiment,” and a short address by Mr. J. W. Simpson, the large meeting adjourned, the affair having been a decided success.—Philadelphia paper.

MISSOURI A FREE STATE!
On Wednesday of last week, the Missouri State Convention passed the following Ordinance of Emancipation by a vote of 60 to 4:
“ Be it ordained by the people of the State of Missouri, in convention assembled, that hereafter in this State there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except in punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, and all persons held to service or labor as slaves are hereby declared free.”
The new Constitution is not to be submitted to the people, but goes into effect immediately. Slavery is therefore at an end in Missouri.
MISSOURI TO PENNSYLVANIA
The following dispatch was received by Gov. Curtin on Thursday morning:
Jefferson City, Mo., Jan. 11. To the Governor of Pennsylvania: Free Missouri greets her oldest sister.
F. C. FLETCHER.
Governor of Missouri.
Governor Curtin sent the following reply:
To His Excellency, the Governor of Missouri, Jefferson City:
Pennsylvania, first born of freedom, welcomes her disenthralled sister State of Missouri, redeemed in the agony of the nation, and amid the throes of wanton rebellion. Her offering to liberty comes baptized in her richest blood, and will be accepted by a faithful and free people as one of the crowning tributes to their matchless heroism, and their sacrifices to preserve and perpetuate our common nationality.
A. G. CURTIN, Governor of Pennsylvania.
MISSOURI TO MAINE
STATE HOUSE, Augusta, Me., Jan. 13. The Governor of this State sends the following dispatch in reply to one received from Gov. Fletcher of Missouri, informing him that Missouri is a free State:
“To the Governor of Missouri, Jefferson City, Mo.:
Maine welcomes her twin-sister Missouri to the blessings of free institutions, after forty years wandering in the wilderness. SAMUEL CONY,
Governor of Maine. 
MISSOURI TO NEW YORK
The following correspondence, by telegraph, between the Governor of Missouri and the Governor of New York, is brief but thrilling. The hearts of the people—full to overflowing with joy and thanksgiving —respond to the expressive prayer of Gov. Fenton:—
JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI,
January 11, 1865.
Governor of New York:
Free Missouri greets you!
F. C. FLETCHER,
Governor.
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, ALBANY, N. Y.,
January 12, 1865.
Governor Fletcher, Jefferson, Missouri:
God bless free Missouri!
R. E. FENTON.
The following dispatch was sent to the Governor of Missouri, by Governor Andrew:—
BOSTON, Jan. 13. 1865.
To His Excellency F. C. Fletcher, Governor of Missouri, Jefferson City:
Massachusetts salutes Missouri with grateful joy, commending her to the highest rewards of happiness and honor as a Commonwealth of freemen.
JOHN A. ANDREW.
REJOICING OVER EMANCIPATION IN MISSOURI. ST. LOUIS, Jan. 14. Gov. Fletcher has issued a proclamation declaring Missouri a free State, in accordance with the Emancipation ordinance passed at the Convention. Hundreds of business houses and private residences were brilliantly illuminated to-night. Thousands of patriotic citizens, with bands of music, throng the streets, amid displays of fireworks.

THE REMOVAL OF GENERAL BUTLER.
A perusal of the reports relating to the Wilmington expedition, made public by order of Gen. Grant, discloses some very interesting points. In the first place -premising that the expedition did not actually effect a landing till Dec. 25—it is to be observed that Gen. Grant originally contemplated the enterprise to be undertaken in the early part o’ December, before Sherman’s march through Georgia was ended, as he believed that Gen. Bragg had gone thither, with most of the forces from about Wilmington. This appears by a note of his dated Nov. 30, in which he urges Butler to “make all the arrangements for his (Weitzel’s) departure.” Dec. 4, he feels” great anxiety to see the Wilmington expedition off;” on the 7th he says “Let Weitzel get off as soon as possible; “on the 11th he says: “If you do not get off immediately, you will lose the chance of surprising a weak garrison:” and on the 14th he asks: “What is the prospect of getting your expedition started?” We give prominence to this point, because it would seem that the failure to come up to the time set by the Lieutenant General was the first cause of the failure of the whole expedition.
Secondly, it is perfectly apparent from the correspondence that Weitzel, and not Butler, was designated for the military of part the expedition. The first orders of Gen. Grant, with reference to the expedition, were delivered verbally to Butler (the troops all being taken from the army of the James), who gave the formal instructions to Weitzel, submitting them, after they had been written, to the approval of Gen. Grant. The following sentence at the beginning of the note of instructions addressed to Weitzel, signed by Butler’s chief of staff, is alone sufficient to settle this point, viz.:  “The Major General commanding has entrusted you with the command of the expedition about to embark for the North Carolina coast.” In all the dispatches of Gen. Grant, it is: “The expedition under Gen. Weitzel” “Let Gen. Weitzel get off” “The troops under Gen. Weitzel,” &c, &c In short, it is manifest from the correspondence that the Lieutenant General intended that Butler should not go with the expedition.
Thirdly, it was designed by Gen. Grant that, if the expedition got a foothold on the shore, it should stay there, and not re-embark, as Gen. Butler understood and ordered. Hence the latter was early directed to increase his supply of entrenching tools for the expedition. Gen. Grant says (Dec. 6): “The object of the expedition will be gained by effecting a landing on the main land between Cape Fear river and the Atlantic, north of the north entrance to the river;” and, there entrenching, “effect the reduction and capture” of Fort Fisher and the batteries. But should the troops “fail to effect a landing at or near Fort Fisher” they were to return to the James river. With such explicit instructions before him—and given more in detail than we have copied—it is difficult to see how Gen. Butler should have so mistaken their import. Either his attention or his memory must have been at fault. —Boston Journal.
The Washington correspondent of the New York Tribune says that Gen. Butter was removed after consultation between General Grant and Secretary Stanton.
NEW YORK, Jan. 16. The Herald’s Washington dispatch says Admiral Porter has sent the Navy Department a response to General Butler’s statements of the Fort Fisher affair. He says the only work assigned the navy was to silence the rebel works, which was effectually done Dec. 24th and 25th; but as Gen. Butler decided that the assault by the military was then unfeasible, it would have been equally so it done at an earlier day. Gen. Butler started on the expedition before the navy was ready to cooperate, thus exposing his transports to view and warning the enemy of danger. He also charges that the army portion of the enterprise was got up in a very unmilitary manner.
<c04>
FAREWELL ADDRESS OF GENERAL BUTLER.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLINA,
Army of the James, January 8, 1865.
Soldiers of the Army of the James:
Your commander, relieved by order of the President, takes leave of you. Your conduct in the field has extorted praises from the unwilling. You have endured the privations of camp and the march without a murmur. You have never yielded to an attack. When ordered, you have stormed and carried works deemed impregnable by the enemy. You have shown the positions to be so by holding them against his fiercest assault in the attempt to retake them. Those skilled in war have marvelled at the obstacles overcome by your valor. Your line works have been the wonder of officers of other nations, who have come to learn defensive warfare. From the monuments of your skilled labor your deeds have rendered your name illustrious in after times. Your general’s proudest memory will be to say with you, “I too was of the Army of the James.” To share such companionship is pleasure; to participate in such is honor; to have commanded such an army is glory.  No one could yield it without regret. Knowing your willing obedience to orders, witnessing your ready devotion of your blood in your country’s cause, I have been chary of the precious charge confided to me. I have refused to order useless sacrifices of the lives of such soldiers, and I am relieved from your command.  The wasted blood of my men does not stain my garments. For my action, I am responsible to God and my country.
To the Colored Troops in the Army of the James:
You have been treated, not as laborers, but as soldiers; you have shown yourselves worthy the uniform you wear. The best officers of the Union army seek to command you; your bravery has won the admiration even of those who would be your masters. Your patriotism, fidelity and courage have illustrated the best qualities of manhood. With the bayonet, you have unlocked the iron bound gates of prejudice, opening new fields of freedom, liberty and equality of rights to yourselves and your race forever.
Comrades of the Army of the James, I bid you farewell, farewell.
BENJ. F. BUTLER, Major General.

THE FREEDMEN OF GEORGIA.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The subjoined appeal has come to the New England Freedmen’s Aid Society, from Gen. Saxton and various Superintendents and Teachers of Freedmen in South Carolina, in behalf of the Georgia negroes liberated by Gen. Sherman. Six thousand of these negroes are probably to be established on Edisto Island which it will be remembered was sometime ago abandoned by our forces; and Mr. J. P. Blake, of New Haven, an agent of the New England Society, and a gentleman of high character and education, has, with the assistance of experienced persons, drawn up a scheme for the colony. But many of these poor people will never live to be colonized, unless something is done to save them from perishing from want. They are no doubt largely the wives and children of our new black recruits! Will not Boston, which has so generously contributed $30,000 for the relief of the white population of Savannah—friends and enemies—give at least one-third as much for the black people, whose sufferings are much more severe, and all of whom are our friends?
JOHN PARKMAN, F. J. CHILD, WM. ENDICOTT, JR., Exec. Committee of the N.E. Freedmen’s Aid Society
Contributions of money may be sent to our office, 8 Studio Building, Tremont street; clothing and other supplies to Wellington, Brothers & Co., 103 Devon’shire street, marked for the N. E. F. A. Society.
Good Men and Women of the North:
We earnestly appeal to you on behalf of the thousands of suffering negroes whom Gen. Sherman has just liberated by his triumphant march through Georgia.
Wherever he has borne our flag, they have hastened to follow it, with simple faith in the truth of the Government and the charity of the nation. They have arrived at the coast after long marches and severe privations, weary, famished, sick, and almost naked. Seven hundred of these wretched people arrived at Beaufort Christmas night, in a state of misery, which would have moved to pity a heart of stone, and these are but the advance of a host no less destitute.
The stores of the Government, already overtaxed to supply a large army, are not available to relieve their wants, and unless the charity of the North comes speedily to the rescue, they must die by hundreds from exposure and disease.
So extreme and entire is the destitution of this people that nothing which you can afford to give will come amiss. Clothing is their most pressing need, especially for women and children, who cannot wear the cast-off garments of soldiers. Shoes and stockings, hats suspenders, and under-garments of all kinds, are hardly less necessary in this climate than in the North. Utensils, medicines, money—anything you have to spare—will find its use among this wretched people.
The several Freedmen’s. Aid Societies at the North are proper and sufficient channels for your beneficence. We pray you, for the sake of suffering humanity, let them be speedily and abundantly filled.
Signed by—
Rufus Saxton, Brigadier General and Military Governor of South Carolina; H. G. Judd, Superintendent of Freedmen; George New comb, Superintendent of Schools for the N. F. R. Ass. of N. Y.; S. Peck, Pastor of Baptist Church in Beaufort; J. W. Alvord, Secretary American Tract Society, Boston; Wm. Henry Brisbane, U. S. Tax Commissioner for S. C.; Reuben Tomlinson, Superintendent of Freedmen; Samuel L. Harris, Port Chaplain and Army Missionary; Wm. T. Richardson, Missionary and Superintendent of American Missionary Association; James P. Blake and James A. Crosby, of the New England Freedmen’s Aid Society.
Beaufort, S. C, Jan. 6, 1865.
THE GEORGIA FREEDMEN. We trust that the appeal in behalf of the negroes of Georgia who have followed the flag which led them to freedom, will find a hearty response from our readers. Their wants are pressing, and the appeal in their behalf is of the most urgent character. Let our citizens respond with their wonted liberality, and the immediate suffering and destitution of these poor negroes will be over, and they speedily be put in the way of becoming industrious and self-sustaining.—Transcript.

CAPTURE OF FORT FISHER.
The following dispatch announcing the gratifying fact that Fort Fisher has fallen, was received at Washington on Tuesday last:—
HEADQUARTERS U. S. FORCES ON FEDERAL POINT, N. C, Jan. 15, via FORTERESS MONROE, Jan. 17.
To Brig, Gen. John A. Rawlings:
General: I have the honor to report that Fort Fisher was carried by assault this afternoon and evening, by Gen. Ames’s division of the 2d brigade of the 1st division of the 24th army corps, gallantly aided by a battalion of marines and seamen from the navy.
The assault was preceded by a heavy bombardment from the Federal fleet, and was made at 3.30 P. M., when the 1st brigade (Curtis of Ames’s division) effected a lodging on the parapet, but full possession of the work was not obtained until 10 P. M.
The behavior of both officers and men was most admirable.
All the works south of Fort Fisher are now occupied by our troops. We have not less than 1200 prisoners, including Gen. Whiting and Col. Lamb, the commander of the Fort.
I regret to say that our loss is severe, especially in officers. I am not yet able to form any estimate of the number of casualties.
ALFRED H. TERRY,
Brev. Maj. Gen. Comdg. Expedition.
Later intelligence states that our loss in killed and wounded was 900, and that of the enemy, 500. After the surrender of the Fort, the magazine exploded by accident, killing 200 of our men. Two thousand prisoners were taken.

ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION IN KENTUCKY.
The Anti-Slavery Convention held at Frankfort, Kentucky, on the 4th instant, already reported briefly by telegraph, was a large and enthusiastic gathering of the Union men of the state. Dr. P. S. Bell, chairman of the Union State Committee called the Convention to order, and the following gentlemen were appointed a Committee on the Future Organization of the Union Party in the State: Hon. F. T. Hord, E. W. Smith, B. F. Bristow, George D. Blakely, Captain Fiddler, B. F. Sanford, D. S. Goodloe, C. F. Burnham, T. C. Cambpell, Tucker Woodson.
The following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
That we hereby request our senators and representatives in Congress to vote in favor of submitting a proposed amendment of the national Constitution, abolishing and prohibiting slavery throughout the domain of the United States; and that we invite the cooperation of the Legislature of Kentucky in carrying forward this request.
That in the judgment of this convention, the slave-code of the State should be revised, repealed or modified, so as to be in accordance with the present status of affairs in Kentucky, so far as the State Constitution may-permit.
<c05>
The 27th of January (St. John’s day) was celebrated by the Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Masons of Boston, of which Lewis Hayden is M. W. G. M., and among other interesting incidents of the occasion, the following letter was read from His Excellency, the Governor:
BOSTON, Dec. 21st, 1864.
Mr. LEWIS HAYDEN, Boston:
DEAR SIR: —I send you with this note, for presentation to the Prince Hall Grand Lodge, a gavel made from a piece of the whipping-post at Hampton, Va. The gentleman who sent it to me says, “This post or tree stood directly in the rear of the old Court-house, and in front of the jail. While I was cutting it, about twenty colored men and women bore testimony to me that it was the identical post or tree that they had been tied to, and had their backs lacerated with the whip.”
I also place in your hands, for the same purpose, a rude boat of straw, made in the woods by a poor refugee from slavery, Jack Flowers, who, after a protracted journey through the forest, tracked by bloodhounds, reached a stream, down which he floated, past the rebel pickets, till he reached a point guarded by the Union army, where he landed a free man.
A copy of his narrative will be given you for presentation with this interesting relic.
I know of no place more fitting for the preservation of these memorials of the barbarous institution that is now tottering to its rapidly approaching fall, than the association of free colored citizens of Massachusetts over which you preside. Some among you may be reminded by them of the sufferings and bondage from which the hand of God has delivered them, while others whose happier lot has been to be born and reared as free men in a free State, as they look upon these things, will thank Him that he has been graciously pleased that their lives should fall in more pleasant places; and to those who shall come after you, let the sight of these things be a perpetual memorial of God’s favor to their fathers, in delivering them from their oppressors, as well as of the victorious power which will one day right every wrong, and justify every manful, dutiful, and sincere effort in behalf of truth, honor, and humanity.
I am, faithfully yours, etc., etc.,
(Signed) JOHN A. ANDREW.
A WISE UNDERTAKING. Certain liberal gentlemen of Boston have conceived the idea of supplying every clergyman, editor, bookseller, postmaster and legislator in the land with that heartrending account of the sufferings of our Union prisoners at the South, which we commented upon a few weeks ago. The Loyal League in Philadelphia orders at once 5,000 copies for their State, and the Loyal Publication Society of New York 1,000, etc., etc. It is intended to distribute the document largely in England also, with the certainty of effecting a vast revolution of sentiment against the South. At home, it will serve to deepen our abhorrence of the rebellion, and to strengthen the national determination to destroy slavery with the sword and the Constitutional Amendment. All contributions to the fund needed to pay for 50,000 copies will be acknowledged by mail, and in a list of “ peacemakers,” to be printed in Littell’s Living Ag Send to Hon. Amos A. Lawrence, of Boston; to Morris Ketchum, Esq., New York; to the Union League, Philadelphia; or to the publishers, Littell, Son & Co., Boston.—N. Y. Independent.
HENRY S. FOOTE, a representative of Tennessee in the Confederate House, announced on the 17th his intention to withdraw from that body altogether. He declared that the conspiracy was “on the very edge of ruin,” and that Congress, by abnegating all important powers, was building up “an irresponsible military despotism, the like of which has never been seen before upon this earth.” He predicted the effectual extinguishment of the freedom of deliberation within ten days, and gave as a reason for retiring: I am a freeman, and the representative of freemen, and I know not how to legislate in chains.” He hopes to find in the Confederacy “some sequestered spot,” (not so difficult, we fancy,) where he can enjoy (there’s the rub!) a little “freedom from taxation.” If disturbed by the hand of oppression, he meditates a retreat to foreign climes.
Senator Foote has since been arrested by the rebel authorities, while on his way to the aforesaid “sequestered spot.” It appears that Mrs. Foote had a passport to leave the Confederacy and started from Richmond three weeks ago. Senator Foote accompanied her, but without such authority, for the purpose of seeing her safe over the Potomac. In the meantime, an order was issued to the rebel Provost Marshal at Fredericksburg, by Secretary of War Seddon, for his arrest. He was accordingly tracked to Dumfries, and there captured. The matter was brought up in the rebel House of Representatives, and a resolution passed, on the 16th, that, under all the circumstances of the case, it was expedient that he should be discharged from custody. It is supposed that he is now at liberty.
FRANKFORT, Ky., Jan. 14. The speech of Hon. W. P. Kinney, before the Legislature to-day, has elicited much remark. He said he had heretofore sustained legal enactments favoring slavery, because he had heretofore deemed slavery in some respects beneficent to both races, although he had never believed in the inherent right of one man to hold another man in bondage; but those benefits had ceased to accrue, and the rebellion was responsible there for. He justified the acts of the Administration in regard to slavery, and vindicated the right of the people to amend the Constitution and abolish slavery, believing the Union to be an immutable basis of Government, and the Constitution its mutable policy, to be changed has necessity or expediency required. He said that Kentucky’s interest required the proposed amendment, as slavery had retarded her development and seriously checked her advancement.
Governor Cannon, in his annual message to the Legislature of Delaware, again takes strong ground in favor of emancipation in that State, as he did in his inaugural address.  He repeats that Delaware is connected with the free States by geographical position and commercial necessity ; that the products of Delaware find their market in the North, and that thence co. me the immigrants who give increased value to real estate; that the result of constant intercourse with the North is gradually to assimilate the institutions of Delaware to those of the free States, as it has already identified their interests; that slavery in Delaware, being merely nominal, is worthless as an element of labor; that emancipation in Maryland has surrounded Delaware with free soil, inviting the escape of slaves on all sides, as there is now no law requiring their rendition.
A dispatch from Louisville, Ky., says that the raid of Generals Stone man and Burbridge was a great success. The rebel generals Breckinridge, Vaughn and Duke were whipped. Their artillery was captured, and their forces were scattered. Saltville was burned, and the salt works destroyed. The railroad from Bristol and twenty miles beyond Wytheville was destroyed, with all the rolling stock. Bristol and Wytheville were laid in ruins. The property destroyed is estimated at over two millions of dollars. A report from Gen. Burbridge, received in Washington, fully confirms all these statements.
THEY GIVE IT UP. A citizen of Chicago, who has just returned from Havana, Cuba, says the rebels and their sympathizers there and in Europe are in despair. Slidell says that the Southern cause is beyond hope, and he gives it up. Nearly all the rebels abroad are equally despondent. They consider the rebellion a failure.
GREAT FIGHT WITH THE INDIANS. The Colorado Miners’ Journal contains an account of a great fight with the Cheyenne Indians, on the Plains. Nov. 29. The Indians numbered 1000. The chief, Black Kettle, White Antelope and Little Robe were killed, together with some 500 other Indians. Our loss was 3 killed and 38 wounded. Our troops were commanded by Col. Cherrington, and they marched 300 miles in ten days, 100 of which was through snow two feet deep.
IMPORTANT ARMY MOVEMENT. General Thomas Francis Meagher arrived at Nashville on the night of the 16th inst, from Chattanooga, with several thousand veteran troops of the 15th and 17th army corps, organized as the Provisional Division of Tennessee, en route to join Sherman at Savannah via New York, where he may be expected in four or five days.
NEW YORK, Jan. 14. The steamship Rebecca Clyde sailed this evening, deeply laden with provisions for the relief of the citizens of Savannah. She was gaily dressed in colors, and was greeted with salutes and cheers from all sides.
The anniversary of Emancipation was celebrated by the colored people of Key West, Florida, in a most enthusiastic manner.
Gen. Sherman, in a private letter, says that in his march through Georgia, if he could have fed all the negroes who joined his army, the population of Savannah would have been increased to one hundred thousand. Being unable to feed this vast crowd, he was obliged to turn most of them back.
The Ridge-avenue Passenger Railway Company, in Philadelphia, have placed cars on their track, on each of which it is announced conspicuously that “Colored people can ride in this car.” This is one long step towards a humane reform.
The Richmond Sentinel foresees a formidable winter campaign by the national armies against Charleston, Augusta and Richmond, but it urges the is people never to dream of the idea of subjugation, or their children would curse their memories, and all the world would say amen.
<c06>
THE NEW ENGLAND HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN is now permanently established at No. 14 Warren Street, Boston.
Its object is to furnish to the women of New England the ministration of their own sex, and such isolation and peculiar care as are in many cases, essential to successful treatment. 
The opinions of some of our ablest physicians, and the fact that patients are often sent to us from the Massachusetts General Hospital, prove the necessity for a Hospital for the separate treatment of women. 
It is no longer a question whether women can become successful physicians; and public sentiment demands that women who desire it shall have the advice of practitioners of their own sex. 
The commodious house, No.14 Warren Street, and three smaller houses on Pleasant Street connected therewith, have recently been purchased for the sum of $20,000, of which $13,500 have been already subscribed. 
This is a most valuable property, admirably adapted to our use, and has already enabled us greatly to extend the benefits of the Hospital. 
We still owe upon the property $6,500, and we need about $4,000 to finish and fit the buildings for use. We therefore appeal, with confidence, to a generous community for the sum of $10,000. 
During the last year, 127 patients have been admitted to the Hospital, 120 have been visited at their own homes, and 1977 have been treated in the Dispensary. 
About one-half the patients in the Hospital were from the various towns in New England. 
It is, therefore, not to Boston alone that we look for the means of carrying on the work, but to the kind-hearted throughout New England. 
Thousands of women in our cities and large towns have no homes in which to find refuge in sickness. 
Thousands of the abject poor live in damp cellars, or unfurnished, crowded, filthy attics. Unfit habitations in health, what must they be in sickness? 
The wives of brave men, who have nobly laid down their lives in battle, appeal to us. 
Gladly we do for the soldier-shall we not also provide for those dearer to him than his own life? 
Give us, then, a portion of the abundance with which God has blessed you, to be used for the comfort of the suffering and the needy; and accept the accurance that whatever you may entrust to us shall be dispensed with the most rigid economy. 
Subscriptions may be sent to the Hospital, 14 Warren Street, to the Treasurer, F. W. G. May, Esq., 1 Broad Street, or to
MRS. ELLEN C. JOHSNON, 78 Temple St.,
MRS. L. G. FRENCH, 8 Asylum St.,
J. H. STEPHENSON, 12 Arch St.,
Boston, Jan., 1865.Committee
INFIDEL CONVENTION. -The Infidel Association of America will hold their Annual Convention in Boston, on Sunday, Jan. 29, 1865, (the anniversary of the birth-day of Thomas Paine.) Due notice will be given of the place and hour of meeting next week. 
Infidels, Deists, Atheists, Liberals, Spiritualists and Christians are respectfully invited to attend. 
Per order of the Executive Committee, 
J. M. BECKETT, Secretary.
Boston, Jan. 20, 1865.

THE PAINE BALL!
The One Hundred and Twenty-Eighth Anniversary of the BIRTH-DAY OF THOMAS PAINE will be celebrated by a Grand Ball, at Minot Hall, 1131 Washington Street, (corner of Springfield Street, Boston,) on Monday Evening, Jan. 30, 1865.
Ample preparations will be made to equal, if not surpass, any good time ever enjoyed on a similar occasion. 
Minot Hall contains sample room and superior accommodations, and the Committee will spare no pains to render the Ball one not to be forgotten by those who honor it with their presence.
MUSIC —Savage’s Quadrille Band
DANCING to commence at 8 o’clock.
Tickets, admitting a gentleman and two ladies, $2, for sale at the Investigator Office, or by any of the following Committee of Arrangements:-
JAMES M. BECKETT, HORACE SEAVER
JOSIAH P. MENDUM, T L. SAVAGE,
OTIS CLAPP, GALEN COFFIN 
F. G. HARTSHORN PHILIP PEAK 
Boston, Jan. 17, 1865.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF 
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease. 
So wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate diseases of the lungs by its use. When once tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation: and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the afflicted they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done. 
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure. 
Those who require an alternative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT. SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value. 
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists. 
Jan. 6. 2m.

WANTED,
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; one who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no use of intoxicating drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such an one may have a good situation by corresponding with THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, Mass., Jan. 4. 3w

55th MARCH,
WITH lithographic likeness of Col. A. S. Hartwell, 55th Mass. Vols., who was severely wounded while commanding a brigade at the battle of Honey Hill, S. C. The likeness is pronounced by the friends of Col. Hartwell to be a perfect success. Published and for sale only by the author,
J. S. JACOBUS,
No. 8 Dix Place, Boston.
Extract of a letter to E. W. Kinsley, 37 Franklin St., Boston, introducing Mr. Jacobs:- 
“Mr. Jacobs was formerly leader of the Band of the 24th Mass. Regt, and has been one month with the 55th as teacher of the Band, &c. Mr. Jacobs has done the good thing by us, and when better times come, we hope to have him here again.
A. S. HARTWELL
Col. 55th Mass. Comm’ng. 
Hilton Head, S. C, June, 1863.”

MR. GARRISON’S PORTRAIT
THE Portrait of Mr. Garrison, the publication of which has been delayed in consequence of the severe and protracted illness of the artist engaged in transferring it to stone, is now ready, and will be furnished to subscribers immediately. Orders may be addressed to R. F. WALLCUT, Esq., Liberator office, or to the Publisher. Price $1.50 per copy.
It is a portrait which, as a work of art and as a likeness, gives great satisfaction.
C. H. BRAINARD, Publisher
Boston Dec.20 1864.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Standwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds. 
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties. 
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provisions Store, 132 Charles street, 
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct.30-ly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
SPIRIT OF FREEDOM.
BY D. M. H. 
Spirit of Freedom! Gladly we confess
The power thou hast to elevate and bless
Thy children sunk in darkness and distress.
Thou art the hope that whispers in the mind,
In accents sweet, and gentle, and so kind;
Thine is the hand the captive to unbind.
The galling shackle drops beneath thy power;
And underneath thy purifying shower
States are redeemed, and rescued in an hour.
Oh, Liberty! of life thou art the soul;
Upon the spirit’s altar thou the coal
That lights the flame that leads it to its goal.
Dark were the world without thee, and unblessed;
No flower of hope would blossom in the breast, 
No star to guide the pilgrim sore oppressed.
Thy tender loving arms enfold the slave;
Deep diggest thou Oppression’s loathsome grave,
And flowers of Justice o’er its ashes wave.
Weak are all tyrants to contend with thee;
Thy healing power shall sweep o’er land and sea,
Till Gods dear children stand redeemed and free.

For the Liberator.
TO JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER,
ON THE DEATH OF HIS SISTER.
O, far away, whom thousand hearts
Most tenderly remember,
Who read thy sweet words by their hearths,
These chill eves of September:
When grief thy noble head hath bowed,
The greatest could betide thee,
How throb our full hearts painfully,
To kneel and weep beside thee!
Oh! dare our lips with reverent love
Speak of thy dear departed,
Whose laurels with thine own were twined—
The gifted, the true-hearted!
Whose rich song thrilled, though breathed so low,
Whose life was meek and holy,
Whose last deeds cheered the suffering brave,
And lifted up the lowly!
When, brightening all thine early skies,
The wings of Hope gleamed o’er thee,
And fame, and ease, and all life’s joys
Were richly placed before thee—
Turned from them all, thy pitying eyes
Looked down that vale of sighing
Where God’s poor, outcast and oppressed,
In tears and chains were lying—
Despite the great world’s looks of scorn,
Though other bards might heed them,
Thy strong and tender hands upraised
The fainting brow of Freedom—
Was she not with thee all the while,
With looks of warm approving,
Thy quick, keen heart, and earnest soul
The stronger for her loving!
How cold and faint our poor words fall
From hearts with feeling glowing!—
Poor leaves dropped on its tide, to stay
Grief’s current wildly flowing!
Could crimson life-drops, for our tears,
Bring joy to thy receiving,
Who would not give them thee, content
To perish in the giving?
K. C.

SONG FOR THE NEW YEAR.
Old Time has turned another page
Of eternity and truth:
He reads with a warning voice to age,
And whispers a lesson to youth.
A year has fled o’er heart and Head
Since last the yule log burnt;
And we have a task to closely ask
What the bosom and brain have learnt.
Oh! let us hope that our sands have run
With wisdom’s precious grains;
Oh! may we find that our hands have done
Some work of glorious pains.
Then a welcome and cheer to the merry new year,
While the holly gleams above us;
With a pardon for the foes who hate,
And a prayer for those who love us.
We may have seen some loved ones pass
To the land of hallowed rest;
We may miss the glow of an honest brow,.
And the warmth of a friendly breast;
But if we nursed them while on earth,
With hearts all true and kind,
Will their spirits blame the sinless mirth
Of those true hearts left behind?
No, no! it were not well or wise
To mourn with endless pain;
There’s a better world beyond the skies,
Where the good shall meet again.
Then a welcome and cheer to the merry new year,
While the holly gleams above us;
With a pardon for the foes who hate,
And a prayer for those who love us.
Have our days rolled on serenely free
From sorrow’s dim alloy?
Do we still possess the gifts that bless
And fill our souls with joy?
Are the creatures dear still clinging near?
Do we hear loved voices come?
Do we gaze on eyes whose glances shed
A halo round our home?
Oh, if we do, let thanks be poured
To Him who hath spared and given;
And forget not o’er the festive board
The mercies held from Heaven.
Then a welcome and cheer to the merry new year,
While the holly gleams above us!
With a pardon for the foes who hate,
And a prayer for those who lore us!

IN FORO CONSCIENTIZE.
The day is past: Eve, like a weary child,
Rests on the bosom of her mother, Night.
I hear the sound of laughter, sweet and wild,
Come from the distant vale, and zephyrs light
Are bearing many odors on their wings.
All earth seems free from care,
Yet I am in despair;
Methinks I hear an inward voice that sings:
“Rouse from thy torpor, oh! insensate heart!
While not in dreams the precious hours away!
Life’s span is short; soon Death’s unerring dart
Will strike thee in the lists. ’Tis but a day
Thou hast to do thy mission; use it well!
Be faithful, pure and just,
Placing in God thy trust,
And thou shalt reap rewards no tongue may tell.
Thy head and hand are needed in the fight:
Say not thou hast no place, nor, sophist like,
Declare there are enough to shield the Right
From feet that trample and from hands that strike.
God will not hold thee guiltless, having power
To do His portioned work,
If thou dost meanly shirk
Life’s noblest duties in the trial hour!
Up, and be doing! and remember thou,
‘There is no remedy for time misspent;’
Let all the wrinkles graven on thy brow
By Time’s unsparing hand, with fell intent,
Be records only of an active life,
Of duties nobly done,
And honors fairly won
Amidst the fiercest and most maddening strife.
The joy enough to have a conscience free
From blame—and self-reproach; to know thou hast
Done all the good within thy power; to see
No ghost of wrong committed in the past,
Rise, Banquo-like, to mar thy peace; I pray,
Let Virtue be thy choice,
And He who ruleth all shall guard thy way.”
N. Y. Evening Post.
GEO. H. SNYDER.
<c02>
The Liberator.
COLORPHOBIA IN WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, (D. C) Jan. 6,1865.
W. L. GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR—In the morning’s issue of Mr. Forney’s Chronicle, on Monday, the 2d inst., some one of the editors stated, among other things, that, “Of the receptions of the President, that of New Year’s Day is the most popular and most largely attended. Today, in the midst of a terrible civil war, with all the surroundings of the National Capital, where many of the worst as well as best of our population congregate, and at a season when the throng is generally greatest, and when and where are many of those who wish the foe success, without a parade of large bodies of armed men, and in the absence of all special protection of the sacred person of the ruler of thin nation, all the people present, of every creed, clime, color and sex are invited by the President to call upon him. “The italics are my own. Whether the writer had any authority to make such a declaration as to who were invited to call upon the President, I know not, nor do I know whether the above statement in the Chronicle was seen by any colored individual, but it is fair to presume that it was seen by many. At all events, it was not wonderful, considering the times, and the circumstances of the nation, that some of the colored people were present among the vast and motley crowd which literally besieged the Presidential mansion on that day. Nor do I consider it wonderful that they should suppose that they would be permitted to take Father Abraham by the hand, since all, themselves included, consider him their greatest earthly benefactor. However, they were far from being allowed to enjoy the coveted privilege; for, though several entered, (one in uniform.) in the first press of confusion, measures were soon taken to exclude them all. Guards were speedily placed around the spacious portico, with crossed bayonets, and if one chanced to get in at the entrance door, he was quickly ejected. On inquiring of the police what all this meant, they replied that they had been ordered by the Marshal, a Mr. Phillips, to exclude the colored people. On conversing with a number of whites on the subject, it was apparent that quite a majority either thought it all right, and that negroes had no business there, or they cared nothing about it, or thought perhaps it would have been well enough to have given them a chance after the whites. I have but little to say by way of comment on this proceeding. Had the simple boon of shaking hands with the President been extended to the colored people, it certainly would not have grieved me, even though I had found myself in the crowd in close proximity to some of them. I have had them black my boots before now, and they have come near me at the table as waiters; and I have even, as have others, much prouder, I think, than myself, sat on the same seat of a carriage with them, they driving. I have not the least idea that, to get into their close neighborhood in a crowd, at the President’s reception on New Year’s day, ought to offend or injure anybody more than such proximity. Should it be found to do so, the aggrieved parties would certainly have the right to retire, and seek more congenial relations where they could find them. I have no idea it would have hurt Mr. Lincoln in the least had they been allowed to come near him in the procession. They were allowed to come near him when they presented to him a costly and ornamented Bible, and on other occasions. To have allowed them a common privilege would have greatly gratified them, and would have done them more substantial good than a great many declarations to the effect that one “thinks them the worst abused people in the world.” More than this, it would have had the excellent effect to hurt the feelings of a certain class, who, thus far, as I judge, have not had their feelings injured half enough in this manner to do them any good, but just enough to stir up within them the demon of colorphobia, and thus to reveal the innate vulgarity of their character.
Truly yours,
W. J. POND.

BLINDNESS OF EMANCIPATION.
We have seen eminent philanthropists, whose names are found in almost every benevolent institution or movement instituted for the improvement or welfare of mankind, exerting themselves in each with nearly equal assiduity; and we have also seen others, who have been so absorbed in some favorite benevolent object, that they have become insensible to every other claim of suffering humanity; and although it is these men of “one idea,” as they are called, who have accomplished all the most beneficial, unpopular reforms of the world, yet it is sad to perceive that often they have assumed some high moral principle, which they have carried to a radical extreme, neither warranted by Christianity nor rational common sense, and have been blindly unscrupulous in regard to the fundamental principles of other causes; and thus in the pursuit of good on one hand, have acquiesced in injustice or injury on the other.
As remarkable an instance of this disposition as was ever known in the history of philanthropy is furnished by the present war. There are persons—some of the highest respectability, intelligence and moral integrity—who, amid their active exertions for every benevolent cause, have been especially conspicuous in those of Peace and Anti-Slavery: they have been radical on these subjects, so much so that they have ever refused aid to any indirect methods of attaining any good, however expedient, by which their principles on these reforms should be in the least compromised. But the anti-slavery sentiment having grown strong and popular in the community, and now embraced by the great multitude, who do not sympathize with the peace sentiment, the abolition of slavery has become in their minds an object paramount to that of peace; and being led into the delusion that emancipation can only be effected by war, and that war will be effectual for the purpose, and forgetting their former doctrine that no really beneficial result can ever be accomplished by war, they have been willing to acquiesce in and even to aid its crimes and cruelties, in expectation that thereby slavery will be abolished: thus making a compromise of principle with expediency, in regard to peace, which they have ever absolutely refused to do with regard to the abolition of slavery.
Although the number of persons thus described is not comparatively great, their character and influence are such that even now—late in the war as it is—if they were to pause in the course they are pursuing, magnanimously acknowledge their error, and, without abating in the least their moral efforts for emancipation, steadily refuse to strive for it through the bloody path of war, they might yet give a check to this criminal and destructive process; and although they may not entirely stay the hand of an omnipotent Executive, supported by an infatuated people, they may mitigate some of the usurping and cruel oppressions of this hopeless conflict. Reflection may lead them to the almost universal belief of foreign people, and the few impartial of our own country, that the abolition of slavery by conquest is an uncertain result, and if attainable at the cost of immense losses of life and treasure, will only be the substitution of a more grievous and criminal evil in its place.
J. P. B.

TEMPERANCE TRACTS.
MR. EDITOR—Let us leave nothing undone to stem the tide of Intemperance, which now threatens us. Temperance Societies, however useful, are insufficient for the exigency. Temperance lecturers, such as the fastidious demand, are expensive and scarce. The popular Press and Temperance Tracts must do more, or we shall go to wreck and ruin. True, we have had tracts, but too often the long, lank and lean “kine.” We need such as are short and sharp; not only readable, but which will be absolutely read, and
<c03>
which, going into the very crevices of sin and crime, will lodge burning truth on the conscience of every distiller, vender and sot in a village.
Such tracts we have. They are written by godly men of strength and genius. Some of them assail only Alcohol in its manifold forms and abuses, and some assail the twin demons, Rum and Tobacco. All varieties for all tastes.
Five dollars will spread a thousand and more over a village. A hundred dollars, the price of one fashionable lecture, will spread them over twenty villages; and we here give notice, that if any person or persons, “hungering and thirsting” to do good in plucking our fellow-men from the fire, wish for our tracts, but are unable to pay for them, they can have them WITHOUT MONEY AND WITHOUT PRICE.
True, we are not a rich Tract Society. We seldom have five dollars five days in our coffers; but we do what we can on our “own hook,” untrammelled by lordly Societies or captious Committees.
We depend on the voluntary donations of a few—a very few of God’s dear children, who like our independent manner of battling popular abominations, and who send us what they please. Though poor, we make many rich.
Therefore, gentle reader, be free to call for our tracts, for God, who of old replenished the widow’s cruse, will not leave our cause to starve.
GEO. TRASK,
Fitchburg Temperance Depository, Mass.,
(January, 1865.)
A CHAT WITH THE EDITOR OF THE STANDARD.
I have just been reading, in your paper of the 24th ult., an admirable sonnet to Edmonia Lewis, which I presume is written by Mrs. Waterston; at all events, it is worthy of her pen.
To my mind, there is something peculiarly interesting in the fact that this little Edmonia comes, from basket-weaving and moccason-embroidery, in lonely forests among the Chippewas, to live shut up in a little studio, and try her young hand at “making the forms of things,” as she modestly expressed it to me. That a person who does this is linked with both African and Indian ancestry is one among many striking signs of the times, showing how the lines of demarcation between classes and races are melting away in the powerful sunshine of this All Soul’s Day.
The first efforts of Edmonia Lewis seemed o me to indicate plainly that Nature had given her an eye for “the forms of things.” But I, with my sixty years of observation, knew better than she could what a long and difficult hill she had to climb before she could reach the summit of her Art. And I confess when she first mentioned her intention of making a bust of Col. Shaw from photographs, I feared she would make a lamentable failure. But when I went to see the bust in clay, I was very agreeably surprised. She had indeed “wrought well with her unpractised hand.” I thought the likeness extremely good, and the refined face had a firm yet sad expression, as of one going consciously, though willingly, to martyrdom, for the rescue of his country and the redemption of a race. As the clay needed moistening, she took water from a vase near by and reverentially sprinkled the head. The sight of that little brown hand thus tenderly baptizing the “fair-haired Saxon hero” affected me deeply, and I saw that it made a similar impression on Mrs. Chapman, who was with me. We both felt that there was something inexpressibly beautiful and touching in the efforts of a long oppressed race to sanctify the memory of their martyr. Indeed, I think the deep feeling of admiration and gratitude, which the artist felt for the young hero whose, lineaments she traced, was one great reason why she succeeded so well.
As we went out into the street, she said to me, “If I were a Spiritualist, I should think Col. Shaw came to aid me about that bust; for I thought, and thought, and thought how handsome he looked when he passed through the streets of Boston with his regiment; and I thought, and thought, and thought how he must have looked when he led them to Fort Wagner; and at last it seemed to me as if he was actually in the room.” Assuredly, this is the spirit in which an artist ought to work. I believe nothing is done truly well, in literature or art, unless it is wrought with intensity of spirit.
The interview excited a train of thought which often passes through my mind. I reflected how great changes in human affairs were often foreshadowed by a mysteriously pervasive atmosphere of ideas. At the present epoch, Africa is everywhere uppermost in the thoughts and feelings of mankind. It is difficult even for the most indifferent to avoid being interested about this tropical race, in one way or an other, for or against. How many speakers and writers have expended their best energies in their behalf! How long have anxious politicians seen the shadow of a black man behind every speaker in Congress or caucus! What an uneasy feeling the ministers have had that their congregations saw the same shadow in their pulpits! So pervasive is the atmosphere, that artists are breathing it also. Passing through the soul of Story, it came forth in the shape of an African Sybil; and so strangely fascinating was the subject, that the statue attracted more attention than any other in the grand exhibition. From Miss Whitney’s poetic mind it comes out in the shape of Africa Waking from Sleep. On the canvas of Carlton, it assumes the form of a Midnight Watch for Freedom. In music, it has as yet only been manifested in Ethiopian Songs, breathing the deep sadness or the reckless merriment of human souls in bondage. But it will find grander utterance, as the years pass on. Some future composer will give us the Prayer of a black Moses in tones as inspired as those of Rossini. Operas will embody the romantic adventures of beautiful fugitive slaves; and the prima donna will not need to represent an Octaroon, for men will come to admire the dark, glowing beauty of tropical flora, as much as the violets and lilies of the North.
This singularly pervasive atmosphere of ideas has entered into commerce also. Livingston is sent explore the rivers, lakes, and harbors of Africa with the view of increasing her wants. The object is gold, but the result will be civilization. The French are emigrating to the Northern part, and the British to the Southern part; while a flourishing colored republic is growing up in the Western part. But perhaps the most significant sign of the times is William Crafts, escaping from slavery in the enlightened republic of the United States to go as missionary to the king of Dahomey, for the freedom and improvement of his race.
Who can tell what the revolving wheel of time may bring uppermost, in the revolutions of the ages? Babylon the Great has vanished; and what was in her days of glory merely a small island of tatooed savages is now a mighty empire, on which the sun never sets. Greece has passed away and left only the ghost of her surpassing beauty; and a new Atlantis, of which her poets propesied, has risen from the then unknown ocean of the West. The Star of Africa has risen above the horizon, but what will be its splendor when it culminates no prophet can forsee.
L. M. C.
THE BALL MOVING.
It will be remembered by our readers, that a year ago an effort was made to elect Rev. Mr. Grimes chaplain of the Massachusetts Senate. He is called and considered a colored man, though whiter than many whites. He received six votes at that time—the first ever cast in this country by legislative or any other body in recognition of the great doctrine of the Bible and of human nature—the unity and brotherhood of man. The attempt, though unsuccessful, was a success. So elated were the true Democrats of Boston at the victory, that they determined to renew the effort this year. They started their candidate in advance of all rivals. The ministry of all denominations, with commendable unanimity, withdrew their claims in deference to the great principle involved in the struggle. Many proposed by their friends refused to 1et their names be used. Only one other candidate was actually before the body. The friends of Mr. Grimes were numerous, and of the highest social and religious standing. Testimonials in his favor were given by Charles Sumner, Ex-Governor Washburn, Ex-Mayor Bigelow, Dr. Warren, Rev. Drs. Neale, Kirk, Hague, Stow, Minor, Lathrop, Huntington, Manning, and others. Pre-eminent in the effort was Dr. Kirk. The present mayor expressed himself warmly in favor of his election, as of course did also Gov. Andrew, the truest friend of man that has sat in an executive seat in America since Samuel Adams ruled Massachusetts. An appeal was made to the Senators by many influential Republicans, setting forth the reputation, and services,
<c04>
and sacrifices of Mr. Grimes, not the least of which was his refusal to allow his name to be brought forward as a candidate for the House of Representatives, while many friends urged him to consent, because it might embarrass the election of Mr. Hooper for Congress. The Senate refused the crown. It declined to make itself an historic body. It was contented to be, as it will be, “little and unknown,” though the other line of the couplet cannot be affirmed of it. It is not “loved and prized by God alone.” No approval falls from his lips upon hesitating or prejudiced hearts. The style and manners of the sky are manly, are just, are Christlike. 
The direct cause of the failure, was the defection of a member of the candidate’s own denomination. To the praise of the Baptist Church be it said, that all its leading ministers and most of its leading laymen supported him and endorsed him as their representative. But one Senator of that order refused his support, and exerted his influence with others against his brother. His acquaintance with him made his refusal very harmful.
Yet with all the dead weight of prejudice, two hundred years old, heavy as lead, and as deep almost as life, there were fourteen votes thrown for him on three ballots. So many stood up for right. Five others, equally courageous, would have crowned the Massachusetts Senate of 1865 with immortal honor. What a glorious opening would that have been for the New Year! The last page of our true history would have been reached. The chains that bind our souls in their hideous prejudices would have been snapped forever. As the whole question of enlisting colored men as soldiers was answered when the first regiment marched by the Massachusetts State House, so would the higher question of the real unification of America have been answered forever, had Rev. Mr. Grimes been invited to officiate regularly in its chambers. Massachusetts shuns the highest honor yet offered her. What State will snatch it up?
If no other Slate, ere the year passes, breaks up this thin and ever thinning ice of color prejudice, the Massachusetts Senators will have the same cup commended to their lips another year. They will drink it gladly then. The vote was more than doubled this year. It needs only a quarter of the same increase to secure the grand triumph for the year to come. Eighteen hundred and sixty-six has long been looked forward to by many students of the Bible as in some especial sense connected with the millennium. It may be reserved for that year to see this bitterest and meanest of American prejudices swept into oblivion, and so to ensure the death of caste everywhere. Christ will thus come in the glory of his truest character—the Son of Man, the brother of all men; the uniter of all men to each other and to God.—N. Y. Independent.

THE LOUISIANA ELECTION.
Maj.-Gen. Banks has submitted to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary some suggestions relative to the recent elections in Louisiana. He says he did not assume, in his proclamation of Jan. 11, 1864, inviting the people of Louisiana to participate in an election, to say whether slavery was or was not an institution recognized by law, as the condition of the State was such that no laws for the enforcement of the rights of the master could be executed without disturbance of the peace, and they could not be enforced by the army or navy, such intervention being forbidden by Congress. This declaration was generally acceptable to the people. There were three candidates. The canvass was spirited, and 11,400 votes were cast out of from 15,000 to 16,000 formerly polled as an average in the parishes voting, the highest vote ever given being 21,000. He expresses the belief that 500 persons voted in that election who were not citizens of the State previous to the rebellion, and every candidate had been from fifteen to twenty years identified with the interests of the State. He declares unhesitatingly that two-thirds, if not three-quarters, of the voting population of the State participated in the election. There were in the State from 15,000 to 18,000 persons registered as qualified by the Constitution and laws of Louisiana as voters. He holds that any criticism on this election suggesting a departure from the statute provisions rests on the impossibility of exact compliance therewith. Of the diminished vote on the. ratification of the new Constitution, he says there was no material opposition to it, public or private, and that some failed to participate from apprehension that Congress would not ratify the form of government. The majority, he asserts, had a contest been made by the opponents of emancipation, would have been 15,000; and he declares that the influence of the officers of the Government, civil and military, was indifferent, if not hostile, to the organization. The Registrar of Votes has stated that in one department of the Treasury Office only twenty-five out of two hundred persons voted for or against the abolition of slavery. He disclaims in unqualified terms the imputation of attempts to influence the election by the military authorities. The actual vote polled is claimed to have been more than one-third of the average vote of the entire State for ten years previous to the rebellion. It is claimed that the population of the State has been reduced by enlistments in the rebel army, by removal to the North and Europe, and by the appalling mortality of the blacks, from 708,000 to 450,000. Of 40,000 men enlisted in the rebel army, it is reckoned that not more than 1,500 are now living. Probably three-fourths of the population of the State are in the lines of our army. He assorts that he has never been governed in the administration of affairs in Louisiana by the fact that a person had taken the oath of allegiance, never accorded any privilege on that ground, that public opinion has a more substantial and permanent basis.
Gen. Banks refers to the significant Mexican movements of Napoleon, and claims that he would upon a convenient pretext plant the French flag upon the west banks of the Mississippi; and hence the great importance of supporting the United States government in Louisiana by every possible means, not only by force of arms, but by the sympathy of the people; and all sections and interests of the country, political and commercial, have an equal interest in maintaining the power of the Government in this controlling and important point of the country.
From the Watchman and Reflector.

ABOUT THE FREEDMEN.
In our efforts for the freedmen, there is one aspect of the subject which should be constantly kept in mind, and that is, that our time for helping them in the slaveholding States will be short. In such States, therefore, we ought to avail ourselves of every opportunity to enter and work with all our might, and when the war is over, the friends of the colored race can transfer their efforts to free territory. I say, transfer their efforts, for the presumption is, that after reconstruction has taken place, and the old slave States have returned to their allegiance, their Legislatures will make laws that will drive from their work all Northern teachers of colored schools.
People at the North can have no idea of the intense hatred Southern born whites, especially of the feminine gender, have for those noble and kind-hearted ladies who have left comfortable, and in some cases luxurious homes at the North, and come South to work and suffer many privations in order to lift up the colored race from the low depth of ignorance and degradation in which they have been put and kept by the domineering whites. To impart to the colored people that knowledge which is taught in common schools is the crowning sin in the catalogue of Northern offences. And it is so because, if to the black man’s ability and willingness to work you add the power which knowledge gives, he will become a dangerous rival to the white in the race for wealth, and the consequent ability to wield influence. Hitherto all the knowledge has been on the side of the whites, and with it the power to command labor; and just as soon as this monopoly is broken up, there will be an approach to equality between black and white. That is why teaching the blacks is so offensive, and that is why the writer believes that legislation will drive out of the late slaveholding States white teachers of colored schools.
Said a teacher to a large school of colored children, “Do you think the black people could make slaves of the white?” A universal “no” was the answer. “Why not?” said the teacher. A wide awake little boy instantly answered, “They know too much.” The colored people understand the importance of that knowledge which is acquired in and hence it is, they are everywhere represented as hungry for books.
Will our Northern friends concede to us a little superior knowledge of these matters from the fact of our being on the ground, and having experience and a not very limited observation? and will they permit
<c05>
us to exhort them to put forth their best efforts for the oppressed blacks in the slave States now, while there is opportunity? If Butler and Porter succeed in their very perilous enterprise, the rebellion will be shut in from the outside world, and then, like the scorpion when surrounded with fire, it will commit self-destruction.

MALLAH.
Norfolk, Va., Dec. 28, 1864.
THEODORE TILTON. After a brief but very busy tour among a series of the towns and cities of Northern Illinois and Wisconsin, yet responding to but a tithe of his pressing invitations from various points, Theodore Tilton has left this city for Springfield. St. Lonis and Cincinnati, at which places he will fill appointments to speak on the questions of the day. Mr. Tilton is to be heartily congratulated for the success of his western tour. He came to Chicago, it will be remembered, at the invitation of the committee in charge, to deliver the Inaugural Address of the Great Northwestern Freedmen’s Fair, which he did to the delight of the large audience that filled Metropolitan Hall. Since that occasion, many thousand western hearers have listened to and been thrilled by his burning and eloquent utterances in behalf of Truth, Justice and Liberty, the sole arbiters of the great questions of our time. We think Mr. Tilton will go back to the seaboard fully impressed with the radicalism of the great Northwest; and the flattering and sincere attentions paid him are none the less paid to the sentiments of which he is the fearless exponent. Earnest, eloquent, with powers of language adequate to the expression of earnest thoughts, Mr. Tilton has found the liberty-loving men of our communities he has visited applauding to the echo his most radical sentiments; for with men of his stamp, radicalism is referred to its derivitive meaning. The evil he combats, the evil of our time, must be treated at the root. The welfare of the white race must be sought by justice and humanity to the blacks. Many new-found friends west of the lakes will follow Mr. Tilton with warm and earnest good wishes for his welfare. The more eastern journals learn about the west, the better; and the Independent, national always, will be made all the more more valuable to the whole country by each additional opportunity offered to bring its editors into personal contact with the various sections of the land.—Chicago Tribune..
THEODORE TILTON. On last Saturday night, this gentleman addressed a goodly number of our citizens upon the “Condition of the Country.” We expect in a day or two to give our readers the benefit of his masterly address. All who heard it pronounced it able and eloquent. Said one of our most prominent citizens, when listening to it, “The expression of such sentiments in Mercantile Library Hall, four years ago, would have blown the roof off the building.”
Theodore Tilton is one of the live men of the day. He is a soldier of progress. Few men of the present day have done better work for the good cause than he has done. His visit to our city and the impression he has made upon our people must add to the high estimation in which he has been held in the West.
As an evidence of the appreciation which Mr. Triton’s labors have realized, we give a very significant invitation he received while in this city, signed by a large majority of the members of the Missouri Legislature, to visit our State Capital, and there address the people. The invitation conveys its own moral:
JEFFERSON CITY, MO., December 27th, 1864.
THEODORE TILTON, ESQ., Editor of the New York Independent:
“SIR: A few years since the “Mercantile Library-Association” of St. Louis invited your coadjutor, Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, to lecture in that city, with the proviso that he would not intrude his peculiar reform ideas upon the community. Times and men have changed since then. To-day, ideas, not the slave-driver’s lash, rule the nation, and freedom of speech and of the press prevail in Missouri.
The Radical Union Anti-Slavery members of the Missouri Legislature cordially invite you to visit this city and lecture. Bring your views with you, and express yourself freely.
For Freedom, yours.
Mr. Tilton, on account of previous engagements, is unable to comply with the above call, and has already gone East to address the people at various points on his journey homeward. In his travels through the West, he has everywhere met the most flattering reception, and we hope the impression he has received of the country and its people may induce him soon to renew his acquaintance with them.—St. Louis Journal, Jan. 2.

THE RECORD OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Up to December 22, 1864, the whole number of colored troops which have been credited to Massachusetts, during the war, including the Fifty-Fourth Infantry, Fifty-Fifth Infantry, Fifth Cavalry, and their recruits, is only 4731. The whole number of foreign recruits introduced to our credit is 907. If we add to these the number of men in the Veteran Reserve Corps and Regular Army enlisted to our credit, 5034, we shall have an aggregate of only 10.672—of whom many were proper citizens or residents of Massachusetts—the enlistment of whom to the credit of this Commonwealth has been made the occasion of criticism or complaint, though scarcely by any who entertain a cordial sympathy with the army of the Union, the policy of the Government, or the traditionary doctrines of Massachusetts.
Those all have been enlisted under the regulations of the Department of War. If our bounties have been paid to secure the reenlistment of Regulars and members of the Veteran Reserve Corps, it is because it was the policy of the United States, as disclosed in regulations of the War Department, to obtain them—a policy not suggested by the State Government of Massachusetts. If we have accepted colored volunteers—who have come to Massachusetts for the purpose of becoming soldiers—and turned them over as soldiers to the U. States, it is because when we began to accept them, and until we had raised the equivalent of two regiments, no other opportunity for them existed in the country. We believed in colored men—others did not. We obtained permission to try them. We assumed the hazards of the enterprise, but the country reaps the reward of its brilliant and assured success. 
Passing from the military to the fiscal contributions of our Common wealth to the Union, Massachusetts, although thirty-third in area, and by the census of 1860 seventh in population, and seventh in wealth among the States, yet in the fiscal year 1862 3 was third, and in 1863-4 was fourth in the amount of internal revenue paid by her to the United States, being surpassed in the former year only by New York and Pennsylvania, and in the latter year only by New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio. Excluding the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and Texas, from the comparison, the percentage of the population, property, internal revenue collections, and income tax of Massachusetts, on the aggregate of all the other States and Teritories and District of Columbia, is as follows:
Population. Property. Collections. Income Tax. Percent. 4,7811. 5.1676. 10,9166. 12,7671.
By this relative test of percentages, which is the critical test, Massachusetts, thirty-third in area, seventh in population, and seventh in wealth among the States, is second in her proportional contribution to the internal revenue of the General Government, being surpassed, in this test, only by her sister and neighbor, Rhode Island.
Nor does the gross sum of $11,160.652,16, arising from internal revenue collections, represent all the internal revenue contributions of Massachusetts in the year 1863-4. Additional to this is the internal revenue to the United States from taxes on her banks, and from minor sources, $970,748,45. And besides this is her proportion of the tax on Federal salaries, the total of which tax for all the States, for 1863-4, was $1.705,124,63, and also her proportion of purchases of internal revenue stamps, the sales of which, during the same period, amounted to $5,894,945,14. A fair allowance for these would swell her internal revenue payments, during the last fiscal year, (June 30,1863—June 30, 1864,) to more than fourteen millions of dollars.
The fidelity with which her people have responded to these taxes, I venture to assert, is unsurpassed in the history of the world. The proportion of the internal revenue collections to the assessments, in every district of Massachusetts, exceeds 99,50,100 per cent; and in most of the districts it exceeds 99,80 100 per cent.
Making allowance for incorrect assessments subsequently abated or annulled, and for absolutely uncollectable assessments upon the lowest class of liquor-retailers, the internal revenue collections for Massachusetts substantially correspond, dollar for dollar, with the assessments; and this not by distraint, not by force, not by terror, but by the cheerful alacrity of the whole people of the Commonwealth to lavish their money, as they lavish their blood, for the cause of Order, and Union, and Liberty.
Nor has the necessity of these extraordinary exertions to support the military and financial wants of the Nation shaken the persistent courage or fidelity of her people. In the election of November, the pronounced the collective will of Massachusetts at the polls. They declared her understanding of the issue
<c06>
in controversy, and her purpose to stand by the cause of Union and Liberty until the prophecies of the national heart shall be fulfilled. Of a popular vote of 175,487, she gave to Abraham Lincoln, as the candidate who represented her own traditions and spirit, as well as her hope of a future for the nation and for the people, a popular majority of 77,992. His purpose to stand by the proclamation of liberty finds a response in nearly all hearts, and is echoed by the overwhelming acclamation of her daughters and her sons. Nor they will “bate one jot of heart or hope” until the war shall “cease on the part of the Government when it shall have ceased on the part of those who began it.”—Message of Gov. Andrew.

LUCIFER MATCHES.
The philanthropist sighs over the fearful list of human woes, incurable diseases, and premature deaths, which have been caused by inhaling the fumes of phosphorous and sulphur in the manufacture of common Lucifer or Friction Matches. The most ghastly of these diseases is <illegible> the decay of the lower jaw bone. Thirteen of these came, mostly young women, have been treated in the New York hospitals, within a few months: what then must be the aggregate of human suffering from these causes?

Humanity drops a Tear
of sorrow over the numerous cases of accidental deaths caused by the use of these easily ignited, inflammable agents. A truthful inscription upon many a little tombstone would be,—
This Child was Burned to Death

BY LUCIFER MATCHES.
Scarcely a week passes without a record of one or more children losing their lives by these dangerous articles.
THE PICTURE IS INCOMPLETE.
dark as it is, without reference to the annual loss of valuable property, which may safely be stated at millions of dollars.

FIRE WE MUST HAVE,
and the Lucifer Match, dangerous as it is, has been regarded as a very great convenience, when contrasted with the primitive mode of ignition, the rubbing of dry together, or the still more useful advance upon that mode, the old-fashioned 

TINDER-BOX, FLINT AND STEEL.
While tolerating these Lucifers, (clearly as a choice of evils, scientific chemists have, for more than a quarter of a century, has been experimenting upon the difficult problem of the production of instantaneous light and fire, in combination with two important requisites,—
First, Freedom from offensive and injurious odors.
Second, The insuring of perfect safety in its daily use as a match composition. The honor of the discovery belongs to a 

SCANDINAVIAN CHEMIST,
who has produced, to bless mankind, the long-looked-for alchemy; and if it is true that he who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before is a public benefactor, will not the meed of a world’s gratitude be awarded to him whose persevering efforts have resulted in producing chemical combination, the practical application of which in daily use will be the annual saving of thousands of lives and millions of treasure?
A MATCH INODOROUS AITD SAFE, 
all will admit, is a valuable discovery, and these are the qualities of the new match.

NO SULPHUR OR PHOSPHORUS
enters into its composition. Satisfied of its great value and superiority over all others, the distinguished inventor was awarded the Prize Medal by the Committee of the International Exhibition at the Crystal Palace in London, while all other Matches were excluded from the building.
In order that the

PEOPLE OF AMERICA
may share with those of Europe the blessings of this invention, arrangements have been made for the working of the patent here, and an association formed under the name of 
The Universal Safety MatchCo, 
who now offer to the citizens of the United States
A DOMESTIC MATCH, INODOROUS AND SAFE, 
and for out-door use
A Safety Flaming Fusee, or Wind-Defier,
which neither wind nor rain can extinguish.
A fair trial will verify the truth of our statements.

JOHN P. JEWETT.
General Agent of the Universal Safety Match Company,

NO, 18 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
P.S. A beautiful feature of this great invention is its adaptability to wax compositions. Our arrangements are nearly completed for the manufacture of the neatest, safest and most perfect wax tapers ever produced.
Dec. 9.—4wis.

A FARM OF 1500 ACRES FOR SALE.
The St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes is in the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also a large frame Boarding-House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet—said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums cherries, quinces and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous, to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons, to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and time-thy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, farm utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letter, of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.

CARPENTER’S Great National Picture. THE Emancipation Proclamation BEFORE THE CABINET.
PAINTED on canvass, measuring 14 1-2 by 9 feet, and containing full-length life-size Portraits of President LINCOLN Secretaries SEWARD, CHASE, STANTON, WELLS, SMITH, Postmaster General BLAIR, and Attorney-General BATES, together with a faithful representation of the 
Old Cabinet Council Chamber in the White House.
NOW ON EXHIBITION AT 
WILLIAMS & EVERETT’S,
234 WASHINGTON STREET.
ADMISSION, 25 CENTS.

BOARDING.
MRS.GIAGER wishes to inform her friends and the public, that she taken house 41 Washington st, Cambridgeport, where she can accommodate a few boarders or lodgers. References exchanged.
Dec. 2. 
tf
