THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, printers.
VOL. XXXV. No. 29 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1798.
Selections.
<c01>
SPEECH OF HON. HENRY WILSON,
At the Meeting of the Colored National Monument Association of Washington, July 4, 1865.
MR. CHAIRMAN AND FELLOW-CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES: When I left my home in Massachusetts, I intended to spend this hallowed day amid the graves of the brave men who fell at Gettysburg, in aiding to consecrate a monument to the heroes of the “grand old Army of the Potomac,” who there fronted the legions of the rebellion, and broke the power of treason forever in America.(Cheers.) Business-not yet completed-forced me to spend the day in the National Capital, and I came here to meet free men, and listen to the words of humanity, of justice, and of liberty. I have listened to an orator of your own race, and I say to you that, within the broad limits of the North American Republic, there will be few speeches uttered to-day superior to the one he addressed to you. I have listened, too, to the voice of one that for more than thirty years in my own Massachusetts I have been accustomed to listen to and admire. I can hardly hope, after you have listened to such utterances, to say anything that will add to the joy of this grand occasion; but as you have asked me to say a word, I will not shrink from saying it. (Applause) Here, in the capital of my country, surrounded by this throng of my fellow-citizens, black and white, I say-and if my voice could reach to the Rio Grande, I would utter it-that slavery is dead and buried forever. (“Thank God!” Applause.) And I say further-and I want you to remember and carry it to your homes to-night, and tell it to your neighbors, and let it go from neighbor to neighbor across the continent-that the freedmen of the United States shall be protected in all their rights. (Immense cheering.) Slavery has robbed your cradles; it shall rob them no more.(Applause.) Slavery has sold your children; it shall sell them no more. (Cheers.) Slavery had its auction-blocks; they are gone forever. Slavery had its bloodhounds; they shall bay on the track of your race no more. (Loud and continued cheering.) Let the late slave-masters understand this. Let every rebel in the country, from the Potomac to the Rio Grande, understand it, that their power, their authority over the black man of this continent has passed away forever. (Cheers.) I want them to understand, in the language of the New York Herald of yesterday, that “Slavery is destroyed,” and with its death the compromises of the Federal Constitution, the laws of Congress, the black laws of the late slave States and of the free States, and all the political dogmas and ideas upon which this system of slavery depended, must be numbered among the things of the past. The Dred Scott interpretation of the Constitution from the Supreme Court, under which the negro has no political rights which a white man is bound to respect, goes, with all this other rubbish, into the dumping-ground of slavery. (Immense applause) And I serve a notice here to-day upon them, that I am preparing a bill that I intend to introduce on the first day of the next Congress for the personal liberty of every freedman of the Republic. (Applause.) I want them to understand, further, that I belong to a body of men that are accustomed to sleep on the field of victory-(cheers)-a class of men that accept the doctrines of the New Testament; that accept as the living faith of the North American Republic the Declaration of Independence; a class of men that represent the principles of liberty, humanity and justice, and a class of men that never were and never can be defeated. (Applause.) If any doubt it, let them look back for the last thirty years, and they will doubt no longer.
When I came here a young man, twenty-nine years ago last May, I didn’t know anybody in Washington, and nobody had any reason to know me. I went across to the Island, saw the infamous Williams’ slave pen, saw the poor people manacled and marched down to the river-side, and shipped off to the “far South.” I went up to the Capitol-to the House of Representatives-and saw the slave masters “laying on the table” the petitions of the Christian men and women of the country against this abominable traffic in human bodies. In the pride of their power they thought they could crush not the spirit of the people. I went back to Massachusetts filled with pity for the hapless bondman and defiance to his oppressor. I found noble men and Christian women devoting all they had and all they hoped to be to the cause of the oppressed, and I linked my name with theirs, and for these thirty years I have acted with anti-slavery men who have put up parties and put down parties, and can do it again. (Immense cheering.)
I saw a grand old party led by Clay and Webster, and men of eminent talent and character, yield to the tempter, bow humbly at the feet of the slave power-and then, I saw it die (Applause.)
I saw an “American” organization spring up; they spoke for liberty, and voted for liberty, but they were seduced by the slave oligarchy, and I stood by their grave soon after. (Applause.)
I saw the old “Democratic” party-a party that could commit more offences against humanity, while professing to be its champion, than any other party that has ever existed-ingloriously defeated-its leaders beaten, I have seen State after State-under its acknowledged influence-plunge into the vortex of revolution and civil war, and after four years of bloody struggle have seen it overwhelmed and overthrown from Canada to Mexico. (Applause.)
Casting aside the mere obligations of partisanship, standing on the eternal principle of right, anti-slavery men have broken the powerful political organizations, and smitten down the leaders who have been recreant to liberty. They have sworn upon the altar of patriotism to stand erect in vindication of the rights of man in America; and so long as there is a right not secured or a wrong unredressed, they are ready to act with, to build up or to pull down political organizations and public men.
I have an undeviating faith in these men; they have been tried at all times and in every form, but they have marched steadily onward, achieving victory after victory, and they will not shrink from any contest that may come up in the great work of consummating freedom for all men in America. [Applause.] I say to you colored men here to-day, that ninety-five of every hundred of the men who in November last voted for Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson are standing now shoulder to shoulder for the emancipation and the protection of your race by just, humane and equal laws. (Cheers.) They believe with Andrew Johnson, that “all men should have a fair start and an equal chance in the race of life, and that merit should be rewarded with out regard to color.” In their memories will linger forever the immortal words of the martyred Lincoln, the ballot of the black man, “in some trying time to come, may keep the jewel of liberty in the family of freedom.”
<c02>
You were kind enough, Mr. Chairman, to refer to the fact that I had introduced the bill which passed abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia. and also to the measure annulling the black laws and making the colored man liable only for the same offences, and triable and punishable for the same offences, in the same measure as white men. That bill which, with some amendments, became the law under which three thousand men, women and children were emancipated and the national capital made forever free, was drawn, at my request, by the ready and accurate pen of Col. Key, of Ohio, then with me on the staff of General McClellan. When that bill was pending, we were assured that if it became the law, if we struck the manacles from your hands, the poor-houses would be thronged, the prisons crowded; that riots and bloodshed and civil war would come. The bill passed-you thronged the churches of the living God to utter thanks and gratitude. Three years have passed away, and here you are, more intelligent, stronger, truer than ever to yourselves and your country. ("That's so-every one." Cheers.)
They told us your brothers in the South would obey their masters; that they would fight for their rebel leaders and against us. Is there a man here to-day who has seen a rebel black man in this contest? Go from here to the Rio Grande, and you will find no one who has ever seen a rebel black man. They had been God-fearing and law-abiding, In the whole history of this country there is nothing more sublime than the record of the black man in this struggle. They have endured indignity and death; they have stood by our brave soldiers and sailors in the thickest fights; they have guided them against the enemy; they have aided our suffering men escaping from starving prisons, and given them food and shelter. To-day there are tens of thousands of them who can look upon the shining arms in their hands, and feel the proud satisfaction of having rendered efficient service to their country. They stood by their country in the hour of peril, and their country will stand by them in its hour of victory. (“Good, good," and great cheering.) Should there be any one in the country who doubts this, I charge him to "possess his soul in patience;" his doubts will be solved within the next twelve months.
Men whose prophetic utterances have ever been falsified by facts, tell us that the loyal black men, who have been true to this country when their homes were in possession of armed legions, when slave masters dominated and controlled vast regions, would, if they possessed the ballot, vote as their now defeated masters should dictate-not as God and their country should bid them. They who trusted in their God, and remained ever loyal to their country and its defenders when the power of the slave masters was unbroken, are to be false to their country, to freedom, to themselves, when the power of their old masters is broken and their pride humbled! If there ever was an utterance that had not the remotest semblance of reason in it, it is that utterance.
We are told that the power to confer or withhold the right of suffrage rests with the States. I declare to you to-day, that if the Government of the United States had said to the rebels after their surrender, after they had been humbled into nothingness, after treason had murdered President Lincoln: "We shall hold your rebellious States with the military power of the nation till you are ready to renew your practical relations-(‘That's the doctrine’) we do not intend that the cause of this rebellion, which has cost us three hundred and twenty-five thousand lives and three thousand million of dollars, shall in any form make another revolution; we have no revenges-we will spare your forfeited lives and property, but you must accept the immediate and unconditional abolition of slavery; you must amend your constitutions, making it forever impossible to hold property in man; you must repeal your humiliating and degrading black codes, and give suffrage to the loyal men of the country without distinction of color "-every rebel State, South Carolina included, would have within a hundred days accepted these conditions. The rebel States would have accepted these conditions with alacrity, and every far-seeing Union man of the loyal States would have approved the placing of the weapon of self-protection into the hands of the enfranchised freemen. I am not here to find fault with the Government, however, though I fear that the golden moment to secure justice and base our peace on the eternal principle of right was not taken. I have faith in the motives and purposes of the administration, and shall keep my faith unless it shall be broken by future deeds. I have faith in the motives and purposes of President Johnson, who told the colored men in the capital of his own Tennessee that he would be their Moses. Andrew Johnson will. I am sure, be to you what Abraham Lincoln would have been had he been spared to complete the great work of emancipation and enfranchisement.
Pardoned rebels and rebels yet unpardoned flippantly tell us that they hold in their hands, yet red with loyal blood, the rights of loyal colored men, of the heroes scarred and maimed beneath the dear old flag. I tell these repentant and unrepentant but conquered and subdued rebels, that while they hold the suffrage of the loyal black men in their hands, we, the loyal men of America, hold in our hands their lost privilege to hold office in the civil service, army or navy. The Congress of the United States has placed upon the statute book a law forever prohibiting any one who has borne arms against the country, or given aid, comfort and countenance to the rebellion, from holding any office of honor, profit or emolument in the civil, military or naval service of the United States. "Gentlemen of the rebel States, you loved office in the past; you deemed yourselves specially ordained to fill them; there is not one of you who can have one of those offices until this matter is settled. You hold the rights of the loyal black man in your hand; I hold your lost privilege to hold office under the Federal Government in mine. I am generally opposed to compromises, but I may be inclined to agree to this compromise with you. When you allow the black man to vote, we, the loyal men of the country, may consent to allow you, repentant and pardoned rebels, to hold office under the Constitution. (Applause.) Remember that Executive pardons don't give you the privilege of holding office or putting your empty hands into the Treasury. Congress and a loyal people hold you in their power; and they will exact justice before they grant privileges." (Cheers.)
You, sir, invited Mayor Wallack to be here today, but I don't see him. I have a sort of a dim idea that if you held the right of suffrage, Mayor Wallack, and, perhaps, the whole city government, would be here. (Cheers.) To insure the attendance of the Mayor of Washington next year, I would suggest that you early send your petitions to Congress, asking for the ballot. (“We will") I am a Yankee, and have the right to guess, and I guess you will get it. (Great applause)
At home and in Congress, I have ever labored to secure to the colored men of my country equality of rights before the law. I would give to all men,
<c03>
white and black, equal, just and humane laws-the same that I ask for myself and kindred. Having ever battled for your rights, I hope you will allow me to offer on this occasion a few words of advice and admonition. ("We will") It is said by your enemies that the black man will not work without a lash upon his back. I don't believe it. (A voice: “I know it ain’t so.") I want you to prove by deeds that your enemies have misjudged you. Deeds, not words, must silence your enemies, must vindicate the confidence of your friends. Never be idle. Cultivate the brain and the hand. Engage in the varied industries demanding the trained head and the skillful hand. Be temperate, frugal, economical. Get homes. Though they be ever so humble, they will be dear to you, for the laws of your country will make them sacred. Educate your children, so that their future may be brighter than your past or present. (Cheers.) Follow not the example of men who sat in the shade and punished poor whiskey while you were driven to unpaid toil under a burning sun; but imitate the industry, thrift and economy of the hardy sons of toil, who till the fields and fill the workshops where labor is honored and laboring men respected. God made you as he made the rest of us, to gain your bread by the sweat of your faces, not to force or steal it from other men. Slave masters must now learn this hard lesson. They went into civil war to get the right to carry slaves into the territories, and they come out of it without the right to hold slaves in the States. (Great applause.)
Those slaveholders who expect to pass laws to oppress or punish you for your loyalty find themselves mistaken. We don't intend to have any such laws, and if they pass them we will annul them in the Congress of the United States. I want them to understand that. (Cheers.)
Advance high your standard of rights, duties and responsibilities. Call none master but God. Walk with your forehead to the skies. Don't insult any man, nor allow any man to insult you. Don't strike any man, nor allow yourselves to be struck. Let it henceforth and forever be understood by friend and foe, anywhere and everywhere, that you are free-as free to think, speak and act as any men that breathe God's air or walk his green earth. (Cheers.) Let the late slave masters, from the Potomac to the Mexican line, fully understand that you are amenable to the same laws as themselves, that you are to be tried for their violation in the same manner and punished in the same degree. (Cheers.) Let them know that henceforth you will utter your own thoughts, make your own bargains, enjoy the fruits of your own labor, go where you please throughout the bounds of the Republic, and none have the right to molest or make you afraid. (Applause.) If my voice to-day could penetrate the ear of the colored men of my country, I would say to them that the intelligence, character and wealth of the nation imperatively demand their freedom, protection, and the recognition of their rights. I would say to them: " Prove yourselves by patience, endurance, industry, conduct and character worthy of all that the millions of Christian men and women have done and are doing to make for you that Declaration of Independence-read here to-day-the living faith of United America." (Loud and prolonged cheering.)

SPEECH OF HON. JOHN B. ALLEY.
FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION AT SALEM, (MASS.)
Hon. JOHN B. ALLEY, M. C. from the Fifth District, in responding to the
sentiment: "The President of the United States," remarked:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-Citizens-It was a singular coincidence that in the darkest period of the history of this nation, two such men should have been elevated to the Chief Magistracy as Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson. (Applause.) Born in poverty and in the humblest obscurity, they were called to preside over the destinies of the fairest government and the mightiest nation that ever floated on the tide of time. (Applause.) What higher eulogy can be pronounced on our institutions and government than the simple statement of this portentious fact. It could not have occurred in any other country in Christendom.
Fellow-citizens, it may not be improper for me on this occasion to say a single word on the life and character of our martyr President. Mr. Lincoln was nominated in 1860 at the Chicago Convention, an event unsolicited by him. Scarcely known beyond the limits of his own State, he was nominated in opposition to that eminent statesman of worldwide renown. During the last four years, he has become the great historic personage of the age. Why was it that we witnessed but a few days since such lamentation and woe as have never before been exhibited in the civilized world? Was it because the chief of a mighty nation had fallen? Not at all. Other Presidents have died ere this, but no such sensation has been produced. Was it because of the manner of his death? By no means. Kings and Princes in other and foreign lands, and statesmen in eminent in the public service, have fallen by the assassin's hand, but no such exhibition was ever before seen. Was it because of the condition of the murder? Not at all; nor each nor all of these combined. It was because he had so endeared himself to the people that every individual felt it to be a personal bereavement. We have had fifteen Presidents before Mr. Lincoln, all able and eminent men. While he had not the military talent of Washington, the oratory of Adams, the political genius of Jefferson, nor the powerful will of Jackson, yet in everything that constituted true greatness of character or mind, not one of them was superior to Mr. Lincoln. I well remember the day of his nomination at Chicago. One of the first men who received the intelligence of that nomination in Washington was Stephen A. Douglas. I happened to be present at the time. After showing it to the Senators, he passed over with myself and others to the Representatives' Hall, and exhibited it. As we gathered around him he said, addressing us Republicans, "Well, gentlemen, you have nominated a very able and a very honest man." (Applause.) Such, fellow-citizens, was the testimony of his life-long opponent from boyhood to the day of his death.
I cannot forbear, in this connection, to relate a circumstance within my personal knowledge as illustrative of his deep anti-slavery feeling. When his administration commenced, there was confined in Newburyport jail a person who had been convicted of slave-trading. He wrote me a very pathetic letter expressing repentance, inclosing a petition to the President of the United States, which he asked as a favor that I would present to the President in person. I wrote to him that I would do so; of course, it was my duty to a constituent. I could do no less. I waited upon Mr. Lincoln, who, after reading the letter, turned to me and said: "My friend, that man has written me a very excellent letter, and appears to be sincerely repentant; he has served his full time, but is unable to pay the fine. If he had committed murder, I might forgive him.
<c04>
But, Mr. Alley, you know my weakness. If I have any, it is to be too sympathetic with such people. The man who will go to Africa, and rob her people of their liberty for the sake of dollars and cents, is so much worse, in my judgment, is so much more depraved than a murderer, that never, so long as I am President, shall he receive pardon at my hands." (Applause.) Such were the character and sentiments of Mr. Lincoln,-a man whose memory you and your children and your children's children, to the last syllable of recorded time, will reverence and respect.
President Johnson has given unmistakable evidence to the whole country of his ardent patriotism and love of liberty and the rights of man. I know him well, and have full confidence that he will guide the ship of State aright. He very early in life linked his fortunes with the Democratic party; he soon became one of their chosen chiefs and leaders; he remained with that party so long as it was true to its professed principles; but when some members of the party abandoned the Union, he stood up manfully and bravely in the Senate of the United States, and denounced them with more severity than any other man upon that floor. I call upon you to remember this fact, that in the most trying hour, when apparently he had everything to lose and nothing to gain, he did not hesitate a moment to stand by the country. I have seen him in the Senate hall, hurling his invectives at Jeff. Davis and his associates, as I have heard no other Senator upon that floor. I believe he will be as true to his country as the needle to the pole. In every position he has held, as Governor of the State of Tennessee, as Representative or Senator to the Congress of the United States, he has always devoted himself to the interests of the people. That great beneficent act giving homes to the homeless and aid to the poor,-the homestead bill,-was most emphatically a result of his labor, and it is owing to his eloquence and energy in a great degree that it passed through Congress.
I owe it to frankness to say that I do not agree with his present policy. I cannot see the reason of it with regard to reconstruction. I have reason to believe,-I think I may say almost that I know from such authority as I deem unquestionable,-that although he is experimenting in this way, yet he in his own heart coincides in this matter of reconstruction in sentiment with the people of Massachusetts.
For one, I do not wish to see reconstruction at present. I want to see the South governed by military power, (applause,) until they are more fully qualified to govern themselves than they are at present. (Applause.) We have sacrificed untold treasure, a quarter of a million of lives, and shall we run any risk, shall we make any dangerous experiments again after losing all this blood and treasure? Do we not owe it to the brave soldiers,-do we not owe it to the loyal men of the South,-to say that these rebels, the rebels in the rebellious States, shall not get possession of those States again? I say that we do. By no act or word of mine will I ever consent, in Congress or out, to see any injustice done to the loyal citizens of the South, white or black. (Applause.) Fellow citizens, I tell you we must hold them where they are. We cannot afford to lose our grasp, our military grasp, upon that section of the country. The evidence is too overwhelming that there is but little loyal feeling there except with the negro. We have the right, according to the laws of war, to hold them in military subjection. They are the guilty party; they forced this war upon us. We did not wish it. We tried in every way to avoid it. But now that we have sacrificed countless thousands, almost, and so many of the brave sons of the North, in defence of those great principles of Liberty and Justice, shall we, at this moment, run the risk of sacrificing them again? I say no! a thousand times No! (Applause.)
Fellow-citizens, I beg pardon for having trespassed so far on your patience. I did not intend to say so much, but I have been betrayed by my feelings into these prolonged remarks. I will close by offering the following sentiment:
"THE REPUBLICAN FORM OF GOVERNMENT- that only is Republican which is based upon the consent of the governed." (Applause).

REORGANIZATION OF THE REBEL STATES.
The following extract from a letter written by Gen. B. F. Butler recently, presents a few striking suggestions upon the all-important subject of Reorganization:-
"I most firmly believe that President Johnson will do in this matter what is right and best. I know he will do all that a patriot, aided by the best light he has, may do. Himself, risen by his own exertions from the people to the highest place in the State, in spite of all the opposition and rivalry of the aristocratic power of slavery, not by accident, but by the slow degrees of successful endeavors; in a State, too, where there is no dearth of strong men; with a loyalty to the Union which shone out with a brightness that made him the man of men South, and shamed thousands North. The President surely can be trusted, at least for the time being, to experiment upon reducing to order a state of society of which he must personally know as much as any man living, without provoking the opposition of the earnest and true men who, in the end, it is to be hoped, will agree with him or he with them; for I understand the President's policy as yet to be only experimental.
For the rest, when I do rebuild, I prefer to make the edifice of straight black walnut, rather than of cross-grained white oak, especially if the sticks of the latter are so crooked that they will not lie still.
Upon another point involved in the reconstruction of the Southern States, I think history gives us an example which points the path of duty as well as policy. After the revolution in one State, the bulk of the property of the tories and enemies of the country was confiscated to the use of the loyal, and the owners went out. In another State the tories were received into fellowship, and their property largely given back to them. The result has been that the country has had two States with dissimilar institutions, Massachusetts and South Carolina. Which do you prefer as a pattern for the regenerate South? Without confiscation, South Carolina? With confiscation, Massachusetts?"

THE FREEDMEN IN TENNESSEE.
LETTER TO THE HON. JOHN COVODE.
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 15, 1865.
The Hon. JOHN COVODE-Dear Sir: I have observed that,
First: The large majority of the people of this country retain their old prejudice against the colored race, and this is not lessened by their being free. It was once the fear of their being free that caused severe oppression. Now it is the fear of their being equal in intelligence, wealth and political rights, that will lead the men of the South to throw every
<c05>
obstacle in the way of the progress of the Freedmen. No surer index is needed than the determined and bitter opposition given to the policy of enfranchising the colored men. Our Hon. Chief-Justice Chase has been abused as much for his course with the colored people at Charleston and Savannah, as Northern Abolitionists used to be. And why? Because he gave the impression that colored men might vote.
Second: No special effort will be made by the former masters to instruct their slaves, now hired, as to their rights and obligations as freemen. It is assumed that being freemen, they are to know what they ought and what they ought not to do. In mingling with this people, I hear more such remarks as the Copperheads have been accustomed to make about the negroes than otherwise. The Freedmen are spoken of with contempt rather than with charity. Little indiscretions are often magnified, without at all considering that these negroes are the oppressed of three hundred years, and not intelligent freemen.
Third: The great majority of the people are not in active sympathy with the policy of the Government, nor with the Government itself. The fact of the abolition of slavery is accepted, but the leading influence of the press and of politicians of this section is firmly set against any further advance of the colored race; and remove military restriction, and that opposition will be much stronger than at present, and the Freedman would apply in vain for the redress of wrongs inflicted upon him. He would have a nominal freedom without protection, worse off than when he was a slave; for, then, he had a sort of protection.
Fourth: That the Government must carry out its policy by military authority is evident-if so be the object is to raise the colored people to the condition of intelligence and independence implied in the term "freemen." For, first, the Southerners will not do this by freely aiding the Freedmen; and second, the Freedmen cannot rise by their own energy, without bringing upon them the enmity of the rabble. They must be protected and instructed, and this the Government can do, it seems to me, by encouraging philanthropists to come to this country, and occupy these lands and employ the Freedmen. The present system of leasing plantations I do not like. But let it be a system of humanity as well as profit, and the work will be accomplished. These Freedmen want instruction. They are literally thirsting for knowledge. I have had them sit round me, and with great eagerness listen to the real condition in which they are now placed. They want to know the truth, and then they will do something for themselves. One great reason why those who have come into camps are doing better than those who remain with their masters is because they are more intelligent, and comprehend their status as freemen. This region is nearly desolated, and the most of the landholders will sell at a moderate price, and many of them must sell. If philanthropists could be induced to come on to the line of the Memphis and Charleston, Ohio and Mississippi, or Mississippi Central Railroads, they could find good locations.
If the returned rebels are suffered to vote, we are going to wade through dark waters here, unless we can outvote them by enfranchising the blacks and colonizing from the North.
Fifth: These people are very industrious as a rule, and they "mind their own business," which is not a small item. We have had from 12,000 to 20,000 at this place for the past year and a half, and I believe there have been ten disturbances among whites where there has been one among them. They have now about 1,900 children in school; and the schools are nearly self-supporting. Notwithstanding Memphis boasts of her progress, &c., I believe the colored schools stand ahead of the white schools, and they dc far excel them, all things considered. We distribute 10,000 papers to these pupils every month. Many regiments have from 300 to 500 men in them who can read, and who have learned since they enlisted. If they progress in the next five years as rapidly as they have in the past two, they will have a common-school system that will be 100 years in advance of any system that has ever existed in the South. What has thus far been done has been done by philanthropists, guiding the ambition of the freedmen. It remains now for the Government to establish the same good work all through the land, and "the desert shall blossom like the rose," "and the lion and the lamb shall lie down together," and the land will be redeemed.
Sixth: These people (Freedmen) might and should be encouraged to become land holders and to work their own lands. No people can be truly independent and intelligent, unless they have some means of sustaining themselves other than by hiring themselves out. The Irish are a fair specimen. I cannot see why confiscated lands may not be sold to the Freedmen. It may be better to lease them to philanthropists for a short time, but when they are sold, let the blacks have them.
Seventh: These people must have men of moral integrity to deal with them. They place implicit confidence in those who try to do for them, and this gives men an opportunity to swindle them out of all their earnings.
Eighth Orphans homes will have to be established, as there are thousands of colored orphans who have no one to care for them.
Yours, very respectfully,
F. G. ENSIGN,
General Field Agent, U. S. C. C.
-New York Tribune.

A VOICE FROM TENNESSEE.
MR. EDITOR: Having been born and brought up among slaves-white, black, and mixed-and believing that I know something of the Divine Institution, I desire, through your columns, to present a few facts in regard to negro suffrage. I take the ground that the negro should vote, 1st, because the eternal principles of justice demand it; 2d, because as a question of political economy it is a wise and expedient measure that he should vote immediately.
On my side I have precedent, authority, and sound reason. What is the precedent? Every reader of history is aware that, in nearly all the colonies at the breaking out of the American Revolution, the free negroes voted, and were sought after as soldiers by both contending parties. Free negroes voted in my native State (Tennessee) for thirty years. General Jackson called them fellow-citizens. Their votes were eagerly bid for by both whigs and democrats, and the only objection ever urged against their voting was that it might have a demoralizing influence on the slaves. Hence the law enfranchising free negroes was repealed.
Old Uncle Alexander Trimble, formerly a slave of my grandfather, voted often in Tennessee. He was black as a tub of tar, and could neither read nor write. No objections were offered. But now the conservatives, and some of the very men for whom he voted, say the negro should not vote. And men say this who have committed the black crime
<c06>
of treason. Such men should rejoice that they might now he allowed to vote for such black men as Uncle Alexander. Regarding such men I can only exclaim, O temporal! O mores! Again, Massachusetts, the real Empire State of this Union, and New York and other States have long allowed negroes to vote under certain restrictions. Why did our ancestors, and the wise legislators of the aforesaid States, allow the negro to vote? Plainly because per se it was right under our Declaration of Independence, and because the elevation of the negro helped the general public. Why, then, this foolish croaking all over the country about the negro capacity to vote? There is but one answer. It is malicious, intelligent, or ignorantly mean prejudice such as the Celts over here are encrusted with.
The universal right of suffrage, then, being founded in justice, and backed up by such high authority and precedence, and the negro having achieved this right on the battle-field, and helped to preserve the life of the government in its hour of utmost peril, I cannot see why that government should hesitate one single instant to accord to him every right given by our laws to every other American citizen.
One word as to the negro’s capacity. The argument is made that he is too ignorant. Very good; certainly not more so, to all intents and purposes, than the degraded white "niggers” of the South, and the illiterate Pats of the North. To remedy this, make a general law, a la Massachusetts, which will keep from the polls almost as many whites as blacks.
But I know of my own knowledge, down even in the swamps of Arkansas and on the cotton plantations of Mississippi, the negro is very eager to learn, and I will add capable of it, after removing the iron heel. In the name of God and humanity, why put any more fetters on him?
One word more, Mr. Editor, and I have done. I have traversed, more or less, sixteen States of our Republic-six slave States and ten free ones. In all I watched the negro. In the free States, though encountering still much prejudice, I saw him compare favorably with the whites-his personal appearance, his morality, etc., being as good as any other race on an average, and better in every instance than the lower class of Irish-and, by the way, I am ashamed to say my ancestors were from Green Erin. In every free State, the negroes had their churches and schools, paid their taxes, etc.
How is it in the Slave States? They will rise and have risen as high as the tyranny of the pusillanimous spirit of slavery will allow them. I have then simply, in view of these facts, to ask as a matter of political economy, should not this race be allowed to vote, thus encouraging them, tractable as they are, to add to the general wealth of the country, material and moral?
Let me not be understood as leaving out of view the poor whites of the South. Far from it. My sympathies are mainly with them. I honestly believe the best way to improve the condition of the. ”poor white trash" is to enfranchise the negro, and the two, pulling together, will teach the nabobs of the South a lesson that their children's children will be saved the trouble of learning. In conclusion, universal, immediate rights under the law, and fiat justitia, ruat coelum! JAMES TRIMBLE.
N B. MR. EDITOR: I neglected to state the important fact that I belonged to one of the first families of Tennessee, but now am
-Boston Traveller. EX-CHIVALRY.

IMPRESSIONS OF THE PEOPLE.
MOBILE, ALA., June 21, 1865.
I have come down to this part of the country with the intention of casting my lot with it for the future, and feel compelled to send you a line to tell of my impressions of the people. I have been, for some six weeks, in daily contact with Southern people of all political shades, and, though I am a poor talker, I am a good listener, and not a very bad hand at forming conclusions from a great deal of hearing. I came to the Gulf States full of very fine theories about the necessity of educating the negro before we could extend to him the privilege of suffrage. He was ignorant; he was bigoted; he was prejudiced; he could not be trusted with the privileges of a voter until he had attained a certain standard of education. Well. sir, I was never farther away from the truth in my life. I have listened by the hour to the familiar, social, unrestrained talk of Southern people; and I have been sorry to conclude, from all that I have heard, that the damnable heresy of the States-right doctrine, upon which, with imagined evils threatened, to the institution of slavery, they based their acts of secession and rebellion, is as deeply rooted in their convictions as it ever was. They have failed to establish the success of their principles at the bayonet's point and the cannon's mouth, but those principles he as near to the hearts of the great mass of them as ever; and true loyalty to the Government, as constituting a principle with the mass of the people at the North, is entirely foreign to the breasts of the masses in the South. The same hostility that was openly displayed in arms exists secretly in the breasts of the Southern people, and is ready at any time to exert itself, no longer in overt acts, but in every possible pacific way to thwart the unity and the progress of the Republic. On the other hand, the negro has but one principle and one affection. His principle is that of devotion to the Union; his affection heart-whole for the cause that has restored him to manhood. No doubts of the justice of the cause cross his mind. No clouds of casuists’ raising obscure his vision. His instincts alone point out to him the path he is to tread as a free man, and point it out unerringly. Who so safe to trust with the ballot of a freeman as he? Can demagogues lead him astray with arts and sophistries? I trow not. He may not know so much of book-learning as his paler-skinned brother, but he is less likely to be deceived in what pertains to the advancement of all members of the human family, himself included. And if you could see, as I have seen, the colored people of these Southern cities, sitting at their door-steps, in the moonlight, on hot evenings, teaching each other to spell and to count, regardless of the comments of those who passed by, you would not be slow in coming to the belief that even the supposed amount of education necessary to enable them to vote intelligently will not be long wanting. I, for one, contrary to all my previous expectations, am fully convinced that the only safety for the South is in the extension of free suffrage to the people of all colors, and I mean to throw myself into the advocacy of this cause with all my energy. Far better is the instinct that teaches loyalty to the Union than the false education that makes States-rights traitors. Shall we trust the future of our country to the instinct that inevitably leads to the right, or to the educated sophistry that inculcates what is false and ruinous?
We are by no means ready for a reconstruction under the domination of defeated but unconvinced traitors. We have had a terrible war; let us not
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law, of nations; I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. Form the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre, of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference, with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a we power; and whoa your country is actually in war, whether it of treason. Such men should rejoice that they might now be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEN. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
114
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Cast away its fruits. Let us have military government in the Southern States until the sentiment of true loyalty begins to be felt; or, if we must have civil governments reconstructed, let those who have every cause to love the Union not be put aside, while its interests are confided to the hands of those who have been its open enemies.-Corr. of Philadelphia Press.

CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH OF JULY IN LOUISVILLE, KY.
The glorious Fourth of July, a day celebrated for eighty-nine years as the birth of the white man's liberty in this country, was celebrated, as it was never celebrated before, in Kentucky, by the colored people.
Extensive preparations had been made; and though the heat was oppressive, everything went off in a very satisfactory manner. There was a great outpouring of the people. They came in crowds from everywhere; from the factories, from the workshop, from the fields bard by, and from the deep dark dens of tyranny; and in the pure, fresh air of freedom enjoyed themselves, as alone they can enjoy a blessing who have ever before been deprived of it. For the first time in our history, we had the privilege of celebrating this day consecrated to liberty as a free people; for the war being ended, slavery is dead throughout the length and breadth of our country. We can breathe the fresh, pure air of heaven as men, now, not as chattels; we have an interest in the undying legacy of our forefathers; we have a right to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness;" and, by God's help, we will maintain these rights.
The procession was formed in the following order, which after marching through the designated streets, repaired to Johnson's Wood's, contiguous to the city, where there was gathered the happiest assemblage of people that ever congregated in this State.
First came the 123d U. S. C. Infantry, full eight hundred strong, marching to the stirring strain of their martial band; next, the Fifth street Sabbath School, followed by the Asbury Chapel Sabbath School; fourth, Quinn’s Chapel Sabbath School; fifth, Jackson street Sabbath School; sixth, Green street Sabbath School; pressing after them came York street Sabbath School; next came Centre street Sabbath School, with a brass band, discoursing most excellent and patriotic music; alter the Sabbath School tramped the government employe’s, about one hundred and fifty strong, bearing aloft the banner of beauty and glory; then followed the ”Sons of Union," with their chaste designs and neat regalias; eleventh, ”West Union Sons;" twelfth, ”Independent Sons of Honor;" thirteenth," United Brothers of Friendship;" fourteenth, ”United Fellows," followed by a tastefully decorated car, drawn by four horses, filled with misses representing the ”Fifth street Baptist Aid Society." This was followed by another beautifully arranged decorated car, filled with misses representing the original Aid Society in Kentucky – the ”Colored Ladies' Soldier's and Freedman's Aid Society." These young ladies made the route musical with patriotic airs. Next came a car filled with busy workmen, plying the saw, the plane, hammer, and mallet; next came the 125th U. S. C. Infantry, six hundred strong, marching with soldierly tramp to the soul-inspiring strain of national music.
Full ten thousand persons marched in the procession, and at the ”ground" ten thousand more were assembled to listen to the addresses of the talented orators.
A sumptuous dinner was prepared for the soldiers, to which they did ample justice.
After dinner the speaking commenced. David Jenkins, Esq., of Columbus, Ohio, first addressed the people in stirring strains of eloquence, interspersed with anecdotes and side-splitting yarns, that made these old woods roar. Mr. John M. Langston, of Oberlin, Ohio, was then introduced, and was greeted with rounds of applause. He entertained the audience with a beautiful and finished speech, abounding with eloquence and argument. He forcibly reviewed the past history of the country, and expatiated upon the duty and responsibility of the colored people in the future.
Mr. Langston was followed by Chaplain Collins, of the 57th Illinois Regt., who, in a short address, contrasted the difference between the first and last Fourth of July that passed during the rebellion, expressed his gratification at seeing so many colored people gathered together, and rejoicing over the downfall of slavery. All colored men to-day, by God’s blessing, and through the instrumentality of Mr. Lincoln, are free, acknowledging no master but God.
Chaplain Collins was followed by Lieut. Ward, of the 125th U. S. C. Infantry, who spoke of the colored troops with whom he is identified, complimented their bravery, intelligence, loyalty, and manhood: he claimed that they have exhibited the highest qualifications as men and soldiers, &c.
Genls. Palmer and Brisbane arrived on the grounds about 5, P. M. As soon as they were recognized, such a shout as went up from amongst those old brown avenues was enough to call the wood-sprites and all the invisible denizens of those sylvan shades from their lurking places; and when he mounted the rostrum, the rounds of applause were deafening. The General was visibly affected by his reception, and, after the tumult had subsided spoke substantially as follows:

SPEECH OF GEN. PALMER.
Fellow-Citizens: I can say truly, that to be welcomed by my fellow-citizens, by those who have gathered together upon this ocasion to celebrate the anniversary of American independence the first time in their lives with freedom, the first time being permitted to assemble together to enjoy blessings that we have ever enjoyed, is an occasion that fills me with lively emotions. (Applause.) I want your patient attention, my fellow-citizens, for the few moments that I shall address you; for I have come here expressly to give you some instruction and words of advice.
This is the first time that you, colored people have been allowed to assemble amongst yourselves, to celebrate in your own way, in your own manner the birth-day of American liberty. You present the strange anomaly of a people who have no home in the land of your birth, no children, no property you are niggers, slaves, property. You have been denied the privilege, heretofore, of celebrating this day; the Declaration of Independence did not apply to you; you were not included in its blessings. But I tell you here to-day, fellow-citizens, standing beneath these hoary trees, fanned by this gentle breeze that comes laden with the perfume of peaceful fields, under the canopy of the deep blue heavens, the throne of the Almighty Ruler of the Universe, under the divine influence of the immortal Declaration of our fathers, that, throughout the length and breadth of our land, slavery is dead! In all these States there is no more slavery, unless you want it so; there is no slavery in Kentucky, unless you want to be slaves. I believe, with our fathers, that” all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Heretofore you have been denied the privilege of enjoying these great blessings; but from now, hence-forth and forever, you are free! you, and your children, and your broken families.
Hon.(?) Gid. Mallory is canvassing this State, stumping upon the platform for the future existence of slavery and the rights of slaveholders. Fellow-citizens, I tell you, in sincerity and truth, that there is no more slavery in Kentucky.
You must help yourselves. If you have comfortable homes, and they who were once your masters are kind to you, it is better that you remain with them for a while, until you can see where you will better yourselves by leaving them. But, mark you! I believe a man should be paid a fair day's wages for a fair day's work. You are free now, if you want to be; but you must help yourselves; don't besiege headquarters, asking me to help you, but act for yourselves; and when you really need my assistance, I will help you all I can.
If you are working for a man, and be refuses to pay you for your labor, quit working for him, and work for the man that will pay you. If any man tells you that you belong to him, tell him you are as free as he is; ask him to show you his patent from the Almighty Ruler of the Universe for it; and if he shows it, why, then, of course you are his slave.
To-morrow morning, when you dress yourselves, you may button your coats around a tree man's body, and say, This body is now mine, and I dedicate it to the Almighty. And you, women, when you dress yourselves to-morrow morning, dress up in the new garments of freedom, and resolve never again to be slaves. You are as, free now, henceforth and forever, as I am; but you must help your-selves-act for yourselves. 
I entered this war in the North-West, and
<C02>
marched down through Missouri, taking part in the operations around and siege of Island No. 10. After the fall of that stronghold, we were sent to reinforce Gen. Halleck in his advance on Corinth, after the rebels fled from there. I followed the track of war hither and thither through Tennessee, until we were pressed back from the Tennessee river. On our retreat, every white man we came across tried to deceive us, cither by false information of the whereabouts of the enemy, or the topography of the country: whereas the” niggers” would always act as guides, tell us the truth, and proved our friends always. The” niggers” would crawl into camp at night, and give information where the rebels were located; and it got to be such a common circumstance, that when I saw a nigger crawling into my camp, I knew it boded no good to the rebels! Events tramped upon the heels of events, and w were pressed back into Kentucky, took the advance again, and, after the battle of Stone River, the niggers flocked in such crowds that I took one hundred and fifty of them, and mounted them as teamsters, and took one hundred and fifty more to help them. The rebels were very active then, and every foraging party that was sent out was liable to be attacked. When I came in, Rosecrans said to me-
“ Palmer, they say that you have three hundred negro teamsters, and they run every time they hear a gun fired; now, what do you think of them?
“ Yes," said I,” they run, and hide behind stumps, in fence-corners, wherever anything presents itself; but I do not blame them. They have no arms to defend themselves nor teams, and they would be foolish, more than men, if they did not run. Give them arms to defend themselves with, and, my word for it, they will fight.”
“ Palmer, you are right," said Rosecrans;” any man, black or white, will run if he cannot fight- cannot protect himself."
Not long since, I was over in Illinois, and a man said to me,” You are over there in Kentucky: what do you think about negro suffrage? I am opposed to it: the niggers have not sense enough to vote."
I asked him if he thought it was foolish to be a rebel, and wise to be loyal. 
“ Oh, yes," said he.
“ Very well," said I;” all of those intelligent, wise white men were rebels-therefore foolish; and all of those senseless, ignorant niggers were loyal- therefore wise; and I am in favor of giving the right of suffrage to wise men."
They say that you will die if you become free, but I have never known freedom to kill any one yet. Here is a man who has been free all his life, and he be does not look as though he had starved; to death, or been too lazy to earn a living.
I have seen the master, oh, mother! watch day by day, month by month, year by year, the growth of the child you nourished, and calculate how much he increased in wealth as your child increased in age and strength. What do you suppose the niggers arc worth in all Kentucky to-day? Here is a goodly number-we will say ten thousand. Now, we are going to have an old-fashioned auction sale: How much do you offer for this crowd of fine, fat, healthy niggers? Do I hear one dollar? one dollar? one dollar? Now, my fellow-citizens, I will tell you— I would not give this cigar for all the niggers in Kentucky as slaves. (Applause.) Slavery is dead—as dead as old Gid. Mallory who is stumping the State for the rights (?) of slaveholders! (Applause.)
If any one has your children, go and get them. If they will not give them to you, steal them out at night. I do not think you will be committing any crime, nor do I believe the Almighty Ruler of the Universe will think you have committed any. (Applause ) When I want to rob you, I will not steal your babes, nor you, nor the sweat of your brows; but I will come at night when darkness hides the earth beneath its sable mantle, and rob you as you did old massa's hen-roost. (Laughter.) If you want to hire yourself out, go and do so; and if you are arrested, and put in prison, I will turn you out. (Applause.) Not long since, a man was arrested. For what, do you think? For stealing some man's watch? No! For stealing some one's pocket-book? No! For arson? No! For murder? No! Now I will tell you: he wanted to hire himself out to work, to support his wife and children! He was put in jail for desiring to work, the lazy, trifling nigger! Judge Johnson nut him in jail, and I turned him out (applause) as soon as I found it out, and to-day he s as free as Judge Johnson.
I was in Washington city not long since, and, in a conversation with the President, I remarked,”They say that I am too radical out there in Kentucky, and they want me removed."
The President replied,” Gen. Palmer, you are there, and know what is needed. Go back, and do whatever you think is necessary, and I WILL BACK YOU UP IN IT!" (Loud, long, and continued applause-a voice proposed three cheers for the President, which were given with a will.)
Gen. Palmer, resuming-You may well give cheers for the President; for I am no abolitionist at all compared with ANDREW JOHNSON.
In conclusion, let me inform you that now you are free-—there is no more slavery in Kentucky but, my fellow-citizens, you must help yourselves you must resolve that you will be free. I may issue orders upon top of orders, and they will not be worth the paper upon which they are written, unless you act for yourselves. You must now work you have families to support; your wives will need clothes; your children need books and an education Freedom confers new obligations, new responsibilities; you must be industrious and economical, and save from your earnings a portion; and the day is not far distant when you will be able to buy you a little home, and gather the comforts of life about you. Do not quarrel with the low and profligate, nor spend your earnings in coffee-houses nor foolish extravagance. Be honest, industrious, and respectful, and your way is clear.
When Gen. Palmer concluded, the whole vast audience cheered, and waved banners, until the whole forest seemed alive with the spirit of freedom. The band struck up the”Star Spangled Banner," after which Gen. Brisbane, commander of all the colored troops in Kentucky, addressed the audience in a few pertinent and well-timed remarks. But my letter is too long already, and I will come to a conclusion. Everything passed off in a satisfactory manner.- Corr. Anglo-African.

HENRY WINTER DAVIS ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
In his oration at Chicago on the 4th of July Hon. Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland, took radical and right ground upon the question of negro suffrage. He said:-
“We need the votes of all the colored people; it is numbers, not intelligence, that counts at the ballot box-it is the right intention, not the philosophic judgment, that casts the vote. (Applause.) More glorious still would it be for Congress to follow the great example we have just had of abolishing slavery by an amendment of the Constitution. Let them pass by their two-thirds majority, in both houses of Congress, an amendment of the Constitution securing forever the mass of the people as the basis of the republican government of the United States, and submit it this very coming winter, before the legislatures adjourn, for their information. (Applause.) And when it shall have received the assent of three-fourths of those now recognized as States and represented in Congress, let Congress instantly proclaim it as the fundamental law of the land, valid and binding as the Constitution itself, of which they will thus have made it a part, under which they sit; which no State caprice, no question of political parties, nothing in the future, except the triumph of slavery over free institutions, can ever shake or call in question. (Applause.) Then all the proclamations of the Declaration of Independence will be executed; this government will rest on the rights of individual liberty, and the right of every man to bear a share, in the government of the country whose laws he obeys, and whose bayonet in the hour of danger he bears. And the personal freedom which the dark children of the republic have won by our blood and theirs will not be a vain mockery, exposed to violation at the caprice of their masters, enthroned in the legislature, on the bench and in the executive chamber, but, secured by the bayonet they hold and the ballot they cast, will be liberty guarded by power."

At a recent trial for murder at Gallatin, Tenn., the only witness of the crime was a colored woman, and under the laws of the State her testimony was ruled out.
On the 8th inst, an affray took place in Charleston, S. C., in which one colored man was killed, and three others, a Zouave and two colored men, were wounded. It was quickly suppressed. Where the blame rests is not clear.
<C03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1865.
FIRST OF AUGUST.
One more observance of the anniversary of West India EMANCIPATION it is proposed to hold, as in years past, at ABINGTON GROVE. The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will unite with the citizens of Plymouth County, and others, in holding a public meeting for that purpose on TUESDAY, August 1st, in that well-known and beautiful spot. To this meeting are invited all who desire that Emancipation in our own land may be established on a juster and better foundation than it has been in any European colony,—all who desire and propose that the labors and sacrifices of the last quarter of a century, and especially of the last four years, shall not fail of bringing forth fruit worthy of the Republic, worthy of the heroism and martyrdom of our brave brothers on land and sea, worthy of the great principle of Liberty which inspired them, and whose service is ever our highest honor and reward.
The claims of the cause, the attractions of the spot, the social gathering of many friends, will be reasons enough for the gathering of a large company on the occasion.
CARS will leave the Old Colony Depot, on that day, for the Grove, at 9 o'clock, A. M.; leave Plymouth for the Grove at 9.30, A. M.; both trains stopping at the usual way stations.
Fares-from Boston to Grove and return, sixty cents for adults-—forty cents for children under twelve years. From Plymouth, and all way stations, half the usual fare.
Further particulars next week.-S. M.

THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
Several years ago, the Rev. RUSSELL L. CARPENTER, a young Unitarian clergyman of England, visited this country; but, though assuming to be thoroughly Anti-Slavery in principle on his own side of the Atlantic, he found it convenient, like too many others of his profession on coming to America, to give the American Abolitionists”a wide berth," and to associate mainly with those who, while”as much opposed to slavery in the abstract as any one," regarded all agitation of the question as reprehensible and injurious, and the doctrine of immediate emancipation as equally fanatical and dangerous. On his return to England, whatever influence he exerted was injurious to the Anti-Slavery struggle here, and unfriendly to its uncompromising adherents. We have not at any time since heard or seen any thing from him, indicative of his feeling any interest in the existence or labors of the American Anti-Slavery Society, till now that slavery is abolished, and the grand mission of that Society consummated! Indeed, if we are not greatly mistaken, he has cooperated with those who were aiming to bring it into discredit in England. If, during the late pro-slavery rebellion, he has uttered or written one word in condemnation of it, or in approval of the American government, we are ignorant of the fact.
In the London Inquirer of July 1st is an article from his pen, in reference to the history of the Society and our withdrawal from it, which indicates a Rip Van Winkle obliviousness to all that has transpired within the last four years, and evinces a concern for the course we have thought proper to pursue alike paradoxical and amusing. He now believes in the utility and importance of continuing the Society-i. e., of carrying coals to Newcastle, and adding a perfume to the violet. Now that nothing is to be done for the abolition of slavery in this country, he is for doing it with a will! He deems it”strange" that the question of the dissolution of the Society should have been entertained-which is not a millionth part so strange as that he should give himself any concern about it. The new-born zeal which has manifested itself in behalf of the Society as an instrument of the utmost potency, since we announced our conviction that the time for its dissolution had fittingly come-and in quarters hitherto either utterly indifferent or positively inimical to its existence-is a phenomenon to be explained only on the supposition that the parties, now that it costs nothing to take the most radical Anti-Slavery ground, are emulous to appear to be foremost in the race, and highest in the ascent towards the temple of justice! We appreciate such vigilance and fidelity at their true value. They were instructively, nay, most touchingly manifested at the annual meeting of the Society, in New York, in May last, by persons whose voices were never before heard on its platform, whose presence was then for the first time cognizable, and whose votes helped to determine the question favorable to the further continuance of the Society.
Mr. Carpenter says, first, that” in America slavery has its strong-hold”; next, that though” it may have received its death-blow, it is not yet dead"; and, finally, that though”it may be in a mortal agony, so are its victims”-a proposition we do not understand, inasmuch as we think its victims will experience no agony whatever in seeing it writhing under the” death-blow” it has received; though, of course, in their passage to a condition of perfect freedom and equality, they will be called to experience many severe trials. Mr. Carpenter may rest assured that the work of abolitionism, distinctively speaking, and with reference to slavery, is ended; that neither the American Anti-Slavery Society, nor any other, will have occasion to print any more tracts or to send forth any more agents to convert the nation to the doctrine of immediate and universal emancipation; that the Anti-Slavery Amendment of the Constitution is a” fixed fact"; that this is the year of jubilee, and every where recognized as such. Nothing now is debated but the matter of RECONSTRUCTION. It is no longer a question about breaking chains, but about the political enfranchisement of the emancipated; and the great mass of the loyal people of the country appear to be strongly in favor of its bestowal. In no issue now before the country do the abolitionists stand alone, or occupy peculiar ground, as they once did; and this being so, we maintain now, as we did at New York, that good sense and propriety demand that they should gladly recognize the altered state of things, and merge their efforts with those of their fellow-citizens generally, and not absurdly talk and act as they had sorrowful occasion to do in other days.
Mr. Carpenter ingenuously says,”Our impression was, a few years ago, that, had we been residents in America, we should not have joined the Anti-Slavery Society." Of course he would not; for at that time, in such a connection, he would have found a heavy cross to bear; and this, either from constitutional timidity or a desire to avoid reproach, it is not for him to encounter. Now, however, that the nation accepts what it once scornfully rejected, and abolitionism is in the ascendant, it makes him sad to think that we are not for appending a fifth wheel to the national coach of freedom!
“It seemed to us," he continues,” that the Garrisonians were wrong in principle in their constant cry for disunion." Never were they more right in principle than in uttering that cry. Where, now, is” the covenant with death and the agreement with hell"? And what so potent as that cry in effecting its overthrow, and substituting in its stead a Constitution so amended as not only to nullify all its old pro-slavery guaranties, but to render slavery illegal in every part of the republic? Does Mr. Carpenter deem it right in principle to admit of a slave representation in Congress for the benefit of slave-masters-to allow slave-hunting in every State in the American Union, backed up by the civil and military power-and to provide for the suppression of servile insurrections by the national government? If not, then the”Garrisonians” were not” wrong in principle in their constant cry for disunion," but true to God, their country, and the oppressed.
<C04>
“When the South seceded." says Mr. Carpenter,”the object of the Garrisonians seemed to be accomplished.... We supposed that they would heartily rejoice in the fulfilment of their hopes: and as their leader was a non-resistant, we took it for granted that they would urge their countrymen to let the malcontents depart in peace. Their policy was, however, the reverse." Whether this is intended as a compliment or a rebuke to them, the reader is left to conjecture; though, assuredly, to put them in the same category, or on the same plane of action with the assassins and traitors of the South, is anything but complimentary. Nevertheless, we have reason to believe that Mr. Carpenter, prior to the suppression of the rebellion, was one of that large class in England whose sympathies were with the Confederate States rather than with the American Government. Whether we are correct or in error on this point, if the”Garrisonians were wrong in principle in their cry for disunion," the Southern secessions were unquestionably yet more wrong in their act of disunion. Would it have gratified Mr. Carpenter to have seen the former”urging their countrymen to let the mal-contents depart in peace," in order to be consistently wrong, or to accomplish their object? We protest against his uncalled-for and outrageous impeachment of the patriotism and moral integrity of the American abolitionists. Throughout this long and bloody struggle, they have acted with entire fidelity to all their principles and doctrines, and had no occasion to change their course one hair's breadth. To say that they; have”flung themselves into the popular stream," is an undeserved sneer; for, through divine judgment the tide of popular feeling has risen to the height of their position, and is sweeping away every vestige of that accursed system”which brought death into our land, and all our woe."
Mr. Carpenter has made a discovery-viz., that”the American Anti-Slavery Society," after the rebellion broke out,”ignored their Declaration of Sentiments, with which they had contrasted their peaceful enterprise with the revolutionary war of their ancestors." He wholly misapprehends, and therefore grossly misstates the case. In the prosecution of their enterprise, the abolitionists have been true to their Declaration by using only peaceful instrumentalities; but this has nothing to do with the maintenance of the Government against those who would perfidiously and wickedly seek its overthrow for a diabolical purpose. If”the most ultra-abolitionists now rejoice to speak under the stars and stripes," it is solely because that banner symbolizes the liberation of the millions who were once held in cruel bondage beneath it.
“Mr. Garrison," says Mr. Carpenter,”must feel an amazing contrast between his position now, and that in which he helped to found the Society. The world was then against him, and he put his trust in Him who overcame the world. Now the world seems on his side." Nay, more-we have been” an honored spokesman of the city of Boston," where we” had been mobbed;" we have” stood triumphant in Baltimore," where we”had been imprisoned;" we have”explored Savannah, secure amidst vanquished rebels who once had offered five thousand dollars for our head;" we have”visited Charleston, to see restored that national flag which once we would gladly have rent asunder," &c., &c. And does our English critic mean to say that all this, or that any part of this great change, is to our discredit? Does he not see in it the wisdom and justice, the grandeur and power of an overruling Providence?
Again, Mr. Carpenter pathetically, almost mournfully says-”Before the war, Mr. Garrison was hated by the world, but almost idolized by his own party. Within the last two years, he has become popular, but many of his old partisans have forsaken him. He has ceased to be a Garrisonian; he has lost his characteristic antagonism with the American Government." Here is a jumble indeed! When the American Government was the bulwark of the slave system, we denounced and opposed it; but now it is crushing that system to the dust, we are no longer in antagonism with it; ergo, we have”ceased to be a Garrisonian”! How tremendously radical our conservative English friend is getting! The milk in this cocoanut is explained by the complaint that we do not continue to assail the Government! If we did, that would be particularly gratifying to some abroad.

A DAY IN THE COUNTRY.
The annual Picnic of the 28th Congregational Society of Boston took place this year on Wednesday, the 12th inst., at Greenwood Grove in Reading, a place admirably fitted, by nature and art, for such festivities. The grove comprises every variety of hill and dale, shaded by oaks and pines. An observatory on the highest part of the hill commands an extensive and beautiful prospect. The accessories of the place include a large and well-roofed dancing hall, with a room where provisions and extra clothing may be stored, and stands where water and refreshments are supplied. Rough tables are erected in various places for those who like their dinner better in that fashion, and abundance of benches and seats are arranged in favorable positions all through the grove. There are also plenty of swings, see-saws, and other arrangements for the enjoyment of children, both younger and older. And this delightful place is close to the railroad track.
The day on this occasion was perfect, the sun, wind and clouds combining to make it suitable for an open air festival. A large company assembled at the Grove, reaching it about half-past nine. There were young men and maidens, old men and children, and a fine representation of women also. All classes seemed thoroughly to enjoy the occasion. The harp and the viol made good music, and many light, fantastic toes kept time to it. The toes that required more vigorous exercise played foot-ball before dinner and base-ball after it, and much skill, and speed, and strength were shown in both games. Shortly after noon, the company repaired to the rail-road station, in time to meet the 12 o'clock express train from Boston, and wave their salutations and good wishes to their much valued friend, the daughter of John R. Manley, who was then setting out on her bridal tour. This pleasant duty performed, dinner came next in order, and was taken about one o'clock, either at various places in the grove, or in the house of Mr. Locke, the proprietor, or on the beautiful lawn commanding an extensive prospect, before the house, according to the taste of the various groups.
Among the well-arranged fixtures in the grove is a stand for speakers, with seats in front for three or four hundred hearers. Thither the company resorted after dinner. Mr. John S. Rogers called the meeting to order, and, after some appropriate remarks, introduced to them successively various friends, namely, Mr. Babcock, (the worthy associate of Charles T. Barnard, in the Warren-St. Chapel,) John Wether-bee, Jr., Charles Lenox. Remond, and Charles W. Slack. Alternating with the brief and interesting addresses of these gentlemen, beautiful glees were sung by a quintette of accomplished musicians. Then came more dancing and strolling, and about half-past six the cars took the party to their respective homes, very well pleased with their entertainment. The general pleasure seemed complete, with no drawback except the falling of a moderate shower while the excursionists were waiting for the return cars.-C. K. W.
A MERITED TRIBUTE. The Salem Observer justly says, no public man has written with more clearness and force upon the questions that have arisen during the war than Robert Dale Owen. His late letter to President Johnson is timely, wise, and unanswerable. He writes with the breadth of a statesman and the calmness of a philosopher, and discards all the flummery and nonsense which form the staple of the letters and speeches of mere politicians. Of course, be maintains that the only true basis of the American government is, equality of all men before the law. We hope President Johnson will have the grace to ponder his suggestions, and to accept them.
<C05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXVIII.
NEW YORK, July 13,1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The most interesting event of the fortnight, of national importance, is the re-occupation of Norfolk, Va., by the United States forces, after barely a month's withdrawal. In that time Chivalry, clad in grey, was able to control the ballot-box at a municipal election, poll two disloyal votes to every loyal one, elect a secession Mayor, and excite several riots against the equally unoffending and helpless blacks. Ex pede Herculem. You can judge of the effect of a universal restoration of civil rule at the South from this short experience in a single city. The Government was evidently of this opinion when it ordered Gen. Mann to supersede the police of Mayor Tabb with a detachment of soldiers, and proclaim the renewal of martial law. The case of Virginia ought to be watched with the greatest attention, because, as I suggested in my last, she surrendered rather than be conquered, and also because she alone, of the seceded States, has dispensed with the rule of a provisional Governor in resuming her former position in the Union. She is the very best example of the President's policy, having lacked at' no time during the rebellion a community beyond Confederate control, and a nominal Government at Alexandria. If this amounted to little more than GOV. Pierpont in the role of Louis XIV.-“I am the State" -the logic of the President remains unimpaired. That a single loyal man in any rebellious district may, as a reward for his fidelity, be placed on an even footing with his fellow-loyalists of the North, Mr. Johnson holds himself bound to make of him Governor, Legislature and constituency, all in one, and declare the State to have been continued in his person from the ascendancy to the overthrow of the seditious majority.
How much the action of Government at Norfolk is to be regarded as a confession on the part of the Executive that its scheme of reconstruction is working badly, depends upon the authority that ordered the change of regimen in that city. It is quite certain that if any other quarter of Virginia is at this moment tranquil and free from pro-slavery violence, it is due to the formidable presence of blue-coats and bayonets, directed by such men as Terry, and to nothing else. This is not a flattering prospect for the White House. No better is the distant view of Mississippi, Georgia, and Alabama, whose Governors all attempt to justify their past record before beginning a new, and preface their exhortations to loyalty with a proud confession of their share in treason. In Louisiana we have the reactionary behavior of Gov. Wells. From the Mississippi to the Savannah river the political horizon is lowering, and the air heavy and sulphurous. Read the artful messages and speeches of these new functionaries, and two things are conspicuous: they refuse to define the character of the late struggle, or pronounce either party to have been in the wrong; and they all cast doubts upon the validity of emancipation. One thing they acknowledge: that they entered the war in order to come uppermost, and that they emerged from it on their backs. They refuse to enquire by what right they went to war for the purpose avowed, or with what reproach they are vanquished and laid prostrate. Their only anxiety is to recover themselves as quickly as possible, and undo all that they can of the results of the war.
The political aspect of Kentucky affords an interesting study. The election for members of Congress comes off in August. The issue is the adoption of the Constitution Amendment. Gov. Bramlette and Geo. D. Prentice talk and write in as straightforward a manner as their newly-loose tongues will permit them; but many of their utterances are tainted with the bad logic of the system they are endeavoring in good faith to subvert, and with repudiations of negro suffrage. Their candidate, however, from the Louisville district, uses words as bravely as he has wielded his sword in defence of the Union. It is a remarkable sign when an aspirant for Congress finds it not inexpedient to say in a slave State what Gen. Lovell H Rousseau did the other day in Kentucky:
“We, here in Kentucky, are in the habit of arguing the slavery question more from the economical than the moral stand-point. It is not fashionable to say that slavery ought to be abolished because it is wicked and wrong, but simply because it does not pay. It deprives us of population, of railroads, of turnpikes, of schools; it drives from our State annually thirty to forty thousand native Kentuckians, who, leaving their homes, go to the free Northwest. It has kept your cities dull and poor, to the enriching of the cities of neighboring States. Such and such like are the arguments on this topic. The lands will increase in value when it is abolished; the farms in the neighborhoods of the cities will be cut up into market gardens, as they are in the North. The saving of freights on the products of the farmer, when freedom brings with it a teeming population from all quarters of the globe, and brings close together the producer and consumer, will alone be sufficient to reimburse him for the loss of the ungracious privilege of making other men and other women work for him without wages. All these arguments have been laid before you by the press, and by the friends of the Constitutional Amendment in every neighborhood. Statistical tables of the progress of free and slave communities have been spread before you, fully carrying out these arguments, and clearly showing that freedom and justice pay better than slavery and wrong. But I wish to add a little argument of my own. I want to tell you why slavery will not pay. It is because we have a God in heaven who has arranged the affairs of men in such a way that wrong and injustice won't pay, and don't pay. Has not the South lost more in the mere destruction of houses, and fences, and railroads, and crops, and other property, and expenditures for munitions of war, &c., in the last four years of a rebellion, carried on for the benefit of slavery, than it wrung out of the sweat of the slave in forty years preceding? Add to this, the half million of her brave sons, who died or were crippled in battle and in camp, half the entire arms-bearing population of the rebel States, and tell me if slavery was a paying institution to them? And do you think it can be restored now, and not lead to a bloodier and fiercer war? And why is this? Simply because God in his wisdom has arranged the world so that, in the long run, a system of wrong will not and cannot pay."
I am afraid you would begrudge in the Liberator the space which the Louisville Journal allots to the speech of which I have given but an extract.
It is yet too early for the present generation, if indeed it will be their part at all, to pass a true sentence upon those miscalled statesmen who corrupted the nation that it might be powerless against the ambitious designs of slavery. Yet their condemnation is implied in the tacit omission of their names from the rejoicings over the triumph of freedom. We can as little blend Webster and Lincoln as Mason and Lincoln in the honors of the day. The author of the Fugitive Slave Law and its most illustrious supporter, with the President who gave it his signature, are alike in being dead, if not in being buried. Fillmore and Lincoln can only be chronologically and officially coupled in history: between their characters, their acts and their memories there is nothing in common, and never will be. I could not help thinking of all this when I read in your Boston papers the speeches at the unveiling of Horace Mann's statue; and one may be excused for losing something of his gravity in contemplating the” happy family" in your State House yard. It is a small matter if, as your critics assert, the better bronze is of the worse man, and vice versa, but the strait of the Commonwealth which compelled it to balance Webster with Mann is absolutely ridiculous. If it was necessary to pacify the insulted conscience of the State by neutralizing instead of removing Webster's statue, could not some other son of Massachusetts have been selected for the unworthy office? Fancy some power to have turned these gentlemen into bronze when Webster, irritated by Mann's exposure of his immoral polities, retorted,”captator verborum," or other false Latin upon him, and Mann made a second exposure of Webster's bad scholarship. Then conceive the two figures to have been transported to their present pedestals overlooking the Common, and you would have nothing worse than the twain erected there to day. You have petrified, for the instruction of youth and the approval of posterity, two politicians whose last joint public appearance was as combatants-the one representing the culminating
<C06>
wickedness and audacity of slavery, the other the hardly nascent spirit of devotion to liberty and resistance to oppression. Which is the monument of which you ought to be proud, and which is the model for the children of the Bay State? There is satire, and satise only, in every aspect of the case. The Secretary of the Board of Education offsets the supporter of a system.which waged eternal and unceasing war on schools! Between these two, Massachusetts walks up to her Capitol. Does her heart lie also between them?
M. DU. PAYS.

THE WASHINGTON CHRONICLE ON UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE.
The Washington Chronicle, the popularly recognized official organ of the Administration, has entered, perhaps with reluctance, but evidently at the dictation of the”powers that be,” upon its task of trying to show that universal suffrage ought not to be extended by the Federal Government in reconstructing the States recently in rebellion. At any rate,whatever the motive, it certainly makes but sorry work of it. It timorously took 
the first step, feeling its way along; but, with all its significant caution, it has repeatedly stumbled, and bruised itself sadly. As might be expected, its course has been curiously circulatory. In this respect, however, 
it is getting somewhat steadier, and perhaps stronger. It begins to make bolder attempts, so that soon we shall look to see it run of itself, and”going it blind."
In its progress towards evil, it has already got to have such a tender consideration for the wounded feelings of conquered Rebeldom, that it would have the subject of negro suffrage postponed indefinitely; perhaps till the Judgment Day; certainly, until the white people of the South-their unscrupulous enemies-see fit, of their own accord, to grant them this privilege; and this because it fears that the lords of the South, as well as the poor whites, may not like it. Yet, in the same breath, it confesses that ”it is with this class (poor whites ) that the idea of’ ‘negro equality’ has always been a great bugbear,” Acknowledging what is patent to the world, that the bitterest opposition, in the Southern States as everywhere else, to the colored man having his rights is the result of besotted ignorance, prejudice and selfishness, it seeks to prolong while it attempts to justify this evil. While there is some excuse for the ignorant and the prejudiced, there is none for him who sins against the light.
Its reconstructive policy, with patriotic unconcern, having left the colored race ”out in the cold” to shift for itself, seeks to make amend by claiming to have discovered the most wonderful virtues in that hither to universally condemned trash, known throughout the South as ”poor whites.” Lest this may be questioned, I quote its words, where, speaking 
of them, it says they are of ”that class to whom we must look for that regeneration of Southern society, and those reforms in Southern institutions, so essential to the harmonious working of our system of government, in the new era upon which we are just entering. 
Upon whom all our hopes of a harmonious and prosperous Union in the future are based!”
Nothing further is needed to show the extent of its base subserviency than in deprecating all reference to negro suffrage, as in the following words: ”Just in proportion as public sentiment is concentrated on this one object, will the real wants of these people be overlooked and neglected.” Its disinterestedness, in thus seeking to keep in the back-ground the most prominent question now before the American people, is only equaled by its criminality. It objects to having its political peace disturbed because, forsooth, it is ”calculated to irritate our Southern brethren”-those who, without the ghost of a shadow of a cause, so desperately and treasonably attempted the very life of the nation. It regards the agitation of giving the elective franchise to the only friends which the Government has had, throughout the South, during these four long and bloody years, as a”grievous injury.” And for the Government to give the Freedmen their only means of self-protection, the ballot, would be not only ”illegitimate,” but they ”would surely derive no benefit” there from; further, this political weapon of defence must not be given them, because ”it is important that the antipathies now unhappily existing should be mollified as much as possible;” and that even ”with the right of suffrage, the nagroes could expect nothing else but oppression.”
It falsely assumes that the negroes do not ask for the privilege of voting; it is something of which ”they remain in blissful ignorance;” that, so far as they are concerned, it is but ”an imaginary want;” and, even if the negro did possess it, ”it could not fail to prove disastrous to his welfare.” Thus, because the negro does not threateningly demand what is his righteous due, the same must be withheld from him!-practically resolving never to ”deal justly,” with reference to the rights of the black man, until actually obliged to. Very well. His friends, mortal and immortal, make this demand for him, and will yet force you to recognize the existence of such an attribute as retributive and distributive justice in the providences of God,
Its moral attitude is seen when it characterizes a proposition for the Government to return a moiety of the justice due for services rendered to the country when it was in extremest peril, as of ”questionable policy.” Its eyes are open to see, in the efforts now being made to give the ballot to 
those who gladly offered themselves a sacrifice to help save a Government which refused to recognize their manhood, ”nothing but mischief.” To a movement which contemplates the only sensible return which it is the prerogative of Government to make towards those who, on every possible occasion, and in the face of the grossest insults, insisted on returning good for evil; who even testified their eagerness to die for a country which had been their bitter, cruel enemy;-to a movement which, partially at least, would right their wrong, it can see”nothing but mischief;” to all else, to every instinct of nature, it is stone blind. For the loftiest magnanimity, truest heroism and moral grandeur yet found in human history-which signalizes the action of the blacks in the United States throughout this war for the maintenance of the Union, and which is forever destined to thrill the civilized world with admiration-for all this it 
has no eyes, and will not see. Every attempt which it has thus far made to show why the negro should not be allowed to vote, is but a poor rehash of the arguments always in vogue by the defenders and propagandists of slavery. Since advocating clemency towards mere lip-loyalists-made such by virtue of necessity-its descent has been rapid, and explains its boldness in seeking to withhold every vestige of what is morally due those whose hearts and hands have been only too glad for an opportunity to serve the cause of the Union; intuitionally feeling, as they did, that its success, that the restoration of the Union, meant liberty and justice to them, as well as justice to their mutual enemies. Alas! for the mutability of human hopes! ”What man is there of you whom, if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?"
Remembering the truth and wisdom expressed in the homely proverb, that ”a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush,” it yet prefers to wait, and to let those who have been actively engaged in the Rebellion-those who, with all their ”might, mind, soul and strength,” together with what they could beg, borrow and steal, have been fighting to upbuild a despotism founded upon human slavery-it prefers to let these precious exponents of Southern chivalry and Southern civilization voluntarily take their own time in deciding when the colored man shall be permitted to vote. ”Should not those in the South, who have fought on our side, be cared for before those who fought against us? Those who have been true to the Government should be protected first."
While those who made every effort they possibly could to crush out of existence the American Government forfeited their right, the negro, by his efforts in behalf of the Government, has more than fairly earn-

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
ed his right to vote. In fact, the negroes are the only coes in the South who are fit to vote. Undue importance in certain quarters is sought to be attached against giving the ballot to the blacks, because of their lack of intelligence. I like what Gen. Butler said on this point when, writing to a Massachusetts audience, he raised the inquiry, "Whether a man that can carry a cartridge-box is not fit to walk up to the ballot-box? Whether the man who knows how to handle a bayonet does not know how to handle a little. bit of paper? I am ready to admit the want of intelligence and cultivation in the negro; but he knew enough to be right in this contest, to be loyal, and that is a great deal more than his master did. In this reconstruction, we have got to trust to the instinct and not to the intellectual cultivation of the voter. I had rather trust to the loyal black instinct than to the be loyal white instinct."
But, really, the whole pith of the Washington Caronicle's opposition to universal suffrage can be truthfully stated in two or three lines. That the claims of honor, gratitude, duty, justice and humanity should not be extended towards our hitherto oppressed race, because, in so doing, the passion, pride and prejudice of their late masters may be excited; and because designing white politicians might possibly are the negro vote to further their own selfish purposes. Has pusillanimity and baseness a degree beyond this! God forbid! 
Because, forsooth, the Government has militarily got the better of the great Southern conspiracy, and the black man his quasi freedom, it would rest content, fold its arms, and go to sleep-forgetful that the Spirit of Rebellion is but smothered; that if there was the least prospect of success, it would strike again to-day more violently than ever; forgetful that the Spirit of Slavery is as domineering, ferocious and vindictive as in its palmiest days; forgetful of (if it ever rightly conceived) the great purposes for which the war was waged, and the sacred issues involved; forgetful that now, more than ever, a battle is to be fought, which, though bloodless, will yet try the souls of men as they have never been tried before.
Yours for the Spirit of Universal Freedom, 
July 4, 1865. WILBERFORCE.

GEN. SAXTON AND OTHERS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—I have been looking over my files of the anti-slavery papers, and find in the Liberator an attack, by a Dr. Knox, on the character of Gen. Saxton. Gen. Saxton is the only military officer of high rank, in the Department of the South, whom it is a superfluous labor to eulogize of defend. Other officers have earned our thanks by aiding or permitting anti-slavery men to work to advantage; but Gen. Saxton is as radical as any of us in theory, and none of us are more brotherly in our intercourse with the freedmen than he. In order to secure full justice to other officers, not abolitionists, but friendly or well-disposed to the blacks, I would cheerfully write a long letter, or put myself to a good deal of trouble; but in the case of Gen. Saxton, I should regard such an effort as a gratuitous impertinence. He is above suspicion and above reproach. Not one of us ranks him in fidelity to the Anti-Slavery cause.
Let me mention two other workers who merit special mention for their untiring and unobtrusive labors—GILBERT PILLSBURY and REUBEN TOMLINSON, both official assistants of the General. Mr. Pillsbury is the brother of the Parker, " whom we know," and is not a whit inferior to him as a faithful laborer for the race that has so long been oppressed. It is not a task calculated to inspire an ambitious man with cavy,-the work that he has had to do; but I know of no labor that a true Christian might more justly covet—to feed the hundreds of hungry refugees that daily throng his office; to clothe them, to give them prudent counsel, and to defend them against the petty, tyrannical encroachments of an unfriendly military power. Sometimes half disheartened, often tired out in mind and body, but resting from his labors never, this excellent and honest man keeps on in his course of duty, doing good continually. Next to the satisfaction 
of seizing Gov. Magrath's house as a. home for our "Yankee schoolmarms," and the princely mansion of the Ex-Secretary of the Treasury, Trenholm, as a colored orphan asylum, I remember no instance of confiscation that gave me greater pleasure than that act which handed over to our good friend Gilbert one of the stateliest palatial residences in Charleston. Long may his worthy wife and himself enjoy its comforts and elegancies, with none to molest them or make them afraid!
Reuben Tomlinson came from the same substantial Quaker stock that produced, or at least selected and sent down to the Department of the South, the Hallowells, 
the McKims, the Saxtons, (Mrs. and Major,) and others, who have succeeded in producing the impression there that the Philadelphia Freedmen's Aid Societies never-make mistakes. Mr. Tomlinson is acting Assistant Commissioner, and has a weighty responsibility, the duties of which, as far as my personal knowledge extends, he conscientiously labors to fulfil. He has no sentimentality—not a bit; and few men have a heartier hatred of shams and idlers. The class he represents is greatly needed in the South—sincere friends of the negroes, who will neither flatter nor patronize them, but help them only to help themselves.
Col. Hallowell, of the Massachusetts 54th, is one of our best officers and best men. How is it that when Wood ford went up, within a few weeks, from Lt. Colonel to Brig. General, and when poor Gurney, even, is promoted from Colonel to Brigadier,—both from one of the vilest regiments that ever disgraced our service and the North—how is it that this irreproachable commander of an irreproachable regiment. has not star on his epaulettes? The honor of Massachusetts in concerned in this matter. It has a most mischievous effect to see the officers of copperhead regiments advanced in rank, and the officers of colored troops not promoted. I hope that our Governor Andrew, whose career in all respects had done
him honor, and in some particulars—as in the case of the unfortunate murderer, the semi-imbecile Green—has done credit to human nature,—I hope that he will see to it that the glorious 54th is honored by the promotion of its commander. Brevets in South Carolina have been bestowed so plentifully that it is hardly an honor to receive one; but the fact that they are common singles out every old Colonel who fails to receive one.
In Charleston we have two thoroughly anti-slavery Colonels—both among the oldest-in the service; both men of integrity; both excellent officers; both with the best drilled troops in the Department—Hallowell and Beecher: why, excepting that their commands are colored, are they not promoted? South Carolinians ask this question; for an answer, let them "see stars." These People realty need their gentle light in that region of the moral night.
Yours, JAMES REDPATH.
CORRECTION. C. C. Burleigh wishes the following correction made in the report of his remarks at Framingham. Instead of saying that he "doubted if it would be best for the South to do this Work" (of securing the elective franchise to the black man)-he said, "No doubt it would be best for the South to do this work if she would do it." He doubted her willingness to do it, and the safety of trusting her with it.
THE 54TH AND 55TH REGIMENTS TO BE MUSTERED OUT. It is reported that the Mass. 54th and 55th Regiments—colored—are to be mustered out of the U. S. service immediately, and may soon be expected home. 
THE ORIGINAL LINCOLN CABIN. The original Lincoln Cabin, which he helped to build in Macon country, Illinois, in 1830, is to be exhibited on Boston Common. The identity of the structure is fully established. It was exhibited at the recent Sanitary Fair in Chicago, and was visited by thousands.
<c02>
A FLING AT MODERN PHILANTHROPISTS.
TO THE REV. JOHN WARE:
SIR—I attended the "Church of the Disciples" last Sunday, and heard your sermon upon the turning of water into wine, at the marriage feast in Cana. After vindicating the authenticity of the miracle, you proceeded to commend it as one of the characteristic good works of our Lord,—showing his interest in the common concerns of the people; and, after commenting upon this generous and amiable trait in his character, you added, in a manner to give emphasis to the invidious assertion, " None of our modern philanthropists or reformers would have done such a thing." The evident purpose of this gratuitous assertion was to bring the character of modern reformers and philanthropists into contempt, by contrasting, their dispositions and doings with the generous and benevolent deeds of Christ.
At the close of your discourse, I asked you on what ground you made the statement, that "none of our modern-reformers or philanthropists would do such a thing." Your reply was to the effect that you referred only to temperance reformers. This limitation would not have been inferred from your discourse, nor did it mend the matter. All our modern reformers and philanthropists are known as advocates or friends of the cause of temperance, and the opponents of the cause of temperance are the opponents of all reform. I will add, that if there was ever a time when the power of Christianity was needed to rescue humanity from overwhelming evil and suffering, it is now, in the cause of temperance.
I agree with you that the precepts and example of our Savior are worthy of reverence and imitation, and form a proper standard by which to measure ourselves and others. That "our modern reformers and philanthropists" have more reason to shrink from such a test than others, or that they are the fanatics and misanthropes represented in your remarks, is untrue. Your position as priest in a Baltimore church, involving the necessity of accommodating your studies and sermons to the moral latitude of that city, excuses you from the imputation of willful misrepresentation, and palliates the bad taste which led to the selection of such a sermon for delivery in the "Church of the Disciples." 
Permit me to guard you from such a blunder in the future, by informing you that it is not the mode, even among the most unscrupulous of the opposers of our modern reformers and philanthropists, to accuse them of misanthropy, or of any lack of generous devotion to the common interests of common people. I can give you a copy of the common form of indictment. By religionists, they are accused of infidelity—of not believing in the Church, and of discarding the Bible, and the Sabbath, and the doctrine of salvation by faith, and the potency of the devil, and the reality of the lake that burneth with fire and brimstone, and the like cardinal principles of piety. By politicians they are charged with too much zeal in their efforts—with being people of one idea—with disturbing the peace of society, unsettling established institutions, and embarrassing governmental policy by untimely opposition and uncompromising impracticability. These are, or rather have been, the current charges. Of late, they have become more infrequent, and more subdued in tone, so as to mingle but a little more than an agreeable proportion of discord with the preens and plaudits which now fill the air in honor of those so lately maligned. Even in Baltimore, as I am well-informed, the spirit of reviling and persecution has become less dominant; and the keys of those prisons where Garrison was confined and the martyr Torrey died, are now taken from the dying grasp of drunken tyranny by the angel of deliverance. May the reform, begun at the prison, reach the pulpit, and purify every refuge of lies!
I would, however, respectfully suggest, that it is not necessary for you to wait the slow progress of light in Maryland, since you are now in Massachusetts, and may, by proper inquiry, learn much to benefit yourself, and something to take home to your people. Any one will tell you that the minister, in whose pulpit you preached last Sunday, and also many of the most respected of the congregation, belong to or sympathize with the class of modern reformers and philanthropists which you stigmatize.
If you will walk to the front of the State House, you will see a statue, the most beautiful work of art the Commonwealth can boast, lately erected in honor of one of " our modern reformers and philanthropists," (a temperance reformer no less than in other fields,)—and you may buy, at any bookstore, the lately published volume of his life, which I earnestly recommend to your study, not only for information, but also for the purification of principle and enlargement of spirit you may gain thereby. If you visit the City Library you may find, in a conspicuous part of that noble institution, the munificent donation of books from Theodore Parker; and if you turn to the introduction of the catalogue, you may read the just and eloquent acknowledgment of the value of the gift and the merit of the donor, who was one of the most feared and maligned of our modern reformers and philanthropists—although I think detraction was never so base in Boston as to accuse him (or any of the others here named) of misanthropy, or as not ready to turn water into wine, so far as kind and generous deeds and sympathies could do it. Indeed, it is the well-known acknowledgment and complaint of the pious and conservative opposers of these modern reformers and philanthropists, that their doctrines are made the more dangerous by the known amiability of their characters, and the self sacrificing generosity and good deeds of their lives. 
I will not multiply examples. Any one of your late congregation can tell yon you much that it will be worth your while to know of such men as the late Francis Jackson and Charles F. Hovey,—men who were earnest supporters of the temperance as of other reforms; and also of the many representatives of modern reformers and philanthropists now living in and near Boston, and of the esteem in which they are held. You know the record of Lyman Beecher, the apostle of temperance, ever honored. If you will read the sermon of his son, Henry Ward Beecher, giving an account of the raising of the flag at Fort Sumter, where Mr. Garrison and his friends,—temperance advocates all,—were awarded the highest honors among the noblest in the land at that grand celebration, you will perhaps infer that the time for such remarks as you made last Sunday is past, a least this side of Baltimore, and may possibly even imagine that the sermons you are accustomed to read to your own congregation may be slightly modified, as sails are cautiously trimmed to the coming breeze.
I forbear to enter upon a comparison of the class you revile with the class you represent, viz., the priesthood of the Southern States, further than to suggest the subject for your prayerful consideration.
In conclusion, I should perhaps offer an apology to yourself and the congregation for addressing you publicly at the dose of your sermon. It is, that I felt it my duty, not to be evaded without self-condemnation. The assertion to which I called attention in a few courteous words was a slanderous assertion, and demanded, at least, that extent of instant reproof. I never before, in the course of a long life, found occassion to interrupt the order of religious service, except once, in Memphis, Tenn., when the minister of the Episcopal church in that city omitted the usual prayer for the President of the United States. This covert treason I rebuked by rising, and supplying the commission.
The privileges of the pulpit are very large. False doctrine, folly and stupidity may make it their secure castle and throne, and I will listen in silence; but neither treason nor slander is entitled to any such sanctuary. The faithful worshipper is bound to vindicate honor and loyalty everywhere, however sacred the person by whom or the place where they are violated.
"He rights such wrong where it is given, 
Though it were is the e coure of heaven."
<c03>
Hoping to hear from you, to those of whom you have spoken ill, a good excuse or an honorable retraction,
I am, your humble servant, D. M.
LETTER FROM MRS. CHILD.
WAYLAND, July 5, 1865.
To the Editor of the Boston Transcript: I suppose you in the city think yourselves greatly ahead of us, because our pleasant little village is so far from the railroad that we can hear the whistle only in favorable states of the atmosphere. But I assure you we are not so far behind the world's ways as you may think. Our normal condition does not superabound with life, but when a citizen expressed his opinion that it would be good policy to educate and arm the slaves, a mob was forthwith threatened, and he was assailed by epithets as scurrilous as ever Ann Street poured forth under the pay of State Street. We, as well as you, have men who walk out of meeting when a loyal sermon is preached. We, as well as you, have men who were always " cheerful up" when such tidings as Bull Run and Ball's Bluff arrived, but who looked as if some dire misfortune had happened to dear friends when Lee surrendered to Grant. You by no means have a monopoly of those sagacious patriots who wish that Brooks had killed Charles Sumner. And as for admirers of Southern character, you should come here if you wish to obtain a certificate, from personal observation, that the slaves at the South were extremely well-treated and happy, and that the masters are perfect gentlemen. 
Luckily, there are many thousands in the country now who have learned by personal observation, and somewhat bitter experience, that slavery makes as courtly-mannered gentlemen as ever scourged women, or hunted unpaid laborers with bloodhounds, or sold their own children, or attempted to murder an unarmed Senator, or systematically starved and froze prisoners to death, or paid to have pestilence imported into cities, or hired assassins to stab a sick man in his bed, or shoot a President whose greatest weakness was that he treated them too gently.
But our little world here has its sunny, as well as its shady side. Our highly endowed clergyman, Edmund H. Sears, has always borne noble testimony to the truth on the subject of slavery, before it had become popular to do so. Mr. Bullard, the Orthodox clergyman, who is recently settled, and of whom I know less, manifests a very friendly spirit toward our colored brethren. Some of our democrats were honest enough to leave their party when they found out that it bore a false name. A few have uniformly upheld the cause of the slave, though they incurred obloquy thereby. Some have left home and kindred to fight in their country's cause, from motives nobler than pocketing her bounty. Twelve have fallen on battle-fields, or died in hospitals. Those that returned home received a public welcome from the town on the Fourth of July. It was really a charming scene. Nature did her best, giving us bright atmosphere and invigorating breeze. It was a day beautiful enough to be the commemoration of a nation's regeneration, of its second birth, far more glorious than its first. The children of three Sunday Schools were out in procession with bouquets, and flags, and gay ribbons. They were arranged on each side of the road to the church, and the returned soldiers, with an escort of citizens, marched through, to the tune of "The Campbells are Coming."
The interior of the church was tastefully decorated with evergreens in festoons, and stars, and crosses, and the words Victory and Peace, Freedom and Union. A band played, and a large choir of young voices sang "The Star Spangled Banner," and "Hurrah for Our Volunteers." The pulpit was richly adorned with flowers, and in front of it was a monument, dressed with evergreens, bearing the names of the volunteers who had died. Our reverend old patriarch, John B. Wight, made a most excellent and appropriate prayer. Richard S. Fuller, Esq., read an original poem, true to the highest standard of principle, and full of good points, all hitting in the right direction. The Rev. Mr. Bullard read the Declaration of Independence, which an honest American can now read without blushing for the lie.
The Rev. Edmund H. Sears welcomed the soldiers in a very eloquent and impressive address, thanking them for their services, and reminding them that by their privations and sufferings they had preserved an I undivided country, arrested the course of despotism throughout the world, cheered the hearts of liberals every where, raised four millions of chattels to the condition of men, substituted wages for the lash, the school-house for the slave-pen, and the pulpit for the auction-block.
Capt. Francis Draper had been an officer in a colored regiment. Being the worthy son of a worthy sire and grandsire, he went into the army with such an education for freedom as the crisis needed, and he returned to add his testimony to many others in favor of the emancipated bondmen. In a personal address to him, Mr. Sears took occasion to speak of how much the country owed to the loyalty and bravery of the colored troops.
I saw several Copperheads at the celebration of this Harvest Home, the ripening of which they had done their utmost to hinder. I think they must have suffered for their sins while listening to the poem and the address. Had I been in their place, I should rather have spent the time on a bed of hatchel teeth.
The remainder of the services I did not stay to hear.
I am surprised as well as pleased to find how many minds see the necessity of negro suffrage; for I am more and more strongly impressed with the idea that it is the only way to save the Republic. Effective colored lecturers can do much at this crisis. Two have recently spoken in this and neighboring towns, and I think the influence was extremely good. Mrs. Harper's fervid eloquence warmed up the people surprisingly. More recently, John D. Gurley, formerly a fugitive slave, has spoken in a manner that commanded respect and admiration. He is truly a remarkable man. One of his auditors said to me, " I tell you what, folks are changing. Some begin to think that a man like that Mr. Gurley might as well be trusted to vote as some white folks." I smiled, as I internally compared Mr. Gurley's noble head with the cranium of some white voters that I know. Luckily, his uncommon intelligence cannot be ascribed to Anglo-Saxon blood; for his complexion is very dark and his hair closely crisped. L. M. C.

LET THE GALLED JADE WINOE.
The Journal of Commerce regrets, it is even indignant at, the appearance of criticisms upon the Administration. It thinks that Mr. Theophilus Parsons and sundry other Massachusetts worthies (" according to their own interpretation of words ") are out as enemies of the Government. It asserts that this class of men (the participators in the Faneuil Hall meeting) "were always unwilling that any one who did not agree with them should have free speech." It exclaims—" What a poor miserable set of advisers these men are, and how thoroughly the people of Massachusetts ought to be ashamed of them! "And it affirms that the very sense of freedom has been blunted in the popular mind, and that" this base, this disgraceful change in the character of the people "comes" wholly from the doctrine taught by these Boston demagogues and fanatics."
Poor Journal of Commerce! It tries hard to make it appear that there is no difference between loyal and disloyal criticism. It cannot get over the remembrance of the governmental check which its treasonable conduct received a few years ago; and it assumes that, by that precedent, every man who finds fault with the Administration should be clapped on the shoulder by the Provost Marshal.
We accept, with as much gratitude as is due, the compliment above paid to the practical efficiency of Boston ideas. We know that Boston is great. We believe, further, that it will prevail.-C. K. W.
<c04>
NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
A meeting was held on Monday evening in Rev. Mr. Grimes's Church, Southac street, to discuss the question of extending the right of suffrage to the negroes. George L. Ruffin occupied the chair. Addresses were made by William Wells Brown, Rev. Mr. Fulton, and Rev. Mr. Chase, and resolutions were adopted by the meeting, of which the following is the substance:
That in any of the so-called rebel States, now without State Governments, no loyal citizen can be rightfully prevented, on account of race or color, from exercising the privilege of voting for delegates to any convention for forming a Constitution for the State in which he lives; that any Constitution framed by a convention which excludes the voice of those loyalists of the South, who have been declared free by proclamation and by the laws of Congress, and have also been made citizens by being enrolled and drafted, is not in harmony with the spirit of republican institutions, and likewise not valid, and Congress is respectfully but earnestly urged to reject any Constitution so constructed; that the sympathies and prayers of the meeting were toward the colored men of the South, who are urged to assert their claims to civil rights on all occasions and in every lawful manner; that the elective franchise rightfully belongs to every loyal man in the South, without distinction of color; and that if, in the reconstruction of the rebel States, the colored race is excluded from the polls, they will be deprived of the means of protecting their liberties, and be in the power of their old oppressors by an act of denial of rights which would merit the censure of every right-thinking man.
The meeting was well attended, and the proceedings harmonious. 

TEACHERS' RECEPTION.
Yesterday afternoon, the members and friends of the New England Freedmen's Aid Society gave a social reception at the Fraternity Rooms, No. 554 Washington street, to several teachers who have recently returned from their labors at the South. There was quite a large party present, who were much gratified at the opportunity thus given for social intercourse and information.
Edward Atkinson, Esq. called the company to order shortly before 5 o'clock, and after expressing regret that not so large a number of teachers were able to be present as had been anticipated, called upon Rev. Charles Lowe, of Somerville, to give a welcome to the teachers who were present.
Mr. Lowe said he had been asked to do a pleasant thing, for he could speak from the heart of all connected with the association, in welcoming the teachers who had been so fortunate as to reach home so soon. While he could speak in language of extravagance the praises of some of them, he could speak with pride of all of them, as entitled by their labors and faithful services to our gratitude. They had not received nor expected the full salary which their services would have commanded at the North, but had been in a great measure remunerated by their consciousness of being engaged in as noble work as ever men or women had to do. He exhorted the members of the branch societies to continue the work which they had but just begun, for which the cessation of the war had opened a wide field, hitherto reaped only in its sheltered corners.
Speaking of the need of instructors to do a work which the government could not perform, he said that South Carolina needed one hundred Northern teachers, North Carolina one hundred and fifty, and Virginia a much larger number; and, as the government had discontinued issuing rations to teachers, all their support must here alter be drawn from the freedmen's aid societies. The average cost of sustaining teachers for a year to come would be about five hundred dollars, and the least amount which the association needed to carry on the work for that period was half a million dollars.
He said these things as a stimulus to the work of humanity and patriotism. Every breath from the South showed that there could be no security for the nation unless political power was withheld from the disloyal whites until it was given to the blacks. This political power, in his opinion, should be founded on education, and hence the great importance of the work in which the teachers were engaged. Never was there a cause which came nearer to that of the Sanitary Commission, whose place it now stands ready to take. Mr. Lowe urged his hearers to go to their homes and labor for this cause, and ask others to labor for it. 
Mr. Atkinson again briefly addressed the meeting, saying that some of our merchants, who were anxious to have the suffrage question settled rightly, were taking measures to bring a case before the Supreme Court of the United States, in order to get a decision of the question whether the clause of the Constitution authorizing the States to fix the qualifications of voters gave power to make color a qualification. It was a question with many whether it was constitutional to prescribe a qualification which every citizen could not no acquire.
Rev. Mr. Grimes added his hearty welcome to the greetings already given, saying that he had seen the teachers at their work, and knew something of their toils and sacrifices.
Mr. Garrison, after repeated calls, tendered his profound homage and admiration to the teachers engaged in this noble work. He felt that it was not possible to express the courage, self-sacrifice and self-denial required of them. To realize it, one must see the people whom they were endeavoring to educate, and see the vastness of the field. It was as if all New England was heathenized, and needed to be educated. Whether this wide field would remain open to our efforts depended upon the action of the government. If the military power were withdrawn, the schools would be broken up, and every effort made by the South to prevent the negro from qualifying himself for citizenship.
Mr. Garrison said he was himself in favor of giving the ballot to all adults, of whatever color or sex. The problem was, however, a difficult one to solve. Its solution was not self-evident. It was a question of the Constitution and State rights. The action of some of the Northern States, in excluding the blacks from the polls, made the problem still more difficult and paradoxical. After the States had got into the Union, no control could be exercised over the question. What should be done before they are allowed to come in was the question now pressing upon us. In his judgment, the government might and ought to give the colored men the privilege of participating in the choice of delegates to State conventions; but he hoped there would be no haste in reconstruction.
The work before us was one of Christian benevolence and atonement. We of the North had been guilty; our own garments were polluted; and the South had a right to call upon us, as partners in its guilt, for assistance. Mr. Garrison closed by speaking favorably of the capacity, peaceable disposition and hopefulness of the freedmen, and expressing an ardent wish for the success of the enterprises inaugurated to elevate them.
Rev. Mr. Waterston added a few words of welcome to the teachers, and of tribute to their noble spirit.
Mr. James Redpath made a statement of what had been done in Charleston since his appointment as superintendent of the public schools there. All the schools were opened on the 4th of March, with 1000 pupils. When he left the city, there were over 6000, of which latter number about 1000 were white, and the remainder colored. The scholars were making great progress. The night schools which had been established numbered about 500 pupils.
The secessionists, Mr. Redpath said, still entertained deep hatred toward the North, and boasted that they would have their own way when the Yankees left. In consequence of the alarm of the negroes on this point, Gen. Hatch has permitted him to organize a battalion of colored troops, which he raised in one week. The secessionists had tried to break up the schools and the colored battalion, but had been unsuccessful, owing to the measures of Col. Woodford and Gen. Hatch. Mr. Redpath continued his remarks at some length, and closed by expressing his conviction of the danger to be feared from giving power to the whites of the South.
Rev, Mr. Lowe and Mr. Garrison spoke from personal knowledge of the work accomplished by Mr. Redpath in Charleston, and of the affection of the colored people for him, describing him as a servant who deserved well of the friends of the cause.
Brief remarks in sympathy with the occasion were made by Col. Crafts, of the 5th New Hampshire Regiment.
Mrs. Ellen W. Harper spoke eloquently and affectingly of the disenthralment of her race, and the grand possibilities of their future attainments, and thanked the teachers for their efforts in behalf of the down trodden.
Further remarks were made by Miss Washington and Miss Carter, teachers from Washington city, after which the company partook of a collation in the room above the hall.-Boston Daily Advertiser of Friday.
Barnum's Museum in New York has been totally destroyed by fire. In addition, eighteen buildings were destroyed, causing a loss of about a million dollars, one half of which only is covered by insurance. St. Paul's Church caught fire, but was saved by the firemen. The only property saved from the Museum was the glass steam engine.
<c05>
THE FOURTH IN MOBILE.
A special correspondent of the New Orleans Tribune, writing from Mobile under date of July 5th, says:-
"The ever-memorable Fourth was celebrated here by the colored population in fine style. The procession formed at the Medical College as follows:—Two regiments of colored troops—Mechanic's and Draymen's Association-Steamboatmen's Association—Firemen's Association, consisting of eight companies—Benevolent Society—Daughters of Zion—Sons of Zion—Evening Star Virgin Sons and Daughters-Missionary Society—Young Men's Association—Sisters of Charity—two Benevolent Societies belonging to the Mission Baptist Church, and many others, whose names I did not learn. A large number of enfranchised citizens turned out to witness the demonstration. Many' looked daggers,' but could not prevent it. Capt. J. H. Ingraharn, of your city, and A. Saton, addressed the vast assembly in the public square. Upon the very spot where, a few years ago, the apostle of human slavery (W. L. Yancey) stood up and declared that slavery was a divine institution, stood J. H. Ingraham and others, and declared that slavery was dead; and as A. Saton remarked to-day, it will be buried so deep that the judgment will not find it!
"The procession, after the speeches were over, formed a line, and marched back to the Medical College, and disbanded. Arrangements had been made for a grand picnic, to which your correspondent was invited, but owing to the excessive heat, failed to attend.
"Everything passed off quietly and with satisfaction. One thing I noticed—most all the insults and injuries that our people received were from the hands of men wearing the garb of the army and navy of the United States! This may seem strange, but it is true.
" I never saw a meaner or a more negro-hating class of people than the men who are now on provost duty here. They are all Western troops, from Illinois and Indiana. With a few exceptions, they are the meanest and lowest men I ever met with in my life. Passing along the street, your ears are continually greeted with, ' I hope they'll kill every d—d nigger they come across."' We need a newspaper of our own, and must and will have it, that our grievances may be published to the world. There is too much of conservatism and magnanimity in our military to expect much at their hands. Whatever an influential rebel advises is generally done. We want a change in the Mayor's office, and the whole police force.
"The authorities committed one of the greatest errors known by permitting R. H. Slough, the Common Council, and other civil functionaries, to remain in office, when they took possession of the city. We want a military Mayor, and a change in the police department. 
"A meeting was to come off in the evening, but the Rebs and Copperhead Union soldiers had threatened to kill all they met, which frightened our timid leaders, who concluded not to meet." 
THE FOURTH IN VIRGINIA. The anniversary festivities at Richmond on the 4th of July were not enthusiastic, except, perhaps, among a portion of the Union soldiers stationed there, and at the picnics of the freed people. One small flag only floated on the State Capitol; none from the Governor's mansion; none from the custom-house; none from the large hotels. There were no salutes, no ringing of bells, no demonstration of pleasure or pride on the part of the citizens. Everything peculiarly Virginian passed that day in sullen silence. 
The colored population had a lively time two miles from the city, making the best of their first real holiday, and giving themselves up to every kind of innocent revelry. The white people made a respectable demonstration, at which the prayer was offered by Rev. G. S. Stockwell, temporarily in charge of the colored schools, the Declaration of Independence was read by Miss Mary E. Walker, late surgeon in the army, addresses were made by chaplains of various Northern regiments—but no Virginian appeared till after the sun went down. 
Capt. Atwood, of the 2d Massachusetts cavalry, lately assigned to duty as Superintendent of Freedmen in the counties between the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers and east of the Blue Ridge, was at a picnic at Great Falls on the Potomac, where more boisterous hostility was manifested, and the old rebellious spirit was only prevented from outbreak by concession and forbearance on the part of those who preferred to submit to the authority of the government. There was about equal submission to that and to the outlaws who have been the terror of that section since Mosby's surrender left them without regular employment.
THE COLORED PEOPLE'S CELEBRATION AT COLUMBIA, S. C. The celebration of the 4th of July by the colored people at Columbia, S. C., was a grand affair. The procession numbered at least five thousand men;, and probably not less than twelve thousand colored people were present; and in all that vast crowd there was not a single case requiring the attention of the military authorities. The proceedings throughout the whole day were characterized by complete quietness and order. At the table reserved for white visitors stood a large monumental cake, dressed in mourning, and with a flag bearing the inscription: " In Memory of our Friend, Abraham Lincoln." It was touching to see the reverence with which it was brought on the table. Several patriotic speeches were made, and dances and games were kept up long after dark. The correspondent of the New York Tribune, from whom the account is taken, says that the celebration has created a much better feeling between the old master and the new freedman, and it is to be hoped that the good seed is not sown in vain. Not a white person had anything to do with the arrangements of the meeting. 

COLORED SCHOOLS IN ARKANSAS. 
We learn that the colored schools at Helena, in charge of Superintendent W. F. Allen, are in a highly prosperous condition. The town is divided, into the north, south and west districts, and the scholars attend the schools in their own division. 
There were in January six teachers and 378 scholars. The number of teachers is inadequate for the number of pupils, and attendance would be much larger if sufficient school-room could be had. An effort is being made to establish a school of higher grade for advanced scholars. 
The plans of Col. John Eaton, Jr., the General Superintendent of Freedmen, to bring the people to pay tuition as they are able, are working well. Several hundred dollars have been collected. There has been no disposition to shirk. The attendance has been much more regular and punctual since fees have been
paid. 
The freedmen on Island 63, in charge of Chaplain Thomas, have an excellent school in operation, which numbers about sixty pupils, besides soldiers. There is also one on the Williamson plantation with fifty scholars. Several lessees have expressed an intention to have schools upon their places as soon as the necessary arrangements can be made. Memphis Bulletin.
INSTANCE OF THE CASTE PERJUDICE AGAINST THE NEGROES. An amusing instance we have heard related, says the Rochester (N. Y.) Express, illustrates the fact that caste prejudice has more to do with the objections to the negro than any real personal offensiveness of that people. A party of colored people from
a Canadian town were here spending the Fourth, and in the evening visited the theatre. They were welldressed, and appeared as decorously as other guests of the place, and the usher, supposing them to be "natives of the West Indies" sometimes called " Creoles "-gave them as good seats as there were available at the time. Soon after, a person in the audience approached the usher, and asked why he placed "niggers in the-dress circle." "Niggers?" said the usher; "those are not niggers—they are a wealthy party of Cubans, stopping at the Osburn House."' "Oh, ah!! that's so, is it? Well, that makes a great difference." And the objector returned to his seat, soon got up a conversation with the " Cubans," exchanged programmes—perhaps cards—and seemed to be highly pleased with the distinguished strangers, The colored party were observed from the stage, also, occupying eligible seats, and the usher was again reproached for delinquency. But the same explanation being offered, the fastidious gentleman's prejudices! vanished in a trice, and he was afterwards seen admiring the fine appearance of the "Habanese" from behind a "coign of vantage" in the wings. Now, it turns out that the door-keeper and all were slightly mistaken as to the identity of these persons. They were, in fact, " colored people," residents of Canada, where they are treated according as they behave themselves, well or ill, and are not proscribed because they wear " sable livery."
THE ACCIDENT ON THE STEAMER OTTAWA. The horrible calamity by which three estimable ladies were killed on the steamer Ottawa, at Put in Bay, on the 4th, was mainly the culpable fault of those having charge of the-steamboat. The shaft by which the ladies were crushed to death was that which moved the two paddle wheels of the steamer, and was directly across the main deck, in a horizontal position, some eighteen inches above the deck. Just where it had been broken and spliced a nut protruded, and this caught the crinoline of a Miss Whitehead, who happened to step over it at that particular place. It instantly dragged her down, and in falling she caught a Mrs. Montgomery, and Mrs. M. grasped a Mrs. Southwick. The remorseless, shaft went on revolving, dragging the three women round and round, crushing their forms between itself and the deck, till the two first were a mangled, shapeless mass of bloody flesh and clothing. The third only had her leg and back broken, but of course died" instantly. The criminal carelessness of the boat-owners consists in leaving the shaft in such an exposed condition.
<c06>
DEATH OF A PIONEER PIANO MANUFACTURER. Deacon Timothy Gilbert, one of our best known and most useful citizens, died this morning after a long illness, at the age of 68 years and six months. He was the oldest living piano-forte manufacturer in Boston, having served his apprenticeship with Mr. Currier, the pioneer in that important branch of domestic industry. Mr. Gilbert was widely known as a philanthropist, and liberal and constant benefactor of the Temperance and Anti-Slavery causes. The Tremont Theatre was purchased and established as a free Baptist church mainly through his instrumentality. Tran script of Wednesday.
MARRIED-In this city, July 12, by Rev. James Freeman Clarks, GEORGE A. FENNO to HELEN MARY MANLEY, daughter of John R. Manley, all of Boston.

THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be First—The discussion, of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with, greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second—The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between, them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life. 
Fourth—The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their clevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth—The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory.
Sixth—The collection and diffusion of trustworthy Information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life. 
Seventh—Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred. 
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it. 
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose positions and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide. 
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences. 
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors: 
HENRY W. LONGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G.WHITTIER, 
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College. Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,) 
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. (HARVARD,) 
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,) 
Prof. D. C. GILMA, (Yale,) 
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,) 
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLE,
HENRY T. TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRSION,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILETON,
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &C. &c. 
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
NO. 130 Nassau st., New York. 
June 16.

WOOL. 
THE undersigned, late in the employ of Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBRUN, having leased the lofts at Nos. 6 and 8 Channing Street, is prepared to do the WOOL COMMISSION and BROKERAGE business.
He takes this method of calling attention to his facilities for selling, his store being admirably located, and his acquaintance with manufacturers large. Consignments are respectfully solicited, and consignors are assured that all Wool sent to him will be carefully graded and faithfully handled. Liberal advances made when required. 
Orders from manufacturers for the purchase, of Fleece or Pulled Wools, either in the Boston, New York or Philadelphia markets, will receive immediate attention.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Ja. 
References: 
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston. 
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York. 
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia. 
Boston, July 14, 1865. 

Dr. Ayer's Cathartic Pills 
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take. and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:—
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, sure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
June 2. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p> 
Poetry.
"The Relative Position of Abraham Lincoln and J. Wilkes Booth in Spirit-Life," was the subject of the lecture by Miss Lizzie Doten, on Sunday evening, June 18th, at Lyceum Hall, in Boston. The discourse was marked by its fairness and large practical charity for the misguided and erring, and the glorious position it assigned to the martyred patriot. At the close of the address, under the influence of another spirit, Miss Doten delivered the following poem, which is on the same subject, and in harmony with the discourse, foreshadowing the future that is to be of the spirits of Lincoln and Booth.-Banner of Light.

"IMPLORO PACE."
I pray for Peace! Oh Thou Eternal Power!
Before whose face my sins stand all confessed, 
Grant me a respite for one little hour-
From this wild torture give, oh give me rest!
Oh this undying worm! this quenchless fire! 
I writhe in anguish, but cannot expire.
I pray for Peace! Be merciful, oh God!
To one who stumbled in his earthly way;
In doubt and darkness all life's path I trod,
And deemed it virtue when I went astray.
Oh, that fierce flame which scathed my erring heart, 
Still through my being sends its fiery smart.
I pray for Peace! O Thou who didst create,
And mould my being through thy sovereign will,
Was I not moved, through wrath and murderous hate, 
Thine own mysterious purpose to fulfil?
Then wherefore do I thus in anguish lie?
Let" Mercy, seasoning Justice," hear my cry.
I pray for Peace! Before my troubled soul 
Pass long processions, mournfully and slow,
“While funeral bells, with deep and solemn toll,
Smite on my “wounded spirit," blow on blow;
And on my hand behold a crimson stain.
Of blood!-e witness of the martyr slain.
O ye whose nerves will shrink at touch of steel,
Who fall before the cannon's fiery breath-
Rejoice if't is not yours to also feel
The keener anguish of the "second death.”
The soul, with pride and passion still at strife,
Must die to these ere it can enter life.
I pray for Peace! Oh let the cooling rain 
Of pitying tear-drops greet me from above;
Send down some messenger to soothe my pain!
Oh let the white-winged, olive-bearing dove, 
Descend, and let this raging tempest cease.
I pray for Peace! Oh God! I pray for Peace!
My prayer is answered, for a voice I hear;
And kindling brightly, like a star in space,
There beams at length, upon my vision, clear,
The radiant outlines of an Angel face.
Oh God!-a well-known face!-my sight grows dim-
Send me a helper, Lord-but oh, not him!
He speaks: "Oh thou, whose parricidal hand 
Opened for me the shining door of heaven,
My soul cannot to fullest life expand
Till I forgive, as I would be forgiven.
Take then this willing hand, which I extend,
And trust me as a helper and a friend.
Cast thou aside the jealousies and hate
Which so mislead the blinded sons of earth,
And seize those fair occasions which create
New elements of strength and moral worth.
Ay, ‘come up higher,' and in heaven's pure light
Thy soul shall see God orders all things right."
Blest spirit! I obey. A mighty law
Compels me to accept new life from thee;
My pride is humbled, and with reverent awe 
I bow submissive to the high decree.
Oh world of mysteries! Oh wondrous land!
The slain walks with the slayer, hand in hand.
The air grows pure and cool-a peaceful calm
Falls like a benediction on my head;
And deep contrition, like a Sabbath psalm,
Its holy influence through my soul hath shed. 
Oh, sons of earth, I charge you, do not cease 
To pray for Peace-for Heaven's eternal Peace!

THE PEACE JUBILEE.
BY MISS E. A. KIDDER.
'Tis the Peace Jubilee, sing Hosanna!
Rejoice, oh ye freemen, rejoice!
One Country, one People, one Banner,
One national heart, and one voice!
Now that victory hath crowned each endeavor, 
And honored the flag of the free,
May our laud be united forever;
Three cheers for the Peace Jubilee!
Chorus-Send the shout o'er the foam-crested ocean,
To the farthermost isles of the sea
For the people, by four years' devotion,
Have earned this their Peace Jubilee!
Fair Columbia! resplendent with beauty,
From the fiery baptism comes forth;
She hath cancelled, by doing her duty,
The sins of the South and the North.
The bright stars and stripes in their glory
Reveal no dark stains to the world, 
For millions of slaves tell the story:
"The standard of Freedom's unfurled."
Chorus.
‘Tis the Peace Jubilee-let the Nation
Give thanks, as the voice of one man, 
Unto God for our country's salvation,
A part of His glorious plan; 
Send the shout o'er the foam-crested ocean, 
To the farthermost isles of the sea; 
For a people, by four years' devotion,
Have earned this their Peace Jubilee!
Chorus.
Join our Peace Jubilee, for before us
A glorious future expands;
A theme in our triumphant chorus;
Our hymn for all nations and lands!
A future when Justice, unfettered,
Shall rule undisturbed on her throne,
And the masses, though poor and unlettered,
May claim Freedom's rights as their own!
Chorus.

SOUTH CAROLINA-1865.
Behold her now, with restless, flashing eyes,
Crouching, a thing forlorn, beside the way!
Behold her ruined altars heaped to-day”
With ashes of her costly sacrifice!
How changed the once proud State that led the strife,
And flung the war-cry first throughout the land!
See helpless now the parricidal hand
Which aimed the first blow at the nation's life!
The grass is growing in the city's street,
Where stand the shattered spires, the broken walls;
And through the solemn noonday silent falls
The sentry's footsteps as he treads his beat.
Behold once more the old flag proudly wave
Above the ruined fortress by the sea!
No longer shall that glorious banner be
The ensign of a land where dwells the slave.
Hark! on the air what swelling anthems rise!
A ransomed people, by the sword set free,
Are chanting now a song of liberty:
Hear how their voices echo to the skies!
O righteous retribution! great and just!
Behold the palm tree fallen to the earth,-
Where Freedom, rising from a second birth,
No more shall trail her garments in the dust!
-Harper's Weekly.

HOPE.
Hope leads the child to plant the flower,
The man to sow the seed; 
Nor leaves fulfillment to her hour,-
But prompts again to deed.
And ere upon the old man's dust
The grass is seen to wave,
We look through falling tears, to trust
Hope's sunshine on the grave.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE DISCOURSE OF LABIENUS.
HISTORICAL CRITICISM IN THE TIME OF AUGUSTUS.
Translated for the Liberator from the French of M. A. Rogeard.
[The following satire upon the Emperor Napoleon's Life, of Julius Casar has become famous not more from its remarkable boldness and ability, than from the fact that it was immediately suppressed in Paris, and its author compelled to flee for safety to Belgium.]
This occurred in the seventh year after Christ, and the thirty-eighth of the reign of Augustus, seven years before his death; the principate was at its zenith, the people had a master. Having slowly emerged from that bloody mist which had crimsoned its rise, the star of Julius was now ascending, and shed a gentle radiance upon the silent forum. It was a beautiful moment! The senate-house was dumb, the laws were self-enacting. No more assemblies of the curise or of the centuries, no more bills, no more appeals, no more secessions, no more popular decrees, no more elections, no more disorder. No longer any Army of the Republic (nulla publica arma): everywhere Roman peace, obtained by conquest over Romans. A single tribune, Augustus; a single army, Augustus's; a single will, his own; a single consul, himself; a single censor, himself again; a single pretor, himself, and always himself. Eloquence proscribed lay at death's door in the shadow of the schools; literature was perishing under the protection of Maecenas; Livy ceased to write, Labeo to speak; it was forbidden to read Cicero, and society was saved. As for glory, they had it, doubtless, as becomes an empire that respects itself. There had been a little fighting all around; the nations to the north and south, on the right hand and on the left, had been beaten quite enough; there were names to put at the corners of streets and on triumphal arches; there were conquered peoples to enchain upon bas-reliefs; there were the Dalmatians, the Cantabrians, the Aquitanians, and the Pannonians; there were the Illyrians, the Rhetians, the Vindelicians, the Salassians, and the Dacians and the Ubians, and the Sigambrians, and the Parthians-a dream of Caesar's-not to reckon the Romans of the civil war, over whom Augustus had the face to celebrate a triumph, contrary to custom, though only on horseback, in token of his moderation. There had even been one of those wars in which the emperor took command, and was wounded in person; which is the height of glory for a great nation.
Nevertheless, money was showered upon the people; the prince multiplied his distributions,-one would have said it did not cost him anything. He was forever distributing. He was so good that he even gave to little children under eleven, contrary to law. It is fine to violate the law, when one is better than it.
The only embarrassment was in choosing: scenic games, gladiatorial games, games of the forum, the amphitheatre, the circus, games of the assemblies, nautical games, and Trojan games, without enumerating races, hunts, and athletic encounters, and without disparaging exhibitions of rhinoceroses, tigers, and snakes fifty cubits in length. Never had the Roman people had such entertainments. Add besides, that the prince frequently reviewed his Knights, and was fond of renewing often the ceremony of defiling-a majestic, if somewhat monotonous spectacle, which it would be unjust to omit from the catalogue of pleasures which he lavished on the masters of the world. As for him, his pleasures were simple; and except that he gave perhaps too often the legitimate place of Scribonia or Livia to Drusula, Tertulla, Terentilla, Rufilla, Salvia Titiscenia, or to others; and that he had the bad taste, in the midst of a famine, to feast too jovially, disguised as a god, with eleven compeers, deified in like manner; and that he was a little too passionately enamored of the beautiful marbles and vases of Corinth-to such a degree that he sometimes killed the owner for the sake of the vase; and that he was a dicer; and that he was always a little inclined to the vice of his uncle; and that, in his old age, his taste becoming more delicate, he admitted only maids to the honor of his intimacy; and that the care of procuring the said maids was entrusted by him to his wife Livia (who, for that matter, discharged this little commission with a great deal of zeal); except for these and some trifling drawbacks not worth mentioning even, Suetonius assures us that in all other respects his life was very regular and above reproach. It was, then, a fortunate epoch, this Julian era-a great age, the Augustan; and not without reason does Virgil, at first in a mild way stripped of his possessions, but afterwards indemnified, declare it is the reign of Saturn returning.
It is true that, here and there, there was a cloud upon the picture: there were ten conspiracies and as many seditions, and that spoils a reign. It was the republicans, who kept coming back. As many as could be had been killed at Pharsalia, at Thapsus, at Munda, at Philippi, at Actiurn, at Alexandria, in Sicily; for Roman liberty was tenacious of life, and no less than seven wholesale massacres, seven butcheries, had been required to put it out of the way; legions seemed to spring from the ground, according to the boast of Pompey. Therefore these ever-returning republicans had been conscientiously killed; but how many? Three hundred thousand, perhaps, at most. It was well, but it did not suffice; there were still some left. Hence arose some slight annoyances in the great man's life. In the senate he was forced to wear a cuirass, and to carry a sword under his gown-which is troublesome, especially in warm countries-and to surround himself with ten sturdy knaves, whom he called his friends, but who were, notwithstanding, sorry company for him.
There were also those three cohorts that lugged their weapons behind him, in the very city which, sixty years previous, it was not permitted to enter with so much as a pocket-knife. That might have occasioned some doubts as to the popularity of the Father of his Country. Then there was Agrippa, who demolished too much; but, of course, it was necessary to make a marble tomb for this great people that wanted to die. There was, again, the prefect of Lyons, Licinius, who oppressed his province too grievously. He had not the knack of shearing the beast without making it cry. He was an ignorant and rude administrator, who was content to take money where it was-that is to say, in pocket; proceeding without ceremony, and lacking genius in execution. It was he who devised the addition of two months to the calendar, in order to exact of his goodly city two monthly imposts more per annum. Yet it must be acknowledged that he equitably shared with his master the profits of his administration. The worthy people of Lyons, not knowing how to tear this blood-sucker from their skin, had the simplicity to request of Caesar the recall of their prefect, who was sustained.
There was, moreover, a certain distant expedition, of which there were no grounds for feeling absolutely proud: the unlucky Varus had stupidly gone and got annihilated with three legions down yonder across the Rhine, in the depths of the Hercynian forest. That had a bad effect. War is like all good things: it should not be abused. It has the merit of being an absorbing spectacle, the most powerful of diversions, I admit; but it is a resource that must be husbanded. We must not play too easily this haughty and terrible game, which may turn against him that plays it; and when one is a savior, it is not in keeping to send too lightly to slaughter the people be has saved. That is what might have been said; but who thought of it then? Barely twenty thousand mothers; and what is that, in a great empire? We know well enough that glory does not give away her favors, and Rome was rich, enough in blood and money to pay for them. Augustus got off with butting his head quite gingerly at her door, and composing a presopopoeia, which for that matter has become classical. 
<c03>
Finally, there was Lollius, who had lost an eagle: it could be spared: and as for the finances, a new era had just dawned, the grand administration was invented, the world was going to be administered. The monster empire has a hundred million hands and one belly-unity is established. I shall labor with your hands, and you will digest with my stomach, that is clear; and Maecenas was right, and I do not need to consult the peasant of the Danube.
If this system involved some abuses, if there were famines occasionally, 'twas only a cloud in the bending of the universal joy-a discordant note which was lost in the concert of public gratitude; and all these little mishaps which chanced to furrow the surface of the empire were, to tell the truth, but happy contrasts and pungent diversions contrived for a happy people by its good fortune, as a respite from its felicity, and to give it time to breathe. It was like seasoning at a banquet, just enough to break the monotony of success, to temper hilarity, and to prevent satiety. The people were stifling of prosperity; there are benefits that overwhelm, and blisses that destroy.
Who, then, in this golden age, who then could complain? Tacitus says that, seven years later, on the death of Augustus, there remained few citizens who had seen the Republic, fewer yet who had served it. They had been removed by the civil wars, or by Proscriptions, or by summary executions, or by assassination, or by imprisonment, or by exile, or by misery, or by despair; time had done the rest. There remained some disappointed spirits, some morose old men; and as for those who had come into the world since Actium, they had all been born with an image of the empire in their eyes, and no longer saw clearly,-at least, it was reasonable to expect they would be disposed to regard the new appearance of things as admirable, and even most admirable, since they had never seen any other. The herd of Remus, therefore, was satisfied, and everything was at its best in the best of empires.
At this time lived Labienus. Do you know Labienus? He was a strange man, of a singular disposition. Imagine to yourself that he persisted in remaining 
a citizen in a city which contained no longer anything but subjects! Can you comprehend that? Civis Romanus sum-I am a Roman citizen-he used to say, nor could he be made to desist, He wanted like Cicero, to die free in his free native land; can you conceive of such extravagance? Citizen and free-the madman! Doubtless he said that, as, later, Polyouctes: I am a Christian; without well knowing what he said. The truth is, his poor head was diseased; he had a dangerous affection of the brain; at least, such was the opinion of Augustus's physician, the celebrated Antonius, who styled this sort of folly a monomania for retort, and who had prescribed imprisonment for the invalid. Labienus had not followed the prescription; consequently he was not cured, as you will see when I shall have made you better acquainted with him.
Titus Labienus bore a name twice honored already by good citizens. The first Labienus, a lieutenant under Caesar, had forsaken him at the crossing of the Rubicon, in order not to be an accomplice in his crime; the second had preferred to serve the Parthians rather than the triumvirs; our hero was the third. One line of Seneca, the rhetorician, affords us a sufficient glimpse of this grand figure, for it contains this proud remark of Labienus: I know that what I write can only be read after my death. Orator and historian of the highest order, arrived at renown against a thousand obstacles, it was said of him that he had extorted admiration rather than obtained it. At that time he was writing a history, of which he read a page occasionally, with closed doors, to trusty
friends. It was in the case of this history that the condemnation of books to be burnt was first applied, on motion of a senator who was himself, shortly afterward, visited with the penalty of his own invention; and so Labienus was the first at Rome, to receive the honor, which in later days became common, of an incendiary senate-decree. It is what M. Egger calls judiciously " the novel difficulties which the imperial rule created for history." The poor burnt historian, being unable to outlive his work, retired to the tomb of his ancestors, never to emerge. He believed his work had perished, but it had not. Cassius knew it by heart, and Cassius, protected by exile, was, as he himself declared, a living edition of his friend's work-an edition that was not to be burnt. Undoubtedly the death of Labienus was as foolish as his life. A hook burnt-a pretty reason for committing suicide! The senate did not intend the death of the culprit, it only meant to give him warning; he ought to have profited by it. But this man took everything the wrong way, and always misapprehended if he apprehended at all. He was quite worthy to figure in that long train of Stoic suicides which had just begin, and long all those heroic simpletons, all those systematic and unqualified, incensed and absurd opponents who converted their very death into a final act of opposition, and fancied that by opening their veins they discomfited the emperor. Some even killed themselves solely for the purpose of enraging the prince, who laughed at them under his moustache, and was only the better persuaded of the excellence of his policy, when he saw that his work accomplished itself unaided. Labienus belonged to that company; you see very plainly that he was an imbecile. Such is the man whose discourse we wish to repeat to you, and you will see that in his discourse, as in his life and death, he was always the same—that is to say, incorrigible. He was a man of the old party, since the Republic was over; a reactionist, since the Republic was a thing of the past; a ci-devant of the 
ancient rule, since the government of the laws was the rule of former times; in a word, he was a blockhead.
He was one of those wretches who ought to tremble under a strong government, in order that the good may be reassured, and that society, shaken to its foundations, may settle down again upon its base. Nor is this all; Labienus was an ingrate. In the height of Ceasarianism, in the plenitude of its glory, amid that superabundance of public felicity and that vast festival of the human race, he misconstrued the benefits which were scattered with full hands by the second founder of Rome, the pacificator of the world. He had at once the blind and the hostile passions which breed dangerous men and pernicious citizens. But you do not know him yet. Wanting air and scope for his passion, and, stifled by the principate, being no longer able to speak, nor write, nor act, nor stir, he passed whole hours on the Sublician bridge, watching the flow of the Tiber, motionless and mute, but with ferocious look and threatening attitude, his breast heaving with the spirit, of ancient days,-like a statue of Mars, the avenger, like a petrified tribune. It is sweet to sleep, said Michael Angelo, or to be of stone, so long as misery and shame endure.
Labienus did not sleep, but he was of stone, and harder than the granite of the Capitol (immobile saxum). Tyranny had no hold upon him, and the empire could not gnaw him; he was a Roman of the old rock, that nothing could subdue. Solitary and erect, like Codes, between an army and a precipice, he defied them both;
he defied Augustus, and smiled at death. In all this there was something good if you please; but, beside it, what a detestable character, and what an ill-ordered 
spirit! In vain did Octavius have a superb medal struck, with the three hands of the triumvirs interjoined, and this sublime legend: The safety of the human race. This too displeased him. He maintained that it had been saved in spite of itself, and cited the lines of Horace:
"Assassin and no savior he
Who saves me as I would not be!"
Old Labienus was one of those who had seen the Republic; he was so foolish as to remember it, and there was his misfortune. He was now the witness of a grand reign, and was not satisfied with it. There are some people who are never satisfied. He imagined himself always at the day after Pharsalia; forty years of glory seared his eyes, but failed to open them. He had the air of a man in a troubled dream, and the
<c04>
reality was for him but an infernal vision. His surprise was frequently ingenuous; he would not believe what had actually happened. Epimenides (who slept a hundred years) was less astonished on waking. Sad in the universal joy, gloomy in the midst of the Roman orgies, like the two philosophers in the picture of Couture, he was there, and seemed to be living elsewhere; he was a specter at a feast; you would have said, a corpse escaped from the tombs of Philippi-an inquisitive ghost who returns to explore. Sometimes a friend would compassionate him; he compassionated his friend. Oftenest, all by himself, he grumbled in his corner, and watched the empire go on. It was utterly impossible to make such a man listen to reason; he was of another age, an exile in the new; he had nostalgia for the past; he had neither learned nor forgotten anything; he understood no whit the present epoch; he had all the prejudices of Brutus; he was infected with Greek opinions which had long ceased to be in fashion at Rome. He was in appearance as antiquated as the Twelve Tables; his thoughts continued like those of the times of the Fabriciuses and long-haired Camilluses. And then fantastic ideas and incredible manias; above all, an odd, inexplicable, singular, taste: he loved liberty. Evidently Titus Labienus had not common sense. Loved liberty! Can you comprehend that? It was a retrograde opinion, since liberty was an ancient thing; the new men loved the new rule. He was destitute of a sense of shades, as well as of the notion of time, and an understanding of transitions.
Time had progressed, and ideas also; he still remained planted there like a terminus; he still believed in justice, in the laws, in knowledge, and in conscience; evidently he was in his dotage. He spoke of the party of honest men like Cicero; he spoke of the senate, of tribunes, of assemblies, and did not perceive that all that had melted away like snow into the main sewer, (cloaca maxima,) and that he was almost alone upon the brink. He still reckoned the years by consulships, for Augustus had retained the name to inspire belief in the thing, while Labienus hoped to resuscitate the thing by cherishing the name. He prepared addresses to the people, as if there was a people; he invoked the laws, as if there were any; he regarded the principate as merely a parenthesis in history-a shameful page in the Roman annals; he was eager to turn the leaf or to tear it out. He always asserted it would have an end, and he believed so; people thought him a fool, and he was, as you see. For the rest, a good man; headstrong rather than knavish, incapable of killing a chick or of wishing the least harm to any man except Augustus; and yet he was so gentle that he had a mind only to send him to the tread-mill to turn mill stones, contrary to the more common opinion of those who would have had him crucified. He thought, moreover, with the Stoics, that punishment is a good for the offender; it may therefore be said with truth, that he wished Augustus the only good that could happen to him-expiation.
One day, as he was walking under the portico of Agrippa, he met Gallio. Junius Gallio was a young sage, as Labienus was an old fool. He was a serious and mild young man, educated and elegant, circumspect and prudent, a moderate Stoic; Spaniard and Roman, citizen and subject, a man of two epochs and of two centuries, of mixed blood and striped opinions, a little this and a little that; turning occasionally, like Horace, his tender gaze upon the tomb of liberty, and back again, not less tender upon the cradle of the empire; bestowing a tear on Cato, a smile on Caesar; a kindly disposition, liking everybody a little, even Labienus. He was brother of Seneca, who did not dare to live, and uncle of Luean, who did not know how to die;-there existed no longer aught but bits of heroism and fragments of greatness: a people in ruins before its temples: here and there still some half Romans. Gallio made verses for the favorite of Maecenas; critics called him the ingenious Gallio. In short, he had wits, for he was a pro-consul. It is after him that those indifferent in religious matters have been named Gallionisls. He might also have been something of a patron, of the same sort, in politics. He was reproached with this by Labienus; and I believe the gloomy peripatetic would have passed him without taking pains to recognize him, for Labienus was not amiable. He was in no wise more affable than those fandous senators who, proudly seated in the midst of the forum, received the Gauls one day so coldly. And for his part, Gallio would not have ventured to stroke his beard; but the young man was so pleased, so moved, had such pressing need to find some person with whom to share the great news he had just received, was so curious withal to witness its effect on Labienus, that he accosted him:
"Good-morning, Titus! quid agis, dulcissime rerum? How are you?”
"Ill, if the empire is well."
"Not so bad as that; we know you are always out of sorts; but I have news for you."
"There can be no news for me while Augustus yet reigns."
"Come, I know you've been in a pet for thirty years, and that you haven't laughed once since the triumvirate; but this is my news: the Memoirs of Augustus are just out."
"And how long have brigands been making books?”
"Since honest folks have made emperors."
"Alas!"
"Then, my dear Titus, you will not read these Memoirs?"
"I shall read them, Gallio, I shall read them with tears of shame." 
"And you will answer them, criticize them, make an anti-Caesar, as Caesar has made an anti-Cato?”
"No, Gallio, I will not publish anything on this subject, I will not debate with the master of thirty legions; in a country which is not free, one ought to refrain from touching on contemporaneous history, and criticism, in such case, is impossible.”
"You will not enlighten the public?”
"I will not help deceive them; for in these times, upon such subjects, nothing that appears can be good, while nothing that is good can appear. I shall continue my secret history, of which I shall send the leaves to Severius for safe keeping; I shall preserve the truth by banishing it."
"But we are assured that criticism shall be free; tyranny will give a week's holiday to letters."
"It can only give a false liberty, a December liberty, otherwise called a carnival liberty-libertas decembris, as Horace says; I will not improve it. I am unwilling, in writing against the book, to find myself placed between the vengeance of Octavius and the clemency of Augustus, without so much as a choice. I am not willing, like Cinna, to give the scoundrel an opportunity to play the magnanimous, and to be executed by a pardon. As for praising the book, I can do so only if it be good, in which case I should fear being confounded with those who praise it from other motives. It is, therefore, equally impossible for me to praise or to blame. And besides the book is not good, and could not have been. When a man is wicked enough to make himself King, and fool enough to make himself God, I think he cannot have all the requisite qualities for writing history."
"You are sure in advance that he has neither good sense nor good faith; then what is left for him? He can neither know the truth nor utter it; with what does this sceptre-bearer meddle? And why does he conclude to write? A king-historian ought to begin by abdicating. He has not done so-a bad sign! Besides, I have read some passages. He justifies proscriptions, and apologizes for usurpation; of course be does. And you, Gallio, want me to review this work of ignorance and falsehood, clothed with the approbation of two thousand centurions, and recommended to its readers by veterans. Review! you mean besiege! And you do not see, my good little Gallio, that that is one of the best tricks that the son of the banket has played on the sons of the she-wolf, who, alas! no longer know how to bite like their ancestor. Ah, Gallio! we have degenerated, we are Romans of decadence, fallen from Caesar into
<c05>
Augustus, and from Charybdis into Scylla; from force into ruse, and from the uncle, into the nephew! Faugh! No, I will not tumble into this literary and ambush, nor be trepanned, nor, above all, cause others to be; no, I will not write upon the memoirs of Augustus. The silence of the people is the lesson of Kings: Labienus will set this example to Augustus. 
Moreover, be easy; if you want criticism on this little bit of imperial literature, if you want fine appreciation, I they will be given you; if for ingenious and spicy observations, views full of novelty, elegant and courteous discussions sustained in an exquisite tone by the most respectable classes, you will have them; if you want controversy on its knees, and rhetoric flat on its belly, and unexpected epigrants whose point sparkles instead of pricking, and bites which are caresses, and bloody reproaches which excite pleasure, and adorable conceits dexterously insinuated under the appearance of a severer decision, and pretty little words wholly amiable, delicately wrapt in the folds of a stern and ferocious expression, and bouquets of flowers of Latinity, and oceans of mellifluous eloquence, and arguments offered on cushions, and objections presented on a silver salver, like a letter by a servant,-nothing of all that will you lack, my dear Gallio; we are about to see the choir of the Muses of State a-dancing, and it is Maecenas who will lead the ballet. The chaste sisters have abandoned Pindus for the Palatine hill, and Apollo has taken office in the police. Augustus, therefore, is sure of having a public, readers, judges, critics, copyists and commentators; he will find people for this business. He who has made Virgils can make Aristarchuses; he has need of them, he will get them! 
“Already literature is jubilant. Varius weeps for joy; Flavius is agitated with tender emotion; Rabirius clears his tablets; Haterius will deliver a lecture, and Tarpa a declamation; Pompeius Macer declares that it is a fine day for morality, and orders three luxurious copies for the three public libraries he has just established; Fenestella intends to add a volume to his literary history; Metellus, who composes so well the speeches of the prince, will count the rhetorical I beauties of his book, and Verrius, the grammarian,, the grammatical beauties; Marathus, the historiographer, will give an analysis, in the court journal; and Athenodorus, the protege of Octaviua, will prepare an epitome for the ladies, and explanatory notes within the comprehension of the princesses. There are ten, and I know a thousand. All those people will defile before the emperor, shouting with all their might, like knights on parade: he, however, will assume an attitude full of modesty and majesty; his gesture will say, Enough!-his smile will say, More!-and the crowd will make itself hoarser than ever. As he has had, to appland his acts, the rabble of the seven hills, he will have, to praise his book, the rabble of authors. Applause is certain, but it can only arise from one quarter, and that is precisely a consequence (grotesque enough) of his unique literary position. The unfortunate man may not perhaps have foreseen it, but I shall make fun of it; he will succeed by order; it is hard, but I cannot help it. Absolute power has its inconveniences for an author; the path of the crowned writer is not wholly strewn with roses. The position is not tenable, and Virgil would have ruined his Latin, had it been there. But one must needs submit to the law that he has made for himself; and when shame has been poured out, it must be drunk. Attention, therefore, my dear Gallio: the festival is on the point of opening; it will be noisy and crowded; already the musicians have taken their places, are attuning their instruments, and preluding the concert. Look, therefore, and listen, if such be your taste; I agree that the spectacle will have ample delight for those who are still able to laugh.
"I know that the work will include the last civil war, and even the last year of Julius Ceasar. In good faith, my dear Gallio, can you regard that seriously? Augustus publishing a book on the revolution of his own making! What will you say of the criminal who publishes an apology for his crime? To my thinking, he commits a second offence, more difficult, it is true, than the first, (for it is easier to commit a crime than to justify it;) but this second offence, if it is more difficult, is also more heinous and more disastrous, for the victims are more numerous, the consequences more permanent. The first attacks the lives of men, the second their consciences; the one kills the body, the other the mind; the one oppresses the present, the other the future. It is the coup d’ etat in morals, the creation of disorder, injustice systematized, the organization of evil, the promulgation of non-law, the proscription of truth, the definitive defeat of public reason, the general rout of ideas, an intellectual battle of Actium. It is the proper capping of an edifice of villany and infandy, as it is the only possible. The book of Augustus is his life erected into an example, his ambition robed in innocence, his will formulized into law; it is the code of malefactors, the Bible of rogues; and it is such a book you want publicly criticised, under the rule of his good pleasure! You would excite a literary opposition against Augustus? Come, now! criticism against Octavius! what mockery! he made none Against Cicero, he slew him! What! the wretch who assassinates you preaches you a sermon on assassination, and, before dispatching you, asks your opinion of his little composition-your sincere opinion, 
mind you!-on the substance and the form-your political and literary opinion; for he is an artist and a good fellow, and he would learn your estimate of his work; and you, in all simplicity, are going to inform him, and, the knife at your throat, are going to chat with the brute! Gallio, my friend, you've no idea of it!
"What should you say of Verres making a book on property? Would you discuss with him? What else are the Memoirs of Augustus? Are they not the theory of usurpation written by an usurper? It is a school for conspiracy, opened by a conspirator unwhipt of justice.
"The author, after all, can only say there what he knows. He knows how to plunder a city, butcher a senate, force a treasury in a temple, and rob Jupiter; be knows how to make false keys, false oaths, and false wills; he knows how to he in the forum and in the senate-house, to debauch the electors or to dispense with them; to kill his wounded colleagues, as at Modena, to proscribe en mane, and other princely games; he knows, according to the method of the first Caesar, how to borrow from one party to lend to the other, and to make himself friends on both sides; he knows how, by a vigorous dash, to clear all barriers 
and Rubicons; then, with a final bound, rising above diviue and human laws, to take the perilous leap, perform a somerset, and come down a king. He knows all that, but not a word of history, nor of politics, nor of ethics, unless of the sort which was taught in his family—the ethics of the nobility. We find therefore nothing in his book which we need to find, but in profusion what it is dangerous to Warn. He loves old words, old coins, and old helmets, but not old manners. Will you discuss with him certain points of archaeology or of numismatics? Fool, who would do him that honor. You can see that that would be to fall into his snare, and play his game. Men like him are aware, whatever they do, that they are under the ban of society; they left it by violence and crime, they aim to return to it quietly by strategem. They have but one remaining ambition: to worm themselves and long honest folks. To this end they assume all sorts of disguises; they go everywhere in search of their poor lost honor; they are seen, crowned mendicants, begging for esteem at every 
gate; it is the only alms that cannot be allowed them. In such, a plight is Augustus. This drinker of blood has only one thirst unsatisfied, the thirst for praise; this thief of the empire of the world would pilfer only one other thing, his rehabilitation. But he essays the impossible. The powerless and despairing effort that he makes to save some fragments of his shipwrecked reputation, this final effort to hang his honor on a last branch which is about to break, this last struggle of Cassar with the opinion that is crushing
<c06>
him, has I know not what lugubrious and commercial, like the last grimace of a hanged man, or the smile of a gladiator who means to die gracefully. The book of Caeser is the toilet of the condemned, the greeting of the criminal to the crowd on his way to punishment. It is the coquetry of the final hour. Caesar was so dirty that the executioner revolted; be cleans himself somewhat to embrace his doom. And he asks-the insolent fellow!-for readers, readers for Caesar! What does it avail? He dares, in has preface, to put questions to his readers; but it is the lector who will answer him."
"While awaiting this answer, I shall read the Memoirs of Augustus."
"And I," replied Labienus, "shall read over the Libels of Cassius."

THE FREEDMEN'S BUREAU.
IMPORTANT ORDER BY GEN. HOWARD,
WASHINGTON, Wednesday, July 12, 1985.
The following important Circular of Instructions to assistant Commissioners and other officers was to-day issued by Major Gen. Howard of at the Freedmen's Bureau: The Assistant Commissioner will be careful in the establishment of sub-districts to have the office of his agent at some point easy of access for the people of the sub-district. He will have at least one agent, either a citizen, military officer, or enlisted man, in each sub-district. This agent must be thoroughly is structed In his duty. He will be furnished with the proper blanks-for contracts, and will institute methods adequate to meet the wants of his district, in accordance with, the rule of the Bureau. No fixed rates of wages will be prescribed for a district, but, in order to regulate fair wages in given individual cases, the agent should have in mind minimum rates for his own guidance. By careful inquiry as to the hire of an able-bodied man, when the pay went to the master, he will have an approximate test of the value of labor. He must, of course, consider the entire change of circumstances, and be sure that the laborer has due protection against avarice and extortion. Wages had better, be secured by a lien on the crops of land, Employers are desired to enter into written agreements with employe's setting forth stated wages, of securing an interest in the crop of land, or both. All such agreements will be approved by the nearest agent, and, a duplicated filed in his office. In case there should be no agent within reach, the nearest postmaster will forward the duplicated of contracts direct to the Assistant-Commissioner for the State.
Attention is specially called to Section Four of the law establishing the Bureau with regard to setting apart land to every male citizen, whether Refugee at Freedman, &c., and the same arrangement is recommended when it can be effected between private parties. Already many farmers have rented lands to Freedmen and Refugees. This course is a recognition of the general principle in the law. In order to enforce the fulfillment of contracts on both <illegible> parties, the Commissioner of the Bureau lays down no general rule; the Assistant-Commissioner must use the privileges and authority he already has. Provost Courts, Military Commissions, Local Courts, where the Freedmen and Refugees have equal rights with the people, are open to his use. Lube and majorityIn the great majority of cases, his own arbitrandent or that of his agents, or the settlement by referees, will be sufficient. No Assistant-Commissioner of Agent is authorized to tolerate compulsory, unpaid labor, except for the legal punishment of crime. Suffering, any result to some extent, but suffering is preferred to slavery, and is, to some degree, the necessary consequence of events. In all action the officer should never forget that no substitute for slavery, like apprenticeship, without proper consent, or peonage, as either holding the people by debt, or confining them without consent to the land by any system, will be tolerated.
The Assistant Commissioner will designate one or more of his agents to act as the General Superintendent of Schools-one for each State-for refugees and freedmen. This officer will work as much as possible in conjunction with State officers who my have school matters in change. It a general system can be adopted for a State, it is well; but if not, he will at least take cognizance of all that is being done to educate refugees and freedmen, secure proper protection to schools and to teachers, promote method and efficiency, correspond with the benevolent agencies which are supplying his field, and aid the Assistant, Commissioner in making his required reports.
Surgeon W. Horner, chief medical officer of the Bureau, will have the general supervision of the medical matters connected with refugees and freedman. The Assistant Commissioner will instruct the medical officers, as he has instructed other officers, to make the Medical Department self-supporting as far as possible. All public addresses of a character calculated to create discontent are reprehensible, but the Assistant Commissioner and his agents must explain, by constant recapitulation, the principles, laws, and regulations of the Bureau to all parties concerned, It is recommended to the Assistant Commissioners to draw up in writing a careful summary, to be publicly and privately read by agents throughout their respective Districts. O. O. HOWARD,
Major-General, Commissioner of Freedmen, Refugees, and Abandoned Lands.
HDQRS. NORTHERN DISTRICT, D. S., CHARLESTON, S. C., June 24, 1863.
GENERAL ORDERS, No., 62-It has come to the knowledge of the District Commander that in some of the contracts made between planters and freedmen, a clause has been introduced establishing a system of peonage-the freedman binding himself to work out any debt he may hereafter incur to his employer. All contracts made under authority from these headquarters will be understood as merely temporary arrangements to insure the cultivation of the ground for the present season. Any contract made under the above authority, which contains provisions tending to peonage, will be considered null. The officers having charge of contracts will examine them carefully, and when they are found to contain such clause, will notify the planters that new contracts must be made, for in which the objectionable features will be omitted. Contracts-will be simply worded; while acknowledging the freedom of the colored man, such expressions as "freed by the acts of the military forces of the United States" will not be permitted. The attempt to introduce anything into the contract which may have the appearance of an intention at some future day to contest the question of the emancipation of the negroes, will be reported to the commander of me the sub district, who will examine into the antecedents of the person making the attempt, and report upon the case to district headquarters.
By command of Brevet Maj. Gen. JOHN P. HATCH.
LEONARD B. TERRY, 
Asst. Adjt. General.

COLORED SCHOOLS IN THE DISTRICT OF V1CKSBURG.
We published, a few day ago, a statement concerning the colored schools of Vicksburg. Hundreds of extra papers were called for at this office, on account of that article, which shows so great an interest in the general subject that we are induced to collect a few more facts relating to the colored schools of the District of Vicksburg, in order to gratify, it possible, the appetite for this sort of information.
It is only about a year and a quarter since the first colored school in the District was opened in the Methodist church in the city -bout three months after the surrender of the city-by the Missionaries of the “United Brethren Church," from Ohio. They more soon followed by the United Presbyterians, and they by others, until six different benevolent organizations are now at work in this field.
The present school system was inaugurated in November, 1864, under special order No. 26 of the Secretary of War, which placed the entire supervision, for the Department of the Tennessee and State of Arkansas, in the hands of Col. John Eaton, Jr. general Superintendent of freedmen, who issued his rules and regulations for the conduct of colored schools in his entire field.
By special order No. 79 of the General Superintend, Chaplain Hawley was designated as Superintend of colored schools for the district of Vicksburg, and entered on his duties as such in November. Chaplain Ch. Buckley is his assistant Superintendent for Vicksburg, and C. S- Crossman for Natchez.
The condition of the schools in this city has already been noted.
There are, for the month of January, reported it Vicksburg schools in 12 rooms, with 18 teachers and 1522 pupils; average attendance, 741. Davis's Bend, 4 schools in 7 rooms, 10 teachers, 784 pupils; average attendance, 532. In Natchez, 12 schools in 15 rooms, 25 teachers, 632 pupils; average attendance, 532 Pawpaw Island, 3 schools in 3 rooms, 5 teachers, 315 pupils; average attendance. 210. Total, 27 schools in 37 rooms, 58 teachers, 3573 pupils; average attendance 2153.
For December the net result was: 26 schools taught in 36 rooms by 53 teachers, and there were 3053 pupils enrolled, and an average attendance of 2028
Vicksburg paper.

HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and <illegible>.
A New Explanation. The result of Scientists Investigation.
Sent 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York. June 23.
