THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6
ROBERT F WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRIOSON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL.XXXIII. NO.3.BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1667.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
The greatest crime ever committed by a Chief Magistrate of a free people has been perpetrated by the President in the promulgation of the Emancipation proclamation. A few short months ago, Mr. Lincoln compared such a document to” the Pope's full against the comet"; and he also said that such a proceeding as this contemplates would institute “a john Brown raid on a gigantic scale" These expressions most forcibly characterize the Proclamation and the expected results, so far as the effect open the slave is concerned; for all intelligent men regard it as a stupendous folly as a means of peaceable liberation of the slaves, and as a direct invitation to the perpetration by them of crimes and borrows unexampled in the world's history. It indeed caps the climax of folly and wickedness. No ingenuous man can say hereafter, ”If the Administration means this,” or "If the war contemplates that." the demands of civilization, the most obvious dictates of humanity, honor and common honesty, to say nothing of patriotism, command the withdrawal of support, promptly and irrevocably. We now know what Mr. Lincoln means, so far as he can be said to have a meaning of his own. We know what Mr. Summer and the whole band of Abolitionists throughout the land mean; and Mr. Lincoln has been and is to the extent of his limited ability and narrow intelligence, their willing instrument for all the woe that has thus far been brought upon the country, and for all the degradation, all the atrocity, all the desolation and ruin which is only too palpably before us. It is  not that the Constitution, which the Abolitionists have for twenty years and more denounced as ”a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," is now. at their bidding, deliberately violated and defied by the national Executive sworn to maintain it. It is not that the people have been made to contribute to the overthrow of institutions which from childhood they have respected and revered, by being taxed presently and prospectively to an extent hitherto unknown. It is not that five hundred thousand men have been induced to take their places in the ranks of the army under false pretences of a purpose to uphold the Constitution and preserve the Union, and that one hundred thousand of them, at least, have poured out their life-blood for the consummation of an object to which never did give and never could have given their approbation. All this would have been sufficiently replete with a degree of wrong, disgrace and horror which admits of no expression. but what will the world say of a Proclamation, emanating from the President of the United States, not only in defiance of the fundamental law of the country, for the upholding of which be ought to have been willing to pour out his own blood, but in de<illegible>of all law, human and Divine. which incites the black race in eight entire States, and in parts of two others, to rise and with all the barbaric features which must be inseparable from a successful servile insurrection, to slay and devastate, without regard to age or sex-without any condition except that the homes smouldering in ashes shall be the homes of the descendants of men whose fathers fought with our fathers the battles of the Revolution and whose fathers with our fathers formed and adopted the Constitution now scoffed and defied! yes, and one other-that the women and children. brutally violated and slaughtered, shall be white women and children! What will the civilized world say when they read these words sent forth by the president of the United States, and countersigned by the Secretary of State?-
"And by virtue of the power and for the purpose aforesaid, I do order and declare, that all persons held a slaves within said designated States and parts of States are, and henceforward shall be free; and that the Executive Government of the United States, including the Military and Naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons And I further declare and make known, that such persons of suitable condition will be received into the armed service of the United States," & c.
They will say, and the bitter thing is, they will say truly, that a crime so fearful as that proposed was never before contemplated by any nation, civilized or barbarous.
But the political effect of this atrocious scheme is no less to be deplored and deprecated by all patriostic men. It will decide the North, and unite the south, thus weakening the Union cause and strengthening the rebellion. That such will inevitable be the effect is the universal opinion of honest and disinterested friends of the Union in the South. Upon this point there is no better authority than the Louisville, Ky., Journal. which says:
"The suppression of the rebellion depends upon the concord of the North, seconded by the discord of the south; but the policy of emancipation creates discord in the North, and concord in the South; it augments the strength and heightens the spirit of the rebellion, while it diminishes the strength and depresses the spirit of the nation. It enfeebles and demoralizes us at home, and endangers and disgraces us abroad 
Here is the whole truth upon this point. This Abolition scheme, unconstitutional, partisan, and <illegible> in itself, cannot do any good, but is sure to produce immense harm to the cause of the union, at home and abroad; and only those who are blind to the most patent facts, and deaf to all the appeals of reason and patriotism, can doubt it.
If it be too late for the people of the United States to utter a voice which shall terrify duplicity and <illegible> fanaticism; if it be too late to rescue the Republic from ruin, financial and political, -is it too me to stay the reckless march of barbarism, to save such remnants of our honor as may warrant us to claim and to deserve a place among the civilized people of the earth?-New Hampshire Patriot.
The proclamation for emancipating ALL the slaves in the States and parts of States in which majorities of the people are in rebellion, is before the world. Of no avail has it been that eminent jurists have demonstrated with the force of a demonstration in <illegible>, that the President has no authority to free <illegible> masse, either by constitutional law or by the war power; of no avail is it that the majority of the people hate the pure abolition programme, of which this is the crowning; nothing is it that it tends <illegible> embitter and divide the North, and to unite and <illegible> the South; nothing is it that none asked <illegible> it but the fanatics, and that an array of intellect, <illegible>, patriotism from the West, the Middle States and Border States protested against it. The <illegible> is before the world. It is the last card-to use <illegible>words of the Oswego Gazette (Republican)-of the imbeciles and crazy-headed fanatics whose <illegible> have proved so disastrous." Its terms fair <illegible> the first Proclamation, calling for seventy-five thousand men; for they in theory substitute the war for the negro, in the place of the lawful war for the Union and the Constitution. But LAW is not
<c02>


obliterated by official arts that go out from the pale of law. Who does not know that municipal boards, legislatures. Congress, misled by faction or by imbecility, pass acts which, became beyond the limitations of law set down by the sovereign power, as embodied in the RULES OF THE CONSTITUTION, are pronounced null and void; and then popular uprisings at the polls sweep away the violators with every expression of public indignation?
The idea that, in our polity, one man can possibly have the enormous power, in war or in peace, to so change the local institutions of the States of this land as to determine relations that shall exist between eight millions of whites and four millions of blacks, is so monstrous that we wonder patriotic men can give it a thought. This is kingly power. This old world rulers did when they said,” The State-it is me." This may be Oriental or European, but it is not Republican or American. The only power that the citizen of the United States bows to is the law of the land. All will of course rang THEMSELVES UNDER THE WILL OF THE LAW, are Jefferson's great words; and this law is embodied in the Constitution, so far as regards the rights of the States, and what is against this law the Courts will pronounce null and void. For instance: When the rebellion is over, the law-makers in Virginia, in all the States which are now called Confederate States, will be those who are constituted such by the local constitutions, beyond a question-anything to the contrary in this or any other proclamation of President Lincoln.
Does the Constitution authorize this proclamation? Ask the fanatics who bounded the President until they won the game! We like their frankness. They nay no! They ridicule and laugh to scorn those who say the Constitution does authorize it! and because it does not, they throw it to the winds. They say, too, the Constitution recognized the right of the States to have slavery or not to have it, and therefore it is a covenant with hell; and because of this, they, to get emancipation, boldly propose to go out of the pale of the Constitution, and said so. They teach that this instrument is no law to them. Theirs is the higher law! Are we not writing the precise truth? This is treason, but it is not the low cunning of hypocrisy, which, while it overrides the supreme law, insults also the public intelligence by pretending to observe it. With this set, it is not organic law-it is not popular power, moving sublimely on in appointed channels-they claim to be guided by: but majorities to produce results they go for, let the law of the land be what it may. This is physical force. It is the mob! Its type is Robespierre!
Does the war power authorize this proclamation? What has been said as to this war power by profound jurists is as conclusive as reason itself. This power simply is, a right to use the physical force of the chief of an army to knock away obstructions in the way of successful military operations. It is as wide in breadth as the range of his cannon, and is as permanent as the time he occupies in his operations. Washington could lawfully, at Germantown, have battered down Chew's house, as he occupied fields and gardens; but after he passed away, did the land, or what might remain of the house, garden and field, become thence the property of Washington? or of the country? How ridiculous! Yet the arbitrary power that is now, at the instance of radicalism, summoned to gratify party, decrees millions of slaves to be free forever! Of course, this must mean free quite independent of the local law-making power; free in the places where they live!!
It is, however, beyond the power of one man to change the supreme law of our country. This will stand as the permanent. This law recognizes the volume of written and unwritten law, known as the State, to which each State, as coequal, is indebted to the comforts of Home. When the rebellion is under, this fact must remain. It is above and beyond official reach. For the sake, then, of the great Government of the Fathers, for the sake of the human race, let there be no other thought than that of standing by the constituted authorities as against the. rebellion. Outside of this is anarchy. Let the patriotic reflect that, in our system, there is a legal way of righting every wrong. Is it asked, must things go as they are going on two years more? Let it be remembered that December brings a new Congress; that the voice of the people will continue to rise higher and higher for the grand Union of the Fathers; and that this public opinion will command a return to the Constitution as the only means of saving the Republic.-Boston Post.
We consider this pronunciamento unnecessary, unwise and ill-timed, impracticable, outside of the Constitution, and full of mischief. Its first effects will be more thoroughly to unite and exasperate the whites of the South in their resistance to the Government of the Union than they have ever been united heretofore, and to establish over their slaves a more rigid surveillance and discipline than ever heretofore exercised over them. No signs of disaffection among them will be permitted beyond the lines of our armies; or should they, hap-hazard, break out into revolts and massacres, after the fashion of Nat. Turner, in his Southampton slaughter, the desired plea will be furnished for armed European intervention to put an end to what then may be properly called this inhuman war. President Lincoln evidently has some misgivings upon this point, or he would not enjoin the slaves concerned to ”abstain from ail violence, unless in necessary self-defence." He seems to realize the danger that, in sowing the wind, be may reap the whirlwind. But let us hope that this proclamation will prove nothing worse than a nullity, and a harmless tub to the abolition while. It will assuredly do no good as a war measure while our fleets and armies are held at bay around the edges of the rebellion. President Lincoln may issue a new emancipation proclamation every day in the week through the winter, but unless, in the meantime, we shall have expelled Jeff. Davis and his government from Virginia, all these emancipation decrees will be in truth as ridiculous as the Pope's ”bull against the comet." N. Y. Herald.
For the most part, it was regarded as a farce coming in after a long tragedy, while a few radical people seem to have had great faith in it, and were fully of the opinion that the rebellion was at an end from and after the date of its issue. The President endeavors to whittle the weapon into a shape to nit all sorts of people. He declares it to be wholly on military grounds, bat elsewhere pleads that it an act of justice. He seems quite uncertain whether he did it as a great apostle of freedom, or as a great soldier. With all respect to him, we are compelled to believe that he is neither of these, and we have no confidence in the usefulness of the weapon he wields, or in the justice of the act he has performed. On the contrary, we know that in places like Key West, where be commands his army to free the slaves of loyal men, without compensation or the hope of compensation, he has done a great injustice, for which there is no excuse. In such places be has accomplished the rain of white men. and indirectly injured their Northern creditors and friends.-New York Journal of Commerce.
<c03>
Selections.
THE EMACIPATION PROCLAMATION.GREAT EMANCIPATION DEMONSTRATION.
On Monday evening, the great ball of the Cooper Union was crowded to its utmost capacity by an assembly of colored people from this city, and all the region about, for miles, who had been drawn thither by the announcement that the great edict of emancipation was to be honored by a demonstration of music and addresses.
The proceedings were commenced by the band (white and colored) performing ”The Star Spangled Banner," which was received with tremendous applause.
The Rev. HENRY HIGHLAND GARNET called upon the Rev. T. RAYMOND, who offered an earnest and appropriate prayer, in which be thanked God for what had been for the Anglo-Saxon race on this continent by George Washington, and for what had been done for the sons and daughters of Africa by Abraham Lincoln in these latter days.
The vast assembly then united in singing the” Emancipation Hymn for 1863”:-
"Hail to the brightness of Liberty's morning,
Join all the earth in an anthem of praise;
Freedom's glad day in its glory is dawning,
Light is dispensing its soul-cheering rays.
See how 'tis gilding both mainland and ocean,
Hark to the echoing songs of great joy;
Brighter is burning the flame of devotion,
Music far sweeter the angels employ.
"Cry out and shout, all ye children of sorrow,
The gloom of your midnight is passing away; 
Bright is the bow which now beams on our morrow,
Frnitiod's new glories o'ershadow to-day.
Let people and nations, aroused from their slumber,
Rejoice in the severance of slavery's chain,
 While voices and instruments mighty in number,
Sound praises to him who removed the dark stain.
Glory to God in the highest be given,
Who hath through the carnage a highway up thrown, 
Where those who like beasts to the market were driven,
Now walk, and in songs make their gratitude known. 
Hail, then, all hail! to this glorious morning.
Let Christians rejoice with the myriads released; 
Let those who have labored midst cursing and scorning,
Now shout, for the night of oppression hath ceased."
The Rev. Mr. GARNET then came forward and said that the Committee of the” Sons of Freedom” in this city had appointed him to the distinguished honor of presiding over that largo meeting, and be knew no more appropriate manner of opening the proceedings than that of reading the Proclamation of President Lincoln, issued on the 1st of January, 1863-the precious document-the Proclamation which had called them together in such numbers. Mr. Garnet then read the President's Proclamation amid enthusiastic applause; and at the close of its reading, three rousing cheers were given for Abraham Lincoln,
Mr. GARNET then asked the assembly to rise to their feet, in solemn honor to Almighty God. Here the immense congregation rose.
Three cheers were given for Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States.
"God bless Abraham Lincoln!" [Amen! Amen!] 
Three cheers were given for” Our Native Land." 
Three cheers for the” Stars and Stripes." 
Three cheers for the Abolitionists, who had for the last thirty years worked upon the mind of the nation. These cheers were given respectively with hearty good will.
Mr. GARNET then proceeded the circumstances under which the President had been brought to issue his Proclamation. He said that they had all lived in don’t and fear up to the very time that the Proclamation was issued. They had indulged but little faith that the President would, amid the clamorings of conservatives from the South, from the West, from Kentucky, from the Republican party, from the Democratic party-from every direction-redeem his promise of September; but with bis eyes set on the God of Justice, and determined to disenthral an injured race and glorify God, ever since President Lincoln had occupied the chair of the Chief Magistracy of our nation, he had been an advancing and progressive man. He was the man of our choice and hope. He had promised to issue the Proclamation of Emancipation, and had fulfilled that promise. And now no power could undo what he bad done. He (Mr. Garnet) could not yet say that we were free from slavery, but he could assure them that it had lost its power. The old monster dies very hard. We are now engaged in its burial, and when buried, he would sleep the sleep of death so soundly as to be beyond the awakening sounds of Gabriel's great trumpet. He next referred to the patriotism of the colored people at the breaking out of the rebellion. The colored men of this city bad gone to the Governor of this State, and offered their services as men-not as black men-to fight the battles of their native land to preserve the Union and Liberty. When the offer became public, the people (the white people) were horrorstricken, and some of them turned up their noses till they almost met their foreheads, fearing lest white men and black men should fight shoulder to shoulder to save the country. And when about to organize, the Superintendent (Kennedy) of Police sent a possee of police to tell them that they must not hold any meeting, but must disband. Then they said they would wait till they were called for. Much as they loved their land, much as their hearts burned for liberty, they resolved to wait; and now the call bad come and they must go, and, if need be, be found in front, and so bequeath to future generations an heirloom in which their children and children's children would remember with pride that their fathers were not cowards when their country called them to its defence. He then referred to the ”military necessity" character of the Proclamation. This war bad sent death and desolation into almost every family in the Union; trade and commerce had been prostrated, and now it had been found out that the rebels could not be subdued unless the black men were brought in to take a part. Such a consummation was glory enough for one day. There was now a chance for them to set aside all excuses-never to mind what Jeff". Davis says about banging. There was something Jeff. must do before hanging black men-that was to catch them: and both the catching and the hanging could be played on both sides. Jeff, most know that the black man, when he joins the army, goes in to win. He then thanked the ”Sons of Freedom" for the honor they bad conferred upon him in making him President of that meeting.
In closing, he named a long list of heroes and martyrs of Liberty, finishing with John Brown, which brought the audience to their feet to give most rapturous shouts and applause. He then proposed three cheers for the City Press-the Evening Post (cheers), the Times, which had faithfully recorded the advance of liberty, and the New York Tribune (immense cheering), with its honored bead, Horace Greeley (tremendous cheering).
<c04>
The whole assembly then sung the John Brown song.
The Rev. Dr. CHEEVER was received with long continued applause, the audience rising to their feet, and the ladies waving their pocket-handkerchiefs for some time. When silence had been restored, the Rev. Doctor said that it was a great privilege to be present on such an occasion, and he felt that it was almost useless to attempt to do it justice. Human eloquence must fail in attempting to give an adequate tribute to the event which they had met to celebrate. The issue of the edict of Emancipation was God's own work. It had hardly been accomplished through any instrumentality, for at every step. Emancipation had advanced against instrumentalities. It was a reluctant step on the part of the present Administration. God had conquered a victory over the men who bad raised their voice continuously against the Emancipation policy. It was the accomplishment of the Psalm:” He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor." God had humbled this nation on account of its pride, and now we were reduced to” military necessity," the colored men were called upon to come and help to gave whites. This was Glory to God. (Amen!) It was perfectly wonderful. The President had himself acknowledged that he never would issue any decree of Emancipation, unless compelled to do so to secure the salvation of the Government, and he had been faithful to that resolution to the very last moment. The manner in which he had treated the whole subject, as a nation, was plainly saying to God:” We never will do justice until we are compelled." He was speaking in that manner in order that their hearts might be led to God as the preserver of the nation and the giver of liberty. If the President had, instead of waiting one hundred days, issued an edict of constitutional Abolition three months ago, the Rebellion would have been crushed by this time. But what we had got, thank God, was irrevocable, never to be called back, never! never! (Tremendous cheering.) Now the Constitution was for them, freemen, not for tyrants. God had made Abraham, into whose bosom they would all be content to rest their beads in the future, his bell-ringer. He had taken him, and shut him up in the bell-tower, and he was now ringing out the music of freedom for the ages and all mankind. Washington heard it; and John Brown, as his soul marches on, stops to listen to its tones, and still the President keeps pulling at the rope, ringing out the echoes of liberty, which surge over the heads of our armies, and inspire them with new courage to go on in the mortal conflict. God was on our side, and the edict would be carried out. He hoped that this present Congress would not separate till they had legislated free what yet remains of slavery. Just as this policy becomes older, it will become more popular, and in the end there will be a rivalry for the honors of the battle. He said the Observer, the Journal of Commerce, and even the Herald (hisses and groans) would before long be asserting that they always claimed emancipation as the policy that would lead on to victory.
The Rev. Mr. GARNET here read the news from Vicksburg and from Murfreesboro', announcing the victories as the first fruits of God's blessing under the Emancipation regime. The reading of the news was received with the most tumultuous applause. Three cheers were then given for Rosecrans, three for the whole army, and three more for the navy.
Prof. WILSON then addressed the meeting at length, intimating that soon, as there would be no further use for newspapers, they would see the press” 'round looking for some new occupation."
The meeting was further addressed by LEWIS TAPPAN, one of the oldest veterans in the Abolition movement, who gave a very interesting review of that movement from its inception in England to the present time. 
Addresses were also made by the Rev. Messrs. DENNISON and CAINE, JOHN PETERSON, WILLIAM WELLS BROWN, and others. The meeting broke up at a very late hour, all leaving the place thoroughly satisfied that it had been good to be there.
The meeting was attended by a large number of the leading merchants, ministers and lawyers of this city, who were scattered all over the audience, many of them glad to enjoy even a place to stand. -N. Y. Tribune.

THANKSGIVIG AMONG THE CONTRABANDS AT WASHINGTON.
We have just come from a visit to the thousand freemen, out at the barracks. Rev. Mr. Channing was one of our party, as was also Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, who is here on a visit. Mr. Nichols, the Superintendent, had been expecting us, and insisted on our driving into the yard, around which the barracks are built. The negroes were all assembled within the square, and the moment the carriage stopped, Mr. Nichols called out,” Three cheers for Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe!" They were given with a perfect yell, and, the moment she stepped out of the carriage, came an impromptu chorus, diversified with all sorts of joyous shouts.
We then went into the dining-hall, a neat board building, decorated within with greens and pictures. Here, sitting on the platform with Dr. Pierpont, Senator Pomeroy and others, we chatted and looked about us, until the file of negroes, with their happy faces, began to march in. Then a venerable old negro, called by his people John the Baptist, made a long and very characteristic prayer, and at the conclusion they sang the” Moses Song," a negro Marseillaise, which is forbidden to them down South, bat which they shouted in triumph now. It represented the poor slaves as like the Israelites in Egypt,” way down in the heathen land,"-God as commanding their oppressors to let his people go. The air was a perfect mirror; one man sang a recitation, then a few joined in a part of the chorus, and finally the whole body came down with a perfect about, on the” Let my people go." Here are some of the verses:
Oh, go down, Moses, 
Way down into Egypt's land; 
Tell king Pharaoh 
To let my people go.
Oh, Pharaoh said he would go cross,
Let my people go. 
But Pharaoh and his host was lost,
Let my people go.
Chorus-Oh, go down, Moses, &c.
Oh, Moses, stretch your hands across,
Let my people go. 
And don't get lost in the wilderness,
Let my people go.
Chorus-Oh, go down, Moses, &c.
You may hinder me here, tat you can't up there,
Let my people go. 
He sits in the Heaven, and answers prayer.
Let my people go.
Chorus-Oh, go down, Moses, &c.
They had now marched in only to see the table, with its goodly burdens and its decorations, and then
<c05>
they marched out to come in again alter carving had been done. As they marched out, old John the Baptist struck up in a thundering voice, lining out a hymn, in which every one seemed to join, and with remarkable harmony. It was slow solemn, and at times very plaintive music, and wild and thrilling in the highest degree. I never heard anything like it before, and would come all the way here for that alone—Hartford Press.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1863. 
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
The old year has gone to take its place on the pages of history, with its blood-stained record of rebellion, its political intrigues, its treacheries, its good and its evil; and to-day the New Year takes its place, with President Lincoln's PROCLAMATION or FREEDOM as a starting point Really, did I not dislike to break that typographical edict which gives a uniformity in the arrangement of date headings to all the correspondence of the Journal, I should have discarded the name given in honor of Janus, (that double-faced old heathen reprobate who looked both ways,) and have dated this Waif " First Month," in honest Quaker style. Old heathen institutions have this morning been set aside by the President, and this is not only the first day of the first month, but of the first year of American Independence! Slavery is no longer national, but sectional, and 1863 comes in joyous and glorious, full of hope, though not without doubt.
THE CONTRABAND CAMP.
One of the sights here, at the metropolis, since the emancipation question has, like the rod of Aaron, swallowed up all others, has been the contraband camp at the corner of Twelfth and G. streets, half a mile north of Willard's Hotel. Two long rows of temporary barracks, with the office of the superintendent and its out-buildings connectings them at one end, with a high board fence at the other, form the " camp," which is a haven of refuge to those who have escaped from their rebel owners, to seek freedom under a government founded by those who thought " that all men are created equal.". Dr. D. B. Nichols, the Superintendent, has received, since he took charge of the camp on the 16th of June last, 3564 of these contrabands. The men are sent at once to the Quartermaster's department, where they are employed as teamsters or mechanics, and household employment is found for those women who have no young children. But the old, the maimed, the mothers and the children, remain at the camp, until their relatives or friends can provide them with homes, which many have done.
A LARGE FAMILY.
Dr. Nichols has now about 600 under his charge; 230 of them are children. Their small tenements in the barracks reminded me to-day of the "quarters" on the plantations of humane masters, as they used to look, and kind friends having donated quite an amount of serviceable furniture, some of the rooms had quite a home look. Dr. Nichols has his office decked with books and pictures, and one can see at a glance that he is admirably qualified for his position, and that he judiciously leads his sable visitors from the shadows of the cane under which they have been reared, into the sunshine of freedom. It is not easy to make those love to work who have been driven to their unremunerated tasks by the overseer's whip; and now that the slaves are free, the great question is to be: "How can the freedmen be made industrious members of society?"
THE YEAR OF JUBILEE HAS COME.
Last night—and a clear, pleasant, delightful night it was—Dr. Nichols assembled some three hundred of the elder contrabands in the school-room of the camp, to celebrate the advent of the year of jubilee. After the room was full, and all was quiet, Mr. Morgan (now of the Quartermaster's Department, but formerly with Mr. Gardner Brewer of Boston,) sang an original song of freedom, which he had composed for the occasion. Dr. Nichols then narrated the principal events of the rebellion, which were soon to be crowned with the proclamation, and after giving them some good advice, he called on an old gent of the African persuasion to give his experience, which he did somewhat in these words:—
"Onst the time was, dat I cried all night What's de matter? What's de matter? Matter enough. De nex mornin my child was to be sold, an she was sold, an I neber spec to see her no more till de day ob judgment. Now, no more dat! no more dat! no more dat! Wid my bands agin my breast I was gwine to my work, when de overseer used to whip me along. Now, no more dat! no more dat! no more dat! When I tink what de Lord 's done for us, an brot us thro' de trubbles, I feel dat I ought go inter his service. We'se free now, bress de Lord! (Amens! were vociferated all over the building.) Dey can't sell my wife an child any more, bress de Lord! (Glory! glory! from the audience.) No more dat! no more dat! no more dat, now! (Glory!) Presurdund Lincum hav shot de gate! Dat's what de matter!" and there was a prolonged response of Amens!
After several others had spoken, George Payne made a few sensible remarks, somewhat in these words: "Friends, don't you see de han of God in dis? Haven't we a right to rejoice? You all know you couldn't have such a meetin' as dis down in Dixie! Dat you all knows. I have a right to rejoice, an' so nave you, for we shall be free in jus about five minutes. Dat's a fact I shall rejoice dat God has placed Mr. Lincum in de President's chair, an' dat he wouldn't let de rebels make peace until after dis new year. De Lord has beard de groans of de people, and has come down to deliver! You all knows dat in Dixie, you worked de day long, an' never got no satisfacshun. But here, what you make is yourn. I've worked six months, an' what I've made is mine! Let me tell you, though, don’t be too free! De lazy man can't go to heaven. You must be honest, an' work, an' show dat you is fit to be free, an' de Lord will bless yon an' Abrum Lincum. Amen!"
THE BOND FREE.
Just before midnight. Dr. Nichols requested all present to kneel, and to silently invoke the blessing of the Almighty. The silence was almost deadly, when the clock announced the new year, and Dr. Nichols said: " Men and women, (for you are this day to be declared free, and I can address you as men and women,) I wish yon a happy new year!" An eloquent prayer was then offered by as aged negro, after which, all rose, and joined in singing their version of "Glory! glory! hallelujah!" shaking each other by the hand, and indulging m joyous demonstrations. They then promenaded the grounds, singing hymns, and finally serenaded the Superintendent, in whose honor a sable improvisatore carolled forth an original ode, the Chorus of which was, “Free forever! Forever free! "
To-day, the freed people have had holiday cheer, and toward night Dr. Nichols intends to read the President's Proclamation to them. PERLEY.
<c06>


[Correspondence of the New York Tribune.]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3, 1863.
On Monday evening, in company with two gentlemen, t visited the “Contraband Camp," situated on the northern outskirts of the city, where the negroes escaping from the South are quartered and cared for. As it was the eve of one of the most eventful eras in their history, I thought there would have been at least a representative of the Tribune there.
We reached the camp at about 7 o'clock, and after a few moments' conversation with the Superintendent, we were, by him, conducted to a large room at one end of the building, where, as we went expected, there had gathered about 150 negroes of both sexes.
The room was made comfortable and cheerful by a fire and lamp properly disposed, and I was struck with the neat and orderly appearance of the negroes. As soon as we were seated, one of the recognized patriarchs arose and opened the ceremonies with a few remarks and prayer, which was followed by one of their characteristic plantation hymns, the air being of a singular monotony, but exceedingly plaintive. There was something sad, ret not depressing, about their simple ceremonies, though to the enemies of the race they would have no doubt afforded an excellent opportunity for ridicule; but to me their bright eyes and fine physique (if the word is allowable in speaking of a negro) indicated a sap-ply of undeveloped resources, whose development, should opportunity offer, would astonish even their friends. They prayed for the Union army, the captains and lieutenants. They petitioned the Lord to “put straight shoes on crooked feet," which prayer, if answered, might change the course of many of our military leaden from devious and intricate byways to the clear, open highways.
When another prayed—in a faltering voice—for his little family down in Carolina, it evidently touched the chord of tenderness in the breast of many present, who have perhaps breathed the same prayer a thousand times.
After these ceremonies, lasting about an boar and a half, my companion addressed them, exhorting them to endeavor to meet the coming change in their condition like men and women, to inspire themselves with new energy, to be industrious and economical, and to cheerfully conform to all the rules and regulations that might be for a time necessary for their government, etc. such a coarse would tend to encourage their well-wishers, and silt nee their detractors. He then sang a Proclamation song, the negroes joining in the chorus. In rendering the following verse, it seemed to be a musical expression of their determination to follow its advice—
"We will strive to learn our duty.
That thus the world may see,
Though so long oppressed in bondage,
We were worthy to be free."
And I thought when they sang—
"And blessed be Abraham Lincoln-
The Union army, too;
May the choicest of earth's blessings
Their pathway ever strews”—
that could our amiable President have beard them, be would have derived more comfort than he did from the empty ceremony, or rather ordeal, through which be passed on the day following. After another song, in which the negroes joined with earnestness, we left.
The quarters consist of several long, low wooden buildings, with stoves, which made them comparatively comfortable. There is some considerable sickness, mostly small-pox, among them, and 1 fear their color and antecedents are somewhat prejudicial to the attentions, coequal with other human beings under similar circumstances, they might otherwise receive. Some little attention might, with advantage, in a sanitary point of view, be given to the subject of ventilation of the buildings.
I trust that soon now they may be permitted to gradually, or as opportunity offers, assume a grade in society as other classes, when they will neither interfere nor be interfered with by those who are—God only knows on what grounds—opposed to them, and given a fair field and no favor, if you please, to vindicate their manhood, but time enough to throw off the overwhelming incubus to development of intelligence and civilization that the curse of slavery has so long oppressed them with.
There are about fire hundred at the camp, mostly women, children, and old and infirm men, the able-bodied of both sexes being employed by Government as opportunity offers. While we were there, word came that seventy more were on their way to the camp. YAPP
[From the Washington Star, Jan. 2d]
About noon yesterday, the contrabands—men, women and children—gathered in large numbers in front of Superintendent Nichols's office, at the camp, and engaged in a variety of exercises appropriate to the day and to their condition.
They were first taught a musical composition called "The Negro Boatman's Song," and, with that aptitude for learning music by ear peculiar to this people, were able to give the air, and a considerable portion of the words as well, after a single repetition to them. It was then rang with great effect by those assembled, UM volume of voices reaching many squares from the camp.
After this an old man struck op in a clear and powerful voice, "I am a free man now; Jams Christ has made me free!" the company gradually joining in. and before the close, the whole assemblage was singing in chorus.
It was quite evident through the exercises of the day and night that the negroes regard the condition of the Israelites in Egypt as typical of their own condition in slavery, and the allusion to lasses, Pharaoh, the Egyptian task masters, and the unhappy condition of the captive Israelites, were continuous; and any reference to the triumphant escape of the Israelites across the Red Sea, and the destruction of their pursuing masters, was certain to bring out a strong “Amen!"
An old colored preacher, who displays Many of the most marked peculiarities of his race, calling himself “John de Baptis," and known as such by his companions from his habit of always taking km text, as he expresses it, from the " regulations ob de 2d chapter of Matthew, and in these days came John de Baptis,-came forward, and taking his usual text, went on to show the necessity of following good advice, and rebuked his hearers for being more lawless than they were in Dixie.
A woman then sang a song composed for the occasion, commencing, “There will be no more taskmasters," the others joining in the chorus.
A Virginia contraband spoke of the proclamation. "I hear the groans of my people, and I will come down and deliver them.” You know," said he, "how it was in Dixie, when you worked all day without giving satisfaction. I have worked by the month for six months since I left Dixie, and the money is all my own, and," ha added triumphantly. “I’ll soon educate my children. But, brethren, he
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that <illegible> authority takes, for the times, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the <illegible> THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN <illegible> WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." -J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
continued, "don't be ice free.The lazy man can’t go to heaven. Don't lean as our master (pointing to Dr.Nichols),for he is the master of us all now. You must depend on yourselves, and be honest-work.”
They then closed the afternoon services by singing better day a coming," and other “breaking songs," as they term them.
During the recess, the different families visited and congratulated each other on the prospect of the freedom granted by the proclamation, and the hope of seen seeing their friends now in the South enjoying the same blessings as themselves.
Afterwards the proclamation was read, accompanied with prayers and speeches.

EMANCIPATION DAY IN SOUTH CAROLINA. 
Correspondence of the Boston Traveller.
HILTON ISLAND,Jan. 1,1863.
This has been a fine, pleasant June-like day for "Emancipation Day."The steamer Boston left the pier at Hilton Head this morning with a large number of negroes and others, and proceeded up the Beaufort river about twelve miles to Parris Island,where the First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers are encamped(about 700 in number),for the purpose of celebrating the birthday of"Negro In-dependence."Upon arriving opposite the Plantation,we were met by another steamer from Beaufort,loaded down with human freight, comprising in part the "elite" of that aristocratic young city, of all shades of color, with an excellent band of music, playing the national and other airs, while others were singing.
It was to us Northerners like a “regular Fourth of July morning." We landed on the beach, and in hour's time were all gathered in a beautiful grove. A large platform, a real, genuine Anti-Slavery one, and probably the first one of the kind in rebellious South Carolina, had been erected for the services of the occasion. The next one, by the way, should be put in Charleston, with a cross-beam over it,for the special benefit of Jeff. Davis & Co., which I think would be the most suitable and appropriate place for their execution of any in the United States. A capital band of music, several ladies, Brigadier General Saxton, our highly honored and worthy Military Governor from Massachusetts, (let it be understood that it takes a Massachusetts man to rule South Carolina,) and Col. Higginson, another Massachusetts man, the Colonel of the First Regiment Colored South Carolina Volunteers, were upon the platform, also Rev. Mr. French.
The first business was the presentation of a stand of colors to the First Colored Regiment. Col. Higginson spoke very highly of his command, and at the close of his remarks, after the presentation of the colors to those who were to carry them in their ranks, he requested them to say a few words in reference to the occasion, which they did, in a very creditable manner. General Saxton's remarks were capital, and were well received. He is just the man for this place; his loss would be as severely felt as is that of General Mitchell. The stand of colors which I have mentioned were presented by Rev. Mr. French to the Colonel of the Regiment, and were a present from the Rev. Dr. Cheever's Society in New York. The flag is of rich thick silk, with the following words wrought upon it, viz: “To the First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers. The Year of Jubilee has Come." After singing an Odeair, ”Scot's wha ha’”—the multitude adjourned for the purpose of partaking of refreshments. The tables were loaded with plenty of roast beef, bread, coffee, &e., free to all.
It was a regular Western barbecue, there being four or five oxen roasted whole, and the way some of the negroes put into the beef was astonishing. Some of the negroes have probably not had a taste of fresh beef for Years, If ever if ever, and several declared that they never had such a good time afore, and wanted to know when we were going to have another sich a day &c Upon the whole, the celebration passed off very pleasantly; all seemed to enjoy it, and in good season left the 'beautiful grove for our mansions, tents and huts. The following was the Ode sung by the negroes:—
ODE
FOR EMANCIPATION DAY,JANUARY 1,1863.
Air—" Scot's wha ha'.
"Ye sons of burning Afric's soil,
Lift up your hands of hardened toil;
Your shouts from every hill recoil—
To-day you are free! 
 A mighty arm has struck your chain,
The same that broke a tyrant's reign,
And took the Lion by beard and mane,
Beneath his knee.

To-day you hear a nation's voice,
To-day you have the glorious choice 
Forever, ever to rejoice,
In FREEDOM'S reign;
 Or, ground to earth as fearful slaves,
Your thirsting soul forever craves 
To find dishonorable graves
From earthly pain.

The Sun of LIBERTY'S first ray
Reveals a shining throng's array; 
Millions unborn to hail this day—
The day you are free!
They spread their shadowy hands to you;
“O, fathers, to your sons be true;
 Snatch us the fruit that early grew
On LIBERTY'S tree!"

O, Abraham Lincoln, thanks to you,
From every Christian heart you drew 
The grand, the beautiful, the true,
And sent it down
To gladden, to uplift our hearts, 
To give the life that hope imparts,
The joy of dawn when night departs,
And veils its frown.

We hail this dawn of future days,
 And God's right arm that still upstays 
The cheering sun's perpetual rays,
Now makes us free.
We thank the Lord, we thank the North,
Whose breath hath sent the tidings forth; 
To-day a people's glorious birth;
To-day we’re FREE!

GEN.BUTLER IN NEW YORK.
Gen. Butler arrived in New York on Thursday, last week, on his way home to Lowell, and was waited on in the evening by a committee of the Chamber of Commerce, who, through their chairman, presented him a letter, tendering him a public dinner, congratulating him on the manner in which he had performed the duties of a very difficult situation, and complimenting him on the success which had attended his management of affairs in New Orleans. A sketch of Gen. Butler's reply to the deputation is given in the New York Times. After expressing his gratification at the flattering terms of the invitation, and his inability at present to accept it, be said:—
" If they should allow him to be colloquial, he would speak of a few things respecting his course in New Orleans, which had been carped at and severely criticised by those who had been accustomed to act with him politically in times past-not for the purpose of injuring him, but the cause of the country. With reference to the slavery question, his views had undergone a radical change during his residence at New Orleans; and while entertaining no prejudices against his old political associates, who found fault with him on that score, he would only say to them, that if they had gone there with the same sentiments that he felt,they would have come away with the same sentiments that he felt. (Laughter.) He thought he might say that the principal members of his staff, and the prominent officers of his regiments, without any exceptions, went out to New Orleans hunker Democrats of the hunkerest for it was but natural that he should draw around him those whose views were similar to his own, and every individual of the number had come to precisely the same belief on the question of slavery as he had put forth in his farewell address to the people of New Orleans. This change came about from seeing what all of them saw, day by day.In this war the entire property of the South was against us, because almost the entire property of the South was bound up in that institution. This was a well-known fact, probably, but he did not become fuly aware of it until he had spent,some time at New Orleans.
The South had $163,000,000 of taxable property in slaves, and $163,000,000 in all other kinds of property. And this was the cause why the merchants of New Orleans had not remained loyal.They found themselves ruined-all their property being loaned upon planters' notes and mortgages upon plantations and slaves, all of which property is now reasonably worthless. Again,he had learned what he did not know before, that than was not a rebellion against us, but simply a rebellion to perpetuate power in the hands of a few slaveholders. At first he had not be 
<c02>
lieved that slavery was the cause of the rebellion, but attributed it to Davis, Slidell and others, who had brought it about to make political triumphs by which to regain their former ascendency.
The rebellion was against the humble and poorer classes, and there were in the South large numbers of secret societies, dealing in cabalistic signs, organized for the purpose of perpetuating the power of the rich over the poor. It was feared, that these common people would come into power, and that three or four hundred thousand men could not hold against eight millions. 
The first movement of these men was to make land the basis of political power; and that was not enough, for land could not be owned by many persons. Then they annexed land to slaves, and divided the property into movable and immovable.
He was not generally accused of being a humanitarian-at least not by his Southern friends. (Laughter.) When he saw the utter demoralization of the people, resulting from slavery, it struck him that it was an institution which should be thrust out of the Union. He had, on reading Mrs. Stowe's book- Uncle Tom's Cabin-believed it to be an overdrawn, highly wrought picture of Southern life, but he had seen with his own eyes, and heard with his own ears, many things which go beyond her book as much as her book does beyond an ordinary school-girl's novel.He related an instance of the shocking demoralization of society at New Orleans.There came into his office a woman 27 years of age, perfectly white, who asked him in proper language if he would put her in one of her father's houses. Her history was this:Her father’s had educated her in the city of New York until she was between 17 and 18 years of age, and taken her to one of the metropolitan hotels, where he kept her as his mistress.Not relishing the connection, and desiring to get away from him,she went to New Orleans. He followed her, but she refused to live with him, at which he whipped her in the public street, and made her marry a slave. She afterward resumed the unnatural relation, going to Cincinnati, but was brought back by her husband or father with a child belonging to somebody.Her father fled from the city at the time of its occupation by the United States forces, leaving her in a state of destitution.She wanted to live in one of her father's houses, but her story was not credible, and he determined to investigate it.To his surprise, it was found to be well known, and testimony of its truth obtained from A, B and C, without difficulty. Notwithstanding this fact, widely known as it was,this man could be elected in Louisiana, in the city of New Orleans, a Judge of one of the courts.
On one occasion,one of his aids brought before him a young woman,almost white, who had been brutally whipped and turned out of the house of her father. For this outrage the man had been made to pay a fine of $1000, and give the woman a deed of emancipation. (Applause.) These were the kind of charges which had been brought against him.(Cheers,and cries of”Good!") Yes, no right minded man could be sent to New Orleans without returning an unconditional anti-slavery man,even though the roofs of the houses were not taken off, and the full extent of the corruption exposed.
All the lower class of the people of New Orleans were loyal.During the first fourteen days after the Union forces entered the city, fourteen thousand took the oath of allegiance; and when he went on board the steamer on his return to the North, at least one thousand laboring men came down upon the levee, and uttered no words except those of good will to him as the representative of the Government.
Gen. Butler continued by saying that the war could only be successfully prosecuted by the destruction of slavery, which was made the corner-stone of the Confederacy.This was the second time in the history of the world that a rebellion of property holders against the lower classes and against the Government was ever carried on.The Hungarian rebellion was one of that kind,and that failed,as must every rebellion of men of property against Government and against the rights of the many.One of the greatest arguments which be could find against slavery was the demoralizing influences it exerted upon the lower white classes,who were brought into secession by the hundred because they ignorantly supposed that great wrong was to be done them by the Lincoln government,as they termed it,if the North succeeded.Therefore,if you meet an old Hunker Democrat, and send him for sixty days to New Orleans, and he comes back a Hunker still, he is merely incorrigible.(Laughter.)
There was one thing about the President's edict of emancipation to which he would call attention. In Louisiana he had excepted from freedom about 87,000 slaves. These comprise all the negroes held in the Lafourche District who have been emancipated already for some time,under the law which frees slaves taken in rebellious territory by our armies.Others of these negroes had been freed by the proclamation of September, which declared all slaves to be free whose owners should be in arms on the 1st of January.The slaves of Frenchmen were free because the code civil expressly prohibits a Frenchman holding slaves and by the 7th and 8th Victoria, every Englishman holding slaves submitted himself to a penalty of $500 for each.Now, take the negroes of Secessionists,Frenchmen and Englishmen out of the 87,000, and the number is reduced to an infinitesimal portion of those excepted.This fact had come to his knowledge from having required every inhabitant of the city to register his nationality.After all the names had been fairly registered,he explained these laws to the English and French Consuls, and had thus replied to demands which had been made by English and French residents of Louisiana upon the Government for slaves alleged
alleged to have been seized.(Applause.)
Gen. Butler then adverted to the fight at Vicksburg, and explained how utterly impossible it was for Banks and Farragut to pass the strongly fortified rebel position three hundred miles below,at Port Hudson,in time,at the present low stage of water in the river, to cooperate with Gen. Sherman.A pleasant conversation on various topics followed, and the committee left, evidently pleased at the manner in which the evening had passed.
The guests at the hotel afterward pressed into the room to shake Gen.Butler by the hand,and the ladies especially appeared to be delighted with the opportunity of offering their compliments."
A popular ovation was given to Gen. Butler, at Lowell,on Monday afternoon.Here is an extract from his speech on the occasion:-
I went to Louisiana desiring to do everything to restore it as it was; to see if by any possibility I might bring the principles, the laws and the institutions which govern that State into harmony with the Union; but I found there no disposition to have that done.I found that the aristocracy looked upon us as their enemies; and I found that the working and middle classes looked upon us as friends.Within the first month, 14.000 of those who compose the bone and sinew of New Orleans had taken the oath of allegiance,not by lip service only,but from their hearts; and from that day I found no man owning slaves who would take the oath of allegiance,except for the purpose of saving his property.That was the rule: there were some exceptions.I found the working men true to the Union, and I found the slave-owners false to the Union.I dealt kindly with the working men, and I dealt harshly with the slaveholders.(Loud applause.) I recognized my friends and my enemies, and I made as wide a difference between the one and the other as there was between Dives and Lazarus. (Applause.) 
I desire to say a single word on the question of emancipation.On that question, you know, I have held certain opinions.Those opinions have received,in some degree, correction.I have views to offer which I think will commend themselves to the judgment of every one of you.Is there a man here who doubts that some time or other, in the providence of God, the negro is to be free-and that some day the protection of the laws will be extended over him, and that he will become free? No man doubts that; and all desire to guard against the evils that may arise from that change, and which cannot be made without disorganizing our political system.It is my opinion that all this has been sent upon the nation for some great object; and it is my opinion that it will be easier at this time to settle this question than to leave it to be settled hereafter. Is it not evident to every mind, that the day and hourhave come when all men,so far as this country is concerned-and it is the last refuge of slavery on the lobe-shall be in political rights free and equal, as hey were declared by the Declaration of Indepenence.(Applause.) Let no man be concerned bout the question of social equality.They will be ist so far equal as God has made them equal, and o more and no less.Take care lest we be found hting against God!If He has not made them or equals, they will not be our equals. But He has made them free.God willed them free.God will save them free.And let His will be done!
<c03>
The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY,,JANUARY 16, 1863.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY S0CIETY.
The THIRTIETH ANNUAL MEETING. of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Jan. 29th and 30th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M. 
This Society was organized for the utter abolition of slavery throughout the United States. However great has been the change wrought in public sentiment in favor of that godlike object,- and it has been truly marvellous, in view of the mountainous obstacles in the way of success; however effectual may be the President's Emancipation Proclamation in breaking the chains of the bondmen in such rebellions sections of the country as he has just designated,- and Heaven grant it may be as potent in operation as it is comprehensive in its scope; nevertheless, nothing at this hour is settled so surely as the continued enslavement of four millions of the inhabitants of the land; and while any of these remain to wear the yoke, the primary object and specific work of this Society will not have been accomplished. Slavery in the so-called loyal Border States is as inexcusable, as criminal, as revolting, as unendurable, as pregnant with evil and ruin, as in the rebellious Confederate States, and must be as vigorously and uncompromisingly assailed, until liberty is proclaimed "throughout ALL the land, to ALL the inhabitants thereof."
The approaching anniversary promises to be one of surpassing interest; and it is not doubted that the friends of universal emancipation, in the various sections of the Commonwealth, (and, it is hoped, beyond the limits of the State,) will be encouragingly represented on the occasion. As hitherto, an additional attraction will be presented in the holding of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY on the evening (Wednesday, Jan.28th) preceding the opening session of the Society.
 [Further particulars hereafter.]
By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Sec'y.

THE PROCLAMATION.
" Proclaim liberty throughout ALL the land, to ALL the inhabitants thereof."
At a special meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held at the Society's Rooms, Tuesday, Jan.13th, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That this Committee heartily unite in the general joy and thanksgiving expressed in view of the emancipation of three millions of slaves in the 
 revolted States, by the Proclamation of President Lincoln, January 1st,1863, and regard that measure as constitutionally warranted by the nature of the rebellion, and the perilous condition of the government and nation; nevertheless, they deem it due to truth and justice to declare, that the President has been derelict to his duty in exempting any part of the slave States, or any portion of the slave population, from the operation of his beneficent decree; inasmuch as it is admitted by him, in his recent message to Congress, what is patent to all intelligent men, that slavery and rebellion are synonymous terms, and therefore both must be suppressed, or disunion will be inevitable.
Resolved, That there is no evidence that, in any of the States exempted by the Proclamation, there is or would be a controlling spirit of loyalty to the government, for one hour, independent of the presence of a Northern army upon its soil; on the contrary, there is every reason to believe that the withdrawal of that army would be quickly followed by a rebellious out break that would crush or drive out all local loyalty, and lead to a vigorous cooperation with the Southern Confederacy.
Resolved, That the number of loyal slaveholders (if there be any such) is too insignificant to be regarded in the treatment of the rebellion by the government; and, therefore, they can have no just cause of complaint if universal emancipation be proclaimed to save the country, especially if provision be made to secure them from pecuniary loss.
Resolved, That the President, in this terrible crisis, may as rightfully decree the emancipation of all the slaves, as of three millions, and is solemnly bound to finish what he has so largely performed; and that to attempt to keep a million of slaves in their chains, while essaying to liberate other millions in a similar condition, is to present a revolting spectacle to the civilized world, to create snares and pitfalls for the government, to render the struggle for the suppression of the rebellion uselessly prolonged and bloody, and to peril meanwhile our free institutions.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Rec. Sec.
SITUATION OF AFFAIRS. Every thing has presented a sombre aspect for some days past. The assault upon Vicksburg, though made with great impetuosity and bravery, and repeatedly renewed, has resulted in the defeat and withdrawal of the Federal forces-the place being found impregnable. The destruction of government property at Holley Springs, Miss., in the teeth of Gen. Grant's great army, by a dashing rebel raid, is estimated as high as five or six millions of dollars-perhaps considerably exaggerated. Since the disastrous battle at Fredericksburg, the army of the Potomac has seemed stricken with paralysis, though it is doubtless soon to be in motion for an onward movement.
Distressing and disheartening intelligence comes from Galveston, Texas. A rebel attack was quite unexpectedly made upon that place early on the morning of the 1st inst. Col. Burrill and his men were all killed or taken prisoners. Four rebel rams made an attack on the Harriet Lane, and carried her by boarding, after about all her officers (including Capt. Wainwright and Lieut Lee) and crew, 130 all told, had been killed by musketry from the rebel steamers. It is said that but one or two of the officers and only twelve or fifteen of the crew escaped death.
The gunboats Clifton and Owasco were engaged and escaped, the former losing no men, and having but one wounded, the latter having one killed and thirteen wounded. The Westfield (flagship) Commodore Renshaw, was not engaged, being ashore in another channel. Her crew were transferred to transports, and the Commodore, fearing she might fall into the hands of the rebels, blew her up. By some mismanagement or accident, the explosion occurred before the boat containing Com. Renshaw, Lieut. Zimmerman, and boat's crew got away, and they consequently were blown up with the ship.
The rebel force was estimated at about 6000, under Gen. Magruder. Our land force, under Col. Burrill, of Massachusetts, did not exceed 300, the residue not having arrived or not having been disembarked at the time of the fight Our loss was estimated at one hundred and fifty to one hundred and sixty killed and two hundred taken prisoners, the navy suffering the most. It is thought the rebel loss was much greater.
The removal of Gen. Butler from command at New Orleans is another of those strange and self-defeating measures with which the government stands chargeable. The substitution of Gen. Banks is a most hazardous experiment; for, already, treason is audacious and open-mouthed in the streets of New Orleans, and cheers are defiantly given for Jeff Davis. We shall not be greatly surprised to hear of the speedy recapture of that city, after the manner of Galveston.

 THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC AND POLITICAL Register, for 1863, furnishes a large amount of valuable information for the trifling sum of 13 cents. Be sure and get a copy of it.
<c04>
FREE LABOR VS. SLAVE LABOR.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION. By Augustus Cochin, Ex-Maire and Municipal Councillor of Paris. Translated by Mary L. Booth, Translator of Count de Gasparin's Works on America, &c. Second Edition. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co. 1863.pp.401.
The author of this remarkable work is said to be in the prime of life,-scarcely forty years old; an eminently practical man, with rare administrative ability; and long distinguished for his efforts and zeal in behalf of freedom. In preparing it, he has indulged in no visionary theories or speculations, but has successfully sought to present an invincible array of clear and well-digested facts, all triumphantly demonstrating the beneficent results of emancipation wherever attempted. The published and unpublished papers and records of every ministry of Europe have been placed at his disposal; in England he has had all the unpublished documents of the Board of Trade. The French Academy, at its last annual meeting, decreed this work the first prize of 3,000 francs. Besides this flattering testimonial, the Pope has conferred an order of knighthood on the author, as a tribute to the importance and value of his investigations in this department of humanity. A work thus heralded challenges the attention of all inquiring minds; and we are glad to perceive that it has quickly passed to a second edition. A hundred editions would not transcend its merits.
The toleration of a great social wrong in any country is ever accompanied by blindness of vision, hardness of heart, and cowardice of mind, as well as moral deterioration and industrial impoverishment. Hence, whenever an earnest attempt is made for the removal of the wrong, those without eyes noisily declare that they see clearly that nothing but disastrous consequences will follow; those who are dead to all sensibility profess to be shocked beyond measure in contemplating the terrible scenes that must result from the change; and those who have no faith in justice are thrown into spasms at the mention of its impartial administration. For a whole generation, covering the period of the Anti-Slavery struggle in this country, have they not incessantly raised their senseless clamors and indignant outcries against the simplest claim of bleeding humanity to be released from its tortures, as though it were a proposition to destroy all order, inaugurate universal ruin, and " let chaos come again "? What have the hated and anathematized Abolitionists demanded at variance with the rights or interests of a single human being? They have protested against driving the laborer to his unrequited toil under the lash; against placing men, women and children in the same category with cattle and swine; against the horrid traffic in human flesh, whereby all the ties of nature are ruthlessly violated; against the blasphemous claim of one man to the ownership of another; against laws and customs which enforce mental ignorance and moral degradation, making it a penal act to disseminate a single ray of light in the midst of all-abounding darkness; against the infliction of scourgings, mutilations, burnings, and tortures of every variety and degree; against bloody and merciless laws, enacted to guard and perpetuate a system of robbery, lust, and tyrannical dominion, which can be properly described only in the language of John Wesley as " the sum of all villanies." They have done and sought nothing beyond this—"-" to deliver the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor," by appeals to the understanding, the conscience, and the heart. And for this they have been uniformly and universally denounced by every epithet that malice could invent, or slander circulate, and constantly held up to public scorn and opprobrium as the most dangerous members of society. Just as the cry was raised eighteen centuries ago-“ Release not this man, but Barabbas”-a thief and a murderer being preferred, in the madness of the times, to one who " was without guile," who " went about doing good," and who was willing to lay down his life even for his worst enemies. In the same spirit have the cruel tyrants and nefarious plunderers of God's poor and needy at the South been preferred to the unblamable and philanthropic men and women, whose sole desire is to see liberty and peace victorious from sea to sea.
Those who are honestly desirous of learning what this dreaded abolitionism is when reduced to practice, are urgently recommended to examine " The Results of Emancipation," as demonstrated by M. Cochin.

THE BOSTON "PIONIER."

This is the ablest, most independent and outspoken, and most uncompromising in its opposition to slavery, of all the German newspapers in this country. It deserves twenty times its present circulation. On commencing the new year, it refers to the newspaper crisis in the following cheerful manner:-
For the New Year, on its tenth birthday, the Pionier presents itself, instead of growing, in a contracted form. That this new dress, although it is beginning to be fashionable, is not the choice of our own taste, we need hardly assure our readers. The longer the war continues, the shorter the newspapers become, and the cheaper paper-money is, the dearer printing-paper becomes. What priests and despots have sought so long in vain-a means for cramping intelligence and enlightenment -the slaveholders, with the help of their friends in Washington, have found. They do not crush the freedom of the press but starve it. It is a veritable triumph of rogues (rags, lumpen,) and the greatest that the slaveholders have achieved, to wit, that they threaten to expel Gutten-berg from his world-mastery, and to bankrupt the freedom of the press by withholding rags. Of what avail against that is abolitionism? The dealers in men extort even from the radical abolitionists at least a concession-that they must either reduce or abandon their papers.
We have striven to keep ourselves on our former footing, so long as it was in any way possible. At a time when even the richest papers increased their price or diminished their size, and the New York Staatszeitung of the iron front saw itself forced to appear periodically in half size, the poor Pionier did neither. But we felt we must continue the old volume at any cost to the conclusion in its former shape, especially as many readers preserve and bind the Pionier. The retention of the old size has only been possible to us by an outlay of at least $100, a loss which we must look to the new year to compensate. A longer retention of the old size would have been for the Pionier simply suicide, for which it has no affection, so long as its readers do not declare that it must sacrifice itself to their good by Roman self-destruction.
In conclusion, we must further remark that the Pionier is exactly the same size as that of its predecessor "Janus"; which had the same price and at the same time not half the present expense for paper. We have even now constantly $50 more to pay for the paper than some months ago for the larger sheet.
For the rest, the Pionier affords very nearly just as much reading-matter, since we have as much as possible encroached on the space for advertisements.
 Therefore, for the reader, the loss consists almost singly in a less advantageous outward appearance, and though " clothes make the man," they yet do not the paper.

COLORED AMERICAN PATRIOTS. We understand that Mr. WILLIAM C. NELL is preparing for press a second edition (revised and enlarged) of his valuable historical work, entitled " COLORED AMERICAN PATRIOTS," in which their services in the present struggle to put down the Slaveholders' Rebellion will be duly chronicled. In the Revolutionary war of 1776, and the war of 1812-15, none exhibited more heroism and devotion the cause of their country than themselves. They are still ready and desirous to serve that cause in every possible way, and to seal it with their blood, if necessary. What they have already done, and what they are capable of achieving, if properly encouraged, may be ascertained by a perusal of Mr. Nell's work. The proposed additions will add much to its interest as well as value. It deserves a place in every library, and in every family.
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER FOR JANUARY, 1863, is received. It contains six articles besides the Review of Current Literature. The subjects treated of, more or less elaborately, are, "The Later Writings of John Stuart Mill"; " The Palestinian Word"; " Buckle's Treatment of History "; " De Quincey "; "Modern Romanism and Modern Protestantism"; and " Peace Policy." The number is an able one.
<co5>
MORE ENCOURAGING WORDS.

We publish the following additional letters from subscribers to the Liberator, received since the unavoidable increase in its subscription price, containing words of cheer, and indicating the considerate spirit in which the change has been generally met::-
HAMPTON, (N. H.,) Jan. 3,1863.
 MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,- It in was my purpose, but my health prevented, to write you earlier, and say that I cannot afford to do without the Liberator, notwithstanding its increased price. I need its support as much as it needs my subscription. Ever since my first reading a copy of it, in 1845, I have read it with unfailing interest. And, notwithstanding its searching criticisms and rebukes (which sometimes seemed severe) of the church and clergy, to both of which I stood intimate relations, I have ever felt thankful, as enabling me to see more clearly their true mission and position, and their sad failure to come up to it in the hour of need. My husband also, ten years ago translated to a higher sphere, rejoiced for your fidelity, sympathized with you in spirit, and in his public ministrations urged the duty of letting the oppressed go free. When death came, and took him by the arm, he said to me he wanted to live to see the liberation of the enslaved in this nation, and to help bring it about; but added, " Probably I can do more for it in the unseen world than I can here in this feeble body. I shall not, by going there, lose my interest in what transpires here." And we may well be cheered and strengthened with the belief that, in the spirit form, he and Anthony Burns, with a multitude who have left the body since the commencement of this conflict, and who here took part in it in behalf of freedom, are still here with us, clothed with heavenly armor, commissioned from the Infinite to fly swiftly to this or that post of combat, to aid the weak against the powers of darkness.
Anthony Burns! Ah! does he not well remember, even now in glory, from what he was saved-the bitterness of slavery? Does he not remember Boston Court-House? Can he otherwise than burn to deliver others of his race from the same torments, and to defeat all who would inflict or perpetuate such torments on immortals like himself, now that he knows what blessed immortality is?
Could the blinded and infatuated workers of unrighteousness but have their vision purged, and the unseen world of spirits opened to their view, how would they find themselves overwhelmingly surrounded by horses and chariots of fire, God's ministering angels, swift to do his pleasure, and seek to hide themselves in concealment! So that, though death has called away many who early stood at your side in the conflict, and the vacant places are suggestive of loneliness and loss of laborers, we believe they have not left you to serve alone.
I cannot think that the mission of the Liberator is yet accomplished. The gate of Emancipation stands wide open at its top, but the people of bondage have not yet all passed through; a portion are still forbidden to enter; and on the opposite side stands the symbol of the nation's guilt-and between, the prostrate bondman still lifts up fettered hands; and our white brother lies prostrate beneath the flashing eye of Divine Justice. But we will rejoice, and thank God for the Emancipation Proclamation; that this nation has begun this New Year by doing so much that is " work meet for repentance "-not merely as a military necessity, but as an act of justice. I hope our friend Pillsbury will have blissful evidence that the company in which he has so long been a soldier has exhumed the long lost art-Repentance.
Slavery is not yet abolished; and if it were, the war is not closed. Peace is still a wanderer, and has no resting place. The nation has drunk deeply of the win-cup of war. Divine Justice said, "Drink thou also, and be drunken!" We are reeling to and fro, like a drunken man. After this visitation shall be accomplished, and the people return to their homes, who will rally the friends of peace, and enlighten the war-befogged minds of the people with the sublime principles of overcoming evil with good? The Liberator has led the way; and as long as its agency is needed to advocate the cause of Justice, Truth and Peace, the " means for its continuance " will come as naturally as the wick draws oil from the lamp; and when its light is no longer needed, we may as willingly let it expire as extinguish the lamp for the broad light of day.
Enclosed, please find three dollars for the Liberator for the current year. It avails nothing to say it, but I feel it, I wish I had the means to send three times that amount. But all these fruitless desires are laid by my faith that all necessary oil for the light will be drawn to it, and that the Bridegroom will instruct his servants to so arrange that the magnitude of the light shall be in proportion to the darkness to be illumed.
That you may hold up the light to the end, I remain, yours, for Light and Liberty,
C. G. OLDS.

BANGOR, (Me.) Jan. 10, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,— I cannot forbear writing you a few words of thankfulness for all that the Liberator has been to me these last six years. In losing it, I should feel that I had lost one of my dearest friends. Surely, its readers are more than willing to pay the increased price of its subscription.
So long as there remains in the American heart a vestige of prejudice against the colored people, the work of the Abolitionists will be incomplete; and the Liberator will be needed to perfect the work so gloriously begun.
With deeper feelings of gratitude than I am able to express, I am,
Very respectfully, yours,
HENRIETTA HYDE.

ELLSWORTH, (Me.) Jan. 5,1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,—I enclose to you $3.00, to pay for another year's subscription to the Liberator. I most earnestly hope that it will not cease being published until every slave in our land is free.
Last Saturday, the bells were rung here in honor of the President's proclamation; and in the evening, a large and enthusiastic meeting was held at 
Lord's Hall to celebrate the great event. The meeting was ably addressed by our old, faithful friend, Andrew T. Foss, and he was followed by the Baptist and Methodist clergymen of this town. All were full of gratitude and joy at the hopeful and auspicious event which called us together. Let us " thank God, and 
take courage "; but, I pray you, do not let the publication of the Liberator cease, unless you are compelled to do so by the apathy and lukewarmness of its professed friends. I most earnestly hope it will not lose a single subscriber in consequence of the increase in price.
 Yours, truly, CHARLOTTE L. HILL.
 
GAYSVILLE, (Vt.) Jan. 11, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,— We must not give up the Liberator until the last slave is free. It must never be given up until its mission is literally fulfilled on this continent, though it cost five dollars a year to support it. Enclosed are three dollars for this year's subscription.
Yours, for universal liberty, and social, political and religious equality, J.C.MARSDEN.

BRANTFORD, C. W., Jan. 9, 1863. 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,— I hope the Liberator will be sustained during these hard war times. Had Lincoln's proclamation extended to the whole four millions instead of three, the Liberator were not less needed than when you issued the first number, especially in view of the fact of how careful Lincoln and almost all official persons are to confess to nothing but the lowest motives in promoting emancipation.
Yours, truly, GEO. SUNTER.
 
MONTREAL Jan. 12,1863.
SIR- Enclosed, I send you a note of the Bank of Montreal for twenty dollars. Please give me credit on your subscription list for this amount, as my subscription for one copy of the Liberator for the next three years.
It is not, in times like the present, that any danger ought to be apprehended of the failure or the suspension of a newspaper in the United States, advocating liberty, which is dearer than life, and in America, where it is declared as among self-evident truths that “all men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
May God protect those rights among all men, of whatever color, and bless you for your faithful advocacy of them for more than thirty years!
 I remain, with sincere respect,
SAMUEL GALE.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq.

WILMINGTON, (Del.) 1st mo. 5th, 1863.
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON- I see in the Liberator thee proposes to advance the price of it fifty cents per annum, in consequence of the advance in paper, &c. All right! The Liberator must be sustained; it cannot be dispensed with while a slave clanks his chains in this land of boasted liberty. 
The beginning of the end of the slave's deliverance has commenced, by the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, of freedom to the slaves in the rebel States, with a few exceptions named, which exceptions, in my humble opinion, were wrong. They will lead to more difficulty, both with master and slave, than if all had been declared free, without the reservation. I believe it would have been much better for the whole country if a general proclamation of emancipation had 
been declared by the President to take effect at once-paying reasonable compensation to all loyal slaveholders in the Border States (provided any such 
could have been found); believing as I do that, had such a proclamation been made, it would have done more towards stopping the effusion of blood than any
<co6>
other plan that will be adopted, and in the end cost the Government less to pay for such slaves, than to prolong the war. Not that I believe it right to pay 
the master for the slave, but as a matter of expediency. Every sentiment of my nature is opposed to war; but non-resistant as I profess to be, I have not 
been able to see how the North could have avoided war. Slavery must die; till then, the country can have no peace.
 
I enclose five dollars for my subscription for the present year, and hold myself as a subscriber for that sum annually for the Liberator, as long as Five, or slavery remains to curse our soil. I am not willinglive,
lng to give up either the Standard or Liberator. I would much prefer doubling my subscription to either than that they should stop or be embarrassed. 
 With sincere regard I remain, thy friend, and the friend of suffering humanity the world over,
 THOS. GARRETT.
 
[This venerable philanthropist has succered no less than twenty-three hundred fugitive slaves!]-Ed.


SHORT COMINGS, AND WORSE

Our President is now indulged, through divine forbearance, with yet another opportunity to show whether he is wise or foolish, strong or weak. That he does not possess either high principle or eminent wisdom has been shown already, in his letting slip the precious opportunity of uprooting slavery utterly, 
from every State of a Union waging defensive war against the assault of the Slave Power. He has deliberately preferred to "scotch" the snake, instead of killing it. He has thought it best to limit his Proclamation of freedom to three-quarters of the slaves, instead of declaring them all free. We have now to see whether he will proceed actively and vigorously, and by the use of all his means instead of half, to public and execute the Proclamation in regard to the three millions.
The advantage, material and moral, resulting from the Proclamation, is very great, and has been heartily acknowledged by abolitionists generally. It insures us the beginning of the end of slavery. But the best beginning requires to be followed by the steps needful to insure the end. The man who begins to build, but is not able to finish, remains houseless.
To accomplish the purposes of the Proclamation, its 
work should be done thoroughly and vigorously, both by the President and his subordinates. But that instrument itself contains a clause inconsistent with its 
own general tenor, and which thus not only partially nullifies itself, but seems to allow to the civil and military officials a choice between two opposing modes 
of action.
The Proclamation advises the slaves to "labor for wages" where the opportunity is allowed them. This would be very excellent advice, if slavery and freedom were the only matters in question. It is precisely the advice which any philanthropist, speaking in his private capacity, would give. But the President disclaims philanthropy, and declares this act to be done "upon military necessity," that is to say,as an indispensable means of aiding the war. He for merly said (to the Chicago delegation) that if he could save slavery and the Union both, he would do it. The progress of events has made clear to him the impossibility of saving both, and the Proclamation thus expresses the motive for its own promulgation:
”I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested as Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy of the United States in time of actual armed rebellion against the authority and government of the United States, and as a fit and necessary war measure for suppressing said 
rebellion, do" order, &c.
It is as a "necessary war measure" that he has proclaimed certain slaves free. Now, if those slaves adopt his suggestion given in the same document, and labor for wages (wherever allowed) in their accustomed places of residence, raising cotton and corn, or digging intrenchments, or driving army wagons, for their rebel masters, how will that help the "war measures" of President Lincoln? How will that help to "suppress said rebellion"? So far as this recommendation shall be followed by the masters and slaves of any rebel State, so far Mr. Lincoln will have thwarted his own work, and given new strength to the rebellion. Even now, if the enemy, seeing that slavery is surely approaching its end, shall, as an act of military necessity, themselves emancipate the slaves, and offer them fair pay, as laborers and soldiers, they may still keep the four millions on their side, and successfully maintain their independence against the whole force of the United States. If that measure shall be taken, intervention by European powers will come before this year is half ended, in and of the Southern Free States.
A very serious check to the good results naturally to be expected from the Proclamation has been given by General Banks, in his address, dated Dec. 24th 1862, to the people of Louisiana. In undertaking to explain to the inhabitants of that State, slaves and free, the purport of the former Presidential Proclamation, (of Sept. 22nd,) he most unwarrantably assumes that the President's promise therein contained, to proclaim freedom to the slaves of certain States on the 1st of January, 1863, will either not be kept at all, or will have no relation, at that time, to the slaves of Louisiana, or any of them. He says, pretending to explain the purport of the earlier Proclamation:-
”It is manifest that the changes suggested therein, and which may hereafter be established, do not take effect within this State on the 1st of January proximo, nor at any precise period which can now be designated, and I call upon all persons, of whatever estate, condition or degree, soldiers, citizens or slaves, to observe this material and important fact, and to govern themselves accordingly."
 
And he further says:-
”The slaves are advised to remain upon their plantations until their privileges shall have been definitely established. They may rest assured that whatever 
benefit the government intends will be secured to them, but no man can be allowed, in the secured to them, but no man can be allowed, in the present condition of affairs, to take the law into his own hands. If they seek the protection of the government, they should wait its pleasure."
See how arrogantly Gen. Banks roceeds to nullify the freedom promised in advance by the President’s former Proclamation, and now legally granted to a large number of the slaves in Louisiana! He advises those slaves to wait until their " privileges are established." But the freedom in question is their right. 
It was always their right by God's law, and it has now become their legal right, through the action of the highest functionary of the government., Of course, they have now a legal as well as a moral rights to use that freedom, and go where they will. But, says General Banks, "no man can be allowed, in the present condition of affairs, to take the law into his 
own hands Thus this Massachusetts General, in the very act of explaining the President's will and purpose, has repressed the hopes of the slaves, and 
chilled their good feelings towards the United States government, and of course has given another opportunity for their masters to secure their alliance 
against us. Yet more; he has required them, until further notice, to continued laboring for their rebel masters. This act alone shows the unfitness of Gen. Banks to act in a war in which military necessity requires the emancipation of the slaves of rebels. If the order for his recall has not already gone forth, what hope remains that the President will require any of his Generals to enforce the Proclamation?
It is true that other high officers of the army-of whom Gen. Saxton is a noble specimen- have heartily urged the policy of freedom as far as their power 
extended; not only obeying orders by publishing the President’s Proclamation, but securing the attachment of the colored people, slave and free, by a humane and friendly demeanor towards them. But, in order to secure the benefits (the benefits to the country at large, be it observed,) of the Proclamation of 
freedom, every General, and every functionary of the army and of the government, should be required to pursue this same course of policy. Without action to make it effective, the Proclamation will have but a limited and imperfect operation. If the President and Congress, the army and the people, would unite to 
carry out its provisions, our success in the war would be not only thoroughly, but speedily assured.- C. N. W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
EVENING OF CHRISTMAS DAY, 1862
MY DEAR GARRISON
While reading the Anti-Slavery Standard of the 18th instant, my eye has lighted on an extract from the Thanksgiving Sermon of the Rev. H.W. Beecher, in which I find these words:-
“The public sentiment of England has rapidly become pro-slavery… She has stood forth as a proslavery nation.” And this, because “her factories and shipe, her commence and manufacturing were touched.”
England, thus described, is contrasted with England at the time Mrs. Stowe was here, when half a million of signatures were attached to a document ”beseeching America to take immediate action in reference to slavery, and do away the great and crying evil”.
My answer to Mr. Beecher is, that the spirit prevailing among the men of this country, connected with “Whips, commerce, factories and manufacturing,” has always been that of indifference or opposition to the Anti-Slavery cause. That this spirit has been manifested during your struggle with the slaveholding States is no evidence that this country has apostatized from the principles which so signally triumphed thirty years ago. As fro the half million of signatures furnished by “the ladies in England, including every principal woman excepting the illustrious Queen, “I would undertake to obtain double the number, now, to an address praying Mr. Lincoln and the Congress to give immediate and unconditional freedom to every slave in America, and to compensate them for past injustice by dividing amongst them the confiscated lands of their enslavers. I would not promise that in my record of the names of my countrywomen would appear as many of the titled and aristocratic as were contained in the volumes exhibited in the drawing room of the Duchess of Sutherland; but I think I might guarantee that there should be the names of at least two hundred thousand women, who are at this moment heroically and uncomplainingly suffering from the suspension of our supply of slave grown cotton, and who are willing to continue to suffer, rather than see the triumph of the slaveholder, or a compromise of the principle of liberty on the part of the Northern States.
On New Year’s eve, a great meeting of the working classes will be convened in the Free Trade Hall, Manchester, to consider and adopt Resolutions, and an Address to your President, on the subject of the Abolition of slavery. The meeting will be, bona fide, one of operatives-of persons plunged into the deepest distress by the want of cotton. Yet I venture to predict that there will be an all but unanimous expression of sympathy with American slave. The spirit of ships, commerce and manufactures will not reign there; but the warm, generous, unselfish spirit of the industrial population of the seat of the cotton trade of this country. I have received a copy of the Resolutions and Address which will be submitted, and enclose them to you for publication. You shall have the best account I can furnish of the proceedings. I hall not be there having to be present at a similar meeting in Sheffield, at the same time.
In the endeavor to arrive at a sound and unprejudiced judgment on the true state of public feeling in this country, certain facts should be kept in mind. 
The sentiments of our leading journals, of a portion of our public men, and of the aristocratic circles at the present time, on the subject of slavery, are precisely similar to those which prevailed in the same quarters during the struggle for the emancipation of our own slaves. In this respect, England is neither better nor worse. Blackwood’s Magazine and the Times of to-day are the same as they were in 1832-the one essence of Toryism, the other of Mammon. In the years 1831,”32 and’33, when petitions from all parts of the kingdom were being poured into the House of Commons in favor of Abolition, if the Times, Frazer, Blackwood, the John Bull, and a host of our other ”Public instructors,” had been taken as the exponents of English sentiment, we might have been pronounced a pro-slavery nation. Mr. Beecher visits upon the heads of the masses of our people the sins of certain classes in our country, with which classes we are always in conflict when promoting any object connected with the elevation or freedom of the many. On the vital question of slavery, the heart of the people is sound. It would be impossible to carry a pro-slavery resolution in any unpacked assembly in the kingdom. I could obtain a vote of censure from the constituents of every man who has vindicated the cause of the slaveholding rebels. The Times could not obtain an endorsement of its sentiments in any open meeting in the city of London, or elsewhere, where an opportunity was afforded of speaking the truth. The mention of its name invariably calls forth” a groan.” It should always be remembered, too, that our people are very imperfectly acquainted with the powers of your Federal Government. They know little or nothing of your Constitution-its compromises, guarantees, limitations, obligations, &c. They are consequently unable to appreciate the difficulties of your President, or to comprehend the caution, forbearance and senderness which he displays when speaking of slavery, slaveholders slave State, &c. Then, again, our auti-American journal have been carefulto conceal the truth. They have exposed every blunder; blazoned every proslavery act of general or officer in the army; have republished the harsh criticisms of abolition speakers; and, above all, the repeated declarations of members of the Republican party that the war was not for the abolition of slavery.
But I must close my better. I have an engagement, and must keep it. For those who have misrepresented and maligned the North, I have only contempt and condemnation. For those who have ignorantly erred, and who have withheld their sympathy through a misunderstanding of the facts of the case, I have much forgiveness, and at the same time faith to foresee their repentance and amendment. None know better then you and I how much the Northern people themselves have done to furnish occasion to the adversary, and to justify the taunts and reproaches he has hurled against them. You can understand the difficulty of my position during the first year of the war, when so many ugly facts came out illustrating the pro-slavery tendencies of your public men. You know how many plagues it has needed to bring the North to hear the command-which is not ever yet obeyed-”Let my people go!” You know how impossible it is at this moment to vindicate, as one would wish, the course of Mr. Lincoln. In no one of his utterances is there an assertion of a great principle-no appeal to right or justice. In every thing be does or says, affecting the slave, there is the alloy of expediency. The slave many be free-if it should he <illegible> or convenient,” or agreeable to his <illegible>“ What we want to see him do is, to take his stand upon the doctrine of human equality, and man’s inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. All else is paltering with conscience and with truth. I sometimes feel unutterably indignant when I see the liberty of four millions of God’s immortal children made contingent upon the inclination, loyalty and advantage of their tyrants. I firmly believe that Mr. Lincoln might, if he would, extirpate, root and branch, the accursed system; and that both God and man would support him in the deed. Oh, that he would do it-and thereby secure the peace of this soul, the blessing of the slave, the applause of mankind, the approving verdict of posterity, and the approbation of Heaven!
Ever, most sincerely,
GEOEGE THOMPSON
I Thanks to our ever-faithful land untiring coadjutor for his manly and instructive letter. We hope it will find a place in other journals especially in the New York Independent. The sentiment of England, we are confident, will manifest itself more and more on the side of the North, and against the South and the President’s Proclamation cannot fail to confirm and strengthen it throughout the kingdom. We expect to receive some strong testimonies hereafter.
<c02>
WHAT WILL BE DOIE BY THE PROOLA-MATION?
The question of the effectiveness of the Proclamation coincides with the question of the reduction of the rebellion. That the slaves in a body will increase that effectiveness by risings which will fully engage the military strength of the rebels, we do not believe. The negroes will flee, where they can, to the camps of the Union troops, but where their flight is blocked, they will, as a body, remain quiet. Individuals, on the contrary, will have to pay dearly enough for their impatience to grasp the freedom which has been decreed them, especially since the slaveholders now watch them with redoubled distrust, and will punish them with redoubled barbarity for every movement towards liberty.
Just here we encounter a responsibility which Mr. Lincoln has hit upon no precautions to avoid, though it seems to have thrust Itself upon his consciousness, since he exhorts the negroes to employ no-violence except in self-defence. What are we to understand by that? Shall the free black defend himself only when he is to be flogged or hung? After having been declared free, he is legally the equal of every free white, and must be protected conformably to that position. Pray, would it be expected of a white man that he should yield without” self-defence, "if any one desired to claim and use him as a brute beast? Every one of the negroes set free by the Proclamation is now, even without corporeal ill-treatment, by the mere fact of the continuance of his servile relation, lawfully in the attitude of self-defence, and he who has placed him there is also bound to protect him in it This protection can only be effectually secured by Mr. Lincoln's creating an army of all blacks capable of bearing arms, which should have to operate in slave districts proper. It would there grow like an avalanche, and soon spread such over whelming terror, that the resistance of the rebels would be broken in a short time, and they, in view of the swift recompense, would forbear from wanton acts of violence. The longer the war now lasts, the more perilous become the condition of the late slaves. Rapidly predominating, overpowering events are their only protection, and such events can only be forwarded by an extensive arming of the blacks for the purpose of advance, not merely of manning the forts &c. But Mr. Lincoln may suffer himself to be deterred by the fate which might overtake individual slaveholders, and withal by that which Jeff. Davis has threatened against the officers commanding the negroes.
However, by such reflections we should not fail of recognizing the great significance of the Proclamation. Our judgment as to the prime motive, the moral worth and usefulness of an act constrained by unexampled disaster, we do not withdraw. But our present business is to estimate the fact that Mr. Lincoln at last has passed the Rubicon, burning at his back the ship of Compromise in which he so long gazed wistfully upon the other shore. Now he must on. The single duty of the hour is the most energetic enforcement possible of an act which can never be revoked. If the Proclamation of January first and the Confication law are carried out in earnest, we can brook at least a portion of the sacrifices by which the two had to be extorted-If there yet remains alive a spark of conscience and sense of duty at Washington, the authorities will be compelled, by the recollection of these sacrifices, to repair in some measure the transgressions of the past by another policy and a different conduct of the war. They will reflect that the Proclamation might have been issued a year ago as well as to-day, and will seek by renewed energy to make the losing delay forgotten. But that this design may find unequivocal expression, before all there is need of a recognition and suitable employment of those men who were formerly set aside because they were betimes the voluntary supporters of the policy retarded by others, and now adopted from necessity. When will Fremont, Hunter, Phelps again be entrusted with suitable commands? When Gen. Phelps landed on the coast of Louisiana, he proclaimed the necessity of the abolition of slavery. He was laughed at for a fool. To-day his proclamation is repeated by those who ridiculed him. Gen. Butler, with whom he came in collision by his free mode of thinking, has just now proclaimed, on leaving New Orleans, that the abolition of slavery is the indispensable means to the restoration of the Union. Mr. Lincoln merely annulled the proclamations of Fremont and Hunter, in order himself to renew them at a later date on a more extensive scale. Shall we live to see the disgrace and injustice of setting those aside who first boldly and honestly gave the example of the saving policy, in order that those who for this reason became their enemies may alone appropriate the profit and honor of their policy? So long as the men just named are not again busy at suitable posts, and others of opposite opinion are preferred, the friends of freedom cannot wholly dismiss (spite of all proclamations) the distrust engendered by the uncomfortable experiences of the past.
ELLSWORTH, (Me.,) Jan. 5, 1863.
DEAR MR. MAY—When I arrived here, I found the people prepared for my lectures, and quite well prepared for the most ultra Anti-Slavery doctrines.
They had a meeting called for Saturday evening to express their sentiments upon the President's Proclamation. It was a great and enthusiastic meeting. I was called upon for the first speech, and received the heartiest responses for the most radical abolition utterances. Not one word or whisper was heard against the Proclamation; only some of us regretted that it had not been earlier issued, and included every slave in the land, as well as those in States and parts of States in rebellion.
So far as I am able to judge, the people here are heartily in favor of the emancipation policy. Nine out of ten are open advocates for it, and the tenth looks sour, but is silent.
Mr. Williams, of the Baptist Church, paid a high compliment to Mr. Garrison, for his early, long, and faithful devotion to the cause of the enslaved people of our land.
Last evening, I spoke to a crowded audience in Mr. Williams's church.
Yours truly, A. T. FOSS.
Extract of a letter from a Massachusetts chaplain at Newbern, N. C.;-
"You will remember that my views on the slavery question were what are called ' conservative.' Those views are now changed. Since I have been here, I have learned to hate slavery ' with a perfect hatred.'
When I see how it not only maltreats and defrauds the black man, but also debases and brutalizes the white, stunting the intellect, quenching the finer sensibilities, and obliterating the conscience, I am ready to cry—Away with the accursed thing from the face of the earth! And when I see, as I have on two marches, the negroes hail our advancing columns as their deliverance; when I find them willing to brave hunger, cold, fatigue, and danger from lurking guerillas, in order to escape; when my heart is pained to its core at the sight of weak women and toddling infants struggling onward beside our army, with naked feet torn and bleeding with travel over the frozen ground; is it any wonder that my old ideas are blown away as chaff, and that I say—God forbid that this contest should close until the possibility of such things in the future is clean gone forever! May all the people say, Amen!"
Extract of a letter from an esteemed friend in Rochester, N. Y., dated Jan. 5, 1863:
"A large and deeply interesting meeting was held here yesterday, to commemorate the President's Proclamation of Emancipation. Mr. G. B. Stebbins and Mr. A. M. Powell were the speakers announced; but the colored people joyfully shared in the exercises, by prayer and the singing of appropriate hymns. The John Brown song seemed to have a new significance."
<c03>
THE PRESIDENTS MESSAGE.
SPRINGFINTO, vt, dec. 25 1862. Hom. Justin S. MORRILI. Wasgington D.C.: 
DEAR SIR,-I am one of the humblest of your constituents, and am well aware it is of little consequence to you, or any one else, what are my views of public men and measures; and, indeed, it is of little consequence to myself who are our public men or what their measures, inasmuch as I am on the down hill side of eighty-one, and my children have long since gone where wars and rumors of wars disturb them not. Yet when I witness the perils of the country caused by national injustice, the imbecility of our government and moral cowardice of our rulers, I cannot shut my eyes to the dangers that threaten us on every side, at home and abroad, from lurking treason even in the Free States, and waxing bolder day by day; and all this by the timid, vacillating policy of Government, or perhaps the absence of any settled policy at all in regard to the great primeval cause all our calamities.
I have read the President’s Message with the deepest interest, especially that portion of it relating to the al engrossing subject of the day, Slavery, with mingled emotions of astonishment, indignation and despair. Is the President demented, or have his fears got the better of his judgment? Does he expect to purchase peace by a lease of thirty seven years of slavery, leaving a margin sufficient for half a dozen more rebellions, before its expiration? Does he indulge the delusive hope that slaveholders, little better than fallen angels in nullification times, and grown worse every day since, will abide by and contract or agreement, or respect and laws, compacts, or constitutional obligations in the next century, which they totally disregard in the present? Was ever such a utopian scheme concocted in the brain of any man before? 
The President looks forward to the day when our population shall have reached a hundred millions, when we shall be more able to pay for emancipated slaves, but leaves entirely out of sight the fact, that the slaves will increase, by his own showing, to thir­teen or fourteen millions: and if Cotton is king, will avarice loosen its grasp? the claims of justice be more respected? the cause of the oppressed and the commands of God be more heeded? A glance at the history of me past is sufficient to convince any sane man that any thing of the kind is utterly hopeless. 
But even if he should carry out his programme to the letter, what does it amount to? The prohibition or the extinction of slavery? Nothing of the kind; but it virtually provides for its reestablishment, when he tells us if they do so, they shall refund the money, with interest. Refund the money! Terrible penalty that! But how is it to be collected? By force of arms? The present contest affords abundant evidence that we should be compelled to pay our own costs, and perhaps theirs too, and lose the debt at last. Will they volunteer to pay up? Will! a people who steal public funds, rob arsenals, batter down forts, commit piracy, burn colored men at the stake, and hang white men who refuse to partake of their barba­risms, be very likely, before or after commencing busi­ness in the old line, to come forward and pay up? The homely old adage,” Sue a beggar and catch a louse," would be heavenly wisdom in comparison with any such hope or expectation. But there is one feature of the Message, the most fatal and the most of all to be deplored; that is, the President's admis­sion of the slaveholders' property in their slaves, as much as in their cattle and swine, which the framers of the Constitution never admitted, thus creating an endless drain upon the treasury if the war should ever end; and hence the total absence in all his treatment of the subject, of any sympathy’ for the slave or his right to liberty, conceding at once the monstrous de­cision of Judge Taney, that the black man has no rights which the government or the people are Bound to respect; and, still more, what all the slaveholders have from first to last so persistently claimed, the right to carry them into the territories or where they please.
Is the Republican party or its representatives prepared to endorse this utterly absurd, not to say dam­nable doctrine? And let me humbly ask, Can you, kind sir, the honored representative of the first district of a State first and foremost of the thirty-three in loyalty and patriotism, endorse if? I cannot believe it. At the fall of Fort Sumter, at the fatal defeat at Bull Run, or the still more disastrous ”Run” when McClellan and his army ran to escape capture, the President had but neglected a golden opportunity to immortalize his name with the world's approbation, and the bondman's lasting gratitude and benediction, by proclaiming universal emancipation. At the eleventh hour, when Death is knocking at the door, the President issues his Proclamation, clogged with hu­miliating conditions, and a hundred days' grace,-equivalent to an invitation to the rebels to return and take possession of the Government, as they certainly would, with slavery lumbering at their backs, if they came at all.
The President is often commended for his honesty, and I know not as any, to-day, call it in question; and I well recollect that Calhoun was characterized as” the honest nullifier” before most of our present population were born; and every man of common sense, not steeped in political corruption and pro-slavery blasphemy, regarded his principles as utterly unsound and untenable, as I do, and as every Aboli­tionist does, the President's policy, from the day of the Inaugural to the present time; and God forbid he should ever be permitted to restore the Union with one human being, black, white or red, in bondage, or pay a single dollar to those execrable man-stealers who have so long oppressed the black man, and ruled the white man with a rod of iron.
Yours, for God and humanity,
JESSE STEADMAN.
THEODOBE D. WELD AT MILFORD.
DEAR GARRISON,-It is sometimes, perhaps generally true, that we anticipate more than we realize in expectation of future enjoyment. From the reputation and antecedents of our tried and veteran friend Weld, we anticipated much, but our realization exceeded the high expectations raised. As advertised, we had two elaborate, logical and profound discourses from Mr. W., last Sunday, at Lyceum Hall. The morning theme was” Truth's Hindrances." To those who have been fortunate enough to hear this discourse, it would be useless to add a word; and to those who have not been thus fortunate, it would be vain to attempt an estimate of its beauty of diction, eloquent persuasiveness, and analytical power. It must be heard to be appreciated.
The evening theme was the Lying Pretences of the Rebellion." The hall was closely packed with those who came, and came only to hear. The evidence of this is in the fact that, with profound attention, they followed the lecturer in his cogent and perfect argument for mere than two hours. The occasional episodes, which extemporaneously interspersed the reading of the manuscript, gave an inkling of the power our pioneer brother possesses, and left as inwardly praying for a full and complete restoration of his vocal organs. By physical disability, the soul of Demosthenes is caged-the fire burns within, but we lose much of the latent heat, for the reason that the” spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." May the infinite and dear Father of us all give new strength and power to our brother, to” cry aloud and spare; not," in this intense hour that tries the soul! And let none of our friends fail to seize upon every opportunity presented, by the labor of this apostle of Free­dom, to catch the new and wonted inspiration that is sure to follow the listening ear and receptive heart.
But I mast not draw too freely upon your crowded columns. Suffice it to say., we had an intellectual and moral feast. We feel better and stronger. And I am happy to add, as the result of our collection, all ex­penses were met, and the additional sum of $10 forwarded to the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
Milford, (Mass.) Jan. 12, 863. G. W. S.
<c04>
ORGANIZATION OF THE LEGISLATURE.
The Massachusetts General Court convened on Wednesday, Jan. 7, and was duly organized.
Jonathan E. Field of Berkshire was chosen President of the Senate. Stephen N. Gifford was unanimously re-elected clerk. John Morrissey was unani­mously elected Sergeant-at-Arms on the part of the Senate.
The House was organized by the choice of Hon. Alexander H. Bullock, of Worcester, as Speaker, with but three votes in opposition. William S. Robinson, of Maiden, was elected Clerk by a unanimous vote of the House. Hon. John Morrissey was re-elected Sergeant-at-Arms on the part of the House.
The House then joined the Executive and Senate, and proceeded to the Old South Church, where the election sermon was preached by Rev. Jas. Walker, D. D., formerly President of Harvard University. A Boston correspondent of the Dedham Gazette says of it-" The venerable Doctor had evidently re-written one of those brilliant, rhetorical and philosophical discourses which used to draw for him such crowded houses at the Harvard College Chapel, fifteen or twenty years ago. Fogydom and all compromisers liked it. The Boston Post liked it. But the main idea of the sermon found no response in the great majority of the congregation there assembled."
On Friday last Gov. Andrew delivered his annual Address to the two branches of the Legislature. It is an elaborate, able and eloquent production, embody­ing much desirable information concerning the condi­tion of the Commonwealth, and its patriotic and self-sacrificing efforts to suppress the rebellion. We have room for only the following extract:-
Massachusetts, limited in territory, aiming to cultivate and develop the capacities of both man and nature, given to no one distinctive pursuit, but devoted to many, is at once an agricultural, commercial and manufacturing Commonwealth. The individual citizen, adapting himself to the seasons and the market, is not unfrequently an expert in divers callings. In the winter he cuts ice on Crystal Lake for Calcutta, and he goes fishing in the summer on the Banks of Newfoundland. He carries on his father's homestead in the growing season, and makes boots for Boston market in the intervals of farming. He scours the Pacific in a New Bedford whaler while he is young and fond of adventure, and settles down at last the keeper of a country store on Nantucket. He goes to college for his own education, and teaches school himself in the college vacation., He manufactures ploughs and reapers in Massachusetts, and puts his earnings into railroads in Michigan, Iowa, and Wisconsin. Massachusetts buys material from all who have it to sell, and vends her wares in every State. Her sons have been found pursuing their way in every opening of the West and South, while her own narrow but hospitable borders afford a prosperous home to tens of thousands honest sons and daughters of toil, from every nation in Europe.
Peaceful, rural, and simple in their tastes, her people, never forgetting the lessons learned by their fathers, not less of War than of Religion, are found in arms for their fathers' flag wherever it waves, from Boston to Galveston. The troops of Massachusetts in Maryland, in Virginia, in the Carolinas, in Louisiana, in Texas; the details from her regiments for gunboat service on the Southern and Western rivers; her seamen in the navy, assisting at the reduction of the forts from Hatteras Inlet to the city of New Orleans, or going down to that silence, deeper than the sea, in the Monitor or the Cumberland-all emember their native State as a single star of a brilliant constellation, the many in one, they call their country. By the facts of our history, the very char­acter of our people, and the tendencies of their education, industry and training, Massachusetts is independent in her opinions, loyal to the Union, and the uncompromising foe of treason.
Geographically on one side of the continent, her soldiers come from the Golden Gate of California to encamp by Dorchester Heights, that they may serve under the white flag of the Pilgrim Commonwealth. We proudly count our brethren in public station and in all the honored walks of private life, in Oregon as well as in Barnstable. Her sons have sent from around the world their benefactions for the relief of the families of her braves. Though no drop of the ”Father of Waters" laves our shores, or descended on any hill top which sheds into our streams; yet, narrowed by no policy of sectional or territorial jeal­ousy, we would gladly and proudly contribute through the National treasury, in the interest of our National defences, for the connection by Ship Canal of the Mississippi with Lake Michigan, and of Lake Erie with the Hudson.
Unionists in no double sense, we have held from the beginning that the Government, greater than any class of men or of interests, has an original and imprescriptibly right to the devoted and hearty service of every subject of its protection and power. We deny the rightfulness of the rebellion, and we are in arms against it; and we have equally denied that the rebel States could rightfully be allowed to impose their treasonable will upon any human being whose interest or desires would make him loyal. While our wives surrender their husbands and our fathers their sons to all the perils of a dreadful war waged by rebellion, we have never discovered a reason why the rebels should retain their slaves, and compel them to be rebels too. Supporting always the Government, with­out conditions as to its policy, we rejoice with unutterable joy that its policy is that of human nature, and not that of human sophistry; and we hail the return­ing day of the civic virtues, which our national departure from the practice of Justice and the principles of our fathers had discouraged in the North, and had overthrown in the South.

IMPORTANT CONGRESSIONAL MANIFESTO. The subjoined series of resolutions has been adopted by the Senators whose names are appended, and presented to the President by a committee chosen from among their number:-

RESOLUTIONS OF THE REPUBLICAN MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE.
First-The only course of sustaining this government and restoring and preserving the national existence, and perpetuating the national integrity, is by a vigorous and successful prosecution of the war-the same being a patriotic and just war on the part of this nation, produced by, and rendered necessary to suppress, a causeless and atrocious rebellion.
Second-The theory of our government, and the early and uniform practical construction thereof, is that the President should be aided by a Cabinet Council agreeing with him in political principles and general policy, and that all important public measures and appointments should be the result of their combined wisdom and deliberation. This most obviously necessary condition of things, without which no administration can succeed, we and the public believe does not now exist; and therefore such selections and changes in its members should be made as will secure to the country unity of purpose and action in all material and essential respects, more especially in the present crisis of public affairs.
Third-The Cabinet should be exclusively composed of statesmen who are the cordial, resolute, unwavering supporters of the principles and purposes first above stated.
Fourth-It is unwise and unsafe to commit the direction, conduct or execution of any important military operation or separate general command or enterprise in this war to any one who is not a cordial believer and supporter of the same principles and purposes first above stated.
James Dixon, Conn.
L. S. Foster, Conn.
O. H. Browning, Ill.
Lyman Trumbull, III.
James Harlan, Iowa.
J. W. Grimes, Iowa.
S. C. Pomeroy, Kansas.
Lot M. Morrill, Me.
Wm. P. Fessenden, Me.
Samuel G. Arnold, R. I.
H. B. Anthony, R. I.
Solomon Foote, Vt.
Jacob Collamer, Vt. T. O. Howe, Wisconsin.
Charles Sumner, Mass.
Henry Wilson, Mass.
Zach Chandler., Mich.
Daniel Clark, N. H.
John P. Hale, N. H.
Preston King, New York.
Ira Harris, New York.
B. F. Wade, Ohio.
John Sherman, Ohio.
David Wilmot, Pa.
Edgar Cowan, Pa.
J. R. Doolittle, Wisconsin.

NEGRO REGIMENTS.Negro Regiments. In the Senate, Dec. 23, Mr. Lane, of Kansas, gave notice of a bill to authorize the President to raise 200 regiments of infantry composed of persons of African descent.
The President signed the West Virginia bill on New Year's eve, before the Proclamation of Eman­cipation was sent forth.
William H. Polk, brother of ex-President Polk, died at Nashville recently.
THE LATE LYMAN BEECHER, D.D On Saturday, Jan. 10th, at 56 P. M., Rev. Dr. Lyman Beecher died in Brooklyn, N. Y., at the age of eighty-seven years.. His death was announced in a very touching manner by his son, at Plymouth Church, on Sunday.
TERRIBLE CALAMITY. A very mournful catastro­phe occurred at Harpersville, Browne County, N. Y., on the 12th inst. A pleasure party of 37 ladies and gentlemen were skating on a pond in that vicinity, when the ice gave way, and 27 of them were drowned.
FRIGHTFUL RAILROAD ACCIDENT IN PORTUGAL.—A frightful accident had occurred on the Eastern rail­way. A bridge gave way while a train, with about two hundred workmen, was crossing it. About one hundred of the men were killed, and many others wounded.
Jeff. Davis, in his recent speech at Richmond, was even more insolent than in his Mississippi address. He said that the rebel armies were engaged hi fighting” n light­ing” the offscourings of the earth," and that if the Confederacy had the choice between uniting with hy­enas and Yankees, it would choose the hyenas.” Like to like."
<c05>
THE TWENTY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSRIPSUBSCRIP­TION ANNIVERSARY.
In view of the colossal magnitude of the Southern rebellion, on the one hand, and of the corresponding effort efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the other, the Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY have deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUAL AP­PEAL to this late period—-not knowing what events might occur, in the mean time, to render a modifica­tion or suspension of their established plan of action desirable, and wishing to be guided by the highest wisdom in such a& momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitation the hand of God in righteous judgment for our great na­tional transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land; believing that the Proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever all slaves held in States found in rebellion on the first day of January, 1863, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced, inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that the uncertainties-tics of civil war are too great, and the expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement of vigilance, activity, zeal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so disinterestedly consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully” bearing the cross and despising the shame." With no person­al or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish ends to promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain, —animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism,—,-it is not for such to commit their sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction even by the most cheering signs of the times, to re­gard their special mission as accomplished, or to aban­don their organized efforts and efficient instrumentali­ties which have hitherto been crowned with such ani­mating results. Their work is, by Divine help, the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in his fetters, and they are able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be” the forlorn hope” to the end, leading the way, and taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birth­right and possession of every inhabitant of our land, from sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti-Slavery cause has grown from infantile weakness to manly strength—-from uni­versal proscription to respectful public consideration—-from an apostolic number of adherents to a multi­tudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation Proclama­tion of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will include nearly three fourths of the entire slave popu­lation. Granted, that the rebels themselves, despair­ing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus se­cure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal with stern realities, and must not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recog­nized and protected, under the old constitutional guar­anties, in all the so-called loyal slave States, and possi­bly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of State sovereignty, after its subjugation and the with­drawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro-slavery sentiment exists through­out the North, deadly hostile to every scheme of eman­cipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostra-cising all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to get the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and recon­struct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis.
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there must be no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind. The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be pro­tracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fierce­ly contested to the end by all that is hostile to impar­tial liberty, North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our means and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held, as usual, in Boston, the last week in January, 1863; and to that annual gathering they cordially and urgently invite all who abhor trea­son, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on an enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness and prosperity of our now distracted, fearfully guilty, but we trust to be regenerated country—-bringing with them (or sending, if they are not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations as their means will allow, causing” the riches of their liberality to abound”" even in” the abundance of their poverty,"-assured that the pro­ceeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of slavery by voice and pen, through the press and by the lecturing agent—-to quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppres­sion, and, consequently, to the reign of universal jus­tice and good will. It should be remembered that the pecuniary resource of the Society is largely depend­ant upon this instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be ren­dered in the manner already indicated.
To those every-where who have so long and so gen­erously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trust­ing it may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, another year, by reason of the speedy and complete consummation of our labors and aspirations.
L. Maria Child, Sarah H. Southwick,
Mary May, Caroline E. Putnam,
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Wiley,
Louisa Loring, Abby H. Stephenson,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Arnum,
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing, j
Sarah Blake Shaw, Abby Kelley Foster,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mattie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman,
Elizabeth Gay, Georgian Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum.
GEN. BUTLER.The Richmond Examiner pro­nounces Gen. Butler being permited to leave New Or­leans alive a stain upon the character of every man in that city who has the strength to raise a weapon.
Richard Yeadon, of Charleston, offers $10,000 for the capture of Gen. Butler.
The Enquirer has a savage leader on President Lincoln's Proclamation and Gen. Butler. It says of the former—"It will be little more than an indecent expression of Lincoln's rage and fiendishness."
The Richmond Whig says the Murfreesboro prisoners are to be sent to Richmond, the Federal Government having refused to receive them unless their offi­cers are paroled. The latter—-some 200 in lumber-number-will be held in confinement, in accordance with Davis's proclamation, until Gen. Butler shall have been delivered up for punishment, and the men retained until the Federal Government consents to take them on rebel terms.
Gen. Butler has obtained leave to visit his home. He had a long Interview with the President and Cabi­net on Saturday. The President expresses every confidence in him, and entire satisfaction with his course at New Orleans.
A REWARD FOR BUTLER’S HEAD. We see that a South Carolinian has offered $910,000 for Batter's Butler's head. We are not surprised. If be can get the amount of brains that Butler's, skull contains for that sum, be may think he has a good bargain. But it is rather late for Mr. Yeadon to begin to supply the deficiencies of nature.-Providence Journal.
A REWARD FOR BUTLER'S HEAD. We see that a South Carolinian has offered a reward of $10,000 for Butler's head. We are not surprised. If he be can get the amount of brains that Butler's skull contains for that sum, he may think he has a good bargain. But it is rather late for Mr. Yeadon to begin to supply the deficiencies of nature.—Providence Journal.
GEN. BUTLER RIGHT AND REVERDY JOHNSON WRONG. A Paris letter says:—" :-"The head at bead of the house in the Rue Daffitte in this city, whose money was seized by Gen. Butler in the hands of one of the Consuls in New Orleans, and refunded on the re­commendation of Reverdy Johnson, declares to any one who wishes to hear him that this mousy was for clothing furnished the Southern army"
GEN. BUTLER IN BOSTON. On Tuesday last, a most enthusiastic reception was given to Gen. Butler, by a public military and civic procession, marching through several streets to Faneuil Hall, (which was finely decorated and densely crowded, the galleries with ladies,) Mayor Lincoln presiding, and the General making a brief but spirited speech. Late at night he was serenaded at the Revere House 
<c06>
RELEASE FROM THE HOUSE OF BONDAGE!
"A LEAF FROM THE HISTORY OF TO-DAY.”
By invitation of the Lecture Committee of the Fratornity Association,
REV. MONCURE D. CONWAY
Will give, at the TREMONT TEMPLE, at 7 1-2 o’clock, on 
SUNDAY EVENING. JANUARY 19, 1863,
the narrative of the ESCAPE OF HIS FATHER’SFATHER'S SLAVES, (forty in number,) from the vicinity of Fredericksburg, Va.; their settlement and occupation in Ohio; his conversations with them; the feeling of the slaves generally towards our cause and country, &c., &c.,-the whole forming<illegible> THE MOST INTERESTING LECTURES EVER PRESENTEDLECTURE NEVER <illegible> BY THIS BRILLIANT WRITER.
BAILLIANY WRITEN.
ENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., will preside.
To defray expenses, an ADMISSION PER OF 10 CENTSFEB or 10 <illegible> will be charged. Tickets may now be had at Ditson & Co.’s Music Store, and on the evening of lecture at the Temple.

AN APPEAL TO THE FRIENDS OF EDUCATION.
A Society has been for some time in existence, holding its weekly meetings in the west part of the city, having adopted for a name, ”THE UNION PROGRESSIVE ASSOCIATION.”." Its object is the mental and moral improvement of its members, through the medium of exercises usual in literary organizations; and without affectation it can be asserted, that its the efforts thus far have produced the happiest and most beneficial results, especially among those these 
colored young men and women within the sphere of its influence.
As a means of extending its usefulness, donations of any saykinds of Books, Philosophical apparatus, or other facilities<illegible> for library and reading-room purposes, as the benevolence of individuals may prompt, and their means warrant, are respectfully-solicited.
Donations forwarded, or communications relative thereto addressed to either of the undersigned, will receive prompt attention.
WILLIAM C. NELL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St.
ALBERT JACKSON,
At smith & Lovell's, 57 Devonshire St.
GEORGE W POTTER
At Sabin, Page & Co.’s, 92 Milk St.
CHARLES P. TAYLOR,
At E. Boyington’s 225 State-Street Block.
J. HARRISON SHAW,
Room No. 8 Scollay’s Building.
JOHN F. BROWN,
At Thomas Groom & Co.’s, 82 State St.
Boston, Jan. 16, 1863.

LECTURES BY THEODORE D. WELD.-Mr. 
Weld will deliver a lecture in SOUTH READING, on (this) Friday evening, Jan. 16th, at 7 o’clock.
He will also give two addresses in PROVIDENCE, R. I. on Sunday next, Jan. 18th, day and evening.
SHELDONVILLE.-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in SHELDONVILLE, on (this) Friday evening, Jan. 16th, at 7O’clcok. 
AARON M. POWELL will lecture upon Emancipation at
Collins, N. Y.., Sunday, Jan. 18.
Kerr’s Corners, “Monday,” 19. 
Pontiae,-"Tuesday,” 20.
ANDREW T. FOSS will speak upon Emancipation, the Rebellion, and Slavery in the United States, as follows:-
Portland, Maine, Sunday, Jan. 18.
DR. MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA will deliver a LECTURE ON HOSPITALS, TUESDAY EVENING, Jan. 20, at 7 1-2 P. M., at CHICKERING’SCHICKERING'S HALL. Tickets 25 cents. For the benefit of the Hospital for Women and Children, No. 60, Pleasant Street, Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are re-quested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society’s office, 221 Washington Street.

MASSASCHUSETTSMASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
E. D. & Anna T. Draper, $100.00
Samuel May, Jr., 25.00
T. Martin, 2.50
Collections by A. T. Foss, 2.00
Wendell Phillips, 100.00
Abby Stevenson, 2.50
Sarah H. Southwick, 2.50
Mrs. Frederick Tudor, 10.00
Edward R. Place, 1.00
W. W. Dutcher and wife, 25.00
M. M. Brooks, 20.00
William Ashby, 5.00
Samuel May, 50.00
Benjamin Snow, Jr., 10.00
Samuel L. Hill, 10.00
Jonathan Buffum, 5.00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
January 14, 1863.

MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Second Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies,
AT 92 GRAND STREET, NEWBURGH, N. Y.,
ON MONDAY, JANUARY 5TH5th, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral Science, Rhetoric, &c.
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS L. E. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages.
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
PROF. T. F. PERKINS, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
MISMISS PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year will be divided into three terms: two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60;par year, $165.
REFERENCES.. Rev. T. J. Sawyer, D. D. Clinton.,, N. Y.; Rev. S. W. Fisher, D. D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.; De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Ution, N. Y.; Rev.. A. D. Mayo, Albany, N. Y.; Henry Bigelow, M. D., Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M. D., Boston, Mass.; Prof. , 
H. B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N. J.; Rev. E. H. Chapin, D. D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig, D. D.., Blooming-Grove, N. Y. dee19-3w

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL
THE next Term of this Institution will commence on Wednesday, January 7, 1863, and continue Fifteen weeks. For particulars, please address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, Principals.
A. B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass., Dec. 24, 1862. dec26-2t

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURETS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BUSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs Preserved during the summer. <illegible>.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
NEW YEARS’S DAY, 1868.
Birth-day of welcome freedom to the slaves,
Dawn on their eyes in beauty, calm and bright!
And rising from the chill Atlantic wave,
Rejoice, oh sun! shed down thy softest light!
Through the long darksome hours impatient sighs
Arose in the deep silence. ”When will day,
The New Year’s Day, glad Freedom's day, arise? 
Oh happiest, best of days! why this delay?"
Millions of slaves, to Freedom newly born,
Anxious and eager, waiting to be free,
Hail thes with raptured hearts, oh glorious morn,
And lift a freeman's joyous glance to thee!
Many, too, watch across th' Atlantic waves,
To hear the joy-bells ring the glad year in;
The glorious New Year, that frees the slaves;
Frees, too, the masters from earth's deadliest sin.
Thanks be to Freedom's God, the earth's great Lord,
He who from evil brings forth only good;
Who makes the wrath of warlike men afford 
Blessings unthought of in their angry mood.
Yes, our dark brethren, ye no longer bow 
Your freed necks to the yoke that galled the slave:
Blest with new liberty, employ it now 
As freemen, generous, noble, true and brave.
So best your thanks and praise will rise to heaven,
To the Creator of both black and white;
So shall ye best employ this glad day, given 
For gratitude, and joy, and pure delight.
Let no revenge, hatred, or cruelty,
Mar the rejoicings of this sacred day;
Forget, forgive the masters’ tyranny,
And for their evil only good repay.
So shall ye best obey the Lord's commands,
So shall ye prove deserving the great prize 
This blessed day brings to your fettered hands;
So show most grateful in your Father's eyes.
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

For the Liberator.
THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.
I 
Oh, saw ye the sun as he purpled the sky?
As he rose on the morning that SLAVERY must die?
Chorus—Oh, happy New Year! Oh, happy New Year!
To good Abraham Lincoln a happy New Year!
II.
Sixty-three, Sixty-three, Freedom's grand jubilee!
From the proud Southern Pharaoh the people go free!
Chorus—Oh, happy New Year, &c.
III.
He hath thundered His word! He is bathing his sword 
In the blood of Idumea! Oh, praise ye the Lord!
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
IV-
The ”high towers fall"-on the mountains they call,
To be veiled from the wrath of the great Lord of all! 
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
V.
Year of his redeemed, of which prophets have dreamed,
How resplendently real on our sight thou hast beamed!
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
VI.
As if from their graves, arise the poor slaves,
While o'er them, ascending, the Star-banner waves.
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
VII.
See, there is JOHN BROWN, with his rich martyr crown;
And TORREY and LOVEJOY look radiantly down.
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
VIII.
The crisis comes on-soon the battle is won— 
From the temple comes forth the great voice, ”It is done!"
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
IX.
First beam of that day, first millennial ray,
All hail this New Year! we exultingly say.
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c.
X.
From new ransomed men, from rock, hill and glen, 
Our shout is re-echoed-AMEN and AMEN!
Chorus-Oh, happy New Year, &c. S.L.L.

THE AFRICAN'S HYMN.
JANUARY 1st, 1863.
I.
"All glory to the Highest!
On Earth good will to men"-
Echoes through every valley,
Resounds through every glen.
Hallelujah! We are free!
We have no Master, Christ, but Thee.
II.
To-day, the sun of heaven
Shines on no fettered slave!
To-day, the mighty Ocean
Bears freemen on her wave!
Hallelujah! We are free!
We have no Master, Christ, but Thee.
III.
Peace, with ten thousand blessings,
Shall rule with gentle sway;
We hail, in grateful homage,
The Prince of Peace, this day.
Hallelujah! We are free!
We have no Master, Christ, but Thee.
IV.
All glory to Jehovah!
Now may his kingdom come;
Now may the strife be over;
The victory is won!
Hallelujah! We are free!
We have no Master, Christ, but Thee.

THE SLAVE TO HIS BETROTHED.
BY HENRIETTA WELLINGTON BOATE.
What matter though your check, Dinah,
Doth wear the sable hue,
Which God in his decree, Dinah,
Hath given to me and you?
There's music in thy voice, Dinah,
And more dear it is to me,
Than the mellow tones the nightingale
Doth warble in yon tree.
Your teeth are like the pearl, Dinah,
And your dark eyes shine as bright 
As the twinkling stars that glisten 
In the sky of Heaven, by night.
Your heart is fond and warm, Dinah,
And your love is dear to me.
As the love of the fair browed maiden
To the heart of the white man, free.
Yet, I would that thou wert dead, Dinah!
‘Twould grieve my heart less sore
Than to part thee to the white man's lash,
And never see thee more.
But there's worse than lash and scoff, Dinah,
And deeper I feel the pain
That he who makes thee slave, Dinah,
Has rent our hearts in twain.
My eyes o'erflow with tears, Dinah,
For thy loss and for thy shame,
That thy children's children hence, Dinah,
Shall bear the white man's name.
But I’ll say farewell to thee, Dinah,
And I'll lay me down to die;
My aching heart will rest, Dinah,
In the home of God on high.
But on that golden shore, Dinah,
I’ll wait my spirit’s bride,
And one, forevermore, Dinah, 
We'll live, pure, glorified. 
<c02>
The Liberator.
EMANCIPATION DAY IN BOSTON.
UNION PROGRESSIVE ASSOCIATION MEETING AT TREMONT TEMPLE.
A meeting in honor of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation was held at Tremont Temple, January 1st-forenoon, afternoon and evening-under the auspices of the Union Progressive Association.
The meeting was called to order about half-past-ten, by Mr. MARK R. DEMORTIE, and the exercises were opened by a prayer of thanksgiving by Rev. ELIJAH GRISSOM, of the Revere street church. The following officers of the meeting were then announced:-
President-WILLIAM C. NELL.
Vice Presidents-C.L. Remond, Robert F. Walleut, Wm. Wells Brown, Lewis Hayden, Charles W. Slack, John T. Hilton, John J. Smith, Samuel May, Jr., Col. E. F. B. Mundress, John P. Coburn, Wm. H. Logan, James M. Stone, George Teamoh.
Secretaries-Albert Jackson, George W. Potter, and E. M. Bannister.
ADDRESS OF THE PRESIDENT.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Taking counsel of their hopes, and having faith in the pledge given by the President of the United States in his Proclamation of Sept.22nd, the Union Progressive Association made arrangements for a due observance of this day, designated as the time for decreeing universal emancipation in all the rebellious States;-a prelude to a still brighter day, when, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, there shall not be found a tyrant to wield the lash, nor a slave to wear the chain.
In the early days of anti-slavery agitation in this city, I remember to have heard the eloquent Charles C. Burleigh illustrate a point by the following anecdote. Two men were discussing the keenness of a certain warlike instrument, which the owner declared would cut a man in pieces without his knowing it. The other ridiculed the idea, and challenged the test upon his own person. Whereupon the weapon executed its mission, but the skeptic only laughed, exclaiming that he did not feel much of any thing. But, said the other, the deed is already done; just shake yourself. He did so, and it was his last shake. He fell all to pieces. Symbolical of those who, even at this late period, and in view of the Proclamation, will not see that the battle-axe of Truth, wielded by the champions of Freedom, has already cloven asunder their refuge of lies.
Happily, a regenerated public sentiment is compelling the owls and the bats, the wolves and the tigers of pro-slavery to slink away to their coverts and dens; while the Emancipation policy of John C. Fremont and Charles Sumner, (cheers,) accepted and proclaimed by Abraham Lincoln, is every where, among the truly loyal, hailed with joy and thanksgiving, and will soon be triumphant over all opposition.
New Year's Day-proverbially known throughout the South as ”Heart-Break Day," from the trials and horrors peculiar to sales and separations of parents and children, husbands and wives-by this Proclamation is henceforth invested with new significance and imperishable glory in the calendar of time.
It is recorded in the history of our country's independence, that, on the memorable 19th of April, 1775, as the patriots, Hancock and Adams, were retiring from the field of conflict, the latter exclaimed-”O, what an ever-glorious morning is this!" considering the contest at Lexington as the prelude of events that were destined to secure the freedom and independence of his country. May we not, in like manner, accept the present crisis in our national affairs as a condition necessary to secure Liberty and Peace on an enduring basis?
President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, and the Opinion of Attorney-General Bates, recognizing the citizenship of colored Americans, inaugurate a national era of fair play for the black man. What wait we for? Why content ourselves with sleeping at the base of the hill, when, by a vigorous ascent to its summit, we may obtain entrance to the Temple of Freedom, where, under the aegis of the American Eagle, we shall not only be safe from the spoiler, but may aspire to its noblest privileges and its highest honors?
It will ever redound to the credit of colored Americans that, in despite of all the wrongs and outrages so long and so cruelly inflicted upon them, they have ever evinced true devotion and bravery in the trial-hours of their country-from Crispus Attucks, the first martyr of the American Revolution, and others through that memorable struggle and the war of 1812, both by sea and land, down to the heroes, Tillman and Robert Small, in the present Slaveholders' Rebellion. Yes, they have ever proved loyal, and ready to worship, or die, if need be, at Freedom's shrine. The amor patrice has always burned vividly on the altar of their hearts. They love their native land, its hills and valleys green; for, O!
"There's a magical tie to the land of our home,
Which the heart cannot break, though the footsteps may roam;
Be that land where it may, at the line or the pole, 
It still holds the magnet that draws back the soul;
’Tis  loved by the free man, ’tis loved by the slave,
 Tis dear to the coward, more dear to the brave.
Ask of any the spot they like best on the earth, 
And they'll answer with pride, ‘Tis the land of our birth."
[The above is but an abstract of Mr. Nell's address, which was frequently applauded.]
SPEECH OF REV. DR. KIRK.
The Chairman called Rev. Dr. Kirk from a seat on the floor to the platform. Dr. Kirk was warmly applauded. He said that he was sorry the other speakers were not able to say any thing on the proclamation, but he should say that in the President's paper of September, there was an actual proclamation of freedom, inasmuch as there are States in rebellion today. The President's words were those of the head of a great nation, and the speaker would summon all men to support that government and that head. There was a proclamation made in the Psalms, centuries ago, that must have its way in the earth, and no man can stay it, for Christ is King, and not Cotton. This proclamation was in the 72d Psalm.
He wondered how any Christian in the land could look with indifference on a day that brought a dawn like the millennium to millions of men. This Temple should be filled. Let any white man's child be kidnapped, and how gladly would he rejoice over its restoration! Indifference on this subject was base in an enlightened people, and a reproach to them.
Dr. Kirk recounted the closing circumstances in the written story of Esther and Ahasuerus, in which the latter authorized the Jews in a proclamation to defend themselves against all their enemies. And this was the natural effect of the President's proclamation. Wickedness should be put down every where; God himself authorizes and commands us to interfere with evil men.
Many men sympathized with rebels for fear this proclamation would injure them and their families. Why did they not rather sympathize with the millions of innocent colored men and their families in the South? Why did they not show their tenderness towards the loyalists of East Tennessee? Why not towards the martyrs of Ball's Bluff and Ball Run, and other fields? Why not toward the orphans and widows at the North? Why not toward the holy cause of liberty and country?
There were those who looked at affairs with a gloomy view. But it was a great privilege to take part in the sacrifices of this age, which were to have so great an influence. God was purifying us of our dross, and the silver would not be removed from the fire till God's image should be reflected in it. Dr. Kirk closed with condemning the prejudice against men on account of their skin.
SPEECH OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN spoke of the ability of the colored man to take his proper position in society as a citizen. They are capable of appreciating liber-
<c03>
ty and taking care of themselves. He had been a slave twenty years, and he believed the slaves as well able to care for themselves as any other class of laborers. In the South, hundreds of plantations are managed entirely by colored men, and all through the South there had long been myriad proofs of the ability of the slave.
Mr. Brown's master moved to St. Louis. One of his slaves, Peter, a good mason, was let out a year to a white mason, and the white mason failed, and could not pay the master the $150 agreed on; a second year, he let the slave out to a second man, with the same result; the third year, the colored man, Peter, hired himself of his master for a year for $175, and received a paper to that effect. In a few weeks, Peter's table had luxuries on it-coffee, white bread and steaks—-his cot had new furniture, he dressed better, and finally paid his master $175 for the year, as well as saving up $200.
White people in that vicinity became jealous of the slaves having their own time, partly because it created discontent among other slaves; but Peter was too shrewd, and made an arrangement with a merchant to hire him from his master, and in four years he saved up money enough to buy himself.
The 15,000 free colored people of New Orleans are taxed for $15,000,000, or an average of $1000 each, while the average property of the white citizen is but $762 a head. The National Guard of New Orleans, of which Butler was so glad to avail himself, is composed of aristocratic free colored men, some of whom are worth thousands, and several worth several hundred thousand dollars each.
The chief opposition to the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia was made by masters and mistresses, who were supported by the labor of slaves whom they hired out, or who paid for their time; and C. A. Wickliffe, of Kentucky, member of Congress, and own cousin of the speaker, (Mr. Brown,) used that very argument against it. Cousin Charles knew that the negroes not only supported themselves, but supported masters and mistresses in luxury. Did that look as if colored people could not take care of themselves?
Mr. Brown showed the contrast between the white and black population at the South in the matter of pauperism and crime. He described the manner in which news spread among the slaves. He remembered, that when a boy, if his mistress's family wished to say any thing they did not want the slaves to hear, they would send them out, but he often hid behind the curtain and stayed; and at night, when the slaves met at their quarters, the story would be discussed, and the news go from plantation to plantation like lightning. He had seen a contraband lately, who told him the slaves knew about the issuing of the proclamation before the whites did in his vicinity.
The slaves would know when the hour of their emancipation came. The slaveholders were concentrating them in some places as a precaution, but that would make matters worse, if the wrong was still continued. Free the slaves once, and place arms in their hands, and no slave oligarchy could ever reduce them to servitude again. (Applause.) It costs but $19 a year to clothe and care for a slave man. Set him at liberty, and he will consume $50 or $75 worth of Northern manufactures yearly. The demands of three millions of free colored people would give a tremendous impetus to Northern manufactures, and in the strong arms of 600,000 colored men, the country would find added strength and added safety.
SPEECH OF JOHN C. CLUER.
JOHN C. CLUER was the next speaker, and spoke of his labors in behalf of British emancipation in early days when he was in his Scotch home, and he rejoiced to see this day, full of the grand results of a greater movement. He spoke of the abominations of slavery, particularly of that feature which enabled men to sell their own children on the block.
This war was almost necessary to show the people the true character of slavery; and now they were awake to it, they would not pause till the work was done, and the struggle between despotic institutions and freedom ended for ever. The speaker spoke of many meetings in the suffering manufacturing districts of England, full of sympathy for the North in this struggle, and of the falsehoods of the London Times in reference to that and other matters. The masses of England would hail with joy the proclamation of to-day, and hail with ecstacy the hopes of the future.
In closing, Mr. Cluer spoke of the boys of the 21st, setting free the slaves in Camden jail, and, showing some of the handcuffs brought hither by a Yankee soldier, threw them to the platform and trampled on them, rejoicing that he was able to do so where two years ago the friends of freedom were mobbed. The words of a Boston publisher were true, that this great contest was not alone for black or white, but for the liberties of the world.
At Mr. Cluer's proposal, cheers were given for the cause, for Abraham Lincoln, and for the army and navy, and then the meeting adjourned, to meet again at half past two.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The meeting was opened with prayer by Rev. Leonard A. Grimes.
SPEECH OF DR. J. B. SMITH.
DR. J. B. SMITH was then introduced, and said he did not appear with a prepared speech, and he was in hopes to have seen the proclamation of the President consequent on that of September last. Although he had been led to believe in the honesty of Mr. Lincoln, yet none could blame him for being fearful that something might occur to prevent the issuing of the proclamation of emancipation. But he had faith in God, in whose hands he was sure freedom could not long be delayed. He knew that the claim made that the slaves did not desire their freedom was only made by those who knew that they who were valuable to their masters were most violently opposed to the institution, and that they had entire control of those whose sentiments they falsely pretend to represent. He thought if the black race had been equal in numbers to the white, slavery would have been abolished long ago, perhaps never would have existed.
The war was not caused by Abolitionists, but was a judgment of God for the wickedness of slavery-”The Union as it was and the Constitution as it is" was an idle motto. The old Union could never exist again, for it would guarantee the fullest protection to the slaveholder, which is a crime against God and humanity.
The speaker commented with severity on those who signed the petition for the passage of the Crittenden Compromise, and insisted that we must either have slave labor or free labor, and the advantage of the latter would surely carry the day. He wanted to see black men enlisted as soldiers, see them placed on an equality with the white race, see their manhood recognized, and with God on our side, and the black man fighting for his freedom, there will be no such word as fail in this great struggle.
SPEECH OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS was then introduced, and was well received. He expressed his pleasure at the near prospect of the abolition of slavery, and said that some twenty-five years ago he thought slavery was near its end, and that it was only necessary for some man to fairly and truly set forth the horrors of slavery to cause the world to abhor it, and thus to abolish it, and he took the task on himself; but he found he was mistaken in his ideas. Yet he thanked God that to-day he saw a bright light, and if he did not see the abolition of the curse, he thought he saw the beginning of the end. We were now suffering, and had been for the past two years, from the opposition to the freedom of speech and the press, so as to enable the truth to prevail against error; and when error has taken up the sword to cut down truth, then it becomes necessary for truth to fight for the right. We have had a period of darkness, but are now having the dawn of light, and are met to-day to celebrate it. We have all meant well, but we have made mistakes, and are now assembled to put ourselves right.
<c04>
He believed both slaves and masters would have to suffer, and he could not take his seat without calling attention to the wisdom shown by the slaves in not having taken up arms in rebellion against their masters; but they knew the folly of this, as at any time during the war, this would have been disastrous. It was beginning to be found that the slaves could fight, and it was even suggested that they could garrison forts, and Mr. Douglass said he knew they could do both. Although the colored men were not to be considered prisoners of war when taken by the Confederates, yet he was sure the colored men were as ready to give their services to the country now as they were at the commencement of the war. The speaker wished that the colored man should have the same advantages as the white man, when he could assure his hearers that they would find he would prove a worthy competitor of his lighter-complexioned brother.
The speaker then alluded to the change that had taken place in the anti-slavery sentiment in Boston in two years, when men appeared with knives and pistols to prevent the discussion of slavery in Tremont Temple. His firm opinion was, that if free discussion had been allowed in the Union thirty years ago, slavery would have been quietly ended long ago, as quietly as it is being done in Russia, and as it was done in the West Indies; but the South has all the time used the gag law, and never dared allow an honest man to look slavery in the face. The speaker asserted that the pulpit, the press, and the people had been bought by the South, and that the people of the North had helped to plunge the South into the hell in which she is now writhing. But he would say, that the Abolitionists were the only ones who could wash their hands of the responsibility, as they had warned the people of it, and their warning was not heeded. He closed his remarks by asserting that slavery must go down, but he was fearful much blood would be spilt before this was perfected.
SPEECH OF REV. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
REV. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE next spoke, and read a New Year’s proclamation issued by Gen. Saxton to the colored people of the Department of South Carolina, calling on them to assemble to hear the proclamation of the President read, and to bring all they could induce to come with them. He then said, that if the proclamation of President Lincoln did not free a single slave, it made the North free. As regarded the value of the proclamation, the speaker said it mattered not what was said against it, but in his opinion it would be as effective as the Declaration of Independence, although it might be with the loss of much blood. He thought the prospect was exceedingly bright, but we could not expect the accomplishment of all our hopes at once, yet he hoped the time was near when slavery would cease in the land.
During Mr. Clarke's address, information came that the proclamation was coming over the wires, and the announcement was received with loud applause. 
A collection was then taken for the National Freedmen, when the meeting adjourned till evening.
EVENING SESSION.
The meeting was called to order at 71/2 o'clock, and EDWARD ATKINSON, Esq., of Boston, was introduced as the first speaker. He exhibited a specimen of the crop of Sea Island cotton cultivated by free labor, and said that the gentleman who had had charge of the two plantations on which the cotton was raised had got enough on hand to pay about $4000 into the treasury of the United States, if sold at the price the same quality last brought, besides paying the expenses of raising. There were 600 men, women and children, 200 of whom were field hands, on these two plantations, and they had raised, in addition to the cotton, sufficient corn and potatoes to keep them a year, with a large surplus left.
Rev. C. W. DENNISON, a chaplain in the army, next spoke of the capacity of the slaves to work, as well as their willingness, when they were paid and well treated; and further, he said that they were desirous of being educated, and not only able, but ready and willing to fight.
The President read the following letter from Governor Andrew, which was received with applause:-
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, BOSTON, January 1, 1863.
WM. C. NELL, Esq.:
DEAR SIR,-I regret that it will be impossible for me to preside over the meeting to-night, according to your invitation, but I find that I have been unable to do so, and have even been compelled to forego the pleasure of being present at the Jubilee Concert of this afternoon. 
With my hearty sympathy, and the highest hopes of a great and happy future for our country, I am,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
JOHN A. ANDREW.
The President then said, that if there was one voice which, more than another, it would be a pleasure to hear on that occasion, it was that of the man who, in 1831, declared, ”I am in earnest; I will not equivocate; I will not retreat a single inch; and I will be heard"-a voice which, from that day to the present, has been unceasing in its appeal in behalf of the slave and against the oppressor-WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON; but, for reasons satisfactory to Mr. Garrison, they would be deprived of that great pleasure. He also stated that the promise of WENDELL PHILLIPS to make an address had been conditional on the reception of the proclamation of emancipation, and as this had not been received, Mr. Phillips was not present.
JOHN S. ROCK, Esq., was then introduced, and said—If this day has not brought all the most sanguine have hoped for and expected, it has certainly brought good tidings of great joy to millions of suffering bondmen, with whom we are all this day happy to rejoice. We are indebted to the white man for the terrible crime of American slavery, which has nearly destroyed this country. American liberty has always been a name without meaning, a shadow without substance, a kind of ”sounding brass and tinkling cymbal." In its name we have sanctioned and upheld ”the sum of all villanies," and for which God is now scourging us. Some far-seeing men long ago perceived that this nation was sowing the wind, and must inevitably reap the whirlwind. They could not remain idle spectators. They saw the danger and warned you of it, but your ears were so tightly stopped with cotton that you could not or would not hear them. Their warnings were disregarded, they were called crazy fanatics, infidels, and disturbers of the ”domestic tranquillity," and were every where insulted and libelled, and often maltreated; but they had right on their side; they would were not the men to be intimidated; they would not equivocate; they did not retract a single inch; and they would be heard. (Applause.) And to day the whole civilized world acknowledges that the Abolitionists have been right, and that justice must prevail. When I look about me here, and see so many who hare have been so long identified with the Anti-Slavery movement, who by their persistent labors, self-denial, pecuniary sacrifices, and devotion to principle hare have caused anti-slavery to be no longer unpopular, I can thank them from my soul. I know the colored man has true friends among the white race, that he can well afford to be proud of—-the opinion of others to the contrary notwithstanding. (Applause.) This is a great day, and we have passed through a great year in the history of my race in this country. In one short year, the gain on the side of freedom has been immense. Among the great events, we are reminded that the entire national territory has been consecrated to freedom; the national capital has been purged of slavery; it is decided that a colored man is a citizen of the United States; a quarter of a million of slaves have been liberated by the war; and to-day, by the military power vested in the President of the United States, be he has declared FOREVER FREE three millions of slaves! (Applause.) Great God! what more could hare we have expected in so short a time? This is the day that strikes death to slavery and to traitors, and is the day we hare have labored so earnestly to hasten and hoped to see arrive. As the old maid said, on the eve of her marriage-
"This is the day I long have sought, 
And mourned because I found it not.”
<c05>
This day, in its results, must change the fortunes of many of both races. The question of African slavery and of emancipation is to be no longer a matter of speculation, but must be studied in its results. The black man must, as time and opportunity offer, enter upon his duties as a citizen. 
Mr. Rock here made a very able argument to prove that the colored man was not wanting in either morals, courage, or intelligence, and that he was capable of filling every useful position in society. He presented many striking facts and historical references to prove his position.
He could not criticise Mr. Lincoln. He was not elected as an anti-slavery man, and when we consider his education, and the influences with which he has been surrounded, and what we said of him when he was elected, we must acknowledge that he has exceeded our most sanguine expectations. (Applause.) His situation has been a trying one, and if he is not anti-slavery, he is, I believe, the man destined by providence to unite the friends of free government, and to redeem our country from its degradation and its shame. (Applause, and three cheers were given for Mr. Lincoln, the audience rising to their feet.)
The entire black race on this continent is to be free. Already the day is beginning to dawn. My thanks, with fire millions of my race, have already ascended to the throne of God for this great boon. We thank the President for his proclamation; we thank the Senators and Representatives for the Confiscation act; and we thank you and all others who have contributed their influence to hasten this day. The world moves; I am encouraged.(Applause.)
A collection to aid the contrabands was then taken up, and during the time there was an address by Rev. R. C. WATERSTON., who also read a letter from WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT, of New York. The speaker thought the spirit of liberty was pervading the whole American people; and in speaking of an interview with Hon. Josiah Quincy, said his heart was gladdened at this progressive movement for freedom.
Miss Anna E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia, favored the audience with a few remarks, in which she gave an affecting account of her visits among some of the army hospitals. She said the contest can have bat but one ending; no compromise, no conciliation, but either the Palmetto or Stars and Stripes from one end of the country to the other. She was glad that with the new year a blaze of light and liberty had been ushered in. Her speech was warmly applauded.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS responded to an invitation in an eloquent speech, and was followed by CHARLES W. SLACK, Esq., who was introduced as having devoted himself, in the Massachusetts Legislature, to the Equal School Rights movement, till it was crowned with brilliant success. Mr. Slack encouraged the hope of the President's Emancipation Proclamation, and gave some reminiscences of the mob in Boston in 1835. His mention of Mr. Garrison's name was received with cheers. While he was speaking., Judge Russell arrived with a copy of the Proclamation, which was read by Mr. Slack amid the most enthusiastic demonstrations. The scene which here ensued cannot be described. Every one seemed inspired by the occasion, yielding to the impulse of prayer, which was fervently offered by Rev. R. C. Waterston. Collections were then taken for the soldier who had rescued certain slaves from prison, and for the National Freed-men, and the great audience separated, after singing Jubilee Hymns and the John Brown Chorus.
The following letter from Hon. CHARLES SUMNER, though not received until after the meeting, is inserted here, as belonging to the occasion:—
WASHINGTON, 1st Jan., 1863.
MY DEAR SIR,-Owing to the wretched condition of the mails between New York and Washington, I did not receive your letter of the 27th in season for an answer to be used at the proposed meeting.
I am glad that you celebrated the day. It deserved your celebration, your thanksgiving and your prayers. On that day, an angel appeared upon the earth.
Accept my best wishes for your association, and believe me, dear sir,
Faithfully yours, CHARLES SUMNER.
After the adjournment of the meeting at the Temple, late as was the hour of the night, there was an impromptu gathering at the church of Rev. Leonard A. Grimes, in Southac Street. Speeches of thrilling pathos were made by Judge Russell, who presided, Miss Anna E. Dickinson, Frederick Douglass, John C. Cluer, and others. The interest was augmented by Jubilee singing, and shouts of thanksgiving for President Lincoln's Emancipation. No words can depict the enthusiasm of the occasion.

EMANCIPATION MEETING.
The 1st of January, 1863, the day when the emancipation of three million American slaves was proclaimed, was celebrated in New Bedford by a religious meeting in Liberty Hall, under the auspices of the colored clergymen. In the morning, a prayer meeting was held, and in the afternoon and evening, the time was mostly taken up in speeches, by Rev. J. Gird-wood, Daniel Ricketson, Rev. I. H. Coe, Rev. Jacob Mitchell, Rev. T. C. Moulton, Rev. William Jackson, Dr. George W. Stearns, Rev. William W. Grimes, Rev. William McDonald, and Wm. H. Johnson. The following resolutions, reported by a committee, were unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That, trusting in the arm of Almighty God for the fulfilment of our hopes and expectations, as the result of the proclamation of our President, Abraham Lincoln, we look forward in faith to the time when the hand of the oppressor shall be stayed, and universal liberty shall triumph in this land. 
Resolved, That in the proclamation which we doubt not ere this has been issued from the hands of our President, and is already being transmitted through the length and breadth of the Union, we recognize the chief instrument of power in the suppression of the rebellion, and the conquest of the enemies of freedom. 
Resolved, That in our rejoicing, we should not forget the great Author of all our blessings, and humbly render our devout thanks to Him who sits upon the throne of grace, and rules the great universe.
Resolved, That while we deem the object for which we meet this day as a triumph of Christianity, we would also remember, with heartfelt gratitude to God, the name of William Lloyd Garrison, whose unwearied exertions and self-sacrifices, with those of his noble coadjutors, have been chiefly instrumental in bringing about the present hopeful crisis in the cause of human freedom.
Wm. H. Johnson, Esq., Attorney at Law, (colored, and once a slave,) in a short but enthusiastic speech, appreciative of the labors of Mr. Garrison and his coadjutors, introduced the following resolution:—
Resolved, That we hail with inexpressible joy this glorious period, from which time future historians will record the first sound of the jubilee triumph for freedom since the adoption of the Federal Constitution, or the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers on Plymouth Rock.
Resolved, That we believe that the time is not far distant, predicted in the Scriptures of divine truth, when Ethiopia shall stretch forth her hands to God; when the fundamental principles so long advocated by the tried friends of freedom shall hate have their predominant influence throughout this entire Republic; when all shall join the chorus—
"Sound the loud timbrel o'er o' or Egypt's dark sea,
God's truth is victorious—the slaves are all free."
The exercises of the day were in every part interspersed with singing, and the meeting was very spirited, and may be considered a decided success. The first celebration of American emancipation in New Bedford will be remembered as long as the era itself is noticed.
The bells of the neighboring town over the river, Fairhaven, rang out their joyful peals at noon; and on Monday, the 5th inst., by order of the municipal authorities of New Bedford, the bells of the city were rung, and one hundred guns fired at noon, in honor of the President's Proclamation.
<co6>
REJOICING ON THE FIRST OF JANUARY.
The colored citizens of Leesburg, Highland County, Ohio, met at Oak Grove school-house, January 1st, 1863. A. Williams was appointed Chairman, and G. Foster, Secretary.
The Chairman said that this being the day on which the President of the United States issues his Proclamation to emancipate the slaves of all States, in rebellion against the government, we have met to express our congratulations in view of that event.
A hymn was then sung by the congregation, and prayer offered by Rev. A. T. Wood, in which he feelingly invoked the Throne of Heaven to bless our government, the President and his Cabinet, and all in authority; that all things may be done in accordance with the will of the Most High; that the time may soon come when peace will be restored to our distracted country; and that liberty may be proclaimed to all the inhabitants thereof. 
After some remarks by different gentlemen present, the following preamble and resolutions were offered by the Secretary, and unanimously adopted:—
Whereas, believing that slavery, in all its forms, is a violation of divine law, and the degradation of human nature; and that wherever it has been tolerated, it has been the means of destroying the peace and happiness of that race or nation encouraging so heinous a sin, and has brought down the judgments of the Supreme Being;
And whereas, the institution of slavery has existed in the United States ever since the year 1620, and has been a great and growing evil ever since its introduction, and the cause of a wicked rebellion against the government of the United States, to the destruction of thousands of lives;
And whereas, in consequence of said rebellion, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States , has issued his proclamation that on the 1st day of January, 1863, emancipation shall take place in all the States in open rebellion against the government; therefore, 
Resolved, That we, the colored people of Leesburg and vicinity, have assembled this day for the purpose of expressing our thanks and congratulations in reference to said proclamation.
Resolved, That we regard this great decree as the most important, in behalf of the colored race, that has ever been issued in America, and we hope that, ere this war comes to a close, it will be the means of freeing every slave on this continent.
Resolved, That should all this be accomplished, the name of Abraham Lincoln will ever be gratefully remembered by the colored race of America; and the 1st of January should be celebrated to our latest posterity as the most important event in all our history. 
A sumptuous dinner was then served to the congregation, for the preparation of which a vote of thanks was returned to the ladies, and the meeting adjourned. 
A. WILLIAMS WILLIAM, President.
G. FOSTER, Secretary.

Lewis's Normal Institute
—FOR—
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new professions. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. Three eminent medical men teach in the departments of Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent to Ladies. Two courses during this year—the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July.
For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked out the way, Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.—D. B. Hagar, Pres. of the American Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.—Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.—Miss, May, Valedictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis's institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any school room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into our schools.—.-Extract from a speech delivered at the second Commencement of ”Lewis's Normal Institute,”," by J. D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET, 
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its the natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
154 Washington St. 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf.
