THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters reisting to the poeuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but  are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDWARD JACKS N, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.R. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.3. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1719.
<c01>
The Liberator.
THIRD DECADE OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
LETTERS FROM ANTI-SLAVERY FRIENDS.
FROM JOHN JAY, ESQ.
To Messrs. J.M. MCKIM, and others, Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
GENTLEMEN: It is with regret that I find myself unable to accept the invitation with which you have honored me to assist at the celebration of your Thirtieth Anniversary.
The term of a generation has elapsed since that eventful assemblage at Philadelphia in 1833, and we who survive are permitted to see the great objects which were then proposed in the course of rapid accomplishment.
Slavery has already ceased to have a constitutional or legal existence in the rebel States, and the faith of the National Government and the American people has been solemnly pledged to that act, by the Commander-in-Chief of our Army and Navy; and at his command also, rightfully issued under the same war power and on grounds of military necessity, the colored people are being raised to the rank of soldiers and citizens. But we cannot overlook the fact that these objects of our life-long devotion are being effected by other arguments than the narrow constitutional means and moral suasion to which the founders of your Society so rigidly limited its efforts.
Man proposes, but God orders; and it was ordained that the Slave Power of America, hardening its heart like its prototype of Egypt, and raising its bloody hand against the American people to the end that it might erect a slave empire on the ruins of our republic, should, by its own act, forfeit the constitutional guarantees by which it was protected, and should itself invite its extinguishments by the tramp of armies and the crash of battle. While the slaveholders in their madness have thus inaugurated a war in which slavery is to perish, it is to be remembered that their allies at the North persistently allured them to their doom.
The first gun aimed against Sumter, and which sounded the knell of slavery, would never have been fired but for the assurance given by Democratic leaders at the North, who believed the masses to be as rotten as themselves, that they would assist the rebels in revolutionizing the government; and when the war had progressed for nearly two years, these rebel-sympathizers, foiled in their effort to convince the nation that it had no right to defend its existence, attempted to stay the national arm by discouraging volunteering at the North, and so compelled the President to call upon the black man to assist in maintaining our constitutional integrity. How promptly that call has been responded to, how gallantly he has done his duty as a soldier at Port Hudson, Milliken's Bend and Fort Wagner, and how popular the scheme of enlisting colored troops has become from the simple fact that every black man who joins the army enables a white man to stay at home, are matters familiar to us all; and we can hardly fail to admire the inscrutable ways of Providence, as we wonderingly behold the abolition of slavery and the elevation of the colored race, for which we had labored for a quarter of a century with such small success, now being rapidly and effectually accomplished through the agency of Jefferson Davis, Mr.Vallandigham and Gov. Seymour. He maketh, says Holy Writ, the wrath of man to praise Him, and the remainder of wrath shall He restrain.
A time so full of excitement as the present is not the most fitting for a calm review of the history of the Society, whose birth you are met to celebrate; and yet, as our work is so nearly finished, and your next decade will probably dawn upon the American continent unpolluted by the footstep of a slave, it may be well now to recall the political principles declared in the Constitution of your Society, as established at Philadephia, and reaffirmed in the face of the malignant persecutions to which its early members were subjected. They are not to be lightly overlooked by the future historian of America; for when the story of their struggle is truly told, there will be no brighter page in American history than that which records their pure philanthropy, their intelligent patriotism, their wise statesmanship, their moral courage, and their heroic defence of Christian principle and constitutional right against the domineering power of an overwhelming and brutal majority.
If the founders of the American Anti-Slavery Society must yield to Jefferson Davis and his confreres, so far as the merit goes of organizing a thoroughly efficient project of immediate abolition, by so much as the bayonet and the bullet, iron-clads and monitors, Greek fire and swamp-angels are more convincing arguments than slow appeals to the conscience and the reason-especially when the one is blunted and the other perverted-they need yield to none in the claim which their children will make for them, that they were the exemplars of that spirit of devotion to Christian truth and American principle that to-day like a halo enwraps our country, and unites us in a common resolve to maintain, at whatever cost, against Southern slavery and European neutrality, the unity, the greatness and the freedom of our Republic.
I am aware that this view differs somewhat from the portrait which has been usually painted of American Abolitionists; that they have been pictured as disunionists, amalgamationists and incendiaries, anxious to interfere with slavery in defiance of the Constitution, and to incite servile insurrection without regard to humanity. But who was the painter of these darkly shadowed and distorted features? The Slave Power, disguised as a conservator of the Constitution, and attempting to escape the issue which we tendered by inventing fraudulent side issues. Now that the Slave Power is stripped of the mask under which it dared to impeach the patriotism of the Abolitionists, the American people will at their leisure review the charges which many of them have long believed.
One quality is already accorded to them even by their intelligent opponents, and that is moral courage, indomitable pluck. A handful of men, without power, wealth or official influence, they arrayed themselves against American slavery, reigning supreme in Church and State, as did the English Quakers against the British slave trade; and although they had none other than moral weapons and an armory of facts, the Slave Power recognized them at once as an adversary to be feared and to be crushed; for it dreaded, as was frankly admitted, their influence not simply with the people of the North, but upon the consciences of the slaveholders themselves.
The members of your Society were compelled to meet the furious onset of the Slave Power almost from the moment of their organization. Vilified by a slaveholding President, whose message they an-
<c02>
swered with a protest of great dignity and force; denounced in both Horses of Congress by slaveholders and their tools; slandered by a demoralized press; derided from the bench; sneered at by the bar, and damned from the pulpit; hooted at in political and religious conventions; tabooed in would-be-aristocratic circles; threatened with legislative pains and penalties for exercising their constitutional prerogatives; howled at by ruffian mobs, their houses sacked, their churches invaded, their presses destroyed, their liberties violated, they maintained their integrity with undaunted front, yielding no iota of principle, but grandly fulfilling the injunction, "Stand like a beaten anvil!" Every new outrage, as they multiplied throughout the North, such as the dragging of a clergyman from his pulpit in New Hampshire, and his sentence, by a convenient magistrate, as a common brawler, to fifteen days' hard labor, for having preached an anti-slavery sermon; or the leading of Mr. Garrison, that early and faithful pioneer of freedom, about the streets of Boston with a rope around his body, amid the plaudits of " gentlemen of property and standing;" or the murder of the brave Lovejoy, forerunner of the countless thousands since murdered by the same accursed power; so far from intimidating the Abolitionists, only inspired them with a sterner determination to rescue the country from the ruffianism of slavery, and they stood, and on the page of history will for-ever stand, the successful champions of those constitutional rights, freedom of conscience and of speech, freedom of the press and of debate, and the right of petition. 
In vindicating the founders of the Society from the charges preferred against them by the slaveholders, and on the strength of which they were so bitterly persecuted-charges which were swallowed with disgraceful credulity by willing dupes, and which even now are sometimes repeated by men who lay claim to an ordinary degree of intelligence-it is necessary to refer to some historical facts in order that the opinions of individuals or of societies at a later date may not be confounded with the principles, pledges and conduct of the national organization formed at Philadelphia. 
The principle charges on which its founders were arraigned were these:
1. That they disregarded and repudiated the Constitution of the United States. 
2. That they were in favor of a dissolution of the Union. 
3. That they advocated the right of Congress to abolish slavery in the states. 
4. That they favored marriages between blacks and whites. 
5. That they approved of and incited insurrection among the slaves. 
When the Anti-Slavery Convention met at Philadelphia, Judge Jay, who was prevented from attending as a delegate, urged upon them, by letter, the necessity of an explicit declaration of their political principles to meet the baseless charges already made against them. 
The first number of The Emancipator had shortly before announced, that " constitutional restrictions, independently of other considerations, forbid all other than moral interference with slavery in the Southern States;" and the Convention incorporated three distinct propositions in the Constitution of the American Anti-Slavery Society. 
1. That each State in which slavery exists has, by the Constitution of the United States, the exclusive right to legislate in regard to abolition in that State. 
2. That they would endeavor in a constitutional way to influence Congress to put an end to the domestic slave trade, and to abolish slavery in the District of Colombia, and likewise to prevent the extension of slavery to any State that might thereafter be admitted to the Union. 
3. That the Society would never in any way countenance the oppressed in vindicating their rights by resorting to physical force. 
Under this Constitution and these distinct pledges, the Society rapidly increased in numbers, strength and influence. Its lecturers, agents, newspapers and publications aroused the country, and auxiliary societies sprang up far and near, numbering in 1836,527; in 1837, 1,006; in 1838,1,256; and in 1839, 1,650 auxiliaries had adopted the principles of its Constitution. 
It was to crush anti-slavery effort under these clearly defined limitations that mobs were inaugurated in 1834, to sack churches and houses in New York, and to insult Mr. Garrison in Boston, and " conservative meetings" were held in various Northern cities " to consign to execration" the Abolitionists as " abandoned knaves and hypocrites." 
In 1835 the Board of your Society issued an address to the public, for the advisement of those who had been led to believe that they " were pursuing measures at variance not only with the Constitutional rights of the South, but with the precepts of humanity and religion." 
The address was signed by Arthur Tappan, President, and also by John Rankin, William Jay, Elizur Wright, A. L. Cox, Lewis Tappan, Sam. E. Cornish, S.S. Josselyn and Theodore S.Wright. As it excited marked attention both in America and in Europe, and is the fullest official exposition of the views of the Society, you will perhaps allow me to quote briefly its several heads. They were as follows: 
1. That Congress has no more right to abolish slavery in the Southern States than in the French West India Islands. 
2. That the exercise of any other than moral influence to induce Abolition by the State Legislatures would be unconstitutional. 
3. That Congress had the right to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, and that it was their duty to efface so foul a stain from the National escutcheon. 
4. That American citizens have the right to express and publish their opinions of the Constitution, laws and institutions of any and every State and nation under heaven, and " we never intend to surrender the liberty of speech, of the press, or of conscience-blessings we have inherited from our fathers, and which we mean, so far as we are able, to transmit unimpaired to our children." 
5. That they had uniformly deprecated all forcible attempts on the part of the slaves to recover their freedom. 
6. That they would deplore any servile insurrection, on account of the calamities that would attend it, and the occasion it might give for increased severity. 
7. That the charge that they had sent publications to the South, designed to incite the slaves to insurrection, was utterly and unequivocally false. 
8. That the charge that they had sent any publications to the slaves was false. 
9. That they had employed no agents in the slave States to distribute their publications. 
10. They reiterated their conviction that slavery was sinful, and injurious to the country, and that immediate abolition would be both safe and wise, and that they had no intention of refraining from the expression of such views in future.
<c03>
11. They reiterated their views in reference to the elevation of the colored people. 
12." We are accused of acts that tend to a dissolution of the Union, and even of wishing to destroy it. We have never calculated ' the value of the Union,' because we believe it to be INESTIMABLE, and that the abolition of slavery will remove the chief danger of its dissolution." 
In conclusion they said: " Such, fellow-citizens, are our principles. Are they unworthy of republicans and of Christians?" And, after referring to the unconstitutional usurpation of the government to protect slavery, and to prevent free discussion and the freedom of the mails, they closed with the prophetic warning: " Surely, we need not remind you that if you submit to such an encroachment on your liberties, the days of our Republic are numbered; and that although Abolitionists may be the first, they will not be the last victims offered at the shrine of arbitrary power." 
As the country, under the stirring appeals and startling facts put forth by the American Society, its auxiliaries and its members, awoke to a new appreciation of the evils and dangers of slavery to the Republic as well as to the slave, some earnest Abolitionists, stung by a sense of its excessive wrong, and unwilling to await the slow remedy of moral suasion, or limited Congressional interference, sought to find some shorter method of accomplishing its destruction. Here and there one inclined to the belief that Congress could constitutionally abolish it; others that its very existence, was unconstitutional, and should be so declared by the Supreme Court; and a few, at a later period, that it could be effected only by a dissolution of the Union. 
But all of these suggestions were absolutely irreconcilable with the Constitution adopted in Philadelphia. In 1838 the late Alvan Stewart, Esq., of Utica, attempted to change that Constitution by an elaborate argument in favor of the right of Congress to abolish slavery in the States, and the proposed amendment was urged with great vigor and eloquence, but it was as vigorously resisted, as unsound in principle and inconsistent with good faith, and the attempt signally failed. 
In the same year, the Massachusetts Society reconsidered some resolution that had been hastily adopted, and resolved, " That Congress has no power to abolish slavery in the several States of this Union." 
The same year, Mr. Ellis Gray Loring wrote to Judge Jay from Boston: '" I know of but one or two persons here who believe in the power of Congress over slavery in the States." 
With the division that occurred a year or two later in the American, Society, the removal of the old board to Boston, and the formation in New York of the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, the national unity of the organization was broken, and widely differing views began to be expressed by anti-slavery men, who did not hold to the principles declared at Philadelphia upon the religious and political bearings of the question. 
Prominent individuals divided upon the status of slavery, and the best mode of overthrowing it; and neither the Liberty party, headed by those veteran Abolitionists, Gerrit Smith and William Goodell, nor Wendell Phillips, the golden-mouthed exponent of the views entertained at Boston, fairly represented the constitutional principles defined by the American Society, and adopted by nearly two thousand auxiliary associations. 
But-and this is an historic fact of interest and importance-as the increasing insolence and usurpation of the Slave Power induced the conviction that if the Abolitionists had commenced the struggle to obtain freedom for the slave, the American people must continue it to preserve their own; and with their characteristic common sense the people devoted themselves to the task of overthrowing its power and checking its extension, and organized for the purpose, under the wise lead of Abolitionists, in 1855, the Republican party. They incorporated into that platform the identical constitutional principles on which, thirty years ago, the American Anti-Slavery Society took its stand. 
On these principles, for the holding of which we and our fathers were denounced as incendiaries and fanatics, Fremont was nominated and Lincoln was elected; and the sufficiency of those principles-the restriction of slavery extension, the abolition of slavery in the District, and of the inter-State slave trade, and the emancipation of the National government from the control of the Slave Power-to cripple and eventually to destroy slavery, was significantly recognized by the slaveholders themselves when they resolved, some twenty-five or thirty years ago, that the instant those principles were triumphant in the National government, they would anticipate the overthrow of slavery by overthrowing the republic. 
Prejudices deeply seated may obscure, perhaps, for another generation, the credit due to the gentlemen whose careful action in convention you are met to celebrate; but the candid historian will admit that they exhibited not a blind devotion to the cause of the slave, but a conscientious regard to the integrity of the Constitution, and the welfare and happiness of the country. He will record that it was the Abolitionists who, avoiding all infringement on the constitutional rights of the slaveholders, would allow no infringement on their own, and that to them belongs the honor of vindicating the right of petition, and maintaining against brute violence and legislative menace freedom of speech and of the press. While he will be compelled to acknowledge that in many things they were defeated, that they opposed unsuccessfully the Seminole war and the Annexation of Texas under the late rebel John Tyler, that they failed in arresting that most wicked war waged by the Slave Power against Mexico under James K. Polk, and that accursed act, the Fugitive Slave Bill, under the renegade Abolitionist Millard Fillmore, and the removal, under Franklin Pierce, of the ancient land-mark fixed by the Missouri Compromise, he may say with truth, that they checkmated the Slave Power under James Buchanan in its efforts to force slavery into Kansas, and that they forever terminated its usurped supremacy upon the continent, when, defeating the traitors Bell and Breckinridge, they elected as President Abraham Lincoln. 
Whatever errors of opinion or of action there may have been on the part of individuals or societies at a recent date, the political principles declared at Philadelphia have stood the test of time and trial, and have received the emphatic endorsement of the American people; and the anti-slavery movement in the United States, with few exceptions that more plainly show the rule, has been marked by states manlike characteristics, now crowned with success, and by a love of country that no delay, injustice or disappointment could impair or disturb. 
Their progress was not always observed by the unobservant, and we heard occasionally  that abolition was dead; but when the hour came that the Slave Power, drunken with blood and insolent with oppression, deemed itself strong enough to destroy the Republic, anticipating an easy victory by the aid of its fellow-traitors in the North, the hour had come also, although they knew it not, when the loyal American people were educated to that point of pa-
<c04>
triotism, pluck and constitutional strength, that they were able to meet the blow, treacherously as it was given, and to return it with a vigor that is sending slavery and the rebellion to a common grave. 
It is an interesting fact, that while the rebel slaveholders, who still regard as their friends the Peace Democrats and conditional Unionists at the North, who veil their treason under very thin disguise, both slaveholders and slaves, long before the Proclamation of Emancipation, foresaw the inevitable issue of the contest; and Beauregard came much nearer the truth than he has sometimes done, when he forbade his rebel troops to call by any other name than Abolitionist, Litinist, every soldier who followed the old flag of his country, keeping step to the music of the Union, and ready to die in its defence. 
As we recall reverently the dead upon your roll of those who met at Philadelphia, to issue what has since proven to be a second Declaration of Independence, let us remember also, tenderly, our brave heroes, who, slain by slavery, sleep beneath the battlefields of the Republic, and their comrades, our sons and brothers, who now maintain against that inhuman power the integrity, the supremacy, and the honor of our country. 
Always, gentlemen, most faithfully yours, 
JOHN JAY.

FROM JESSE STEDMAN.
MY DEAR SIR:-Your invitation to attend the Convention of the American Anti-Slavery Society at the city of Philadelphia on the 3d and 4th of Dec. came duly to hand, and I do assure you no man, more than myself, will feel a deeper interest in its action, or would more enjoy a brief interview with the early pioneers of this Heaven-appointed cause, in a city whose founder never stained his hands with human blood, nor his soul with a touch of that abomination of abominations, human bondage; and no man, more than myself, regards the importance of decided, united and untiring action in the cause of emancipation at this momentous crisis, when all, or nearly all, are disposed, either from policy or principle, to lend a helping hand. 
I would accept aid coming from any quarter and from almost any motive, to exterminate and utterly annihilate the cause of all our national calamities. The most absurd and dangerous policy is to turn the abolition cause over to the government, as some seem disposed to do, when the second " ruler in the kingdom" tells the world "slavery is their business, not mine," and very complacently talks about " returning prodigals "! Returning prodigals, forsooth!! Thieves, murderers, pirates ranked under the mild cognomen of prodigals! A prodigal, in the common acceptation of the term, is an angel of light in the comparison, as he may not be guilty of a single act which the law regards criminal. I have less confidence than most men in the President, the Cabinet, or members of Congress, with a few honorable exceptions in regard to the latter, as to any action of either based upon the principle of immediate, universal emancipation as the duty of the government and right of the slave; and hence I regard the action of the American Anti-Slavery Society in this momentous crisis of immeasurable importance. The wants of the thousands already tree, and the millions yet in bondage, if ever free, in the necessaries of life and education to render them fit subjects for civilized life, present an outlay and amount of labor to be done the most appalling. But, Mr. President, I am aware I hardly need urge the Convention to action when there are so many who have been longer in the harness and have labored so much more effectively than myself. In this connection, I cannot but advert to the changed condition of public opinion since the burning of Pennsylvania Hall, an age ago, in the city where you assemble, dedicated to free discussion. Then my blood rose to fever heat, and has remained there most of the time since. May your labor be crowned with success, and that speedily; and God grant that moral necessity may complete what military necessity commenced, and the joyous shouts of thirty-three million, free as the air of heaven, shake the continent from centre to circumference, and the benediction of the world and the blessing of God rest upon all who have lent a helping hand to deliver the oppressed from the power of the oppressor!
JESSE STEDMAN.

FROM REV. JEHIEL CLAFLIN.
EAST WESTMORELAND, N. H., Nov. 28, 1863. 
DEAR GARRISON:-Your circular and letter of the 23d inst., inviting me to be present at the decade celebration in the city of Philadelphia on the 3d and 4th of Dec. proximo was received; and as I shall be denied the pleasure of being present in person to participate in the proceedings of that memorable and joyous occasion, allow me, dear sir, through you, to congratulate the veteran pioneers and faithful coadjutors in meeting each other again, after a long and arduous warfare, in the " city of brotherly love," where, thirty years ago, they met to inaugurate the grandest and most sublime movement since the Christian era. Being based, not on expediency but on principle, and depending, not on numbers but on the truth and the justice of their cause, they could not but have the sanction and approval of a just God and all-wise Ruler of the Universe; and relying on His all-potent arm for aid, their ultimate success could be but a question of time; and although many of the loved and dearly-remembered ones co-laborers in this humanitary and Heaven-approved enterprise, have fallen in the midst of the " irrepressible conflict," yet it has pleased the all-wise and merciful Father graciously to spare the precious life of him, who, under God, was the first to call to repentance this guilty and oppressive nation-" to undo the heavy burdens, to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free;" and though one after another of the faithful ones has fallen, battling nobly in the true heroic and martyr spirit, for the deliverance of the oppressed, " remembering those in bunds as bound with them," yet others, catching the spirit of the noble dead, have risen up as new recruits to fill the ranks, and help carry forward to final completion the great work so nobly begun. The occasion will be a rare one for those who have consecrated the strength of their years and manhood in the cause of the oppressed. Those who will be gathered there to greet each other again and renew old acquaintance, will gather new strength and new inspiration to press on to final victory this mighty death-grapple with the legions and powers of darkness. The true friends of immediate emancipation and universal freedom have abundant cause of rejoicing and hope, in view of what has already been accomplished in the result of their faithful and indefatigable labors; " but the end is not yet." Slavery is a monster tenacious of life; but the harpoons of truth have been thrown by skilful hands, and the hideous monster is now writhing in his death-throes. Hitherto, our cause has been unpopular, but now its advocates and friends may be counted by many thousands; since, to be such, no longer endangers one's reputation or popularity; yet coming in at the eleventh hour, " they shall receive their penny." Recounting on this occasion,
<c05>
as you certainly will, the marvellous changes in the public mind and heart in this nation in regard to this great question of the age, you may very pertinently ask, “What hath God wrought?" Thanking God for his favor and help in the past, let us gird up afresh with unfaltering fidelity and hope for the last, decisive and final victory over the serried hosts of darkness, conscious that our duty is not done and our work complete until the last fetter is broken from the limbs of the last slave in the land. Let every true Abolitionist be encouraged, now that the North has been aroused, and has leaped to " arms" and marshalled its hosts to vindicate our cause, and the rights of humanity in “black and white." Let every heart and hand be quickened to new zeal and activity in the meritorious work of redeeming humanity from the iron grasp of tyrants and oppressors. 
Let us all be hopeful that God, after having sufficiently chastened us, as a nation, for our pride, avarice, ambition, ingratitude and oppression, will yet bring us out of this fiery ordeal a united, prosperous and happy people, to be in the future, not a warning but an example to all the nations of the earth. 
Feeling it an honor, of which I am not worthy, to have my humble name linked with the noble and honored champions of impartial and universal freedom, and praying that God's blessing may attend your gathering, I am, with much esteem, your fellowlaborer,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN.

FROM SARAH M. GRIMKE.
WEST NEWTON, Nov. 30, 1863. 
DEAR BROTHER GARRISON: How my heart yearns to be with you on this soul- stirring and glorious occasion-the third decade of your untiring and unflinching efforts in the cause of Human Rights! What a jubilee to my spirit would it be to mingle with you in this celebration! 
When our revolutionary fathers drew the sword to establish the great principles they promulgated, of the right of every human being to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, they achieved, in their heroic and successful struggle for independence, the greatest triumph the world had then witnessed for liberty and self-government. But, alas! they too soon proved that the blessings they had won were only to be enjoyed by the white man-they sat down under their vines and fig-trees, and sang hosannas to the Highest for their deliverance. In the songs of their jubilee, they heard not " the trampled negro's smothered cries." 
To you and. your coadjutors it was reserved to hear the groans of the oppressed-to cry aloud and spare not-to lift up your voices in the palmiest days of a haughty and prosperous nation, and proclaim on the house-tops that all their righteousness was but filthy rags-yea. they were a stench in the nostrils of Jehovah. To you, and to those who have stood by you in the day of conflict, it has been reserved to fight the. battle of the weak against the strong; of the down-trodden against the mighty; of the prisoner, scourged and tortured, against his tyrant; of the bereaved and bleeding mother against the relentless wretch who robs her of her child; of all those helpless babes, robbed of their birthright, and doomed to hopeless bondage, against the fiends who perpetrated this highest crime against God and Humanity. The blessing of these destitute ones will be your exceeding great reward. 
Now you stand on the height you have reached with so much toil, and suffering, and patience, and fortitude. In surveying the past, you hear the blessed language, "Well done, good and faithful servants! enter ye into the joy of your Lord." In surveying the present, the word greets your ear, " Speak to my people that they go forward." In surveying the future, you behold the glory of the Lord covering the earth, and you, too, may sing hosanna to the0 Highest. Truly, if our forefathers did the work of noble men, nobly you have done the work of God in a godlike spirit. 
This blessed war is working out the salvation of the Anglo-Saxon as well as of the African race. The eyes of the nation are being anointed with the eye-salve of the King of heaven, and thousand voices swell the anthem of praise and thanksgiving for what has been done; and lips, touched with living coals from God's altar, breathe the prayer," Let not thine hand spare, nor thine eye pity, till judgment be brought forth unto victory."
This war, the holiest ever waged, is emphatically God's war; and whether the nation will, or not. He will carry it on to its grand consummation, until every American enjoys the rights claimed for him in our Declaration of Independence. 
Will not some hero arise, ere this conflict closes, on whom will rest the mantle of Toussaint L'Ouverture? Earnestly do I pray that, from among the ranks of our colored brethren, a savior may arise, who will make this war resplendent with his deeds of valor, courage, wisdom and fortitude; and who will be deservedly hailed as the final Deliverer of his people. 
Yours faithfully, SARAH M. GRIMKE.

FROM ARCHIBALD A. MCINTYRE.
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 1,1863. 
J. M. McKIM, ESQ.-DEAR SIR: A kind invitation was received to attend a meeting of your Society, to be held on the 3d and 4th inst. 
While I have to decline it because of pressing engagements, I cannot but express my full conviction in the complete success of a cause, which, like yours, is right in itself, and which is sought to be promoted by instrumentalities only which are sanctioned by law, morality and religion. Efforts made to reform, based on " the conviction and repentance " of the wrong-doer, must in the end succeed, particularly when that wrong-doer is a community. 
Very respectfully yours. 
ARCH.. A. MCINTYRE.

FROM JOSHUA COFFIN.
NEWBURY, Nov. 30th, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON: * * * What changes have taken place since December, 1833, and who then supposed that slavery would receive its death-blow by the hands of slavery itself? The first gun fired at Sumter was the death-knell of slavery. It will die hard, but die it must, although it may take a long time yet before the dying carcase is entirely dead, or buried beyond the hope of resurrection. As it is every day revealing its detestable character, it is every day changing the opinions of thousands, who have hitherto, like the priest and Levite, passed by on the other side, and been determined not to trouble themselves with such little things as the "nigger" question. 
I wish I could be with you in Philadelphia this week; but as I cannot be with you in the flesh, I shall be with you in the spirit. I wish you a successful meeting, and hope that ere another decade shall have passed, the triumph of anti-slavery principles will be complete, and that the whole continent will join in the jubilee song, having been " regenerated and disenthralled by the irresistible genius of universal emancipation," directed as it undoubtedly has 
<c06>
been by God's goodness," whose ways are not as our ways, and His thoughts as our thoughts." The counsels of Ahitbophel have been turned to foolishness, and, like him, the leaders of the rebellion are hanging themselves. Please give my respects to all who may inquire about me, whom I formerly knew in Philadelphia, especially those who signed the Declaration in 1833. I wish I could see them all, and hear the address, and shake hands with those whom you may see and hear. But enough.  Success to you, and may you and I live to see the consummation of our wishes! Yours truly,
JOSHUA COFFIN.

FROM JOHN M. LANGSTON.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Esq.: Dear Sir: Accept my thanks for your earnest and manly efforts in behalf of the American slave.  You and your noble coadjutors have brought our whole afford me vast pleasure to be in Philadelphia to-day to aid in commemorating the thirtieth Anniversary of the Americian Anti-Salvery Society. I health prevents my being with you to-morrow.  Up to last evening, I had hoped to be with you.  I can now only thank you for your kind invitation to be present, and thank for what, under God, you have been able to do for the American people and the American slave.  For in laboring to secure the emancipation of the slave, you achieved the enfranchisement of all the people. And let all the people be grateful!. 
JOHN M. LANGSTON.

FROM GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
NORTH SHORE, Staten Island, N. Y., Nov., 1863. 
DEAR SIR: I have the invitation to your meetings on the 3d and 4th of Dec., but my engagements will take me far away at that time. I do not wonder that you congratulate yourselves, for History will record that the Abolitionists were the vanguard of American liberty, not only in asserting the natural right of every man to personal freedom, but in maintaining through the fiery tempest of hostile public opinion the right of free speech, which is the corner-stone of a Republic of all the people like ours. 
I rejoice with you that we have lived to the day in which the people of this country plainly see that Liberty, and Liberty alone, is Union. 
Faithfully yours, 
GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.

LORD BROGUHAM AND AMERICAN SLAVERY
 From the Scotsman, Nov. 11, 1863.
Our townswoman, Miss Wigham, having sent Lord Brougham a copy of her recent volume regarding American Slavery, his Lordship, in acknowledging its receipt, after thanking Miss Wigham for her book, and stating that he has " read it with great attention and interest," proceeds:-" There can, however, be no use by either speeches or pamphlets in declaring against slavery. Every one in this country is agreed that it is a grievous shame and curse to the Confederates, and that the sooner it ceases to disgrace and afflict them, the better both for them and for humanity. But, then, it must be extinguished not by war and violence, but by peaceable means, as ours was in the West Indies. I don't believe that the Southern States separated for the sake of slavery, or that the Northern made war for emancipation. The Confederates made war for independence, the Federals for the Union; and I think it quite certain that if they succeed in restoring the Union, their success will have no tendency to extinguish slavery, though I heartily wish it were otherwise. As for the offence they take with us for having acknowledged the Confederates as belligerents, we only did what they have themselves done throughout the whole of this cruel war."
To the Editor of the Scotsman:- 
SIR,-As I have unexpectedly furnished an occasion* for Lord Brougham's reiteration of his opinion on the American question, I think I may be allowed to make a few remarks, which otherwise I should scarcely have presumed to do, on an opinion emanating from one so justly venerated as Lord Brougham, whose noble inspiriting sentiments have, during past years of struggle, furnished household words in the anti-slavery cause. 
Lord Brougham rightly characterizes Southern slavery as " a grievous shame and curse to the Confederates," and adds, " the sooner it ceases to afflict and disgrace them, the better both for them and for humanity." He then suggests that slavery must be extinguished only by peaceful means, as ours was in the West Indies, and adds:-" I don't believe the Southern States separated for the sake of slavery, or that the Northern made war for emancipation," and reiterates, " the Confederates made war for independence, the Federals for the Union;" and it is on this statement that I should like to make a few remarks. 
The peaceful method of abolishing slavery was most devoutly wished for and advocated by the Abolitionists, but the nation of America would not listen to any overtures for emancipation while yet there was time to adopt them without bloodshed. They hardened their hearts, and " would not let the people go;" and it required many years of effort before even the North reached the point of refusing the further extension of slavery, and of protecting the yet unformed States in the vast territories of the Union from being disgraced and afflicted by this grievous " curse and shame." When at length the North had reached this point, and had pledged themselves by the election of a Republican President to the non-extension of slavery, the South, well understanding the anti-slavery significance of the determination, at once resented it. The South had, almost without interruption, controlled the National Government ever since the formation of the Republic, and the North had hitherto yielded every demand of the slave power. This first step of independence could not be endured; so the Southern States, with the exception of five, seceded, and shortly afterwards declared war on the Northern States. They never professed to have any other object for occasion and war than to secure the power to extend and perpetuate the “curse and shame " of slavery. They knew that if it was shut in to its present limits, it must before long die out, so they wished for fresh territories on which to extend it. 
It must be recollected that no attempt was made on the part of the North to interfere with slavery in the Southern States, or to do anything in opposition to the " peculiar institution," except to restrict it. The broad, unmistakable, and offensive way in which the Southern organs have stated their object and principles must be too familiar to require repetition, In order to prove that (as Vice President Stephens
*The little book which Lord Brougham mentions was not so  much a declaration against slavery, as a narrative of the anti-slavery cause in America.

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitant thereof."
"I 1ay this down as the law of nations. I say that millitary authority takes for the time, the place of all muncipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from oits being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EXANICIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States becomes the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the was powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERPERED WITH, from
a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country is actually in war whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrentction, Congress has power to carry on the war, and and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAXES THE PLACE OF THEN. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory"-J.Q.ADAMS. 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
says) “this (African slavery) was the immediate cause of the late rupture and present revolution.” I think, therefore, we cannot assume, in defense of the South, that it commenced this cruel war for independence, unless we understand that word to 
mean the right of irresponsible power to extend, in order to its perpetuation, the shame and curse of slavery; irresponsible power to buy, sell, oppress, and degrade their fellow-immortals in any State of the American Union-in short, to adopt and contend for the “ wild and guilty phantasm, that man can hold property in man.” 
As regards the North, although there are undoubtedly thousands of individual exceptions, men who are earnestly and honestly fighting for liberty, the Federals have never, I believe, professed to have taken up arms for emancipation; so they cannot justly be taunted with hypocrisy. Nevertheless, emancipation has been forced upon them, and it has already taken place to a very large extent: the anti-slavery idea m spreading rapidly; and I feel convinced that, whether the Union be restored or not, the days of slavery are numbered. And surely it must be of some” use “to have the weight of British influence steadily thrown into the anti-slavery scale, to the encouragement of all steps towards emancipation, and to the discouragement of all efforts for the extension and perpetuation of the curse of slavery. It seems to me that British influence, thus exercised, would not only hasten abolition, but it would tend to the speedy and decisive termination of this fearful war; for up less slavery be abolished, I fear the restoration of peace, greatly as it is to be longed for, will involve a compromise with sin, and will, therefore, prove to be only a hollow and deceitful truce
I am, &c. ELIZA WIGHAM.
I wish all who take interest in this question would look into Fanny Kimble’s diary of her life in the South, in order that they may understand what sort of a system it is for which the South is so valiantly fighting; and I think the readers of even a few pages could never again, without a deep blush of shame, defend the supporters of such a system

JUSTIOE TO THE FREEDMEN.
LETTER FROM DR. SAMUEL G. HOWE,
A Member of the American Freedmen’s Inquiry Commission, to Hon. T. D. eliot. dear sir:-I am glad to learn that the Commit tee on the Freedmen’s Bureau will probably report in favor of a plan substantially the same as that recommended in the Preliminary Report of the Freedmen’s Inquiry Commission.
But whatever plan is adopted should be founded on the principle that the negro, once emancipated, is as free as a white man; free to go or to come; free to accept or reject employment; free to work or to starve.
We have no right to restrain him under whatever pretext; and if we had, it would be unwise to do so. Nevertheless, there is a strong purpose now exerted in favor of a prolongation of slavery, or servitude disguised under the name of protection.
It has been so in all time. Power is sweet; and nations and individuals hold on to it desperately. At every attempt of people at self-government, we have been told-” They are not yet prepared for freedom;” meantime, all measures for being prepared are with held, lest they should become independent. This is the ground we are practically taking towards the negroes.
Now I maintain that the negroes are as well prepared to take rare of themselves, as are the poor whites of the South. If we are to devise a system to protect any class, let it be for their protection.
Look at the twenty thousand blacks in Canada! In spite of cold, in spite of prejudice, in spite of utter lack of capital to start upon, they have been, and are, supporting themselves. They clear up the for eat, cultivate farms, build houses; they do jobs about cities; they shave, and wait, and tend, and keep out of prison and poor-house, as much as any other laboring class.
Look at a quarter million of free colored people in the Free States! They support themselves in face of bitter prejudice and partial disfranchisement.
Look at over a quarter million of free blacks in the Slave States! Do they not take care of themselves?
Twelve and a half percent, of the industrial population of Maryland are free blacks. They take care of themselves; and contribute their full share to the prosperity of the State.
In Kentucky, in Louisiana, and elsewhere, free blacks not only take care of themselves, but gather property, and thee whites tax that property.
In none of the places mentioned do the colored people receive so much assistance from public charity, in proportion to their numbers, as whites do.
Still, the cry is kept up by those who do not believe the negro can take care of himself,-and by those who do not want him to take care of himself,-that there must be a system of guardianship and restraint.
The slaveholders do not believe any such non sense. Whenever it is for their interest to employ the negro in such way as leaves him to take care of himself, and to transact business, they do it. Yea, in thousands and thousands of cases, they thrust the negro to lead gangs of field hands; to manage small farms; to run mills: to go to market with garden stuffs; to drive and sell droves of hogs or cattle; to sail small craft on rivers, and even to run steam engines. In these and in various other ways, they show their faith in the negro’s capacity for business and self-support.
Especially do those slave-owners believe in the negro’s capacity, who lease to men and to women the privilege of using their own muscles and brain, at so many dollars a month, and never ask or care what he or she does, so that the rent in paid punctually, as it almost invariably is. They find this it a good way of getting an income, as it saves a deal of whip-cord and blasphemy.
Again, it is demonstrable that whenever poor whites and negroes have come within our military lines for protection, the whites have needed and received far more assistance than blacks. The whites eat full rations, and do no work; the black eat little, and work much.
Nay, it is demonstrable that if negroes had been paid for their service rendered to Government, at the same rate at whites are paid for like service, they would have been able to support all their women and children. So that, in reality, while the poor whites have cost our Government much, the blacks have cost nothing.
A strict system of registration would have identified families: and the natural laws of affinity and affection would have kept up the relationship between them. By a strict system of registration and allotment, by fair play and cash pay, we should have avoided great confusion, and prevented some of the present suffering.
Not only have we failed to do this, but we are afraid to rely upon plain principles; we violate the laws of demand and supply, and are in danger of making bad worse.
In some parts we saw officers work white men, free negroes and slaves, in the same gangs. The rule is to pay a black man one-third to one-half less for the same work done just as well as yon pay a white man. For instance, the wages of a white teamster are $30 a month; of a black one, if a slave, $25 paid to his master, but if a contraband, $10 a month paid to himself! The sight of a rich government allowing only one-third the worth of his work to a poor negro who had fled to it for protection is enough to make an angel weep; but he might be pardoned forswearing at the sight of that government paying into a slave owner’s hand the wages of grown men who stand ragged and barefoot, and beg in vain for part of the money, since master will not clothe them!
There is chapter and verse for scenes like this.
Nay, we contravene the plainest laws of supply and demand. I have lately been along the Ohio, on both banks. I have been inquiring about the extent to which the demand for labor would absorb the surplus funds, south of the river. 1 find a quick demand for men, women and children; ten thousand would have been disposed of south of the Ohio; five or six thousand in Kansas; multitudes elsewhere. On the south side I found the multitudes, seeking employment, but there stood the United States, like a flaming sword, forbidding the supply to go to the demand!
No ferryman dares to carry a negro out of Kentucky without a pass. The officers will not give one, last, by chance, some “runaway nigger” might impose upon them, by making them believe he was a free man. This is not the fault of the War Department, nor of any particular Department, but the natural consequence of the general spirit and feeling which pervade the community respecting the negroes. People do not seem to understand that eman-
<c02>
citation, while giving the negro freedom, gives him also mastery of himself.
There is a lurking suspicion that it may become necessary to give to the slaveholders some control of their old chattels; and hence, that it is not prudent just now to take any measure a which will render a return to the old system under a modified form impossible.
This feeling pervades the corps of government employees, and gives color to all their doings.
But this is only a temporary disturbance; for by the sure operation of commercial and ethnological laws, the negroes, under freedom, will be drawn south of the forty-ninth parallel. You cannot cultivate colored men to advantage further north than the ivy will grow.
But look down into the apartment of the Lower Mississippi! Are they not protracting the life of slavery there by a system which differs very little from it?
Protection! God help the blacks down there, if the white men are to impose their protection upon him, whether be wants it or not! He will soon exclaim, as did the Peruvian to the Spaniard,-” Protection! such protection vultures give to lambs-covering and devouring them!”
They will gradually inaugurate their system of servitude nicely disguised under the garb of protection -that is, require the negro to work for them whether he will or not; pay him seven dollars a month, [half what be is worth,] and that half in kind—at their own prices! Ana when it is all arranged, will no the old masters come back and take possession, and thank the Yankees for having got up a system which pays far better than the old one, and saves reputation, to say nothing of wear and tear of conscience
But I want to ask your attention to the necessity of adopting some general system for putting the negroes upon their own legs, and defending them against those who will strive to push them down, and keep them down; and I would suggest something like this:-
First, as regards all negroes in whatever department of the U. S. service, a system of registration and allotment be immediately adopted, and rigidly enforced; and that all families of such employees receive that allotment, and nothing more. It would have been comparatively easy to do this before; it is difficult to do it now, as it is difficult to put down rebellion.
Then, by a proper system, give the employees and all other negroes facilities for obtaining land at a low price on credit, and to place their families upon them as soon as possible.
Second, that as a condition of Readmission to the union, each State shall be required to give some guaranty that it will make suitable provision for the employment and support of emancipated negroes who seek such aid. That said provision shall be met as Christian and enlightened people ought to make for all their poor.
That the project shall include facilities for procuring the fee of land for small farms, by negro settlers, inalienable by them for-years.
That this project shall be submitted to the U. S. Government, and by it approved.
Something like the following is suggested: that in all Districts in which the negroes form less than-per cent, of the whole population, [whether permanent settlers or driven there by the events of the war,] no special arrangement is needed. Many may safely be left to their own control, provide the legal disabilities on account of color are not a lowed to exist.
That in other Districts, where the negroes exceed -per cent. of the population [permanent or transient,] some special arrangement must be made for their provisional defense, and for their temporary aid.
If such District is held by military possession, then the Plan of the Freedmen’s Inquiry Commission, submitted to the Secretary of War, and providing reprovision by Superintendent, with a central Bureau at Washington, to be adopted. In addition, measures to be taken for settling as many o the freedmen upon small sections of land to be paid for by themselves.
In Districts not so held,-1st, some facilities should be granted to freedmen for settling upon small farms, and acquiring the fee thereof, without privilege of alienating it for-years.
2d. In all the Counties or Districts, Poor’s Farms, to be established and maintained; and-per cent. of the expense thereof to be borne by the L. S. and-per cent, by local taxation.
All negroes, like all white persons who have visible means of support, to be left unmolested; but all medicants and vagrants to be taken to such farms, and worked there.
Such farms to be made nearly self-supporting, but to be so managed as by hard fare, and hard work, to rebel rather than to attract. No person to be there restrained of liberty. Such establishments to be subject to inspection by Marshals, or other U. S. officials.
Strict administration of justice to be insisted upon everywhere; and the negro, while secured in his rights, made amenable to the law. In all other respects, if he can keep out of work-house and prison, he is to be left as free as the white man to the high privilege of doing well, and having its rewards, or of sinning, suffering and repenting. Your obd’t servant,
SAM’L G. HOWE. hon. T. D. eliot, Chairman, &c.
The Piberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 15,1864.
ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MASSACHU-SETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The third-first annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Boston, at the TREMONT TEMPLE, on Thursday, Jan. 28th, (day and evening,) commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M.
Let the members and friends of the Society assemble at the approaching annual meeting in even unusual numbers, and, bating no jot of heart or hope, address themselves to the COMPLETION of the work to which they have been so long consecrated. Come one, come all. Let not Massachusetts alone, but all parts of the land be represented.
As hitherto, an additional attraction will be presented in the holding of the national anti-slavery subscription festival, at the MUSIC hall, on the evening (Wednesday, January 27th,) preceding the opening session of the Society. wendell phillips, Esq., and others are expected to speak at the Thursday morning’s meeting. By order of the Board of Managers,
EDMUND QUINCY, President. robert F. wallcut, Recording Secretary.
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was formed at a period when the early anti-slavery feeling o the country had been, seemingly, silenced and quenched almost beyond hope of revival-and when all effective anti-slavery action had well-nigh ceased. “Darkness covered the land, and gross darkness the people.” In that hour a few men and women, faithful among the faithless found, associated themselves together for the sole and simple purpose of awakening a public sentiment and conscience, which might dislodge slavery from its deeply-imbedded foundations, and cast it out of the land. To effect this, they were literally destitute of all needful means, weapons and agencies, as men account these. They had the Truth only, and Justice, and the sure Word of God: yes, one thing more they had-faith in these as the mightiest of all powers; and in that faith, counted as weakness and fanaticism by the mass around them, and derided by the so-called Church, (with rare exceptions,) they gave themselves to their work; a work which, could they have foreseen its magnitude and difficulties, and the long and arduous tasks it would lay upon them, would have appalled the stoutest heart.
Thirty years have passed-thirty years of steady and unflinching warfare upon Slavery, and upon all who came to its rescue and defence. The seed sown in darkness took root, and has brought forth much fruit. A mighty and almost miraculous change has
<c03>
been wrought in this nation. President Lincoln’s Proclamation of Jan. 1,1863, in the brand it puts upon slavery, is a virtual {however undersigned} justification of the work of the American Abolitionists. And that edict, conferring freedom upon over Three Millions of American Slaves, is an exceeding great reward for all their labors.
But the Anti-Slavery work is not yet accomplished. Slavery still lives, and has many friends and servants equally determined and unprincipled, both North and South. Never was the need of every moral influence, of the sternest preaching of justice and righteousness, of the boldest rebuke of the spirit of Slavery and Tyranny, greater than now. Until Slavery dies and disappears, no true and faithful anti-slavery person can desire to cease from his distinctive work.-s. M., JR.
THIRD DECADE PAMPHLET.
At the recent Third Decade Meeting of the American anti-slavery society in Philadelphia, a Committee was appointed to superintend the publication of the Proceedings of that meeting, with any other interesting matter appertaining thereto, in a pamphlet form. That Committee would now state that the funds raised at said meeting, after defraying the local expenses and the cost of reporting, afford but a trifling balance towards the pamphlet. It is accordingly necessary to request the members and friends of the Society, and all persons interested in the publication of the pamphlet, to inform the Committee the number of copies they will individually subscribe for. This will enable the Committee to decide whether or not to proceed with the pamphlet-edition. Subscriptions may be sent to Samuel may, Jr., 221 Washington street, Boston; and it is earnestly requested that early responses may be made. The exact price per copy cannot now be fixed, but subscribers will have their copies at actual cost
The Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society begins the list with a subscription for two hundred and fifty copies.

IMPORTANT PETITION TO CONGRESS.
The following is the form of Petition adopted in compliance with vote of the late Thirtieth Anniversary Meeting at Philadelphia, and which has been approved by leading anti-slavery persons of various parties and denominations. The subject is one of vital moment; and the exigencies of the time point to this action as absolutely necessary to a speedy, honorable, and safe conclusion of the war. We ask our friends and readers, one and all, to interest themselves and those around them in the immediate and extensive circulation of this Petition; It is so brief that it may readily be copied at the head of a letter sheet, or printed copies may be obtained by applying to either of the anti-slavery offices in Philadelphia, (106 North Tenth street,) New York, (48 Beekman street,) or Boston, (221 Washington street.) Let the action be prompt and vigorous. Those who have already signed the Loyal Women’s Petition need not hesitate to sign this also, as the two, though in harmony, are not identical. Friends! let the word be Immediate! Not an hour is to be lost.
When the signing is completed, let the Petition be forwarded at once to some reliable member of Congress, or, if preferred, to one of the above-named offices, where it will receive prompt attention. To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled: The undersigned, citizens of-believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country.

MEN WOMEN.
TO THE WOMEN OF THE REPUBLIC.
Think not, in circulating the petition that your work will soon be forgotten. The hundreds of names gathered by you in wandering weary miles are not to be thrown away with waste paper-laid on the table, or under the table-but all are to be preserved in the national archives as a part of our history.
The names of the members of the “ Women’s Loyal National League,” the sums of money expended, the extensive correspondence with the women of the nation, will all be bound up in book form. Every one of the thousands of letters from loyal women, demanding freedom to all, will be preserved for the admiration of our children’s children.
This is not a movement for a day or an hour to end with the circulation of this petition; but the inauguration of the moral power of woman to be recognized in the politics of the nation. Our influence must be felt in the next Presidential campaign, in the re-construction of the new government. Remember, the right of petition is the only political right we have under the Constitution. By our zeal and earnestness in the use of that in this crisis of our destiny, let us prove ourselves worthy of more enlarged privileges and immunities in the new republic.
One hundred thousand names are already registered in our office, Room 20 Cooper Institute, New York. It takes nine hundred thousand more to complete the million. So work on, and thus secure for yourselves a glorious immortality. E. CADY STANTON, President Women’s Loyal National League. in school and out; or, the Conquest of Richard
Grant. A Story for Young People. By Oliver Optic, Author of “ The Boat Club,” “All Aboard,”
“Now or Never,” “Rich and Humble,” &c., &c.
Boston: Lee & Shepard. 1864.
The stories of Oliver Optic never fail to prove equally interesting and instructive. The “ young folks “ who have read “ Rich and Humble,” will find “ In School and Out “ to be its sequel; and they will be eager to know by what methods the heady, proud and insubordinate Richard Grant became reformed in his manners and morals, and a noble conqueror of his selfish propensities. Their parents must gratify them by purchasing this little volume, and thereby help them along in virtuous well-doing. The atlantic monthly for January, 1864. Tick-nor & Fields, Boston. Contents: Governor John Winthrop in Old England; The Planting of the Apple Tree; Ray; House and Home Papers 1.; Three Cantos of Dante’s “ Paradiso; “ External Appearance of Glaciers; Stephen Yarrow, a Christmas Story; Memories Positum; My Book; The Minister Plenipotentiary; The Beginning of the End; Reviews and Literary Notices; Recent American Publications.
harper’s monthly magazine. This number commences a new volume of this valuable work. We give the following table of contents:-
Scenes in the War of 1812.-VII. Closing Operations of the Army of the North; A Cruise among the Jungians; Pictures of the Japanese.-III. Institutions and Policy; Cap-and-Bells- Concluded; Women under Difficulties; The Leadman’s Song; Out of Nazareth; Three Hundred Thousand Strong; The Visit of the Christ-child; Drifting Apart; A Memory; The Small House at Allington; A Sacrifice Consumed; Our Artists; Crack Thorpe and Weeks; My Chemical Experiment; The Old Year and the New; In Hospital after Stone River; The Lost Treasure; Monthly Record of Current Events; Literary Notices; Editor’s Easy Chair; Editor’s Drawer; Fashions for January.
Our last letter from Mr. thompson apprises as that he does not expect to leave Liverpool until the 23d inst., instead of the 9th, as he had planned; so that his arrival in Boston cannot be expected before Feb. 6th or 7th. It will be a general source of regret that he cannot be at the Anti-Slavery Festival.
<c04>
THIRD DECADE OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
SPEECH OF AARON M. POV, ELL. aaron M. POWELL said: Instead of the third meeting of this kind which is celebrated by many who are present, it is the first one in my own experience. But it is to me as valuable, I apprehend, in my own appreciation, for the length of time in which I have been familiar with this movement, as to you who have labored longer, and in the more trying and darker periods of this straggle. I want to stand here a moment this morning, and to express personally my own sense of gratitude for having been permitted, even for ten years, to share somewhat in this contest. I cannot think even of the shorter period over which my own mind can pass in review, without the deepest gratitude in my own heart at having been permitted to labor in the anti-slavery cause, in that hour when we were obliged to walk by faith wholly, and not by sight occasionally. It is, I think, an occasion for the special gratitude of every Abolitionist, to hare been permitted to live in a time such as we have passed through, and such as we see at the present hour. I do not wish to dwell upon the past, or to indulge in any of the more recent reminiscences. I share the feeling which has been expressed this morning, that we are in the midst of great responsibilities. I think that we are surrounded by new and glorious opportunities for completing our labor. But the completion of it yet remains to be done. I am glad to stand here with the older members of the American Anti-Slavery Society, on this Thirtieth Anniversary, and to see in all the evidences of this hour, war-time as it is. the glorious moral method, which has been its method, vindicated as it is. We stand to-day vindicated in the wisdom of our position, and with every encouragement still to stand upon the platform of •absolute right and impartial justice, as the only correct basis of effort in grappling successively with oppression. As the New York Tribune of yesterday very truthfully remarked, there may be a connection between the meeting here thirty years ago and the Presidential administration of this period. So it remains as true to-day, that if we adhere to this plat form of absolute right and impartial justice, we shall see this work carried on, in a new Union in the future, which shall be a true Union, dedicated to impartial liberty.
But, my friends, if by any mistaken counsel, which I do nut believe is to prevail, if by any lack of conscience, which I trust there may not be, that type of politicians should prevail, represented not by the Hon-Senator upon our platform, but by the editor of the New York Times, there will be no Union such as we hope for. But I believe that the Henry J. Raymond school of politicians will not prevail, if there can be still impartial criticism of leading public men and public measures in the light of impartial justice and absolute right. I mention the New York Times, because, speaking for the body of the so-called Conservative Republicans, after Grant’s victory, which seemed to render it more certain that the North was to triumph, that paper says, in a column and a half editorial, that “masterly inactivity” is the policy now which should be pursued in regard to slavery. If that political counsel prevails, it is not statesmanship-it is a sham it is selfishness under the name of conservatism. If that doctrine be allowed to prevail, then these battles with tenfold increased horror, must in the future be fought over again. But if the American Anti-Slavery Society shall continue its labor earnestly and faithfully unto the end, then shall the line of political conduct based on the right find a moral support among the people, which will enable them to go forward, and reconstruct the Union upon the basis of liberty for all men throughout the land. I stand here this brief moment, then, that I may utter an exhortation to you who are the immediate members and friends of this Society, to continue your efforts, recognizing the new opportunities, and remembering our increased responsibility to make one last, best effort for the complete overthrow of the common enemy of the country, human slavery. If there is that fidelity which there ought to be; if there is an appreciation of the importance and significance of this hour, this transition period, there will be engrafted in the Constitution of the country the simple amendment, when slavery has been abolished by a general emancipation act, that there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any State or Territory of this Union, as explicit as the ancient prohibition in the Territories of the North-west.
At the outset of this rebellion, there was assembled at Washington a Peace Congress, supposed to contain the wisdom and statesmanship of the country, outside the Halls of Congress. And what was that wisdom in that hour? How wag it proposed that we should avert this great calamity of national war? Charles Francis Adams, to the disgrace of that noble name, offered a resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution, an amendment in the interest of slavery. And now, with three hundred thousand graves between us and slavery, with the industry and economy of the country disarranged, and with mourning and lamentation in every household in the land, in Heaven’s name, may we not end this conflict by amending the Constitution so that it may be as explicitly in the interest of liberty, as in the beginning it was proposed to make it in the interest of slavery? (Applause.)

SPEECH OF LUCRETIA MOTT.
lucretia mott said: When I see these young men and strong, coming forward with acknowledgements of their indebtedness to the cause, and rejoicing that they have been among its later advocates; and when I look around upon this platform, and see here a Lucy Stone, an Elizabeth Jones, and a Theodore Tilton, all laboring so effectively in the field, I feel that we older ones may indeed retire, and thank God that He who has blessed us all our lives long is now blessing the land; for there is surely no greater joy than to see these children walking in the anti-slavery truth.
I feared yesterday that we were dwelling too much upon the past. We were so deeply interested in the earliest movement of this Anti-Slavery Society, that we did not go back, except by mere incidental mention, to Benjamin Lay and Ralph Sanderford, who dwelt in caves and dens of the earth, of whom the world was not worthy, to Elias Hicks, Thomas Clark-son, and all those earlier laborers; we did not go back so far as that. I feared, however, that we were not enough leaving the things that were behind, and pressing forward toward those that were before. Although I did not entirely agree with our friend Foster, and was glad that he was answered as he was— for I have so large Hope that I always take encouraging views of things when I can-yet I felt that there were duties to be performed in our case in regard to freedmen as well as in regard to those still held as slaves in our land. It is of little consequence to us now what we have suffered in the past, what obloquy, reproach and contumely we have endured in our religious societies, and in other relations in society. We might, as women, dwell somewhat upon our own restrictions, as connected with this anti-slavery movement. When persons interested in the cause were invited to send delegates to the London Convention of 1840, and some of those delegates were women, it was found out in time for them to send forth a note declaring that women were not included in the term “persons,” but only men; and therefore when we arrived in London, we were excluded from the platform. Yet, let me say, in justice to the Abolitionists there, that we were treated with all courtesy, and with a good deal of flattery in lieu of our rights. But all those things we may pass by.
Last evening, when we were listening, some of us, to the eloquent and earnest appeals made by Henry Ward Beecher, we saw in the assemblage some who, a few years ago, rushed from their seats in the church because they could not bear to hear William Farness speak so plainly on the subject of slavery, and who warned friends from abroad that they must not come to our houses because we were Abolitionists. When Madame Pulsky and her friends came, and were asked to go with me on a visit to the penitentiary,
<c05>
and the carriage was at the door, word came that they were discouraged from coming because we were Abolitionists! When I see these men coming forward now, and joining in the applause for the thorough anti-slavery sentiments of Henry Ward Beecher and others, so far from blaming them, or setting them at naught, I would rather welcome them at this eleventh hour, and I hope they may receive their folly penny, if they work diligently to the end. I have felt sometimes, almost with the Apostle, willing to be accursed of my brethren. for this cause’s sake; but willing afterwards, when they come forward and mingle with us, to give them the right hand and invite them upon the platform, and glad to hear them if they have anything to say on the right side. When I saw these things last evening, I remembered the remark of Ray Potter, one of the signers of the Declaration, who, in a speech in Rhode Island said that Abolitionists had the great Temple of Liberty to rear, and must do all the rough and hard work. But when it was near the top, he said, then would come forth people to lay their little fingers upon it and say, “We have got it up! “ I could but remember this last evening, and also a few weeks ago, when I rejoiced to see the crowds listening to the words that proceeded out of the months of Phillips Brooks and others upon this very platform. When I heard some of the members of the Freedmen’s Association, in this meeting, talking about the objections that were met and answered again and again by the Abolitionists years ago, of the duties connected with the liberation of the slave which we must perform, I felt that, after all, we were hot unprofitable servants, and had not done as we ought to have done, in regard to doing away with that deep-rooted prejudice which is the concomitant of slavery, and which we know can never be removed while slavery exists. Some of us women can perhaps more fully sympathize with the slave because the pre-jaundice against him is somewhat akin to that against our sex; and we ought to have been more faithful than we have been, so that when we hear the words applied to us, “ Come, ye blessed of my Father,” we might be ready to ask, “ When saw we thee an hungered, or athirst, or in prison, and ministered onto thee?” It seems to me, therefore, as has been recommended here to-day, that we should keep on our armor. It may not be necessary to continue our operations in precisely the same way; but it will be necessary to multiply our periodicals, and scatter them, as we have done heretofore with good effect. When our friends were talking of what was done, and how we were received in the beginning, and when Church and State were, as our friend Garrison showed to clearly, arrayed against us, I remembered that then, just as in olden times, the common people heard us gladly. In truth, the original good heart of the people-excuse my theology-cannot resist the wisdom and the power with which truth speaks to their understanding; and therefore it was that we were gladly received among them. Many have come, and made their acknowledgments, that when we have, been mobbed, when Pennsylvania Hall was burned, they were in the wrong, that they were in the mob; but now they say, “ Whereas I was Mind, I now see, and I am willing now to be faithful to what I see.” Let us welcome them, hail them in their coming, and gladly receive them. And with all these coadjutors, the work will go on, emancipation will be proclaimed, and we may be just as confident and earnest as we were before our friend Foster reproved us. I think we may rejoice and take courage. I like a little addition to the rejoicing of good old Simeon: “ Now let test thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen of thy salvation;” for the whole salvation has not come, but we have seen of the salvation.
SPEECH OF REV. SAMUEL MAY, JR.
REV. SAMUEL MAY, JR., said,-Although I cannot claim to be one of the original members of this Society, I am happy to look back upon twenty-five years of connection with it, and upon such services as I have been able to render it. I should be sorry, therefore, to go away from Philadelphia without uttering one word in behalf of our good cause. Let me first reassure our good friend, S. S. Foster, on the subject of our future warfare upon slavery, as I have been in a position to know something of the minds of the different members of this Society. The number of those who believe that our work is done, or who entertain the least thought of laying down their arms, is so exceedingly small that they can be counted on the fingers of a single hand. Neither this Society, nor any one of its committees, has made any announcement affording ground for the least shadow of a suspicion that we mean to disband, or cease from our work while a single slave treads the soil of our native land. There is no such purpose. We have known too much of the privilege and blessing of being enlisted in this good cause ever to desert it while a single slave clanks his chains. I think, too, we understand our duty too well for this. I know there are a few, a very few, 
who think that we may cease our associated labors. I know of one eminent lady who thinks so. She is not with as to-day. She has ceased to cooperate with our Executive Committee, of which she was so long a member. She thinks that our work, as an associated body, is at an end; and it is not for us to condemn her for that opinion. There is no desertion of the anti-slavery cause on the part of Maria W. Chapman, whose name I mention, because it ought to be named in this Society with respect and honor. If she withdraws from us before we think our work is done, let us remember how much earlier than most of us she enlisted in its ranks; how early her clear foresight saw the danger; how eloquent were her pen and her voice in dispelling the cloud of darkness which over-shadowed the land; how clear was her faith; how brave was her heart And if she now leaves the Society, (not, I am sure, the anti-slavery work,) sooner than we think she should do, may we not suppose there may be given to her now a foresight of the future better and clearer than ours, such as she had thirty years ago, when she was among the first to take up this great cause, and when, with brave and unflinching heart, she faced that Boston mob and all its terrors? We can have no blame for such a servant of the cause as that. Nevertheless, adhering to our own convictions of duty, nearly every other member of the Society, and of its Committees and officers, maintains his ground. So I think our friend Foster need not be troubled.
As we look back through the last thirty years, perhaps the most painful object in our survey is the opposition which the anti-slavery cause has had to encounter from the churches of the land. With here and there an exception, the great body of religionists, who took upon themselves the name of Christ, and dared to organize in the name of him who ever went out to the lowliest and humblest and moat oppressed among men, threw themselves in the way of our Society and of its object. We will not stop to utter words of reproach to-day. The church could not see the palpable truth, that anti-slavery was the gospel for the day. It proved itself a blind leader of blind followers. And what a judge and divider over it did the anti-slavery cause become! Powerful ecclesiastical bodies and mighty religious associations fell asunder at its touch, and arrayed themselves in opposing ranks. The church fell upon this great rock of truth and justice, instead of building upon it, and was broken! But there were winnowed out of every sect those that knew this cause was Christ’s own cause in the land. Many, misled and deceived by raise-hearted leaders, entertained the belief that anti slavery was infidelity. I wish to express, therefore, the great satisfaction I felt this morning, when that eloquent speaker, Henry Ward Beecher, came among us in his kind, courteous, and fraternal spirit, and, from his position as a accredited preacher of the Christian religion, recognized upon this platform the great services this Society has “ rendered to patriotism, to religion, and to humanity.” That, in my mind, is a sufficient off-set to columns and pages of scurrilous denunciation. Not that we needed any such testimony from Mr. Beecher, or anybody else; not that it makes any difference to as what he or any one else says upon that
<c06>
point; but it neutralizes the objurgating and folder assertions of so many in the clerical profession. We know on what foundation we have built. We not the testimony, although we rejoice in it. And we are glad today to recognize, amidst other changes, some change in the churches and religious bodies of the land. No longer content with sending the gospel to distant lands, they are beginning to recognize the poor, the needy, and the ignorant freed slaves of our own land. The Christian bodies of to-day which receive the most hearty sympathy, and those that are ministering to the spiritnal and physical wants of the freed slaves of the country. Today the Sanitary Commission, and that other body which, not satisfied with the simple title of Sanitary Commission, takes upon itself the name of Christies Commission, go forward to bless the suffering soldier and the ignorant slave, to recognize the freedom of the colored man, and to meet him iman7’’ plantation, or in the hospital, with Christian kindness, instruction, and supplies. This is now recognized eminently Christian work by the churches; and here in may we be glad. in may we be glad. 
Upon one other point of my friend Foster’s remarks I wish to say a single word. Although I have as apologies to offer foe what has beaten wrong, timid, slow, doubting, in Mr. Lincoln, position of policy, yet, with Mr. Bur Leigh, I say, let us do justice; and when Mr. Foster said that the President had issued his great proclamation with an entire disregard and indifference for the rights of the slave or the colored man, and only for the benefit of the white man, it seems to me that he did the President great injustice. (Applause.) Did not Mr. Lincoln expressly say that he “sincerely believed” that great measure “to be us act of justice;” and did he not, upon this very ground, “invoke” for it “the considerate judgment of mass kind and the gracious favor of Almighty God”? Does not all that is best in the land respond to it as such, and is it not upon that basis that we all feel it most secure?
Mr. FOSTER. Did not the President declare to the civilized world that he would prefer to put down this rebellion without disturbing the power of slavery?
Mr. may. I think there was nothing about “preference,” but that he was determined to put down the rebellion; and, as President of the United States, he was bound so to act. henry C. Wright. Has the President of the United States, as President, any right to free a single slave purely as a matter of justice, or for his good? His only power, as President of the United States, is to free the slave as a military necessity (Applause.) the president.—The next speaker is one who has devoted a large portion of her life, since she came to years of intelligence, to the cause of the slave, There is no one, in the Old World or the New, who has labored more devotedly, more self-sacrificingly, or more wholly given all that she is and all that she has, to be put upon the altar of bleeding humanity, than Abby Kelley Foster.

SPEECH OF ABBY KELLEY FOSTER.
Abby Kelley y foster said: I agree with almost everything that has been said here this morning in relation to the present aspects of our cause and our present duty. Yet, there is one thing that remains for as to be reminded of. Although we all feel and know that, of necessity, there must have been an immense change in the public sentiment in consequence of the action of this Anti- Slavery Society, yet we should not be too confident as to the character of the wonderful change since the war commenced. Although brought up in the Orthodox Church, I do not believe exactly in the doctrine of instantaneous conversion. There is a fall from grace sometimes. I want to remind you that we had labored for thirty years previous to the terrible mobs of 1860. Do we remember the Fall of 1860, and the Winter of 1860 and 61? Do we remember that never was a more blood-thirsty mob organized in the city of Boston, than was organized in the Fall of 1860? charles C. bur Leigh, (interposing)-When the Devil came down in great wrath, because he knew he had but a short time. mars. foster.—Let us see whether he knew he had but a short time. Have we forgotten that blood-thirsty spirit which went from Boston, all along through Albany, on the line of the Central Railroad, through the entire West; which came down here into Pennsylvania, and pervaded every part of the North-the spirit of determination that free speech should utterly be crushed out?—a spirit that responded to what was proposed by the Peace Convention at Washington, viz: that we should give slavery free wane to run and be glorified through this country; that not with-standing our twenty-seven years of anti-slavery agitation, free speech should be crushed, as we knew it must be, if those peace resolutions had been accepted by the South? If they had been, we should truly have been crushed out, as we believed, at that period. Truly would free speech have been trampled under foot, and slavery would have been triumphant, but for the fact that the slaveholders would not accept the offer. No thanks to the governing masses of the North that that consummation of diabolism did not succeed. No, so! Did slavery think it had but a short time to live! No, it was blind. Sin is always blind. Satan never could see an inch before his nose. The North did not dream it; politicians did not dream it They believed that, notwithstanding the flood of light, they could crash us all down, and that slavery could have a larger lessee of life, not for its own sake, but to promote what they believed to be their pecuniary and political well-being. 
And now whence comes this sudden change? A Pentecost, forsooth! Is it by the pouring out of the Holy Ghost, or the pouring out of human blood? Is it because the great mass of the people have come to believe, and have received grace into their hearts? God knows I do not willingly stand here to bring scorn, opposition, contempt, or hatred upon those who have turned right-about-face, when I charge that it is not from the highest but from the lowest motives, and that therefore it is not from motives upon which we can rely, and which should make us jubilant. They have taken this course, as everybody know-the government takes it, and the commercial man takes it-because it is their only safety. Senator Wilson knows that the government proposed, and the Secretary of State issued letters of instruction to all our ministers plenipotentiary abroad, declaring that the rebellion would be put down without changing the status of an individual. It was the intention and determination to do so. We have not Secretary Seward to think, we have not President Lincoln to thank, we have not the government of the United States to thank, we have not the commercial men nor the churches to thank; but we have Jeff Davis and the terrible persistency of terrible persistency of the rebels to thank, that there has been this change of conduct in the North. It was a matter of military necessity, and therefore we have it. And having been induced by military necessity, for the sake of self-preservation, we cannot rely upon it. It has been said by a leading paper, that if the rebels should lay down their arms today, Secretary Seward-although his Gettysburg speech differed some what from his Auburn speech, because his language is the echo of public sentiment always, as far as it goes and be can get it, and the one was made before and the other after the last election in Pennsylvania, and the other States which were so doubtful—would gladly, and the government would gladly receive them back like the prodigal son, and kill for them the fatted calf, and Jeff Davis might be candidate for next President of the United States. [A voice—”Never.”] I trust he never will, because I trust that the rebels will still persist. I believe that they are given over to a reprobate mind, to believe a lie, and their damnation is sealed; and their damnation being sealed, the salvation of the country may be secured.
If in 1860 there could be such a spirit manifested throughout the length and breadth of the North, I do not believe that the change since that time has been anything more than the result of selfishness, and therefore unreliable. It is only by labor, incessant labor

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
in season and out of season, that we can create such a public sentiment as we need; and we never could have attained it, if success had attended the Union arms. I was thankful for Meade's disaster; as it is called-his withdrawal. I should be sorry to have too much success; we want just little enough to keep up the North to the sticking point, until it shall be obliged to go on, and abolish slavery for its own safety.
Our friend May says that he can count upon his fingers all those that think the mission of the Anti-Slavery Society is finished. I cannot do that. I know that one State Anti-Slavery Society was disbanded, ostensibly for other reasons, but from private conversation, I know that that society was abandoned, and their Anti-Slavery paper was put down because their leading and most self-sacrificing men thought that we had done our work in the anti-slavery cause. At the time that Fort Sumter was attacked, they declared that the mission of the anti-slavery cause was fulfilled, and that South Carolina was now doing the work we had formerly done. Count on my fingers? No. This house would not contain the numbers. Many of them have laid down their lives upon the battle-field. They thought the army was doing the work of the Anti-Slavery Society. From Pennsylvania hundreds of young men have gone to the battle-field with that conviction. And 1 know there are old men and elderly women, who have labored for thirty years, in the anti-slavery cause, who have that conviction, and therefore have laid down their arms.
Let us not, therefore, be too confident. Do not let us dwell too much on what has been done. Napoleon spoke a great truth, when, receiving the congratulations of his generals on their success in Russia, he said, “I want you to remember that nothing is done while anything remains to be done." St. Helena witnessed the truth of that sentiment. Nothing is done while anything remains to be done, so far as the death of American Slavery is concerned. Not that I believe that one iota of moral truth that has ever been uttered, any more than one atom of physical matter that has ever been created, can be lost. But so far as the accomplishment of the overthrow of slavery is concerned, were success to attend the Federal arms to-day, I feel confident that slavery would linger, God knows how long; and I am willing, therefore, to wait another ten years, if need be, in order to insure its destruction.
MR.GARRISON.-It seems to me that it is not at all our province to undertake to determine the motives by which the people are animated who have recently come into sympathy and co-operation with- us for the abolition of slavery; that it is not our province to accuse them of being hollow and hypocritical. Thank God that a general change has taken place, a most miraculous change! Whoever will come up now, and speak a word for freedom, I will hail as a friend and a brother, and will leave his motives to God, to whom alone he is responsible.
The meeting will now be addressed by Susan B. Anthony, Secretary of the Women's Loyal League.
 
SPEECH OF SUSAN B. ANTHONY. 
SUSAN B. ANTHONY said: Among the early lessons which I learned upon the abolition platform was this: That it was our distinctive work to educate the heart of the people of this nation into a full recognition of the humanity of the black man; that we were to so educate the people of the North that they would refuse to aid the government in holding the black man in chains; and I suppose that is precisely our work to-day. I remember that I had thought fugitive-slave work was very important and really anti-slavery; but I remember that one of the first lessons I had to learn was, that the fugitive slave would be aided by common philanthropy and benevolence, and that we, who called ourselves Radical Abolitionists, should give our attention, our thought, our efforts to the removal of the cause which compelled the fugitive, with bleeding feet, to cross the free States of the North to the British domain. It seems to me that the Sanitary Commission work, the Freedmen's Association, the Freedmen's Educational work, are to-day common charity, common benevolence, and the world will look after it. Here, in this third decade of the American Anti-Slavery Society, are assembled, from different parts of the free States, the representatives of a little handful of men and women over the country, who have for these thirty years been working to undermine the law of the nation which allows the holding of property in man. Precisely this is the work which I think we should abide by at this hour, leaving to the grand messes of the world, whose attention is now called to the question of liberty, to the question of saving this nation, to the question of emancipation even—leaving it to them to take care of the sick and wounded upon the battle-field. Let us go on with our primitive and fundamental work of removing the law which allow of the existence of slavery.
 That is the specific work to which the association of which I have been a member for the last six months (the Women's Loyal League,) has specially devoted itself. We aim to circulate throughout the entire North a petition, to be presented to the next Congress, asking that body to enact a law of Universal Emancipation. As women, we felt that it was especially fitting for us to work in this way, because as women we could have no voice at to what should be the basis of reconstruction of this government, save through the one right which the nation has left to us, the right of petition. Women can neither take the ballot nor the bullet to settle this question. Therefore, to us, the right to petition is the one sacred right which we ought not to neglect. I appeal to women here to-day to set themselves about this work when they shall re-turn to their homes; to circulate this emancipation petition, themselves, and to urge upon their neighbors and friends to engage in the work.
There are women here who would like to know something of the progress of this petition movement. I am sorry not to be able to make an enthusiastic and encouraging report; but the fact is, that wherever our petitions have been sent, from vastly too many places the responses have come back, ”What do you mean by asking us to circulate a petition for emancipation? Is not the work already done? Has not the President proclaimed freedom?" Is he not doing the work as fast as he can?" This has been the one great obstacle, the one great discouragement, which we have had to meet. Those who have occupied the highest places in our estimation have seemed the most indifferent, and to feel as if this was really an unnecessary work. Why should we, who have been at work for these long years, endeavoring to move slavery out of the way, when it has been the cause of all the national disasters and strife’s and discords which we have had, be afraid, in this last struggle, of doing too much?
The petitions to-day are being returned rapidly. Day before yesterday, our mail brought four or five thousand signatures. I only hope that the people, at this hour, will begin to feel that there is need of a public expression. There is an important question to come before the next Congress the question of reconstruction. I have no doubt that Senator Wilson himself would say to you this morning, if he were to speak, that the signatures of a million of men and women of the North, poured in upon Congress, will do much to encourage the members to stand fast by their principles. The Congress needs to know that the people, their constituencies, stand by them, and will demand of them the strictest faithfulness to freedom; and will not abide the slightest compromise of principle. It is for us to make them feel this.
THE PRESIDENT—We shall now hear from one who represents a phase of this struggle most significant of the success of our movement. We have burned the bridge behind us, and there is no more going backward. We have passed the Rubicon; and we are going on, conquering and to conquer. You may read the utter overthrow of slavery in the arming of such a mighty home of the colored population of our country at the present time. I have the pleasure of introducing to you Col. Wagner, of Camp William Penn.

<C02>
SPEECH OF COL. WAGNER.
MR. CHAIRMAN, AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: When I received, at the hands of the Chairman of your Business Committee, an invitation to attend your meeting, I feared that my duties at the camp would not permit me to be present. In coming here this morning, I did not expect to make a speech, and for two reasons: I am not able to make you a speech; and if I were, I would not assume to come here, and preach abolition doctrines to those who learned them many years ago. I am not a member of this Anti-Slavery Society, unless I may be permitted to style myself a believing member—one who has never joined your association, but who has, in some little measure, contributed towards the abolition of slavery. I have graduated in that school where those who study become most thorough going and emphatic Abolitionists. My Abolitionism is of but recent growth. When I entered the army, I determined to do what I could to crush this rebellion. I believed with hundreds of thousands of others, that it could be done without interfering with slavery. But I had been but a short time in the army when I saw that to crush this rebellion, it was necessary to eradicate slavery. I had been there but a little while before I met our erring brethren on the field of battle, and, falling into their hands wounded and a prisoner, I was able to obtain information which I never possessed before. It was then and there that the conviction forced itself upon me, that slavery must be abolished; and, friends and fellow-citizens, I tell you it will be abolished. (Applause.)
I am sorry that some of your members are quarreling with the means for accomplishing the ends for which you have labored so long and so faithfully. For my part, I am willing to accept the assistance and receive the help of all who are willing to accomplish this great end of freeing our country from what has been a curse to it, and has stained and defaced our escutcheon. I hope none of the members of this Society will think of laying down their armor; but if they do, I am sure there are those who are ready and anxious to work until not a slave remains on our soil. I do not suppose, for a moment, that one who has been a member of this association for thirty years will think now, when the work is so nearly accomplished, of withdrawing while yet so much remains to be done. A great deal remains to be done in the army, and a great deal by you who are at home. It is for you to uphold the hands of those who are administering the law at our Capital. Faithfully have you performed it in years past. I am confident that faithfully you will perform it, until the work for which you are associated shall be ended, and the rebellion shall be crushed.
I agree with you, Mr. Chairman, that one of the great means adopted by the government of this country, in crushing this rebellion, is the arming of the negro race. I believe that the arming of that class of our citizens will be the means of administering the last and crushing blow to slavery. At the South, we are arming those who have been made free by the Emancipation Proclamation of our President. We also arm those who are still held in bondage. In Maryland, in Delaware, in Kentucky, and in Tennessee, we are receiving those who are not included in that Proclamation into the armies of the United States, and thereby giving them freedom.
I am not one of those who hope without reason, but I am confident that this war is drawing to a close. I am equally confident that it will never end until the last slave is made free. There was a time when I imagined that the colored man was not equal to the white man in intelligence. But if he is not—I do not say that he is not—give him for a few generations the opportunities that you enjoy, and he will make himself what it was intended by God that he should be, a man, in all respects, such as we are. (Applause.) I look at this matter from a military stand-point. I look upon the soldiers of our own color, and upon those of a darker complexion. I have had some little experience with both; and my dispassionate opinion is, that the one is equal in every way to the other. The colored man makes as good a soldier as the white man. He obeys orders as promptly and as intelligently; he acquires the drill as perfectly, if not more so, than the white soldier. His valor he has proved on many a bloody field; his courage he has shown on the battle field and in the hospital. And the day will come when he will show those who now look down upon him with contempt and reproach, that he is a man, willing to do and to dare all that other men do and dare, in striking for freedom and for the right.
Mrs. MOTT inquired what had been the character of Camp William Penn, as to depredations upon property, as compared with camps of white soldiers.
Col. WAGNER.—I am pleased to be able to say, that no depredations of any kind have been committed by the soldiers of Camp William Penn. The friends of the colored soldiers have been pleasantly and agreeably surprised to find them, in this respect, far superior to white soldiers in a similar position. I have never yet seen a camp of white soldiers, where depredations were not committed; but at Camp William Penn there have been no depredations. It is not owing to a more rigid discipline there; we have no other rules than those that govern white camps. But the men seem to feel the dignity and responsibility of their position. (Applause.) They seem to realize that the world is looking at them, and watching the progress of their camps, and of those of their color who have taken upon themselves the duty of fighting for the country and the flag. They come to the camp, many of them ragged and dirty; but when they put on the uniform, they feel that they are men, and that they can hold up their heads among men. They are glad to see that even they have now an opportunity of doing something for our flag and for our nation. Say what you please about the degradation of the negro, it is all nonsense. Give him an opportunity of showing what he is, and he will show himself a man.
THE PRESIDENT.—I can bear the same testimony with regard to the conduct of the colored regiments at Reedville, in Massachusetts, where the 54th and 55th regiments were stationed. It is the universal testimony of the neighborhood and the whole region roundabout, that never before was there a regiment stationed in that neighborhood without depredations being committed; but since the colored regiments have been there, there have been no depredations.
(To be continued.)

GEORGE THOMPSON.
The following extract of a letter from Mr. Thompson to Mr. James N. Buffum, of Lynn, dated London, Dec. 10th, will interest our readers generally: "The policy of our government is decided—there will be no intervention. Copperheadism now can do but little harm. Even the Times now acknowledges that the abolition movement in the United States is 'a great fact,’ and that the radical party, who have gained immense ground since the late elections, are carrying all before them, and that every day, every hour, tolls the knell of the ‘ peculiar institution.’ I shall, therefore leave England in the belief that through my absence no injury will result to the anti-slavery cause.
"My sole business during the last three years has been to rekindle the anti-slavery feeling of this country, to bring out the true character of the anti-slavery movement, to unmask the designs of the rebels, to vindicate, as far as I could, the policy of the U. S. Government, to expose and denounce my own countrymen who gave aid and comfort to Southern traitors, and to bring public sentiment to act upon the Government of this country. We have now a vigilant, active, and energetic organization in almost every great town and city; and I may, therefore, be spared to mingle once more with my American fellow-laborers in the scene of their great conflict. I shall be delighted, as of yore, to take my place—time and circumstances permitting—by the side of the veterans who still live to carry on and complete the glorious work of Universal Emancipation. 
Yours most cordially,
GEO. THOMPSON.”

<C03>
THE THIRTIETH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
The Managers of the THIRTIETH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY hereby announce to its numerous friends and patrons, and to the friends of liberty and emancipation universally, that it will be held, as hitherto, in MUSIC HALL, Boston, on Wednesday evening, January 27,1864; and they confidently anticipate not only the same liberal patronage and thronged attendance that have hitherto been extended to it, but a cheering increase of both, in view of the wonderful change which has been wrought in public opinion, on the subject of slavery, since the rebellion broke out, adverse to the longer continuance of that” sum of all villanies."
The special object of this Anniversary has been, from year to year, to replenish the treasury of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and thus enable it to keep in operation those potent instrumentalities where by the public conscience has been aroused, the public understanding enlightened, and the public heart softened, in regard to the pitiable condition of the millions of bondmen and bondwomen whose deliverance, though manifestly approaching, yet remains to be consummated. To that Society is the whole country most deeply indebted for its unfaltering, courageous and inflexible opposition to slavery as a system, and to the slave power as inimical to every element of Democracy and Christianity, through a long period of years ; and it is now widely and magnanimously conceded that, if its solemn warnings, powerful appeals, and prophetic asseverations had been duly heeded, the present awful tragedy of rebellion and civil war might have been averted, and the abolition of slavery secured without violence or blood.
The American Anti-Slavery Society has recently celebrated, at Philadelphia, its THIRD DECADE, or thirtieth anniversary since its formation. The occasion was one of thrilling interest and stirring remembrance,—calling, in the retrospect of the past, for devout thanksgiving to the God of the oppressed for what had been effected by the power of His truth, and inspiring to new labors to secure the liberation of every slave in the land. While the great concourse of ”the tried and true”, who were present, were made jubilant by all the signs of the times, and while they expressed the confident hope that the monster Slavery had received its death-wound, through its treasonable revolt against the General Government, still, there was entire unanimity in the conviction that the Society should not think, for one moment, of retiring from the conflict until liberty is ”proclaimed throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof.”
Judge CONWAY, of Kansas, in a letter read on the occasion, regretting his absence, said—”I recognize in the American Anti-Slavery Society the primal agent in the regeneration of the American nation which is now in progress. The ultimate triumph of liberty is assured. Thank God, the future is ours! But this assurance should in no wise inspire us with indifference to the progress of events. We must not suppose that our part of the work is finished. The American Anti-Slavery Society must not think of retiring from the field for many a long day. The future is ours; but we must do the work necessary to perfect the results.”
On the same occasion, Hon. HENRY WILSON, of Massachusetts, in the course of an eloquent speech, said—
”By years, by epochs alone, can we measure the progressive advancement of a movement so grand and comprehensive as the anti-slavery movement in America. What mighty changes have been wrought in the condition of the anti-slavery cause in the United States since the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized by representatives of ten States in 1833! Then a few unknown and nameless men were its apostles; now the most accomplished intellects in America are its champions. Then a few proscribed and hunted followers rallied around its banners; now it has laid its grasp upon the conscience of the nation, and millions rally around the folds of its flag. Then not a statesman in America accepted its doctrines or advocated its measures; now it controls more than twenty States, has a majority in both houses of Congress, and the Chief Magistrate of the republic decrees the emancipation of three millions of men. Then every free State was against it; now Western Virginia, Delaware, Maryland and Missouri pronounce for the emancipation of their bondmen. Then the public press covered it with ridicule and contempt; now the most powerful journals in America are its organs, scattering its truths broadcast over all the land. Then the religious, benevolent and literary institutions of the land rebuked its doctrines and proscribed its advocates; now it shapes, moulds and fashions them at its pleasure. Then political organizations trampled disdainfully upon it; now it looks down in the pride of conscious power upon the wrecked political fragments that float at its feet. Then it was impotent and powerless; now it holds public men and political organizations in the hollow of its hand. Then the public voice sneered at and defied it; now it is master of America, and has only to be true to itself to bury slavery so deep that the hand of no returning despotism can reach it.

"Nevertheless, I say to you, and to the anti-slavery men of the United States, who have rejected the subtle policy of concession and compromise, who have repudiated the guilty delusion that the sin of slavery belongs to past generations and repentance to posterity, who have perpetually sounded into the ear of the nation the sin of oppression and the duty of repentance, go not home with the conviction that your work is done, but go home cheered by the assurance that the battle is going on for you; that you have stormed battery after battery, carried position after position; that you have only to be as true in the future as you have been in the past, to secure a permanent and enduring triumph. If the nation had accepted your doctrine of peaceful, legal, Christian action, this bloody war would never have come upon us. The crimes of two centuries have brought this terrible war upon us; but if this generation, upon whom God has laid His chastisements, will yet be true to liberty and humanity, peace will return again to bless this land, now rent and torn by civil strife. Then we shall heal the wounds of war, enlighten the dark intellect of the emancipated bondmen, and make our country the model Republic to which the Christian world shall turn with respect and admiration. When such are the convictions and assurances of distinguished public men, not connected with the American Anti-Slavery Society, in regard to the value and magnitude of the work it has accomplished, and the further need and importance of the Society in perfecting what remains to be done, surely it is no time to think of disbanding, or of cherishing the pleasing illusion that the victory is won, and therefore we may safely trust to events to shape our national destiny.
Ever since the rebellion broke out, this Society has been thoroughly in earnest in sustaining the Government, and all those measures of emancipation which President Lincoln and Congress have deemed it necessary to adopt to suppress the rebellion, and to give unity and stability to republican ideas, institutions and interests, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from the Lakes to the Gulf.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY, therefore, feel that they may properly call upon all loyal men and women as well as upon all those who reject with indignation the wild and guilty phantasy that man can bold property in man,”," in every part of the land, to contribute liberally to its funds on this occasion, and, as far as practicable, to be present at its commemoration at the place and time designated. Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to William I. Bow ditch, Esq., 18 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. These will be gratefully received, duly acknowledged, and faithfully expended. 
Mary May, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Ann Greene Phillips, Sarah H. Southwick,
Lydia D. Parker, Caroline R. Putnam, 
Louisa Loving, Mary Willey, 
Henrietta Sargent, Abby H. Stephenson,
 Sarah Show Russell, Sarah J. Nowell, 
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth Von Arnim, 
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp, 
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Abby Kelley Foster,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary E. Stearns,
Mattie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, Georgina Otis,
Elizabeth Gay, Katherine Earle Farnum,

<C04>
BE JUST, AND FEAR NOT.
A letter from Port Hudson to the New York Times gives a very interesting statement respecting the colored troops stationed in that vicinity, in substance as follows:—
The Corps d'Afrique was organized at Brashear City, about nine months ago. At that time, both officers and soldiers who came from the North to join that body were met with every sort of contempt and ridicule. So much has public opinion altered in regard to these men, that the Examining Board, of which Col. James C. Clark is President, has now upon its roll nine hundred applications for commissions in the thirty colored regiments now at Port Hudson. And some of the applicants are converted Democrats. 
In nearly every regiment of this corps is a successful school in operation, with an extra staff officer with the rank of Lieutenant, as instructor. In the 7th regment, all the non-commissioned officers, and nearly all the men are reading, and some are writing: this too, after only three weeks trial. Never were persons more eager to learn, and their good will is heartily encouraged by their officers. It is intended by General George L. Andrews, the commander of this corps, that every colored soldier in it shall know how to read, and every non-commissioned officer how to write, in the course of the coming spring. Nothing could be better work than this, whether for the elevation of the colored man, or for the overthrow of slavery and the rebellion.
Another letter from the same place and the same source gives a description of THE FIRST FREE CHRISTMAS kept by these soldiers at Port Hudson. At a meeting of the soldiers of the 7th regiment on that occasion, the following speech was made by one of the non-commissioned officers. He said:—
"Fellow Soldiers of the Sebenth Regiment:— I is mighty glad to enjoy dis portunity for enjoying disfust free Christmas in his world what we live in. A year ago, where was we? We was down in the dark land ob slavery. And now, where are we? We are free men and soldiers of de Unite States. And what have we to do? We have to fight de rebels, so dat we never more be slaves. When de day ob battle come, what will we do? I speak for me, and I say for myself, I go and fight de rebels till de last man die. Yes, under de flags what was presented to us from New York, we fight till de last man die; and if I be de last man, what will I do? I hold up de flags, and if I die, den I go to my grave consified for doing my duty. De President ob de United States is one great man what has done more good dan any oder man what ever was borned. I bless de Lord we fight for so good commander. I have no more to say now and evermore—Amen. 
Several speeches were made, and the above is a fair sample of them all.
When the non-commissioned officers had all spoken, the following resolutions were offered and passed with a shouting ”Yes" peculiar to these people:
Resolved, That this being our first free Christmas, we, the non-commissioned officers and soldiers of the Seventh regiment, Corps d'Afrique, do hereby express our deep sense of gratitude to that Divine Providence through whom we have been delivered from our cruel bondage, and brought to enjoy this liberty.
Resolved, That we owe a debt of gratitude to the Government of the United States which time and labor can never repay.
Resolved, That we cannot express in words our love for the President of the United States, as language is too weak to convey that estimation in which we hold him who has been to us what Moses was to Israel of old, and to justice and humanity so true and faithful a friend.
Resolved, That, as soldiers of the United States, we desire to be ever true, always ready to fight our enemies, and never willing to give up till they are crushed.
Resolved, That as soldiers of the Seventh regiment we will always strive to do honor to the flags presented to us by kind friends in New York.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be presented to the President of the United States, after being presented to the Colonel for approval.
This report agrees with the reports made from North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida, by those having military or civil supervision over the freed-men, respecting the good use these colored people are disposed to make of the opportunities which freedom offers them, and the right position they take, as far as they are allowed to choose, towards all the various classes with whom they come in contact. The military officers who have charge of the fighting portion of them declare these ex-slaves to equal the white troops in bravery in the field, in good discipline in the camp, in order and decorum everywhere. Those who have charge of the laboring portion of them affirm their readiness to do good service for fair wages, and their entire competence to “take care of themselves" when once they have a habitation, and the title to a bit of ground upon which they can raise food. All agree in testifying that they are eager to gain the power of reading and writing for themselves and their children, and that they already understand arithmetic enough for their small business transactions. Moreover, the whole current testimony agrees that they view their release from bondage primarily as the gift of God, and that, next after Him, they show a sense of grateful affection to the President of the United States, as the author of their deliverance. Finally, instead of showing that spirit of revenge against their old masters which the oppressions they have suffered would naturally excite, they desire no retaliation, and seek no conflict with them except in the capacity of soldiers against armed rebels. Their rights once restored, they seem perfectly willing to let bygones be bygones.
These things being so, will it be any less than contemptible and infamous for our Government to seek to perpetuate and legalize the stigma which slaveholders and their allies have brought against the race of colored Americans, whether the claim be that they have no rights that white men are bound to respect, or that their position under the laws of the land should differ at all from that of white men? We live in the period of” The Great Transition.” While so many things are changing, and while such unwanted opportunities exist to put down the wrong and put up the right, let every man demand that the true ground of justice be taken towards our dark fellow-countrymen. We do not urge the claim of reparation for the past, only of justice for the future. As a soldier, as a citizen, as an artisan, as a traveller, as a worshipper, let us see that our laws, at least, in the new order of things, shall oppose no barrier to the colored man's standing on the same level with other men. When the legal disabilities are removed, the matter of social equality will take care of itself. We owe it to justice, to religion, to the realization of free institutions, to gratitude, to honor, yes, even to decency, to allow the black man to stand, henceforth, equal with the rest of us before the law, both in Massachusetts and throughout the United States.—c. K. w.

OLD COLONY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
PLYMOUTH, (Mass.) Jan. 1, 1864.
At a meeting of the Old Colony (Plymouth county) Anti-Slavery Society, held this day in Plymouth, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That in the opinion of this Society, Congress should immediately abolish slavery throughout the United States, not only as the grand cause of the present rebellion, but as an institution fatal to the existence of Republican Government: and also take measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in every part of our common country. 
Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing Resolution be signed by the President and Secretary of this Society, and transmitted to some member of Congress from this Commonwealth, with a request that it be made known to that body in some fitting way, and at the earliest opportunity.
 Resolved, That we heartily approve of the Form of Petition to Congress now in circulation, and earnestly entreat those to whom Petitions are entrusted to make every exertion to procure the largest possible signature, and, at as early a period as may be, to forward then them to the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston.
BOURNS SPOONER, President. 
SAMUEL DYER, Sec’y.

<C05>
CAPE COD CONVENTION.
The Emancipation Convention for Cape Cod was held in Exchange Hall, at Harwich,  commencing on Saturday evening, January 2d, and continuing through the following Sunday, four sessions in all.
The Convention was organized by the choice of Ezekiel Thacher, of Barnstable, as President, Zebina H. Small, of Harwich, Vice President, Francis Hinckly, of Hyannis, Secretary. Finance Committee, J. H. Robbins and Ephraim Doane.
The principal speakers were Parker Pillsbury—he of the lion-heart—and E. H. Hey wood.
It is not necessary to speak of their performances, because their merits and their eloquence are known wherever freedom is prized, or its noble advocates can be heard. Suffice it to say, that the interest was constantly intensified on this occasion, and nobler aims and purposes on the part of the hearers must be the result.
The following resolutions were presented by Mr. Pillsbury, discussed by both speakers, and finally passed by a unanimous vote:—
1. Resolved, That the present desolating war is the natural and just retribution for the crimes and cruelties of slavery: the penalty, like the sin, being shared alike by both North and South.
2. Resolved, That we see no possible end to the war, but in the total abolition of slavery, as an act of justice, of repentance and righteousness; and in the total extinction of its grim shadow, “prejudice against color;" and in the elevation of the proscribed African race, to all the rights, privileges and prerogatives of freemen, under a genuine Republican government.
3. Resolved, That we deprecate the doctrine of “Military Necessity," as essentially atheistic, an impious but vain attempt to compromise away one of the plainest and most positive obligations ever imposed by the Divine on a human government.
4. Resolved, That we recommend petitioning Congress to the widest possible extent, to immediately abolish slavery throughout the United States, not only as the main cause of the present rebellion, but as an institution fatal to the existence of Republican government; and also to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit it in every part of our common country.
The Financial Committee made a collection of fifty dollars in aid of the cause, beyond expenses. 
The attendance of the Convention was excellent, considering the inclemency of the weather, and the result very gratifying to the tried friends of humanity. 
FRANCIS HINCKLY, Secretary.

Our columns are still occupied, to a large extent, with the proceedings of the memorable Decade Celebration at Philadelphia, in the report of which all our readers will take a lively interest. Two more numbers of the Liberator (occupying an entire number of each) will by necessary to complete the publication of what remains on hand. The letters on our first page will repay the most thorough perusal. That of JOHN JAY, Esq. is historically valuable. The spirit of his venerated father “still lives" by succession.

FORTRESS MONROE, Jan. 1. The colored inhabitants of Norfolk and vicinity celebrated to-day the first anniversary of their freedom, as given them under the President’s Emancipation Proclamation. Four regiments of colored troops, under command of Brig. Gen. Wild, took part in the exercises. There were present, as invited guests, Maj. Gen. Butler and staff, and Brig. Generals Heckman, Barnes, Getty and Ledlie, with their respective staffs.
The procession marched through all the principal streets of Norfolk, and upon arriving in the square fronting the cemetery, formed a hollow square, and speaking, music and Masonic exercises were the order of the day.
A beautiful flag was presented to the 2d North Carolina colored regiment, being a gift of the ladies of Washington, N. C.
Mrs. Major General Butler has been receiving calls from the officers of the garrison at this post, and their friends.
The 1st of January was celebrated by the colored people of Eastern North Carolina with imposing ceremonies at Beaufort. The United Societies of American Freedmen were present in full regalia, and the various organizations were largely represented. An eloquent oration was delivered by A. H. Galloway, and resolutions were passed in favor of negro suffrage in the reorganization of the State Government in North Carolina.

THE EMANCIPATION JUBILEE. The colored people of Worcester commemorated the first anniversary of the Proclamation at a social gathering in Wash-burn Hall, Jan. 1st. There was appropriate and congratulatory speaking by Dr. James F. Brown, Mr. Allen Walker, Rev. Merrill Richardson and others, and the intervals of the evening were satisfactorily varied with singing and refreshments. Young and old entered into the spirit of the occasion with great good feeling, and made it a source of happiness to them all. The proceeds of the evening were quite liberal from donation and sale, and will be forwarded to the freedmen under the charge of Rev. Superintendent James.

OBITUARY.
DIED—In South Danvers, Dec. 22, (killed instantly by the explosion of a steam boiler,) Mr. JOHN CUTLER, of Danversport, aged 50 years and 6 months.
And when he was gone, every one who knew him declared he was an honest man. What more need be said of him? for is it not true that ”of such (also) is the kingdom of heaven.’
And yet, no man was ever farther from the class who, as Dean Swift says, gain a universal reputation by answering yes, yes, to whoever accosts them. His was ever the Party of Freedom; and his also the Church of Humanity; and his fellowship was with every member of that church, irrespective of creeds or catechisms, of castes or complexions. His eye and ear were ever alive to suffering; and no pang did not touch his heart which reached his observation.
He was an Abolitionist more than thirty years, and if he did not patronize the Liberator all that time, the reason has nothing in it of reproach.
In feeble health all his life, he yet toiled daily at the hardest part of a most laborious calling; working often, doubtless, when a wealthier man, or one less scrupulous, would have kept his room. For intelligence, especially for a knowledge of history and the best poets, he had few superiors; none perhaps among the mechanics and workingmen in even as well read a neighborhood as was his own. The munificence which endowed the “Peabody Institute” may feel itself richly rewarded in supplying food to one such hungering and yet appreciating mind ; while Shakspeare and Milton, Hume and Macaulay, Prescott and Bancroft may well be proud of such a disciple.
He leaves a most devoted and affectionate wife to mourn a loss of its kind, not often equalled in the annals of human woe. 
But there is another, an invalid sister, helpless now for twenty-seven years, his constant care by day and charge by night, whose loss can never, never be repaired, below the skies. And yet, would any learn a lesson of true Christian resignation, nay, of holy heroism, of high and divine fortitude, let him go to her bedside. I went; and I returned, humbled indeed, but instructed as perhaps never before. Who, with such an example before him, needs other assurance that to the exalted soul, every day's strength is equal to every day's suffering?
The sudden departure of our noble friend has cast a dark shadow over a large community. But none doubt that the loss here is, to him, all that is great and glorious in immortality.— Com.
In Dorchester, Dec. 29, AARON NIXON, aged 81 years and 11 months; an upright man, very much respected. Mr. Nixon took a deep interest in the Temperance and Anti-Slavery movements. He was an active and efficient member of the Dorchester Anti-Slavery Society nearly thirty years ago. He was one of the first seven voters in town who left their old parties in 1840, and voted at favor of freedom. He lived to see that number increased till Dorchester was represented in the Legislature of this State by decidedly Anti-Slavery and Temperance men-. The last vote he cast was for Abraham Lincoln. At that time he was so affected with disease and the infirmities of age, that it required the assistance of three men to enable him to get in and out of the carriage. He lived with his wife (who survives him) more than fifty-five hears? B,

<C06>
UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION.-.—NEW HAMPSHIRE CAMPAIGN.
-Stephen—STEPHEN S. FOSTER will lecture in New Hampshire as follows:-
Gilmanton, Friday, Jan. 15.
Hill's Corner, Canterbury, Sunday, ” 17.
Also as above; A. T. Foss and W. A. JACKSON, (Jeff. Davis's coachman,) will lecture in
Charleston, Friday, Jan .15.
Springfield, Vt., Saturday, ” 16.
 “  sunday, “ 17.
Cornish, Monday, ” 18.
Cornish Flat, Tuesday, " 19.
Plainfield, Wednesday, " 20.
Lebanon, Thursday, " 21. 
Enfield, Friday, " 22.
Canaan, Saturday, " 23.
 “Sunday, “ 24. 
Grafton, Monday, " 25.

IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION-WH.WELLS BROWN will address the people on the above subject, as follows:-
Monson, Mass., Friday, Jan. 15.
Hanson, ” Sunday, " 17.
Pembroke,	” Monday, " 18.
Hanover,	” Tuesday, “ 19.

A COURSE OF LECTURES. Several eminent gentlemen are engaged to deliver a Course of Lectures in Joy Street Chapel, during the ensuing weeks. One lecture will be delivered a week consecutively by Rev. A. A. Miner, Rev. Mr. Manning, Rev. G Haven, Rev. Mr. Waterston &c. The next lecture will be given next Wednesday evening, commencing at half-past 7 o'clock, by Rev. A. A. Miner. Admittance 15 cents.

AN ANT1-SLAVERY CONVENTION will be held at the Universalist meeting-house in Hanson, on Sunday next, 17th inst., commencing at half-past 10 in the forenoon, and continuing through the day and evening. 
Wm. Wells Brown and Parker Pillsbury will, address the meeting. A general attendance is desired, especially in view of the momentous issues soon to be settled by the pen, the tongue, the government and the army of the nation.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at 
Syracuse, N. Y., Sunday, Jan. 17.
Borodino, “ Monday, " 18.
Thorn Hills, “ Tuesday, " 19.

MARRIED-—In Plymouth, 7th inst., by Rev. R. Tomlinson, Mr. WILLIAM E. B. RYDER, to Miss MARY G. HUNT, both of Charlestown, Mass. 
In Rochester, N. Y., Dec. 24, by Rev. Mr. Ottaway, Mr. NATHAN SPRAGUE to Miss ROSA, only daughter of Frederick Douglass, Esq. 
In Newport, R. I., Jan. 6, by Rev. Mr. Malcom, Mr. MARK RENIE DEMORTIE, to Miss HARRIET McCABE.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
HEAD-QUARTERS, BOSTON, December 8, 1863. GENERAL ORDER, No. 42.
In reply to many inquiries, the following Order is promulgated, being condensed from previous Proclamations and Orders:-
I. Veteran soldiers, (that is, discharged soldiers who have served at least nine months,) will receive from the United States Government the veteran bounty of $402,whether they enlist in any regiment or company now in the field, or in either of the following organizations, viz:—2d Regt,. of Heavy Artillery, Colonel Franklin ; the 56th Regt. of Infantry, (1st Veterans,) Colonel Griswold ; the 57th, (2d Veterans,) Colonel Bartlett; the 58th, (3d Veterans,) Colonel  Richmond; the 59th, (4th Veterans,.) Colonel Gould; or in the new Battalion of Cavalry now forming at Readville, to be attached to the 1st Regiment of Mass. Cavalry Volunteers, Colonel Sargent; or in the other new Battalion now recruiting at Readville, to form part of the 4th Mass. Cavalry Volunteers, Lieutenant-Colonel Arnold A. Rand. Such veterans will receive the bounty of $402 from the United States, and the full State bounty of Massachusetts, in the manner set forth in the Proclamation of the Governor, of November 18th ult.
II. All raw recruits (i.e.) those not veterans) will receive the full State bounty, who enlist in either of the organizations, new or old, now in the field, or now being raised. Such new recruits will not receive $302 from the United States, but instead thereof $100 only from the United States. If they join one of the old regiments or companies now in the field; or one of the Cavalry Battalions named above, they will receive $302 from the United States.
By Special Order of the Secretary of War, those two Cavalry Battalions are parts of old regiments now in the field.
New recruits have, however, the right to join any regiment or company not already full, whether new or old, if they choose to do so, and to accept the smaller United States bounty instead of the larger one.
III. To recapitulate. The United States does not pay recruits who are not Veterans of nine months’ service any bounty exceeding $100, unless they join one of the old organizations already in the field, including in the term ”old organizations," &c., the two Cavalry Battalions above mentioned.
It pays nine months’ Veterans joining any organization, new or old, $402 bounty.
It pays new recruits $302, who go into old organizations, including the two Cavalry Battalions aforesaid.
The Common wealth pays her full bounty to all classes of recruits, allowing them to join any regiment or company they please, if there is room to receive them.
IV. The United States officers do net offer any bounty to men of color, nor do they pay them the full wages of a soldier. They pay $10 per month, of which $3 may be in clothing.
This Commonwealth pays the full bounty of $325 in hand on being mustered into the United States service as a Massachusetts volunteer, to ALL soldiers, irrespective of color or extraction; or the soldier may, if he prefers it, receive $50 in advance, and monthly State pay, by way of bounty, $20 per month.
V. By Act of November 16, 1868, this commonwealth, out of its own Treasury, makes up to the 54th and 55th Massachusetts Volunteers the deficiency in their pay, and a paymaster has already gone to those regiments for the purpose of their payment.
VI. Volunteers now in the filed, authorized under orders from the War Department to re-enlist as Veteran Volunteers, and who do re-enlist in Massachusetts Volunteers, (see General Orders, Nos. 33 and 34, from these Headquarters,) receive the full bounty offered by the United States, and also the full bounty of Massachusetts, of $325 in advance, or of $50 in advance, and $20 per month, at their own election (see Governor's Proclamation of November 18, 1863, and General Orders, Nos. 32, 33 and 34.)
VII. Such Volunteers re-enlisting will be credited to their towns against present quotas under the last call. 
By order of His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW, Governor and Commander-in-Chief.
WILLIAM SCHOULER, Adjutant-General.

JUST PUBLISHED. STEPHENSS
STEPHENS'S 
ALBUM VARIETIES. 
THE SLAVE IN 1863.
A THRILLING SERIES OF THE GREAT EVIL
TWELVE ALBUM CARDS, splendidly lithographed in seven oil colors, by H. L. Stephens, comprising:
The Slave in the Cotton Field; The Christmas Week;
The Slave; The Parting; ”Bay Us, Too” The Lash;
Blow for Blow; In the Swamp; Free; The Union Lines;
The Soldier of the Republic; ”Make Way for Liberty”
Liberty"; Victory; He Died for Liberty.
Also, now ready, the Second Edition of

STEPHENS’S ALBUM DROLLERIES,
from original designs by H. L. Stephens. Twelve Cards each, in Oil Colors.
Part 1. Our Relations at Home and Abroad.
Part 2. The Adventures of a Conscript.
Two of the most amusing things ever published.
Price Fifty Cents each set. Sent free upon receipt of price. 
A very liberal discount to the trade.
Published by WM. A. STEPHENS, 400 Chestnut St., Philadelphia Jan.15.-4t

THE EMPIRE OF THE MOTHER
OVER
THE CHARACTER AND DESTINY OF THE BACK 
HNERYHENRY C. WRIGHT,
Author of ”Marriage and Parentage,” “The Unwelcome Child,”“,” A Kiss for a Blow,” “The Self-Abnegationist, or Earth’s True King and Queen.
The Health of Woman, the Hope of the World.
In considering man and his Destiny, I view him in three states: (1.) In that which intervenes between conception and birth; which I call the pre-natal<illegible> state; (2.) In that which intervenes between his birth and the death of his body; which I call his post actual state; (3.) and in that which begins at the death of the body;, and never ends, which I call his dismembered state; or his life within the veil.

Price, cloth, 50 cents; paper, 35 cents; postage, 8 cents for cloth, 4 cents for paper. For sale at the Office of the Banner of Light.
Jan. 15.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
LYRICS OF FREEDOM.
BY REV. THOMAS L. HARRIS.
III
Write the great truth above our Nation’s portals,
O’er Church and State, sublime;
In words that born as eyes of the Immortals,
“All Slavery is Crime!”
It is no slight offence, no venal error
Of brain, or heart, or hand:
It moves in one profound, infernal terror,
Smiting with plagues the land.
It is the death of Love, the hell of Reason-
A pest-house and a grave;
When Crime arose to work its first foul treason,
It coined the name of “slave.”
It is the sum of all things vile and evil-
An Idol, huge and grim;
Pride, Last, Unfaith hold in his courts their revel,
And sacrifice to him.
Far as its reign extends, whatever curses
Our suffering kind has place:
The Order of the World its rule reverses,
Corrupting all the race.
Wo far fee serf, denied his birthright human,
Freedom of hand and heart!
Wo for the child; the virgin, mother-woman,
Sold in the public mart!
For the pure bosom, outraged past redression-
Eyes that with anguish flow;
For soul, for sense, trampled in long oppression,
Wo, bitter, burning wo!
Ah! but God’s awful balances are even;
His justice turns the scale:
The levin-bolts of yon avenging Heaven
Pierce coats of hammered mail.
The Anarchs change, by fatal transformation,
At heart to wolves and swine;
Their empire falls in fiery desolation;
They drink God’s wrath for wine.
Wassaic, N.Y., Dec., 1863. 
For the Liberator.
THE STATUE OF FREEDOM. 
WASHNGTON, Dec. 2., 1863.
The colossal statue of “Freedom,” in bronze, by Clark Mills, modelled by Crawford, is to-day set upon the great tholus surmounting the dome of the Capitol.
During more than two years of our struggle, while the national cause seemed weak, she has patiently waited and watched below; now that victory crowns our advances, and the bond are being freed, she comes forward, her hand outstretched as if in guaranty of National Unity and Personal Freedom…. Was there a prophecy in that moment when the slave became the artist, and, with rare poetic justice, reconstructed the beautiful symbol of Freedom for America?-Correspondent N. Y. Tribune, Dec. 16. 
Aye, raise the statue high,
 And shout in chorus long, 
Till mountain, hill and vale 
e-echo back the song!
Place it where it may kiss
Each silvery-lined cloud,
And then renew your cheers-
Raise them high, long and loud.
She waited patiently 
Below, and watched the fight 
Which gave us victory,
Or Bondage’s cruel night. 
She rises now with joy,
With gladness hails the day 
That bursts our bonds, and fills 
Each traitor with dismay.
It was for eager gain 
The white man laid it by; 
But, soul-inspired, the slave 
Wishes that he may try.
The uncouth ponderous mass 
That black man’s arm did raise, 
Has, bolted by his hands, 
Called forth our nation’s praise. 
Success his efforts crowned, 
And, standing on the dome, 
To every bonded one 
“Freedom” cries, Welcome home! 
Then let us catch the strain, 
Shouting it o’er and o’er, 
Until the bondman’s cry 
On earth it heard no more; 
Till chains are cast away,
And mothers’ tears are dry, 
And all receive at birth 
The right of Liberty. 
MRS. P. R. WOODBURY.
THE THIRD DECADE. 
ON THE CELEBRATION OF THE ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, AT PHILADELPHIA, DECEMBER, 1863. 
They quiet left behind, 
And station they resigned, 
Pilgrims afar for Freedom and for Truth; 
At Duty’s high behests,
They stifled in their breasts
The eager longings of the heart of youth;
And theirs were scorn and shame,
Instead of love and fame,
Peril obscure, and pain that hath no name.
Theirs was the prophet’s woe-
Misfortune to foreknow,
Yet plead and warn in vain of judgment near:
The dreamer to awake,
The reveller’s cup to break,
Heralds of wrath and oracles of fear!
To mock with bitter sneer-
To chide with frown austere-
Harsh tasks for loving heart, unwilling seer!
Or soon or late, the world is fiercely just!
And this they knew, and stood serene, and saw
The years go by, and mock their trust
In Order and in Law.
They waited; but they wait no more. Behold!
The hour is of the wrath which they foretold.
O! who can doubt in such an hour as this,
For nations as for men there is a Nemesis?
They ask not tardy honors at your hands-
Statue, or song, or wreath!
They are avenged! The future shall requite,
Or, if not here, above! They sowed the seeds
Of thoughts ye reap to-day in glorious deeds:
Yet theirs were nobler, but for whom the night
Of evil dreams, in which ye lay so long,
Deaf to the warning voice, the awakening song,
Had deepening brought unknown to the sleep of death.
Yet listen to the voices deep,
Which could not flatter nor fawn
In the darkness of days agone:
This is the only boon they crave
Whose heavy eyelids long for sleep
Within the quiet grave.
Listen! ‘tis selfish wisdom which commands:
Nor mar with little hearts the labor of their hands!
Commonwealth.
DECEMBER THIRTY-FIRST.
BY CHARLES G. AMES.
The years, swift waves of an eternal sea,
Successive break on Time’s receding shore-
Now the subsiding sob of Sixty-Three,
And now the rising surge of Sixty-Four.
Here, the gay argosies of proud Success,
Rich-freighted, ride to the rejoicing land;
There, with unanswered signals of distress,
Dash Failure’s wretched wrecks upon the strand;
While o’er the Future’s blue and billowy years,
Borne under varying skies of gleam or gloom,
Press towards the Present fleets of hopes and fears-
Armadas, laden with our human doom.
O angry-voiced! O treasure-bringing Sea!
O happy Land! that draws its wealth from thee!
O wiser souls! that wait upon the shore,
And take whate’er thou bring’st, nor ask for more!
Albany, N. Y. -Christian Inquirer.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s Household.”
CHAPTER XV.
HINNA ON HER ROUNDS AGAIN
About this time, Hinna made another journey to visit Chainy. She found her alone at her cabin, for Kitty lived at overseer Rixby’s as one of Plomy Ann’s maids. She was deeply stricken, and talked much about her lost Trolo.
“I shouldn’t dons tried to got free,” said Chainy, “if ‘twant for my boy. I couldn’t dar to think my darlin’ should be a slave. An’ to we tried to git away, and now see bow ‘tis! He’s gone, an’ I’s all lone, an’ Bixby‘s got me now, an’ dere’s no help for’t.”
“Well,” replied Hinna, seeking to comfort her, “you’d orter to bless the Father for taking your boy to himself. There ‘s no tellin’ how much better off he is than if he ‘s a slave. The rich uns can’t make him traipse an’ tile fur ‘em now-they jest can’t do’t. He’s out of their reach, an’ ‘tis a good thing by my reck’nin’ so many of your people’s gwine that road so fast. The rich uns can’t tutch one on yon, when the Father says, ‘Child, come home!’ There aint no hinderin’ then-can’t stop you from gettin’ free. But these ere slaveholders ‘ll find they won’t be thanked for it, 1 reckon. Their bills ‘ll fall due by an’ bye, an’ they’ll find it mighty hard to come to settlement when God says. ‘Come to judgment!’“
“Oh, aint you chilly? “asked Chainy, getting up from her comfortable bed, and stirring open the embers on the hearth; “sit right here on this log in the corner, an’ git warm.”
Hinna took the seat pointed out, and Chainy sat beside her.
“It aint bein’ chilly I minds,” said Hinna. “Many an’ many’s the time IV got drippin’ with dew an’ fog an’ rain servin’ of your people, an’ I aint sorry nuther-I reckons I shall aluz be out nights tryin’ to do ‘em some good till I’se old an’ hauled up with rheumatism. An’ then the rich whites ‘ll let me die alone. I ain’t done ‘em no favors, an’ I don’t ask none.”
“But,” said Chainy, “you knows us poor slave people wouldn’t let you die ‘lone. We’d come an’ com. fort you, an’ tell over how much good you’d done us, an’ we’d pray de Father to blew you, an’ take you hum to lib wid de good angels.”
“It’s like yon would if you could,” replied Hinna, the tears coming into her eyes, “but there‘s them ‘mong you as can’t do the things they want to. Yon don’t have no time of your own to tend the sick an’ dyin’. But I didn’t traipse off here to spend my time a-talking like this ere. I cum to tote you hum with me, an’ nuss yon up like, an’ git ye free. I never undertakes to git folks free but I tries to git the matter through somehow. I don’t vally the trouble, an’ the wear an’ tear of the sick night air; I don’t mind all that; but I don’t like to be interfered with, an’ all my plans spiled, as they was with you an’ that are boy of yourn. I can’t stand that, noways; an’ now you muss jest come hum with me, an’ I’ll help you off when you gits well rested.”
“Don’t talk, don’t talk!” replied Chainy hopelessly, “it aint no arthly use. I’se dat broken down, I aint no heart to set out. No, I shan’t neber done try agin, I’se got nothin’ to live for but my poor Kitty, an’ I don’t vally stayin’ here, now my boy is gone.”
“Well, Kitty, that bright-eyed, smart little Kitty!” exclaimed Hinna, catching hold of the thought for a motive-lever, “she’s wuth livin’ for, I reckon. It’s your bounden duty to-git that child clar, that ‘tis! Why, jest think what a poor little slave she is, trod under Plumy Ann’s foot!“
“I knows it, I knows it,” said the dispirited woman, “but I shan’t durst eber try to git free agin. No, I neber shall try to git free agin; no, neber shall try ‘gin. Let de Father take us when de good time come-dat’s all de gettin’ free we shall ever hab.”
“I can git you free, if you will only let me,” replied Hinna courageously; “you come hum with me to-night-don’t you remember what a safe little room I’ve got for you under the trap-door?“
“Yis indeed!“ rejoined Chainy, “I can’t neber forgit dat room, an’ how good you was to us, an’ how my poor boy dat’s dead an’ gone”-and the bereaved woman’s sobs checked her words.
“Oh, never you mind your trouble,” said Hinna soothingly, “take my word for’t, all will be well yet. All you’ve got to do is to forget your troubles, an’ come with me.’ An’ day after tomorrow night I’ll take another tramp, an’ tote off Kitty, an’ she shall be sleepin’ sound by your side afore the next night is out-shan’t she, Bruno?” and the ferrywoman playfully patted her dog, who licked her hand in the affirmative.
“Oh, I can’t try no more,” answered Chainy, shaking her head, “I’m so broken at my heart! An’ dey’d be sure to beat my poor Kitty. I shan’t neber try ‘gin “; and the crushed slave woman buried her face in her hands, and sobbed in hopeless grief. Hinna looked at her with an expression of deep sympathy. She saw that she could not summon the resolution to attempt flight again; but her stout heart was by no means reconciled to such a conclusion.
“The curses of the Father be on ‘em as has done this mischief! “came bursting from her lips like hot lava. “If I could pray like you can, I’d pray Him to curve ‘em with jest such a broken-up heart, an’ jest such a wailed-up body; that’s jest what I’d pray! I’d pray Him to blast ‘em with his thunderbolts! I’d pray Him to send down upon ‘em the plagues that came upon Egypt-the darkness that can be felt; the frogs in the bed-chamber, and the bloody waters, and the destroying angel to kill ‘em as they slept, till they should vail in their sorrow as their friends, the Egyptians, wailed over their dead “; and she paced the room at a rapid rate, impelled by the most violent emotions. At length, becoming more calm, she tried to persuade Chainy to go to bed again.
“If you don’t go with me, you know you‘ll hafter work like a dog to-morrer, an’ you’ll need all the rest yon can git” Then, making the heap of straw as comfortable as she could, she led Chainy to it, and gently laid her down. The disappointed ferry-woman, still uttering maledictions, took her departure to while away the night on some other errand of mercy.
As the morning was breaking, she was still far from her ferry, and in the vicinity of Powhatan.
Passing listlessly through the fields dank with dew, she met Jaff, the poor white, who had been employed by overseer Rixby to help hunt Chainy and Trolo. Hinna recognized him, and was glad to meet some one to give vent to her excited feelings.
“Hello! you Jaff! “and the ragged, wretched white turned round with a craven air, as if he were afraid of Bis own drunken shadow. “It was mighty big business you was in,” she added, “the hut time I seed you.”
“I-I dun know wha-at ye mean,” stammered Jaff.
“Why, you’d no character to lose,” continued Hinna, ironically, “an’ so you goes down on all fours, wuss than a dog, to help hunt God’s poor.”
“Wall,” begun Jaff, apologetically seeking to hide his hands in his ragged pockets, “in course, I doezent wanter hunt niggers mor’n nothin’-but, fact is, I natter shift every-which way to git victuals an’ drink.”
“Yis, I reckon yer hafter shift someto git what yer wants,” replied Hinna; “whiskey’s you main livin’, aint it!”
“Yis, I reckon so.” replied the poor white, in a matter of course tone, “dun know what I’d do if ‘twant for whisky.”
“Well, then,” rejoined Hions, “I aint a bit sprized you ken go on all-four errands for rich folks
<c03>
as overseer Rixby. I should know you’d come to that, all burnt up with that filthy stuff.”
“You don’t think whiskey and grog aint good!” exclaimed Jaff; “wall, that are beats all! You is the fust critter I ever seed that run down the rally of them are lickers. Yis, you is-fact.”
“Well, Jaff, you haint seen all the world, not by jug-full,” replied Hinna-” you’re a Blagg; I uster see yon when yon was a little half-starved boy, looking more like a pertater-vine groin’ in the cellar than a human critter. I belonged to Blagg’s old fields myself, an’ I knows all I wants to of the misery of our poor people. They is more to be pitied than the slaves is; for when the whites is down, they don’t hare religion nor nothin’ to help ‘em, and they are stupider than the beasts. They don’t know enough to know what’s the matter with ‘em, an’ you couldn’t gi ‘em to stir from the pig-pens where they’re born more’n nothin’. They don’t know half so much, an’ they aint half so smart as slaves, an’ yet they aint actually in bondage as the slave is. I can’t see no hope for ‘em as long as the rich uns keeps slaves, an’ won’t hire poor whites to work for ‘em.”
“I shouldn’t wonder,” said Jaff more intelligently, as if a new thought had lighted up his dim brain, “I aluz know’d suthin’ was in a tangle, but never know’d what ‘twas.”
“Why,” replied Hinna, “the hull trouble is, the rich will keep slaves, an’ cheat the poor whites out of the work which belongs to ‘em; an’ that ‘a makes me so mad when I hears of poor whites turn in’ slave-ketchen’-they jest turn agin themselves.”
“I’ve got a little free from the Blaggs,” Hinna went on to say, “an’ I ken take care of myself, an’ aint beholden to nobody; but I wish they’d git pluck ‘nuff to scatter every-which-way, an’ see if there aint suthin’ for ‘em to do somewhares. I’d go off to the North, where the rich hires the poor, an’ where there aint no slaves, if I was a Blagg now.”
“Do they hire them thar?” asked Jaff wonderingly.
“Yis indeed!” said Binna, “an’ if our folks at ‘Blagg’s old Fields,’ wasn’t so burnt up with whiskey, I should have some hopes I could git some on ‘em to make tracks for the North, an’ git some business.”
“We couldn’t never walk there if we was to try,” replied Jaff dispiritedly. “Why, I reckon it’s right mart many thousand miles off!”
“Nonsense!” exclaimed Hinna, “it makes me so mad to hear folks say ‘can’t’.’ Why, don’t you know, if you only let drink alone, you can do anything you set out to?”
“No, I don’t!” rejoined Jaff in the manner of a settled conviction, “I can’t do nothin’ ‘tall without it! nothin’ ‘tall! I’ve tried over an’ offen when ‘twas scarce, ar’ it’s no use, I can’t do nothin’ without it. It’s my main livin’, an’ I’m sick when I can’t git it.”
“If you was a mind to, you could give it up,” said Hinna, “and it wouldn’t hurt you either. But what if it did make you sick, an’ kill you to give it up?  It’s killing you now! You mought as well die one way as tuther! An’ it’s a mighty sight better to die naturally in your censes than to pison yourself to death with whiskey, and die like a hog. I say, if you’d make up your mind to give up drinkin’, an’ set out for the North, detarmined to git there, as the slaves does, it’s my reck’nin’ you’d git there in good time, an’ find plenty of friends to help you, too! That’s my recknin’!”
“Has you been thar ter see?” eagerly asked Jaff. “No, not I,” replied Hinna, “an’ I don’t need to. Don’t I know it stan’s to reason that where they don’t hold slaves, there’s plenty of work an’ pay for the poor; an’ if they’ll jest let drinkin’ alone, an’ lay up their wages, they may get rich in their turn?”
“I can’t bleeve that are,” said Jaff shaking his head. “You’s foolin’ me, I knows. Never did har of poor whites gettin’ rich, ony by turnin’ slave trader, or some such, an’ I don’t bleeve it. We’se poor, an’ we’se got ter be poor all our days, an’ there ain’t no help for’t. If we gits’ nuff to eat an’ drink, we shall do wall. Clothes aint of much count, no ways.”
“I shouldn‘t think they was,” replied Hinna, “from the rig you’re in! Why don’t you wake up, an’ try to be as smart as the niggers you hunt, if nothin’ more? Come, I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll hire you to tend my ferry for a week, an’ if you do well, I’ll hire you longer. But, mind! you must do jest as I say in one thing.”
“Wall, what’s that?” asked Jaff.
“You can’t drink a drop of whiskey while you is with me!” replied Hinna. Jaff essayed to speak, but Hinna went on:-” You thinks your clothes won’t do, an’ so they won’t. But I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll buy you a suit, an’ start you in business, an’ if you don’t drink, you ken do well, an‘ lay up money to buy you a hum for old age.”
“Can’t I drink no whiskey?” asked Jaff.
“Not a drop!” replied Hinna, “that’s the only stoppin’ place; an’ if you can’t there, there’s no stop to yer! Not one drop while you work for me, remember!”
“Wall,” replied Jaff, “then I reckons I won’t hire. Can’t live without whiskey, no ways, an’ overseer Rixby ‘ll give me what I ken drink when I works for him;” and Jaff seemed to link he had chosen wisely.
“Ho, hum me!” sighed Hinna; “what prospect is there afore the poor whites? I’m most ashamed to have white blood in my veins when I think how boastin’ and cruel it is when it has a little money an’ power, an’ how good for nothin’ it is when it hasn’t. But perhaps it’s better where there aint no slavery. You’ve detarmined aluz to be a poor drunken body, Jaff, an’ I don’t see what I ken do for you;” and she turned away more than ever embittered and disappointed. Jaff tried to raise a broken whistle, and with his hands in his pockets slunk off towards Chincapin Hill, to do some odd job and get his dram.

FREEDMEN ON THE MISSISSIPPI.
NATCHEZ, (Miss.) Dee. 12,1863.
MR. GARRISON:-
DEAR SIR,-Being attached to that branch of the public service more immediately connected with the colored people,« few incidents and facts touching their interests, and those of the public generally, I have thought might be acceptable to you.
Yesterday, as the steamer Brazil was pasting Rodney, on her way down the river, a few miles above this place, she was attacked by the enemy with artillery and small arms. Two women were killed and several men wounded. Chaplain Vannetter and his wife and two children were on board, and on their way here for the purpose of establishing schools among the freed people. Mr. Vannetter received a terrible wound in the back, probably fatal, and Mrs. Vannetter was instantly killed. Incidents of this kind are common with us. The rebel army appears to be made up in this part of the country chiefly of roving banditti, who seem to be as much of a terror to a large part of their own people as they are to the women and children that venture upon journeying on the river. And they prove to be the most efficient agency in spreading ruin and devastation over the rebel States. Several large plantations on this side of the river, a few miles out from the town, have recently been devastated, buildings and fences burned, and all property that could not be carried off destroyed. Men who manifest symptoms of returning loyalty, or who sell their cotton to “Yankees,” are sure to be visited with vengeance if within reach of those misguided creatures. They seem to be an infatuated people, (the rebels,) intent upon their own rain. Infatuated they certainly must have been; for what cause had they to complain, who inaugurated this perfidious rebellion f The Government protected them even in the holding of their dares. They were the men of means, men who owned large tracts of land and hundreds of slaves; men of wealth, who luxuriated in summer at fashionable places of resort at the North, who rolled in thousand dollar carriage, who drank costly wines, and reposed upon soft and downy couches; men who swayed the destinies of States, and who liv-
<c04>
ed and thrived upon the price of human blood, the sweat and toil of slaves:-these were the men that could not live under the old government, that complained of its despotism, and that conspired for its destruction. Strange infatuation! Strange that these Ben, gifted as many of them were, should not have more fully comprehended the spirit of the age in which they live! Strange that they should not have been better students of history! Strange that men possessing the advantages they did, should have deliberately engaged in such a gigantic conspiracy against the liberties of the human race! But they did so, and behold the consequences!
In the freedmen’s camps here, one morning’s report shows of men 495, of women 1612, children 875, making a total of 2982. The number varies considerably, as we are frequently sending them out on detached service, and hiring them to work upon plantations that have been leased of the Government. Sometimes they run up to near 4000. A great many of them are very destitute, and are unfit for any kind of service. I have received three boxes of men’s cast off clothing, bat nothing for the women and children. It will be seen, by reference to the figures, that the men constitute but about one-sixth of the aggregate population of oar contraband camp. I really wish that I could get something for the relief of the women and children.
I am now placed on duty here as acting quartermaster and commissary for alt the freed people in the district of Natchez, and will most gladly appropriate anything to their relief that may be forwarded for them. Goods will be shipped from Cairo by the Government, free of cost.
Before I dose this letter, yon will pardon this brief allusion to myself. Having recently changed my vocation in the army, I obtained leave to go out on a scoot I So taking a squad of mounted troops (colored), we proceeded inland on the Louisiana side of the river. But we encountered no rebels, and saw scarcely anything but sad remains of abandoned plantations, old ploughs piled up in heaps, broken carts, and dilapidated wagons, buildings and fences going to ruin, with now and then an old mule thrown upon his own resources in his old age. But it seemed so odd for me, an old man, who had hitherto led so quiet and peaceful a life, who had never dreamed of mingling in war’s bloody strife, and especially of hunting rebel slaveholders down here on the Mississippi bottoms, in the State of Louisiana, to be running a tilt with a bludgeon by my side, with a squad of armed blacks, on such a business! Bat so goes the world, and one can hardly account for the change in his feelings when he becomes once engaged in the work. The marshaling of armed men, the music, the clatter of arms, and the booming of cannon, seem to create a kind of excitement or exhilaration of feeling, that has a tendency to nerve a man to dare and to do that, which, in his sober moments, he would shun as he would the embrace of death. A day or two after this, a captain Orgin, from Arkansas, went out on a two days’ trip with about one hundred men, and returned a night or two ago with thirty-eight prisoners, and about sixty horses and mules. The captain Is what the boys call a “brick,” and such kind of adventures are common with him. But what seems to gall the rebels most on these occasions is the fact that captain Orgin is in the habit of doing it with “niggers.” 
WILLIAM THIRDS.

A WORD OF COMMENDATION.
DEAR GARRISON:-For some time I have been waiting to seize upon a moment, the most favorable in view of your pressure of valuable matter, to offer through the Liberator a word of commendation, and that, too, on “my own hook,” in favor of a talented and most useful laborer in the field of science, progress and reform. I refer to Mr. WM. DENTON, the popular, and deservedly so, lecturer on geology and other subjects. Mr. D. is an Englishman by birth, and has for some years past resided in Dayton, Ohio. His characteristic modesty and retirement have kept him somewhat in the shade, and away from the East. Fortunately, however, we heard from him, and secured his services in Milford. He has delivered in our town some eighteen lectures, and is soon to add four more to the number. Never have our people more eagerly listened night after night; never was a larger audience kept up for consecutive evenings with unabated interest. And what is rare, Mr. D. seemed as fresh at last as when he first began. His acquaintance with Geology is deep and profound, and his versatile manner of utterance charms both young and old. Added to this is a pervading loyalty to truth; however unpopular, which finds in our friend a bold and fearless advocacy. Some might incline to the opinion that he ‘sifts in extraneous matter,” but, really, a majority who listen banish such a thought, impressed with the idea that what he says for universal man and the peer-ship of all races “whistles itself.”
Mr. D. has given a most successful course of lectures at Providence, of which the city press hits spoken in terms highly eulogistic. He is now in the midst of a course at Worcester, before the “Historical Society,” and will no doubt meet the high expectation of this enlightened community. He is, in connection with his wife, the author of a most remarkable work, the second edition of which is just published by Walker, Wise A Co. of Boston, entitled “The Soul of Things.” He is also preparing for the press a work on his favorite subject, Geology, which will present this science in a most familiar and easy style. Let me add, that our friends in various communities may deem themselves most fortunate in securing his services. No better aid can be rendered to all that is noble and dignified in our humanitarian labors. And in my opinion, the “Twenty-eighth Congregational Society” cannot do better than to fill up some one or more of their Sabbath services with the profound, yet practical discourses of Mr. Denton. I am sure he would not slight such an invitation.
Yours as ever,
GEORGE W. STACY.
Mr. Denton well deserves the commendation bestowed upon him by our correspondent. Wherever he has given his lectures-already in numerous places at the East as well as at the West-he has invariably won the esteem and applause of his deeply interested audiences.]-Ed. Lib.

INTERSTING DISCLOSURE.
NORTHAMPTON, Dec. 8, 1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR-Reading, a few days since, the proceedings of the American Anti-Slavery Society, on occasion of the celebration of the completion of the Third Decade of its existence, I noticed the following passage of your opening speech:-
“I mean the first President of the American Anti-Slavery Society, once the distinguished merchant philanthropist of the city of New York, ARTHUR TAPPAN; the benefactor to whom I owe my liberation from the Baltimore prison in 1880; and but for whose interposition at that time, in all probability, I never should have left that prison, except to be carried oat to be buried.”
While I fully concur with you in what yon say of Mr. Tappan’s benevolence-for it was always co-extensive with his ability-yet I feel compelled to say, that in rendering a just tribute to him, you omit an act of justice “to another distinguished individual, whose coarse of life you, in common with myself, disapproved, in some important particulars, who, nevertheless, possessed and exhibited some noble traits of character; and I have no doubt that you were always, as now, ready ingenuously to accord to him the foil measure of credit for good intentions and acts. I allude to HENRY CLAY.
During your forty-nine days of imprisonment in Baltimore, in 1880, John G. Whittier,-who at that time was a friend of Henry Clay,-wrote to Mr. Clay, at his home in Lexington, Ky., requesting him to use his influence to secure your liberation. Shortly after, Whittier received a letter from Mr. Clay, in which he said that he had, on the receipt of Whittier’s letter, immediately written to a friend in Baltimore, di-
<c05>
recting him to pay the fine and costs, and liberate Mr. Garrison; but his friend had just written him that before the letter of Mr. Clay had reached him, another person had already accomplished the purpose which he had intended himself. The letter of Mr. Clay contained the first information that we received of your liberation. That letter of Mr. Clay to our Wend Whiter I saw and road
Very cordially yours,
A. W. THAYER.
P. S. In my files of the Essex Gazette-Dec-1833 -I find the “Declaration of Sentiments.” published at length, including all the names of its signers.
Also, in my paper of May 29, 1880, It a complimentary article, by Whittier, and Jane 6th, 1880, another by Win. S. Allen of the Newburyport Herald-and I know not how many others there may be scattered through the nine or ten volumes, white I was editor of the Haverhill paper.
Will our esteemed friend, J. O. Whittier, allow as to hear from him on this subject? Has he the letter from Henry Clay in his possession alluded to by Mr. Thayer? Mr. Thayer did good service to the Anti-Slavery cause in its early days of fiery trial as editor of the Essex Gazette, and may well be proud of it.-Ed. Lib.

ANNALS OF WOMEN’S ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETIES.
BY MARY GREW, OF PHILADELPHIA.
[Read at the Celebration of the Third Decode of the American Anti-Slavery Society, Dec. 3, 1863.]
The trumpet-call which, thirty years ago, summoned the American people to moral warfare against the system of American slavery, aroused in the souls of a few earnest women a consciousness of personal responsibility for the existence of that great national sin, and a consciousness of power to promote its overthrow. They clearly perceived, both intellectually and spiritually, that the truth of the inherent sinfulness of slavery, and the correlative right and duty between the slave and his master, of immediate emancipation, were the only principles which could permanently vivify an enterprise for the destruction of a system intimately inwrought with the political, religious, and social life of the nation. Their first step was to organize themselves for effective effort for the promulgation of these truths.
Previous to the organization of the American Anti-Slavery Society, two Female Anti-Slavery Societies were formed in Massachusetts; the first, in Reading, in the month of March 1833; the second, in Boston, in October of the same year. In Dec. following, the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society was organized, and, at about the same time, the Female Ami-Slavery Society of Amesbury, Mass. During the few years immediately following, numerous State, County, and City Anti-Slavery Societies were formed throughout the free States, both East and West, and among them were many organizations of women. Of these were the Concord, Lynn, Providence, Brooklyn, New York, Pittsburg, and Massillon Female Anti-Slavery Societies. All these associations were auxiliary in fact, and many of them in name, to the American Anti-Slavery Society; based upon the same principles, working with the same measures, and inspired by the same hope. An examination of early anti-slavery records reveals the fact that many of these women were active and influential members of Churches of various denominations, who brought into this new enterprise the energy, zeal, and executive ability acquired in their ecclesiastical and moral training; and that they began their work in confident faith that a general dissemination of the truth relative to the character of American slavery would speedily array the power of these Churches against a system essentially anti-Christian. It cannot be claimed for them that they counted the cost of the warfare upon which they were entering, not the number of the years which lay stretched out in the dim future, between their first battle and their final victory. It was well for then, well for the cause to which they had vowed allegiance, that this knowledge lay beyond their reach. The soul that would not have fainted or faltered before the prefigured vision of that long period of toil and strife, wm, yet, stronger for the buoyant hope of early victory, and addressed itself to the labors of each successive year, all the more ardently for the bright possibility that its close might usher in the jubilee.
As they went on, they found their work widening, their responsibility deepening, at every step. It is now a page of history, it was then a startling revelation daily made, a painful experience daily borne, that the Churches which had nurtured their sons and daughters on the words of Christian love and human brother-hood, had no desire to see them practically illustrated towards the slave or the negro. With more of keen disappointment and sorrow than of indignation did we look on the strange spectacle of the American Church standing by to keep the garments of an enraged populace stoning the Stephens of that martyr age.
In October, 1835, the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society learned what was the degree of free speech which Massachusetts would allow and protect Their announcement of their Annual Meeting to be held at Congress Hall for the transaction of business elicited threatening and scurrilous articles from the daily newspapers, indirectly invoking popular violence upon the anticipated meeting. Alarmed by these indications, the proprietor of the Hall refused to open it, and the meeting was necessarily postponed. That was a critical hour for the slave in the South, for freedom of speech in the North, and for the friends of both. In itself, it was a question of little importance whether a small and obscure Society should hold, publicly or privately, a meeting for the transaction of its business. Viewed with reference to its immediate consequences only, it seemed that obstinacy and folly would counsel the former, and wisdom the latter course. But the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, in deciding this question, looked beneath the surface of things, looked beyond the present hour. They knew that they stood that day, in Boston, the representatives, not only of two and a half millions of American slaves calling for help in the name of Justice, but, also, of the right of freedom of speech and of the press in the free States of America. They could not estimate then, we cannot compute now, the immense, far-reaching consequences for good or evil, which hung on that decision. From the records of these soul trying scenes we learn that one question was asked and answered by their own souls, and their path of duty lay clearly revealed: “Upon whom dare those call to resist the popular voice, who hare themselves been silenced by its tumult?”
Then followed the public advertisement of their Meeting, and their assembling at No. 46 Washington street, on that memorable 21st of October, 1833, when that famous mob of “gentlemen of property and standing” assaulted them with violence, and the Mayor of Boston told them that he had no power to protect such a meeting.
These events stand oat, with prominence, in a review of the life, now become history, of the Women’s Anti-Slavery Societies of this country; for they were the commencement of a long course of struggles against tyranny, and resistance to popular clamor in toe advocacy of the slave’s right to personal and political freedom.
A few yean later, Anti-Slavery Women instituted an Annual Convention, to be composed of delegates from their various Societies, the object of which was “to interest women in the subject of anti-slavery, and to establish a system of operations throng boat every town and village which should-exert a powerful influence in the abolition of American slavery.”
The first of this series of Conventions was held in the city of New York, in May, 1837. The Resolutions adopted and the Addresses Letters issued by that body indicate the wide scope which our enterprise had, at that period, attained; and evince a dear apprehension of its growing demands, and a strong and solemn purpose to meet them faithfully.
The second of these Conventions was held in Phila-
<c06>
delphia, in May, 1838, during that well-remembered week when the Slave Power ruled this city, and its vassals sought to appease it by a burnt offering of a Temple of Liberty. Women who sat in their imperilled houses that day, thinking on the National inheritance awaiting their children, read, by the light of those fires, new lessons of duty to their country and their race. That Convention, driven from one place of meeting to another, at last assembled in a school room, which was opened to them by one who regarded the security of private property as on less importance than the defence of a great moral principle. The records of their closing session show that in the midst of their own fiery trials, and their sympathetic sufferings with our colored fellow-citizens who were victims of popular fury, they were jubilant over the triumph of Liberty in the British West Indies, the gland tidings of which were then resounding through our land; and were strong in faith and hope of the emancipation of the American slave. Another fact is clearly revealed by the records of these Conventions, It is that Abolitionists long clung, tenaciously, to the American Church, cherishing the belief that there was spiritual vitality enough in it to exorcise the spirit of slavery; and that it was with great reluctance that, after earnest and persistent efforts to arouse this vitality, they were convinced that the great body of the American Church was so thoroughly corrupted, by its alliances with slavery, that separation from it was a Christian duty 
The third Convention assembled in Philadelphia, in May, 1889, and occupied the building of the Pennsylvania Riding School, which, the Minutes tell us, was the only building of sufficient size which could be procured in the city, for that purpose. The mayor of the city, alarmed for the safety of the public peace, called upon Lucretia Mott, and offered several suggestions for the conduct of the Convention, which he thought might aid in warding off threatened danger It is interesting, now, to read that conversation, eminently characteristic of the two parties represents by the colloquists.
We find on the Minutes of this Convention a Resolution of adjournment to meet in the city of Boston, in the year 1840. But the adjourned meeting was never held, and the third was the last of this series of Conventions.
The informing spirit of the Anti-Slavery enterprise had been lending its followers in a way which they knew not. Opening their eyes to one truth, and setting their hands with earnest purpose to one course of action, they soon perceived the scope of their vision broadening, and new fields of labor spreading out before them. Women whose souls burned with indignation against the monstrous injustice of slaveholding, or melted in pity for the slave, began to plead the cause of emancipation in public assemblies of men and women; and men, working heartily and zealously in the same cause, discovered that, at concert of action between men and women was important to success, so mutual counsel and discussion is their business meetings were convenient and profitable. The American Anti-Slavery Society, at its Annul Meeting in 1840, decided for itself, that such mutual conference was right and expedient, and thenceforward women shared with men the management of its business, spoke from its platform, and were commissioned as its lecturing agents. Anti-Slavery Conventions composed exclusively of women were no longer needed, as they served no purpose which was not better served on a broader basis of operation. Some of our Women’s Anti-Slavery Societies retained their distinct organization, and others were gradually merged in State or County Societies.
Two Institutions established by the Boston and Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Societies, and which became very important auxiliaries in our cause, have prominent place in the scenes which we are reviewing. These are the series of Annual Fairs commenced in Boston, in the year 1835, and in Philadelphia in 1836. The former soon passed from a Metropolitan into a National Institution; and the later, in the progress of years, became in fact and in name the Pennsylvania A. S. Fair, though they continued tinned under the control and management of their originators. These have been of vast importance to our cause, in furnishing pecuniary support to the organ of the National Society, soil to other instrumentalities by which our work has been done. And independently of such service, they have been of immense value as mediums of moral influence. Their social attractions brought many young persons within the hearing of anti-slavery truth; the opportunity of working for the objects of their sympathy crystallized sentiment into principle; the annual gatherings of the old and young, the veterans and the neophytes of our ranks, in scenes where the freedom of social intercourse mingled with the spirit of an anti-slavery meeting, were Passover Festivals, whither “our tribes went up “with gladness, and found refreshment and strength. Occasionally they became mediums of strength to our souls by a sterner ministration. There were times when the populace, consenting to be the tool of the Slave Power, demanded the suppression of these Fairs, and the municipal authority sympathized with a lawless mob, or shrank from the duty of opposing it. Four years ago, some of you stood in this Hall in very different circumstances from these which surround us to-day. Then, the banner which we hung out from its walls disturbed the peace of Philadelphia, because it bade the Nation “proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.” Some of you well remember that remarkable conference which we held in the centre of this room, standing with the officers of the law who were in most uncomfortable strait betwixt their sense of obligation to do what they were bidden, and their reluctance to perform the disgraceful errand on which they had been sent. On that occasion our opponents succeeded in ejecting the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Fair from this Hall, and the doors of another were immediately opened to it, by one of our citizens who, in the darkest and stormiest days of our conflict, never closed those doors against us.
Many of you remember, also, the yet more trying circumstances in which this Fair was held a year later, when the anticipation of the dissolution of the Union had alarmed the commercial classes in the North, and the suppression of an Anti Slavery Bazaar was regarded by some of our citizens as an opportune peace-offering to the South, and we were once more called to stand for the defence of the people’s right of peaceful assemblage. The vigilance of our Mayor and his officers frustrated the purpose of the mob; and we regarded the maintenance of our right thus to assemble the chief success of our Fair of 1860.
The Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society has preserved its distinct organization; and now a waits, with its coadjutors of the past thirty years, the hour when the shout of final victory shall burst from all our boat, proclaiming that the work of the American Abolitionists is accomplished. That hour draws nigh. At the close of thirty years of warfare, we stand to-day in the midst of national convulsion-of a great moral revolution. Old things have passed away; and we hear a voice out of heaven proclaiming. “Behold, I make ail things new!” The long and weary hours of darkness passed, we look around us, and
“Lo! our foemen of the night
Are brethren at the dawn of day.”
Our watchwords are caught by other lips, and echoed through the land. Our Banner of Emancipation clings to the flag-staff of the Stars and Stripes, and soon will wave as broadly over the Nation. “Who knoweth not that the hand of the Lord hath wrought this?”
Verily, it is flitting that we, who side by side, have toiled and fought for thirty years, should come hither to-day, to grasp one another’s hands in fraternal congratulation, and to American’s Day of Jubilee has dawned, and its sun is high in the heavens. With its glory streaming down upon us, and the song of our reasoned brethren in our ears, we bow in adoration before the Power and Wisdom and Love which is guiding this mighty revolution, and cry: “Thy will be done on as earth as it is done in heaven.”
